18-09-2021||Business||Know the answer to healthy water storage. Make life easier with Ori-Plast water tanks||The money and effort we invest in purifying water have increased rapidly in the last decade. It is an indicator of our affinity and commitment to a healthy lifestyle and hygiene living. However, several market surveys and industry observations show that we do not take proportionate measures to ensure contamination-free water storage. One of the significant challenges with designing and developing water storage tanks is preventing contamination of water, which primarily go unnoticed. It happens for various reasons, the most apparent reason being materials that went into manufacturing water tanks. Not all materials are conducive to health, and they slowly seep into the water and enter human bodies through the personal usage of contaminated water. For years consumers and end-users have overlooked this factor while choosing water tanks. However, the solution is perfectly within our reach and affordable. Storing water in food-grade LLDPE water storage tanks can keep water fresh, hygienic and contamination-free for a prolonged period, saving our time, money and health. “Polyethylene tanks run the risk of geting excessively hot during summer months and degrades in quality. Our food-grade LLDPE water tanks are perfectly safe solution for storing and keeping water cool and healthy round the year; even under excessive stress and impact.” - said an Ori-Plast executive. Linear Low-density Polyethylene or LLDPE as a thermoplastic polymer offers excellent chemical resistance, does not break under frequent temperature changes and shows high impact strength. These features make LLDPE the best choice as a material for building water storage tanks. Food-grade quality LLDPE material, like the one used in Ori-Plast water tanks, offer the highest level of health safety, strength, durability, heat protection and space availability. These tanks are available in the options of two, three, four and five layers, assuringly suitable for all types of water storage requirements in domestic, industrial and agricultural sectors. Extra strong with more space One of the recurring complaints with plastic and Polyethylene water storage tanks is that they cave in due to the stress from frequent overloads. The best quality LLDPE water tanks are multi-layered and durable; the spacious design prevents overloading beyond the capacity and helps to maintain structural integrity. As a result, these tanks survive much longer than other branded and non-branded plastic tanks, even with zero maintenance. Keeping the content cool Generic plastic and Polyethylene tanks heat up quickly from exposure to direct sunlight during tropical, equatorial summer and degrade in quality faster. The top branded LLDPE tanks, like Ori-Plast LLDPE water storage tank variants, feature foam-filled layers in-between the LLDPE layers. Being a non-conductor of heat, foam keeps the water inside the tank cool, even during scorching summer days. Colours of happiness For people loving a splash of colours in their lives, food-grade coloured LLDPE tanks are a perfect choice. Usually, these tanks are available in different aesthetically pleasing shades of Blue, Green, Pink, White, Mosaic, Marble, Yellow, Black, Sky blue and Army tank. They can seamlessly blend with a variety of exteriors, creating a visually stunning experience. About Ori-Plast From 1965, Ori-Plast, as a brand of PVC plumbing products, has earned end-users credibility with impeccable quality and reliability. With dedication, commitment to innovation, technological finesse, the company has established itself as a leader in a wide range of piping applications. Today, it manufactures various uPVC, cPVC, SWR, bore-well pipes, confirming several national and international quality standards. Its LLPDE water storage solutions are industry standards in terms of health protection, durability and affordability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||Mohammad Rashid Khan's name tops as a successful businessman in Dubai owing to his enormous success||Out of the innumerable list of entrepreneurs who have struck it right by exceeding in their respective fields, one name stands out owing to his outstanding contribution towards various business spheres, he is Mohammad Rashid Khan. This dynamic entrepreneur from Dubai, who hails from Gujarat, India, has spun his web across multiple areas like real estate, cryptocurrencies, petroleum, fashion and much more and is known well amongst elite business circles, the reason he is invited at various happening events that are held across the region. The most recent ones being an invitation to the Souk Al Marfa, which is a one of its kind project launched in Dubai this April. He was the face of the supercar's event held at the venue recently, which he took over with élan. Mohammad Rashid Khan has taken the business world by storm as his constant endeavours have been rocking the industry ever since he stepped in it. He says that to emerge at the top and be successful, one has to be focussed and never let any distractions come in the way of their journey. There might be endless setbacks that would discourage you from moving forward, but determination and thirst to achieve success should keep you going without any hiccups. The towering position that he has achieved is phenomenal and motivates many to follow steps, undoubtedly. One of his life's events which is worth a mention is about him raising the Indian flag and jumping from the height of 13,000 feet holding it in honour of the Covid-19 frontline warriors. His enormous success has not stopped him from looking out for more opportunities and he at any given chance tries to grab anything that comes his way if it shows enough potential to grow big, and that's what has encouraged him to enter the crypto space by planning to launch his own digital currency in the next few months. "This space has got tremendous potential to grow manifold, and this is the right time to strike the hammer," says Mohammad Rashid Khan, while informing about his new initiative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||Airlines can now operate 85 per cent of pre-Covid domestic flights, says Centre||Airlines can now operate a maximum of 85 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights instead of the 72.5 per cent allowed till date, the Ministry of Civil Aviation stated on Saturday. The carriers have been operating 72.5 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights since August 12, according to the ministry's order. Between July 5 and August 12, the cap stood at 65 per cent. Between June 1 and July 5, the cap was at 50 per cent. The ministry issued a fresh order on Saturday, in which it modified the August 12 order stating that "72.5 per cent capacity may be read as 85 per cent capacity". Saturday's order also noted that the 72.5 per cent cap will remain in place "until further order". When the government had resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. The cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December. The 80 per cent cap remained in place till June 1. The May 28 decision to bring down the cap from 80 to 50 per cent from June 1 onwards was taken "in view of the sudden surge in the number of active COVID-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and the passenger load (occupancy rate) factor", the ministry had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||Bengal to tweak liquor supply model, engage distributors||In a bid to streamline supply of alcoholic beverages to retailers, the Bengal excise department is planning to tweak the liquor distribution model and engage distributors to replace the role of a state-owned entity in the delivery chain, an official said on Saturday. The new model will be effective from October 18, 2021, he said. The department has decided to replace West Bengal State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) with distributors for sale of both foreign liquor and country spirit in the state. A notification was issued by the finance department on September 16 to engage distributors for transport, import, storage and supply of liquor from Bevco-managed warehouses, he said. The department has amended the West Bengal Excise (Foreign Liquor) Rules of 1998 and West Bengal Excise Rules 2010 for appointment of distributors, the official said. In 2017, the state had formed Bevco under the Companies Act for procuring liquor from manufacturers and selling the same to retailers in the state. It aimed at bringing transparency in the liquor distribution and also controlling quality. The entity has two warehouses in Mahestala and Cossipore in the city. The notification said the appointed distributors may be firms, companies or co-operative societies which will be granted licences for sale of liquor to wholesalers, and subsequently to retailers. Notably, retailers had alleged that they were facing several difficulties with the existing system as the supply from Bevco has been "irregular". West Bengal Foreign Liquor, Country Spirit, On, Of Shop and Hotel Owners Association assistant general secretary Sushmita Mukherjee said, "We are happy with the government's decision to engage distributors, and this lead to creation of jobs. We will continue to work with the administration for the benefit of the liquor distribution business."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||Opposition-ruled states seek to extend GST cess regime beyond June 2022||Finance ministers of Opposition-ruled states have demanded that the GST compensation cess regime be extended beyond June 2022. Briefing reporters after the 45th GST Council meeting in Lucknow on Friday, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the regime of paying compensation to states for revenue shortfall resulting from subsuming their taxes such as VAT in the uniform national tax GST will end in June next year. However, the compensation cess, levied on luxury and demerit goods, will continue to be collected till March 2026 to repay the borrowings that were done in 2020-21 and 2021-22 to compensate states for GST revenue loss. In his speech at the meeting, Tamil Nadu Finance Minister P Thiaga Rajan demanded continuation of the compensation mechanism, and deferment of a decision on this issue. "While we are broadly, and firmly in favour of the continuation of the compensation mechanism, we are concerned by many of the details," he said. Thiaga Rajan said all the Council Members will require some time to analyse and assess the features and consequences of the options presented during the 45th meeting, and hence expect that any decision on the way forward will be deferred to the 46th meeting at least. "To be doubly sure, we formally place a request that no final decision be made on this most important issue without the benefit of the time needed to fully assess the options," Thiaga Rajan added. Briefing reporters, Kerala Finance Minister K N Balagopal on Saturday said he has pitched for extending the GST compensation regime as he highlighted that the state is already grappling with significant revenue shortfall. In case the GST compensation regime ends next year, the state will face further revenue shortfall, Balagopal said and expressed hope that it would be extended. Minister of State for Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Chandrima Bhattarcharya said the state has demanded an extension of the compensation mechanism by five years. It has been decided to set up a GoM for deciding the modalities of compensation mechanism, she had said after the meeting on Friday. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the matter of compensation cess would be referred to a group of ministers(GoM). Briefing reporters on Friday, Sitharaman had said that in the 43rd GST Council meeting it was decided that beyond July 2022 the collection of cess would be for payment of loans taken. Beyond July 2022, the cess that we are collecting, as agreed in the 43rd Council meeting, was for the purpose of repaying the loan. That commences July 2022 and goes till March 2026 only and only for paying the loan given to states since last year. So for repaying the loan taken and given to states as back-to- back loan since last year and is continuing this year also, we need to have collection of cess beyond July 2022 and till March 2026, Sitharaman had said. The Centre has estimated the shortfall in GST compensation payable to states in the current fiscal year at Rs 2.59 lakh crore, of which about Rs 1.59 lakh crore would have to be borrowed this year. Last fiscal year too, the Centre borrowed and released to states Rs 1.10 lakh crore towards GST compensation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||Bengal to allow private players in liquor distribution business||The Bengal government has decided to open up the liquor distribution business to private players again. This comes four years after the incorporation of the West Bengal State Beverages Corporation to exercise government control over the distribution business in the state. After the amendments to the Bengal Excise Act on Thursday, the state excise directorate has issued an order highlighting the eligibility criteria for a distribution licence and has sought application forms to grant distribution licences for foreign liquor and country spirit. Before the incorporation of the state bevco, there were private warehouses, distributors and retailers. After the state bevco became operational, the government brought the distribution channel within its fold and retailers instead of placing orders with the distributors started to place indents with the state bevco. Even as the state gained significant control over the liquor trade, it had to manage the back-end operations of loading, unloading, stocking, transportation and logistics. According to government sources, the move to open up the wholesale and distribution business is aimed at better efficiency. The state expects to benefit from private investment in distribution at a time there are growth opportunities in the warehousing sector. There will also be a steady stream of excise revenue from licence and registration fees. The state, however, has put in place a strict eligibility criteria. Any entity applying for a licence must have an experience of five years in the liquor trade and a liquor distribution turnover of Rs 150 crore every year for the last three consecutive financial years. The entity must not be a manufacturer or a retail licence holder. This is to avoid the formation of syndicates, leading to overcharging and brand influencing. Joint venture entities can also seek a licence but at least one of the partner firms should individually fulfil the five-year experience and turnover criteria. The state has fixed Rs 1 crore as the annual registration fee. According to industry, there were more than 100 distributors in the liquor trade before the state took over. However, many may not be able to come back because of the strict criteria, loss of licence and the pandemic-induced downturn. “It is a very big shake-up for the industry. However, old distributors should be given some preference. Licences which were not renewed should be allowed for renewal,” said an industry veteran with a manufacturing unit in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||All states oppose inclusion of petroleum products under GST||All states, including the BJP-ruled ones, unanimously opposed the inclusion of petroleum products under the goods and services Tax as it would impact the revenue of both the Centre and the states. “We did discuss the issue and most states were of the opinion that it is not the right time to include petroleum products under GST. This is what the Council has decided now, and this is what we are going to report to the Kerala high court,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. The Kerala high court in a June order had directed the GST Council to forward a petitioner’s representation to the Centre to bring petrol and diesel under GST and take an appropriate decision within six weeks. The decision of the Council to include the issue in the meeting’s agenda was just to comply with that order. Rajat Bose, Partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said: “Considering that most states strongly opposed this proposition, it seems that these goods are not likely to be subsumed in GST anytime soon.” Sushil Kumar Modi, former Bihar finance minister, said if petrol and diesel are brought under the ambit of GST, the Centre and the states would have to incur a combined revenue loss of Rs 4.10 lakh crore. Tamil Nadu finance minister P. Thiagarajan said in his speech at the council that state taxation of petrol and diesel remains one of the last vestiges of any state’s right to manage their own revenue. Nasscom view Nasscom has welcomed the decision of the GST Council to issue a circular to clarify the scope of intermediary services. It said it expects BPOs and services exports will not be denied export status by the enforcement authorities. The council has also said an arm of a global parent in India will be treated as a separate entity and will get export status in its services to the foreign parent. Nasscom said this would boost the operations of global capability centres in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
18-09-2021||Business||Bengal asks Centre to compensate for GST shortfall for 5 more years||Bengal has demanded that the Centre must compensate states for the shortfall in GST collection for another five years. The GST Council, however, could not come to a decision and formed a GoM as states had different opinions on the matter, including the tenure. Under the GST law, the Centre is obligated to compensate states for a shortfall that may arise during the first five years of GST implementation, starting from 2017. “The most important issue before the Council was extension of the compensation period. When the five-year period was considered, there was an assumption of normalcy. Unfortunately, it has been violated due to the once-in-a-century pandemic, which has hit the economy for two years running. It may still take one more year to get the economy back on track,” Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said. Even though he could not be present in the first physical meeting of the Council, he kept a close vigil on the proceedings. Bengal was represented by urban development minister Chandrima Bhattacharya and finance secretary Manoj Pant. “Even before the pandemic, the economy was in bad shape. We strongly believe that there will be a shortfall going forward and unless the compensation period is extended, state finances will be in dire straits. The GoI is now borrowing from the RBI’s special window and passing it on to the states back to back. If the compensation is not extended, the Centre will be under no obligation to meet the shortfall, leaving states to borrow themselves. “However, because of  the FRBM limits, states would not be able to borrow beyond a limit, which in turn, would hit the government’s spending on welfare and infrastructure creation,” Mitra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
18-09-2021||Business||GST Council levies 5 per cent GST on food delivery apps||The GST Council on Friday decided to tax online food delivery operators such as Swiggy and Zomato on behalf of restaurants from January next year even as it extended concessional tax rates on certain Covid-19 drugs by three months till December 31. “Yes there was a detailed discussion...the place where food is delivered is going to be the point where tax will be collected. They will pay the GST on it,” Nirmala Sitharaman, finance minister, told reporters after the meeting. “There is no new tax,” she added. Many restaurants were found to be not depositing GST with the government, while some were not even registered, Sitharaman said. The fitment panel, comprising central and state officers, estimated a GST revenue loss of Rs 2,000 crore in 2019-20 and 2020-21. As such it recommended a 5 per cent rate on online food delivery operators without input tax credit. Sitharaman said 5 per cent GST will be levied at the point where the delivery is made by Swiggy and Zomato. Geetika Srivastava, executive partner, Tattvam Advisors said: “To curb the tax evasion, GST Council has proposed to make the food delivery apps like Zomato Swiggy liable to pay GST 5 per cent as deemed suppliers of restaurant services w.e.f 1st January, 2022. By doing so, the government should be cautious of not adding to the burden by creating another layer of input tax credit blockage already suffered by this sector.” “While food delivery services would constitute e-commerce services, sufficient safeguards need to be taken in subjecting them to GST to ensure that smaller food outlets are protected and consumers do not end up paying more,” M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said. The council exempted expensive life-saving drugs from the indirect tax, extended concessional rate on covid-related drugs for three more months, addressed the issue of inverted duty structure in textiles, footwear, pens, specified renewable energy devices, parts of locomotives, among other items. It extended the period of concessional GST rates on certain Covid-related drugs by three months till December 31 but decided not to give the same benefit to medical equipment. Tax rate on Amphotericin B, Tocilizumab was cut to "Nil", while Remdesivir and Heparin was reduced to 5 per cent in June 2021, which has now been extended till December 31, 2021 from the present September 30. The council cut the GST rate from 12 per cent to 5 per cent on cancer-related drugs and on fortified rice kernels to 5 percent from 18 per cent. Sitharaman said the national permit fee for goods carriage has been exempt from GST. Import of leased aircraft have also been exempted from payment of I-GST. GST payable on import of aircraft or other goods imported on lease shall now be exempted from double taxation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
18-09-2021||Business||Government to set up backstop facility for corporate bond market||The government is working on setting up a “backstop facility” as announced in the Union budget in a bid to deepen the corporate bond market, a senior government official said on Friday. At an event organised by CII, Anand Mohan Bajaj, additional secretary in the ministry of finance, said the government in consultation with the RBI has increased foreign investor participation ceiling in corporate bonds from 9 per cent to 15 per cent. On the corporate bond market, he said a lot has been done over the years and a lot needs to be done. “We are working on a very comprehensive facility. It will certainly instill confidence among the participants in the corporate bond market,” he said. Based on a Sebi proposal, an announcement in the Union Budget for 2021-22 was made on the creation of a backstop facility that would purchase investment-grade debt securities both in stressed and normal times, and help the development of the bond market. Bajaj said the government was also working on framing an investor charter.  The charter will focus on the rights and responsibilities of investors and also the investor grievance redressal mechanism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
18-09-2021||Business||GST compensation cess till 2026, states to get benefit till 2022||The compensation cess under the goods and services tax regime will be collected till March 2026 but the proceeds garnered after June 2022 will not go to the states. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the proceeds from cess collected beyond the agreed, five-year period will be used to pay back the interest and principal on the loans that the Centre borrowed to make up for the shortfall during the Covid-19 pandemic. “From June 2022 to March 2026, the cess collected will only be used to pay the interest and principal on the borrowed amount. The GST (Compensation to States) Act says that compensation period will be five years and that ends in June 2022,” Sitharaman told reporters on Friday after a meeting of the GST Council held in Lucknow, which was the first face-to-face meeting since the pandemic struck in March last year. The states are understandably furious over this move and have said they expect to be compensated beyond June 2022 for any revenue loss they suffer. The loss has been widening because collections have fallen short of the original projections that were built around the promise that states would receive an annual revenue increase of 14 per cent with the base year set at 2015-16. The differences over the compensation cess are expected to blow up at the subsequent meetings of the Council. The Centre had borrowed sum of about Rs 1.10 lakh crore in the year ended March 31 this year and passed it on to the states. It has also provided cash compensation worth Rs 75,000 crore in the current fiscal. Additional borrowings are planned later this year with the shortfall in GST revenues is projected at about Rs 1.58 lakh crore. Breach of promise Chhattisgarh Congress leader T.S. Singh Deo told The Telegraph that the “states surrendered their taxation rights on the assurance that there would be revenue buoyancy. However, if it falls, the compensation period has to be extended. The council should pass a resolution for its extension to bring about a constitutional amendment for this.” “If the Centre assumes that the compensation cess would have to be collected till April 2026, then by their own presumption, the economy would not pick up and the revenue generation would be lower than assumed,” he said. The minister clearly indicated that the Centre is not inclined to consider the demand of some States to extend the five-year period. The GST regime had originally been premised on a revenue-neutral tax rate of 15.5 per cent, Sitharaman said. However, the actual GST revenues have been going down with the effective tax rate slipping to 11.6 per cent due to changes made in the tax rates on various goods and services over the last few years. “A detailed presentation was made on the revenue generation aspects, correction of inverted duty structure, and the various ways in which the revenue neutral position, which was 15.5 per cent at the time of introduction of GST, has steadily come down to 11.6 per cent,” she said. Panels formed The Council decided to form two Groups of Ministers (GoMs) that have been asked to recommend measures to boost revenue collection and submit a report within two months. The first one has been tasked with reviewing the tax rate rationalisation issues to correct anomalies in the rate structure. The second group will examine ways to harness technology to improve compliance and monitoring. This, she said, will look at e-way bills, Fastags, compliance and composition schemes to plug loopholes. The compensation cess levied on automobiles, tobacco products and aerated water, over and above the basic GST rate, was to be tapped to covering the shortfall between States’ actual revenues and the 14 per cent annual revenue growth for five years that they were assured while adopting GST. In 2020, the Council decided that the Compensation Cess levy will be extended to repay the principal amount as well as the interest payable on these borrowings. “The extension of compensation cess levy up to March 2026 is expected to impact consumers as the same will be recovered from them,” said Rajat Bose, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
18-09-2021||Business||World Bank scraps Doing Business survey ||An investigation into the manipulation of an annual World Bank report has found that Kristalina Georgieva, the bank’s former chief executive, who now leads the International Monetary Fund, directed staff to alter data to placate China. The bank said on Thursday that it is discontinuing its annual Doing Business survey. The findings of the investigation, which was conducted by the law firm WilmerHale at the request of the bank’s ethics committee, raised questions about the judgement of Georgieva during her time at the World Bank and underscored the pressure that the bank has been under to accommodate China, its third-largest shareholder after the United States and Japan. The investigation focused on accusations that top bank officials pressured the team that conducts the Doing Business survey to inflate China’s standing in its 2018 report. There also were accusations that the 2020 report was manipulated to artificially bolster Saudi Arabia’s ranking. The Doing Business report assesses the business climate in countries around the world. Developing countries in particular care deeply about their rankings, which they use to lure foreign investment. In a statement, Georgieva denied accusations that she had acted inappropriately. “I disagree fundamentally with the findings and interpretations,” Georgieva said. “I have already had an initial briefing with the IMF’s executive board on this matter.” A World Bank spokesman said the report spoke for itself. At the time of the reported manipulation, World Bank officials were concerned about negotiations with members over a capital increase and were under pressure not to anger China, which was ranked 78th on the list of countries in 2017 and was set to decline in the 2018 report. Country ranking According to the World Bank Doing Business Report 2020, released in October 2019, India had recorded a jump of 14 positions on the ease of doing business and was ranked 63rd among 190 countries assessed by the World Bank. The country had improved its rank by 79 positions between 2014 and 2019. The doing business assessment provides objective measures of business regulations and their enforcement on parameters affecting a business through its life cycle. In 2018, India had gained 23 positions to rank 77 among 190 countries. India was ranked 100 in 2017. With inputs from Calcutta bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-68
18-09-2021||India||Will continue to protest till farm laws are withdrawn, says Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said the farmers will continue to protest at Delhi's borders till the three controversial agriculture laws are withdrawn.  He alleged a nexus between the central government and corporates to rob the farmers of their rights.  Till the black laws are not withdrawn, the farmers will remain on the borders of Delhi, Tikait, who is the national spokesperson of the BKU, said, adding the farmers were now aware of their rights.  He alleged that the government was not sensitive towards protecting the rights of the farmers and said time has come for the farmer warriors to shake the roots of the government .  Tikait and other farmer leaders had come to Bunda tehsil here on the occasion of the 38th death anniversary of Sant Sukhdev Singh to pay homage to him.  National president of BKU (Chanuni faction) Gurnam Singh Chanuni termed the farmers' movement as a dharam yudh being fought to safeguard the rights of the peasants.  The intention of the government is to enslave the farmers which will not be allowed under any circumstances, he said.  On the occasion, the leaders of about half a dozen farmers' unions asked the farmers to reach Delhi on their call.  Recently, Tikait had led a massive farmers' mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar to put pressure on the central government to withdraw the three farm laws.  He has already announced that he will work to ensure the defeat of the BJP in the upcoming UP elections on the issue of three legislations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
18-09-2021||India||Domestic flight fare band to remain for 15 days at any given time||The lower and upper limits on airfares will remain for 15 days at any given time and the airlines will be free to charge without any limits from the 16th day onwards, the Civil Aviation Ministry stated on Saturday.  Since August 12 this year, this roll-over period was of 30 days and the airlines have been charging without limits from 31st day onwards.  In a fresh order issued on Saturday, the Civil Aviation Ministry explained the change in rule: "If the current date is 20th September, then the fare band shall be applicable till 4th October. Any booking done on 20th September for travel on or after 5th October shall not be controlled by fare bands."  "On the following day, that is, if the current date is 21st September, then the fare band shall be in force till 5th October and for travel on or after 6th October, the fare bands shall not be applicable," the order mentioned.  So, the fare bands will shift by a day every day, it added.  India had imposed lower and upper limits on airfares based on flight duration when services were resumed on May 25, 2020, after a two-month Covid-triggered lockdown.  The lower caps were imposed to help the airlines that have been struggling financially due to coronavirus-related travel restrictions. The upper caps were imposed so that passengers are not charged huge amounts when the demand for seats is high.  Domestic air travel became costlier on August 12 this year as the Civil Aviation Ministry had raised the lower as well as upper caps on fares by 9.83 to 12.82 per cent.  For example, the ministry on August 12 increased the lower limit for flights under 40 minutes of duration from Rs 2,600 to Rs 2,900 -- an increase of 11.53 per cent. The upper cap for flights under 40 minutes of duration was increased by 12.82 per cent to Rs 8,800.  The caps mentioned by the government in its order does not include the passenger security fee, user development fee for the airports and the GST. These charges are added on top when the ticket is being booked by the passenger.  The August 12 order also mentioned that the limits on airfares will remain in place for 30 days at any given time.  On Saturday, the ministry modified the August 12 order, replacing the word "30 days" with "15 days".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
18-09-2021||India||Kerala: Schools to reopen on Nov 1 as state logs 19,352 new Covid cases||Schools in Kerala will reopen on November 1, after a one-and-a-half-year interval, even as the state reported 19,325 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. The decision was taken at the core committee meeting on the pandemic chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Thiruvananthapuram. All schools have been asked to make necessary arrangements. But, according to a spokesperson of the government, hotels and bars will have to wait a little more for dining. Both are now allowed to give only packed food and beverages. Similarly, a decision on theatres will be taken after gauging the pandemic situation. Earlier the government had decided to open higher educational institutions from October 4. For more than three months, the state remained the pandemic capital of the country reporting around 70 per cent of the total cases registered. The second wave of infections deteriorated after the Onam festival in August-end. Though the state reported a high number of cases for more than three months there was no health crisis or shortage of oxygen. More than 80 per cent of the eligible population have also been vaccinated, said state health minister Veena George. Class XI exams announced A day after the Supreme Court allowed the Kerala government to hold physical exams for Class 11 amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the state government on Saturday announced that the examinations will be held from September 24 to October 18. General Education Minister V Sivankutty said the exams will be held in the forenoon and strictly adhering to the COVID-19 health protocol. "The exams for Higher Secondary students will start on September 24 and will end on October 18. The Vocational higher secondary exams will however end on October 13. There will be a gap of one to five days between the exams," Sivankutty said in a release. The timetable for the exams is available on http://dhsekerala.gov.in Allowing the Kerala government to hold physical exams for Class 11, the apex court had yesterday expressed satisfaction over the steps being taken by it to ensure that no untoward situation is faced by students. The state government in an affidavit told the top court that online examinations will be a disadvantage for students with no access to laptops and mobile phones. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar had dismissed an appeal filed by lawyer Rasoolshan A, challenging a Kerala High Court order refusing to interfere with the state government's decision to hold offline exams. Dip in new Covid-19 cases on Saturday Kerala saw a dip in fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday with the state reporting 19,352 infections, and 143 deaths, taking the total affected in the state to 44,88,840 and the toll to 23,439. The state had reported 23,260 cases on Friday. The number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases with 27,266 being cured, taking the total number to 42,83,963. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of cases - 2,626, followed by Thrissur with 2,329 and Kozhikode with 2,188, health minister Veena George said. "Out of those who were found infected today, 96 reached the state from outside, while 18,114 contracted the disease from their contacts. The sources of infection of 1,038 are yet to be traced. 77 health workers are also among the infected," the minister said in a release. Active cases stood at 1,80,842, out of which 13.2 per cent are in hospitals, she said, but did not give the Test Positivity Rate. A total of 1,21,070 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The minister said 88.94 per cent of the targeted population have received the first dose of vaccination and 36.67 per cent, both the doses. There are 2,507 wards across 678 local self government bodies in the state with a weekly infection population ratio above eight per cent, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
18-09-2021||India||IT dept continues searches at properties, institutes linked to Anil Deshmukh||The Income Tax department on Saturday continued for the second day its searches here at properties and institutes linked to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in an alleged tax evasion case, local police officials said. After conducting searches at the NCP leader's houses in Nagpur and Katol and the National Institute of Technology (NIT) at Fetri the day before, IT officials on Saturday reached the Shri Sai Shikshan Sanshta's office in Ramdaspeth area here. Searches at the NIT at Fetri also continued, officials added. Teams of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were deployed for the protection of IT officials. The focus of the investigation was a Rs 4.18 crore donation allegedly received by the Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, sources said. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had alleged earlier that the amount was deposited in cash with four Delhi-based companies and these firms then routed it to Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha Trust, a charitable trust controlled by Deshmukh and his family. The 71-year-old leader is also being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a corruption case related to allegations of bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
18-09-2021||India||Kejriwal asks kids to participate in Delhi govt's anti-dengue campaign||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged children to participate in the Delhi government's anti-dengue campaign, and check their homes and surroundings for any stagnated water and drain it. The theme of this week's campaign against dengue is 'Children of Delhi' and 'Come On Kids, Let's Give Dengue A Kick; 10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute is the trick' is the tagline, the statement said. “Dear kids, get ready to fight dengue. Let's do a 10-minute homework every Sunday to protect Delhi from dengue. For this, we need to check our homes and surrounding areas for any signs of stagnant water. If we do find water, let's drain it, replace it regularly or cover it with a small layer of oil. Let's also call up our friends and ask them to take part in this campaign. Come, let's save our Delhi from dengue,” the statement quoting the chief minister said. “The Delhi government, like last year, has started its '10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute' campaign to eliminate dengue in Delhi,” an official statement said. “All the ministers, MLAs and officers of the Delhi Government are also taking part in the campaign and cleaning water which has accumulated at their homes every Sunday,” it said. The maximum number of dengue cases are reported every year between September 1 and November 15, it said. In 2015, there were 15,867 cases of dengue in Delhi and about 60 people died due to disease. The government had launched the anti-dengue campaign '10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute' in 2019 and 2,036 dengue cases were reported that year while only two people died, it said. At the same time, the result of this campaign in 2020 was even more encouraging. Last year only 1,269 cases of dengue were reported and not a single death was reported, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
18-09-2021||India||Congress accuses TMC of undermining its leadership||The Congress on Saturday accused the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress of undermining the leadership of the grand old party and said its attack on Rahul Gandhi was "unwarranted and in poor taste". The remarks of the Congress came after the TMC's Bengali mouthpiece 'Jago Bangla' ran a cover story, attacking Gandhi by saying he has failed to take on the BJP and Banerjee, who is the chief minister of Bengal, should be the opposition's face now. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said he has seen reports citing an article in the official publication of the Trinamul Congress (TMC). The same is not in good taste as Rahul Gandhi a former Congress president -- is fighting a bigger battle to save democracy, he said. "Let me say that Rahul Gandhi and the Congress Party are fighting a bigger battle of saving democracy, protecting the Constitution and our national ethos that are under attack from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP-RSS," Surjewala said. "We also find the attack on Rahul Gandhi is unwarranted and in poor taste," he said. Jago Bangla had ran the cover story with the headline: 'Rahul Gandhi failed, Mamata is the alternate face'. Surjewala said the Congress respects all political parties and their leadership and recognises their contribution in the united fight against the BJP. "Everyone must understand that Opposition unity cannot be built by undermining the leadership of other parties, including the Congress Party. In fact, all like-minded parties, including Mamta Banerjee ji, have repeatedly vowed to fight together. Hopefully, those writing such articles will take note of Mamata ji's and Opposition parties' stance," he said. Congress leader in Lok Sabha and the party's Bengal chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the views expressed by TMC's mouthpiece will weaken the unity and convergence among Opposition parties. The article comes at a time when Opposition parties are trying to come together and present a united face in fighting and defeating the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The article in the TMC publication stated that the country is seeking an alternative face. "I have known Rahul Gandhi for a long time, but I must say he has failed to emerge as an alternative face to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But Mamata Banerjee has been successful in emerging as an alternative face to Modi," the story quoted the TMC's Lok Sabha party leader Sudip Bandopadhyay as said. Congress leaders have said that this will adversely affect the bonhomie between the Congress and the TMC, and does not bode well for opposition unity. Senior TMC leader Kunal Ghosh on Friday said the party neither intends to disrespect the Congress nor wants to talk about an alternative to the BJP government at the Centre without it. "Bandopadhyay has not talked about any alternative force without the Congress. He just said in his experiences, people are not accepting Rahul Gandhi as an alternative face to Narendra Modi. He (Gandhi) is not ready yet," Ghosh said. The Congress leader could not prove it (defeating the BJP) in the last two Lok Sabha elections in 2014 and 2019, the state TMC spokesperson said. "But after the 2021 assembly poll victory, Mamata Banerjee has been successful in emerging as an alternative (face to Modi), he said. Veteran Congress leader and MP Pradip Bhattacharya said it is for the opposition allies to unanimously decide who will be their common leader. Mamata, who has emerged as the doughtiest opposition face after her resounding victory in the West Bengal assembly polls, has been trying to bring together opposition parties to form an alternative force against the BJP government ahead of the next Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Punjab Cong MLAs authorise Sonia to pick new CLP leader||Punjab Congress MLAs on Saturday authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick new CLP leader, on a day Amarinder Singh resigned as the state chief minister. A resolution to this effect was passed unanimously in a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party here. Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken, who was one of the two central observers deputed by the party, told reporters that 78 of 80 party MLAs were present in the meeting. He said another resolution praising and thanking Amarinder Singh for his contribution towards Punjab and the Congress was also unanimously passed at the meeting. "We expect that the party will continue to get guidance of Amarinder Singh," he said. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit Saturday accepted Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's resignation. The governor, however, has asked him and his council of ministers to continue in office for the transaction of routine business till alternative arrangements are made, according to an official statement. "Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit accepted his (Amarinder) resignation and that of his council of ministers," said the statement. Earlier in the day, Singh submitted his resignation along with that of his council of ministers. "I, hereby, tender my resignation as Chief Minister, and that of my Council of Ministers," the one-line resignation letter said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Dainik Bhaskar reporter arrested in Haryana for mistake in report related to terrorist||A Dainik Bhaskar journalist was arrested and another booked at Ambala Cantonment in BJP-ruled Haryana for mentioning an “incorrect place” of arrest of a suspected terrorist in a report, prompting the Opposition to allege suppression of the freedom of press. An FIR had been registered against reporter Sunil Brar and news editor Sandeep Sharma on Thursday, police said. Brar has been arrested. The two have been booked under IPC sections that 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 177 (furnishing false information), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 505 (2) (statement creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes), the police said. The sections attract a maximum five years in jail. A suspected terrorist was arrested by Punjab police from Mardon Sahib village of Ambala on Wednesday over an alleged tiffin bomb plot. The newspaper headline said: “Punjab police claim arrest of terrorist at Cantt from near IOC depot.” The Dainik Bhaskar, which has reported extensively on Covid mismanagement and faced income tax raids in July, had published a correction the next day. Station house officer Ambala Canttonment, Vijay Kumar, said the case against the journalists was registered as they had published the news without authentication. Journalists Brar and Sharma have created fear among the masses by publishing false news, he added. Brar was on Saturday produced in the court of duty magistrate Mukesh Kumar, who granted him bail upon furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000. The Opposition, including the Congress, INLD, Haryana Democratic Front and the BSP, criticised the police action against the journalists. Congress leader Rohit Jain said the arrest was made against the directions of the Supreme Court. He alleged that the police had not issued any prior notice to the journalist before arresting him. Chitra Sarwara of the Haryana Democratic Front and Prakash Bharti of the BSP alleged that the police had violated the norms of democracy. It is an attack on the freedom of press, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||'Humiliated' Amarinder quits as Punjab CM, Sonia to choose new leader||Congress veteran Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab on Saturday, declaring he feels "humiliated" and that he won't accept state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu as the next CM or the party face in the Assembly polls. The development came amid a power tussle that polarised the ruling party in the state headed for elections in just about four months. Sidhu was made the state Congress chief earlier this year despite opposition by Amarinder Singh. "I feel humiliated," Amarinder Singh told reporters outside the Punjab Raj Bhawan after submitting his resignation to Governor Banwarilal Purohit. "I have resigned, let them make anyone (next CM)," he further said. However, in another interaction with the media, the Congress leader said he won't accept Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab chief minister, describing him as "a total disaster". He said he will never agree to Navjot Singh Sidhu as the next chief minister. "When he was a minister (in Amarinder cabinet), he could not even run one ministry, now can he run entire Punjab? I know that man has no capability at all," Singh said. If Sidhu was made the face of the Congress for the Punjab polls, Singh said. he would oppose him "tooth and nail". Earlier in the day after submitting his resignation, when asked about his next course of action, Singh told reporters, "There is always an option and I will use that option when time comes." "I have been in politics for the past 52 years and I have been a chief minister for nine-and-a-half years. I will talk to my colleagues, supporters," he said. He submitted his resignation along with that of his council of ministers, his media adviser said. The resignation has been accepted by the Governor. Singh's resignation came hours before a crucial meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) on Saturday evening, pre-empting what was widely being seen as a move to remove him from the CM's post. In the meeting, Punjab Congress MLAs authorised party's national president Sonia Gandhi to pick a new CLP leader and in a unanimously passed resolution praised Amarinder's contribution for Punjab and the Congress. "I spoke to the Congress president in the morning and I told her that I am resigning today," Amarinder Singh told reporters. "They called the MLAs to Delhi twice and now convened a CLP here in Chandigarh today," he said. "I think if there is an element of doubt on me that I could not run (the government) or if there was something else, I feel humiliated the way things have happened," he said. To a question on joining any other party, he said, "Whatever you have to say, you can say. I can only tell you that I have been a chief minister from the Congress. And I am in the Congress and I will consult my colleagues and then we will decide the future course of politics." "I have only resigned for myself," he said. "I hereby tender my resignation as the chief minister, and that of my council of ministers," the one-line resignation letter said. In another interaction with the media later, Amarinder Singh said he had already told Sonia Gandhi during his meeting with her a few weeks back that he should be relieved of the charge. "I had told her that you relieve me of this charge because I cannot work in this way where Mr Sidhu is pulling right and I am pulling left. In that meeting, Congress general secretary (Harish) Rawat was also present. Soniaji then said no I want you to carry on," said  Singh. The Congress leader said he performed his duty to the best of his ability. "I have been in politics for 52 years, so I don't care about these things, I am in politics and I will remain in politics," he said when asked about the circumstances in which he had to resign. "In politics, options are always there, they are never closed. I can tell you one thing, I am not going to leave it like this," he said. Politics is a very fast moving game, he said replying to another question. Singh was accompanied by his wife and MP Preneet Kaur and son Raninder Singh when he submitted his resignation to Governor Banwarilal Purohit. MPs Gurjeet Singh Aujla and Ravneet Singh Bittu, AG Atul Nanda and Chief Principal Secretary to CM Suresh Kumar were also present. "I am proud to accompany my father to Raj Bhawan when he submits his resignation as CM of Punjab and leads us as head of our family into a new beginning," Raninder Singh said in a tweet earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Raj Kundra seeks bail, says there is no evidence against him||Businessman Raj Kundra, an accused in the pornographic content case, on Saturday moved a bail application in a court here, claiming that he was being made a "scapegoat" and that there was not a piece of single evidence in the supplementary charge sheet of him being actively involved in the creation of alleged questionable content. The crime branch, probing the case, had recently filed a supplementary charge sheet against Kundra and three others in the case pertaining to the alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. After that, the accused approached the metropolitan court for bail, saying that the investigation in the case was practically over. Kundra, husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested July 19 by after being booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the Information Technology Act. He is currently in judicial custody. In the bail, filed through advocate Prashant Patil, Kundra claimed that there is not a single iota of evidence till date with the prosecution that would connect the app 'Hotshots' with an offence under law. As per the probe agency, the Hotshots app was being used by the accused for uploading and streaming obscene content. The bail plea also said that there is not a single allegation in the entire supplementary charge sheet against the present applicant (Kundra) that he was actively involved in any of the video shootings. In fact, it is a sole discretion of the individual artists to upload their contents on the app, the plea said. The contents of the complaint do not disclose any prima-facie offence against Kundra, the application said. It further claimed that Kundra was falsely implicated in the case. He was not named in the FIR and he has been dragged by the respondent (police), it added. For the reasons best known to the investigating agencies, he is being made a "scapegoat", it said. The investigation so far clearly shows that Kundra was not involved in any offence even in a remotest way in creating the alleged "questionable content". Further, he is not even related to the process of uploading or broadcasting of the alleged questionable content, the bail plea added. The court will the bail application on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Indianisation of legal system of country need of the hour, says Chief Justice of India||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Saturday said Indianisation of the country's legal system is the need of the hour and it is crucial to make the justice delivery system more accessible and effective. He said Courts need to be litigant-centric, and the simplification of justice delivery should be the pressing concern. "Very often our justice delivery poses many barriers for the common people. The working and the style of courts do not sit well with the complexities of India. Our systems, practice, rules being colonial in origin, it may not be best suited to the needs of the Indian population," Justice Ramana said. Speaking at an event organised here to pay tributes to late Supreme Court judge Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar, he said the need of the hour is the "Indianisation of our legal system." "When I say Indianisation, I mean the need to adapt to the practical realities of our society and to localise our justice delivery system. For example, parties from a rural place fighting a family dispute are usually made to feel out of place in the court; they do not understand arguments or pleadings which are mostly in English, a language alien to them," he added. Further noting that these days judgments have become lengthy, the Chief Justice said it further complicates the position of the litigants. "For parties to understand the implication of the judgment they are forced to spend more money. Courts need to be litigant-centric as they are the ultimate beneficiaries. The simplification of justice delivery should be our pressing concern. It is crucial to make justice delivery more transparent, accessible and effective," he said. Justice Ramana said procedural barriers often undermine access to justice. "A common man while approaching the court should not feel scared of judges and the courts; he should be able to speak the truth. It is the duty of lawyers and judges to create an environment which is comforting for litigants and other stakeholders," he said. "We must not forget that the focal point of any justice system is the litigant, the justice seeker," he said, adding that "usage of alternative dispute mechanisms such as mediation and conciliation would go a long way in reducing the friction between parties and would save resources. It also reduces the pendency and requirement of having lengthy arguments and judgments." Remembering Justice Shantanagoudar who died on April 25 at a private hospital in Gurugram, where he was admitted due to a lung infection, at the age of 62, as an "extraordinary judge", the Chief Justice said these are the topics he used to discuss with him everyday. Expressing "deep gratitude" to Shantanagoudar's contribution to Indian Judiciary and the country's jurisprudence and for his friendship, the Chief Justice said, "in losing him the country has lost a common man's Judge. I have personally lost a most cherished friend and a valuable colleague." Justice S Abdul Nazeer, Justice A S Bopanna, Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Justice B V Nagarathna, Acting Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court Satish Chandra Sharma, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy, several present and former judges of Supreme Court and High Court, office-bearers and members of Bar Council, among others, were present. Late Justice Shantanagoudar's family was also present at the event. Recalling his long association with him since a young age, Chief Minister Bommai said Shantanagoudar was a down to earth personality and called him a "common man's judge". "He (Shantanagoudar) was a lively person, he made everyone around him lively. His simplicity, warmth and connection with the roots were really outstanding," he said. Bommai also recalled that Shantanagoudar wanted to join politics and wanted to contest Lok Sabha polls and had held discussion with his father, former Chief Minister, the late S R Bommai, in this regard. His father advised him to continue with his legal profession as he saw a bright future for him in it, Bommai said. Recalling his long association, Justice Nazeer said Shantanagoudar was called "Shantamurthy Shantanagoudar", and his intelligence and empathy were the guiding force behind his judgments. Paying tributes, Justice Bopanna said, "his achievements and good deeds will continue to inspire all of us." Whie Justice Oka remembered Shantanagoudar as a judge who spoke his mind and someone who upheld individual liberty, Justice B V Nagarathna said, as a Judge, he exhibited a great degree of compassion, statesmanship and leadership. "He truly believed that justice delayed is justice denied." Shantanagoudar was elevated as a judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2017. He would have remained in office till May 5, 2023. Born on May, 5, 1958, in Karnataka, Shantanagoudar got himself enrolled as an advocate on September 5, 1980. He was appointed as an additional judge of the Karnataka High Court on May 12, 2003, and became a permanent judge in the court in September 2004. Later, Justice Shantanagoudar was transferred to the Kerala High Court, where he assumed charge as the acting chief justice on August 1, 2016. He became the chief justice of the Kerala High Court on September 22, 2016, before being elevated as an apex court judge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Narendra Modi should celebrate his birthday everyday, says Congress after record vaccinations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should celebrate his birthday every day as some BJP-ruled states "performed" on the day and vaccinated many times the daily average, the Congress said on Saturday. The party took a dig at Modi a day after India achieved the highest record of 2.5 crore COVID-19 vaccinations on a single day. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said this is the pace of vaccination the country needs. "Looking forward to many more days of 2.1 crore vaccinations. This pace is what our country needs," he tweeted. Party leader P Chidambaram said he was happy and grateful that 2.5 crore vaccinations were administered on Friday. "But why did we have to wait until the PM's birthday," he asked. Suppose the prime minister's birthday was on December 31, would the 2.5 crore vaccinations have been done only on the last day of the year, Chidambaram also asked. "Vaccination is not like cutting a cake on a birthday. Vaccination is a programme, it is a process. It has to be accelerated every day, not scale a peak on a birthday," he said on Twitter. "BJP ruled states -- UP, MP, Gujarat and Karnataka -- 'perform' on the PM's birthday and vaccinate many times the daily average. On other days, they are 'non-performing' states. "I wish the PM celebrated his birthday every day," the former Union finance minister added. In another tweet, he said, one-third of the adult population was yet to receive its first dose and only 21 per cent had been fully vaccinated. Prime Minister Modi, in a swipe at the opposition, on Saturday said there is talk of fever as a vaccine side-effect, but a political party experienced fever after 2.5 crore vaccines were administered on his birthday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Punjab MLAs seek Amarinder's replacement, write to Sonia||Over 50 Congress legislators from Punjab have written to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking that Amarinder Singh be replaced as chief minister, highly placed party sources said on Saturday ahead of a crucial meeting of the Congress Legislative Party in Chandigarh. As crisis intensifies once again in the Punjab unit of the party -- riven by differences between the chief minister and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu -- Amarinder Singh is also learnt to have talked to Gandhi and expressed his anguish over his repeated "humiliation". There was no official confirmation about the chief minister calling Gandhi. Amarinder Singh is learnt to be meeting MLAs close to him in the afternoon at his official residence in Chandigarh. Sources here said the current crisis is "serious" with so many MLAs seeking the chief minister's replacement just a few months ahead of assembly elections in the state. The MLAs in their letter to Gandhi sought the convening of the CLP meeting, being held at 5 pm on Friday at the Congress Bhawan in Chandigarh. The high command has deputed senior party leaders Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary as central observers. AICC general secretary in-charge for Punjab affairs of the party Harish Rawat will also be present during the meeting. Sources said anything could happen at today's meeting. If the MLAs insist on their demand, the change in leadership might happen at the CLP meeting itself, they said. Amarinder Singh's bete-noire and PCC president Sidhu, who is eyeing the chief minister's post, however, is unlikely to be a probable choice for the chief minister's replacement, the sources pointed out. Former Punjab unit chief Sunil Jakhar may be considered a probable, they said. Jakhar, who is not an MLA, is believed to be close the top leadership and is considered a prominent Hindu face of the party. Trouble between the two factions has been brewing for long and Amarinder Singh was strongly opposed to Sidhu's appointment as PCC chief. Sidhu has been at loggerheads with Amarinder Singh ever since he quit the Punjab cabinet as a minister in 2019. He had become more vocal in his views in the last some months. Last month, four ministers and around two dozen party legislators had raised the banner of revolt against the Punjab CM and said they had no faith in Amarinder Singh's ability to honour unfulfilled promises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||'Emotional moment' for Modi as India administers record 2.5 crore vaccine doses on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said it was an unforgettable and emotional moment for him as over 2.50 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses were administered in the country on his 71st birthday. "With your efforts, India has created a world record of administering over 2.5 crore vaccines in a single day, a feat not even the most powerful nations have been able to achieve," Modi said during an interaction via video link with healthcare workers and beneficiaries in the coastal state. "We saw how the nation kept looking at CoWIN dashboard yesterday. Over 15 lakh vaccinations per hour, over 26,000 vaccinations every minute took place yesterday. Over 425 people were administered vaccines each second," he said. Modi said he appreciates all doctors, medical staff, and people in administration in the country for this effort. The huge effort and skilled manpower needed to accomplish this task show the might of India, he added. Birthdays come and go but I have been away from such things. But yesterday was emotional for me. It has become an unforgettable occasion for me, Modi said. Without naming any party, Modi said a political party developed fever after over 2.5 crore vaccine doses were administered on his birthday. People speak of fever as a side effect of vaccines. but a political party experienced fever after 2.5 crore vaccines were administered on my birthday, he said. Modi lauded Goa CM Pramod Sawant and his government for overcoming challenges in accomplishing 100 per cent vaccination of the first dose of covid vaccines in the coastal state. Goa is on way to becoming a leading state in India as far as vaccination is concerned, Modi said. Goa is playing important role in the success of the world's largest and fastest vaccination drive - Sabko vaccine, muft vaccine. In the past few months, Goa fought bravely against heavy rainfall, cyclone and flood, under the leadership of Sawant, he said. When they are aware that all people are vaccinated, tourists will also feel safe and flock to Goa in more numbers, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||Sonu Sood evaded tax worth Rs 20 crore, says Income Tax department||The CBDT on Saturday alleged that actor Sonu Sood and his associates evaded tax of Rs 20 crore and claimed that after the Income Tax Department raided him and a linked Lucknow-based infrastructure group it was found that he routed his "unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities". It also accused Sood of violating the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) while raising donations from abroad. The department had launched searches against the 48-year-old actor and the Lucknow-based group of industries involved in infrastructure on September 15 and the CBDT said the action was continuing. "During the course of search at the premises of the actor and his associates, incriminating evidence pertaining to tax evasion has been found. "The main modus operandi followed by the actor had been to route his unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities," the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) claimed in a statement. It added that, so far, use of 20 such entries has been found and the providers of which, on examination, have "accepted" on oath to have given "bogus" accommodation entries (transaction entries in accounts). "They have accepted to have issued cheques in lieu of cash. There have been instances where professional receipts have been camouflaged as loans in the books of accounts for the purpose of evasion of tax," the policy-making body for the tax department said. These bogus loans, it said, have been used for "making investments and acquiring properties." "The total amount of tax evaded unearthed so far, amounts to more than Rs 20 crore," the statement and official sources said about Sood. It also talked about his charity organisation that was established during the COVID-19 outbreak last year. "The charity foundation incorporated by the actor on July 21, 2020 has collected donations to the tune of Rs 18.94 crore from April 1, 2021 till date, out of which it has spent around Rs 1.9 crore towards various relief work and the balance of Rs 17 crore has been found lying unutilised in the bank account of the foundation till date," it said. It is seen, the statement alleged, that funds to the tune of Rs 2.1 crore have also been raised by the charity foundation from overseas donors on a crowdfunding platform "in violation" of FCRA regulations. It said the actor had entered into a joint venture with the Lucknow located infrastructure group and "invested substantial funds", and said the taxman has unearthed "incriminating" evidence pertaining to tax evasion and irregularities in the account books. "The search has revealed that the said group is involved in bogus billing of sub-contracting expenses and siphoning off of funds. "Evidence of such bogus contracts found so far are to the tune of over Rs 65 crore," it said. Evidence of unaccounted cash expenses, unaccounted sale of scrap and digital data evidencing unaccounted cash transactions has also been found. The infra group "has entered into dubious circular transaction to the tune of Rs 175 crore with an infrastructure company based in Jaipur". "Further investigations are being carried out to establish the full extent of tax evasion," it said. The CBDT said Rs 1.8 crore cash has been seized during the raids and 11 lockers have been placed under "prohibitory orders". A total of 28 premises in Mumbai, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jaipur, Delhi, and Gurgaon are being covered as part of the search operation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-198
18-09-2021||India||ED moves court against Anil Deshmukh for non-compliance of summonses||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has moved a court here against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for failing to appear before the probe agency despite being summoned multiple times in a money laundering case. The ED filed the plea in a special court on Friday seeking action against Deshmukh under IPC section 174 (non-attendance in obedience to an order from a public servant). The section attracts a simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or fine up to five hundred rupees or both. The probe agency had issued multiple summonses to Deshmukh in the money laundering case registered against him by it. However, the NCP leader has failed to appear before it so far. Two of Deshmukh's aides - Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde - have been arrested in the case. They are currently in judicial custody. Besides the duo, the probe agency in its charge-sheet filed recently, has also named dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze as an accused. However, Deshmukh or his family members have not been made accused in the charge sheet. The ED launched a probe against Deshmukh and his associates after the CBI filed an FIR against the NCP leader on April 21 after former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused him of corruption. Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to collect Rs 100 crore from city bars and hotels every month, a charge denied by the former minister. Deshmukh resigned as a minister in April this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||India logs over 35,000 fresh Covid cases, 281 casualties in a day||With 35,662 more people testing positive for COVID-19, India's overall infection tally has increased to 3,34,17,390, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,44,529, with 281 more fatalities being recorded, it said. The number of active cases has risen to 3,40,639, comprising 1.02 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.65 per cent, according to the data updated by the ministry at 8 am. It said that active cases in the country increased by 1,583 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 14,48,833 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far to 55,07,80,273, it said. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 2.46 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 19 days, according to the data. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 2.02 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 85 days, the ministry said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease is 3,26,32,222, while the case fatality rate has been recorded at 1.33 per cent, it said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the vaccination drive has exceeded 79.42 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India recorded two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 281 new fatalities include 131 deaths from Kerala and 67 from Maharashtra, the ministry said. It said that 4,44,529 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,389 from Maharashtra, 37,573 from Karnataka, 35,288 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 23,296 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,629 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||India's record vaccination coincides with Modi’s birthday||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign delivered a record of over 22.80 million doses on Friday, the feat coinciding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. The vaccination campaign’s average daily doses have increased month after month. But sharp spikes in doses over the past month have been preceded and succeeded by smaller counts that, experts say, possibly helped the authorities organise the planned increases.  “2,00,00,000 mark crossed!” BJP president J.P. Nadda tweeted past 5pm. “This figure is a reflection of New India under PM @narendramodi’s leadership. India has set a path in successfully fighting Covid with visionary and diligent leadership,” Nadda added. Modi turned 71 on Friday. “527 vaccinations per second today. Breathing...!!! #HappyBdayModiji,” a gushing B.L. Santosh, BJP general secretary (organisation), tweeted. “India’s gift to PM @narendramodi Ji! 2 crore vaccine doses in a day and counting,” tweeted minister Smriti Irani. Internally, the BJP felt that the devastation caused by the second wave of the pandemic had scarred Modi’s image, necessitating this all-out attempt at perception management on his birthday. The party leaders expressed confidence that the vaccine blitzkrieg would deal a blow to the Opposition’s criticism of the tardy pace of vaccination in the country. Ahead of Friday’s 22,835,858 doses up to 10.45pm, the campaign had administered 6.4 million doses on Tuesday, 6.7 million on Wednesday and 6.4 million on Thursday. Similarly, two other spikes of 14.1 million doses on August 31 and 11.9 million on September 6 were followed by several days of under 10 million doses. Only China has so far administered similar quantum of counts on a single day — 22.42 million, for instance, on June 28 this year. The record count was possible because health authorities had organised around 109,000 vaccination centres across the country — compared with 58,000 on Thursday — through a preparatory exercise that a health official said would have taken up to two weeks. “Such sharp increases do not happen overnight — they are planned with precision,” the official said. “The doses need to reach each vaccination centre; the staff have to be prepared; and in some places, people need to be mobilised for the day.” A vaccination policy adviser said India had the capacity to activate nearly 120,000 vaccination centres daily across the country, depending on the availability of vaccine doses. In the coming weeks, as more doses become available, the number of centres operating daily is expected to increase. “These periodic spikes are not photo-ops — they demonstrate India’s existing capacities that can be used for the campaign as more doses become available,” said Narendra Arora, a paediatrician and public health specialist who has been advising the government on vaccines. Amid increasing vaccine supplies, health officials say, the average daily doses have risen from 4.3 million in July to 5.9 million in August and to 7.4 million during the first half of September. “The steady increase in the number of doses allows us to organise such spikes once a week on average,” Arora said. “We hope to see more such high counts in the weeks to come.” Arora said the credit for such high counts should not go just to the campaign’s planners, among them district health officials, but also to the people who are coming forward to take the vaccines. But health experts tracking the campaign said India would be able to achieve its goal of fully vaccinating all its adults by December 31 only if it administers at least 10 million doses daily for the rest of the year. The vaccination campaign, launched on January 16, had cumulatively administered over 790 million doses by Friday night, but only 198 million (about 21 per cent) of the country’s estimated 943 million adults had received the two doses required for full immunisation. Experts say that day-to-day fluctuations in the vaccination count are not unusual because the number of jabs administered depends not just on the doses available but also on the counts of people seeking immunisation. “But dramatic fluctuations such as a jump from about 60 lakh one day to over 2 crore the next day point to an orchestrated campaign to show a very large increase on certain days,” said R. Ramakumar, an economist and professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. “The key to achieving the December 31 goal is to maintain consistency in vaccination rates and achieve a monthly average of such high levels,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Delhi police stops Shiromani Akali Dal's protest march||Police on Friday sealed Delhi’s borders to stop the entry of the farmers during a protest march organised by the Shiromani Akali Dal to mark a year of the enactment of the contentious farm laws. A video being shared on social media showed several Sikhs protesting vociferously against being singled out and stopped. They are seen demanding to know from a purported  policeman at the spot why others are being allowed to pass and only Sikhs were being stopped. To this, the purported policeman says: “Bhaisaheb, I am doing what I have been ordered. What the senior officers have ordered, that is what I am doing.” Delhi police made no comments about the video till late on Friday. Sources said the police were under instructions not to allow Punjab-registered vehicles inside the capital. Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal said it was an undeclared emergency and condemned Delhi police for allegedly detaining party workers who arrived in groups to take part in the “Black Friday” protest march. The protest march was organised from Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib to the Parliament building. The Akali Dal had left the BJP-led NDA over the farm bills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Modi cautions against 'new system' in Kabul; stays mum on Taliban||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday underscored the need for caution in recognising the “new system” in Kabul, saying its failure to be representative of all sections of Afghan society and its formation without negotiations raised questions about its acceptability. Modi, however, did not mention the Taliban even once while making his first detailed statement on the new government in Afghanistan. “The transition of power in Afghanistan is not inclusive, and it has happened without negotiation. This raises questions about the acceptability of the new system,’’ Modi said. The Prime Minister was addressing the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation-Collective Security Treaty Organisation outreach session on Afghanistan. He addressed the session, hosted on the sidelines of the SCO summit in Dushanbe, Tajikistan, virtually. The CSTO is a Russia-led Eurasian military alliance of some former Soviet Union countries. Modi said it was important that women, minorities and all other sections of Afghanistan’s diverse society were given representation. “Therefore, it is necessary that the decision on recognition of such a new system is taken by the global community collectively and after due thought. India supports the central role of the United Nations on this issue,’’ Modi said. The Prime Minister warned “if instability and fundamentalism persist in Afghanistan, it will encourage terrorists and extremist ideologies all over the world. Other extremist groups may also be encouraged to come to power through violence.’’ The Prime Minister warned about the added risks involved in the large amount of unregulated weapons in circulation in Afghanistan, saying it could cause instability in the region. He added that drugs posed another problem. On the humanitarian needs of Afghanistan, he said India remained committed to help the people of that country. Earlier, in the morning, while addressing the SCO plenary, Modi had dwelt on radicalisation and the need to use the moderate and progressive cultural values of Central Asia to address this growing trend. “If we look at history, we will find that the region of Central Asia has been a bastion of moderate and progressive cultures and values. Traditions like Sufism have flourished here over the centuries and spread throughout the region and the world. We can still see their influence in the cultural heritage of this region. On the basis of this historical heritage of Central Asia, the SCO should develop a common template to fight radicalisation and extremism. “In India, and almost in all SCO countries, there are moderate, tolerant and inclusive institutions and traditions associated with Islam. The SCO should work to develop a strong network between them,” Modi said. While condemning terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, the Dushanbe Declaration that was adopted at the end of the summit said: “Member States note the inadmissibility of interference in the internal affairs of States under the pretext of countering terrorism and extremism, as well as the inadmissibility of the use of terrorist, extremist and radical groups for vested interests.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Rajesh Bindal on list for elevation as chief justice of Allahabad HC||The Supreme Court collegium on Friday recommended the elevation of Calcutta High Court acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal as chief justice of Allahabad High Court, the country’s largest high court with a sanctioned strength of 160 judges. The collegium offered some cheer to another judge who had sent Amit Shah to CBI custody and since then lost out on several prestigious postings. Tripura High Court Chief Justice Akil Kureshi, left out by the collegium last month from a list of candidates for elevation to the Supreme Court, has been recommended for transfer to Rajasthan High Court. Justice Kureshi had remanded Shah in CBI custody in 2010 in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh fake encounter case. In 2019, the Narendra Modi government refused the collegium’s recommendation to elevate Justice Kureshi as chief justice of Madhya Pradesh High Court. The collegium, headed by then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi, eventually recommended elevating Justice Kureshi as Tripura High Court chief justice and the Centre obliged. Tripura High Court has a sanctioned strength of four judges while its Madhya Pradesh counterpart has 40. Rajasthan High Court has a sanctioned strength of 50 judges. Overall, the collegium of Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana and Justices U.U. Lalit and A.M. Khanwilkar recommended the elevation of eight judges as high court chief justices, and the transfer of five chief justices and 28 other high court judges. New CJs (recommended): Allahabad (Rajesh Bindal), Calcutta (Prakash Srivastava), Andhra Pradesh (Prashant Kumar Mishra), Karnataka (Ritu Raj Awasthi), Telangana (Satish Chandra Sharma), Meghalaya (Ranjit V. More), Gujarat (Aravind Kumar) and Madhya Pradesh (R.V. Malimath). CJ transfers (recommended): Arup Kumar Goswami (Andhra Pradesh to Chhattisgarh), Mohd Rafiq (Madhya Pradesh to Himachal Pradesh), Akil Qureshi (Tripura to Rajasthan), Indrajit Mahanty (Rajasthan to Tripura) and Biswanath Somadder (Meghalaya to Sikkim).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Kerala minister meets 'narcotic jihad' bishop||The Kerala government on Friday sent a minister to meet a Catholic bishop whose allegations about “love jihad” and “narcotic jihad” have sparked outrage, while back-channel efforts at damage control have begun within the Christian community with some clergymen and reformers taking the initiative. Minister for cooperation V.N. Vasavan told reporters his visit to Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt of the Pala Diocese was just a courtesy call, his statement reflecting the Left Democratic Front government’s cautious handling of the sensitive issue. “We did not discuss this issue. Instead, we spoke about social issues and I told him about the stand taken by our government,” Vasavan said without explaining what these “social issues” were. Pressed, he said: “The chief minister has already spoken about the government’s stand on this (the bishop’s controversial remarks). So, neither the government nor the Church has anything to say about it now.” Kallarangatt had on September 8 alleged that Muslim extremists were luring Christian women into conversion and radicalism and Christian men into drug addiction. “Only religious extremists are discussing this issue. But the government is not ready to compromise with extremists from any religion, whether majority or minority,” Vasavan said. A source connected to a church told The Telegraph that a backroom initiative to control damage had begun under the leadership of Bishop Geevarghese Mor Coorilos of the Niranam Diocese of the Jacobite Syrian Church, who has already spoken out against Kallarangatt’s allegations. “As far as I know, this peace initiative is proceeding with the full knowledge of the state government, which prefers back-channel interventions because of the sensitivity of the issue,” the source, who declined to be named, said. Several Christian reformists have been doing their bit. “I have spoken to some bishops who were reluctant to do anything openly although they too felt this issue should not get out of hand,” the president of the Joint Christian Council, Felix Pulludan, told this newspaper. The Catholic Church is yet to come forward to address the volatile situation fuelled by Kallarangatt’s allegations. “Those who support the bishop are eyeing temporary gains by associating with the BJP. They don’t see the long-term damage this can cause to Kerala’s society,” Pulludan said. The Left government’s initiative of sending Vasavan to the bishop comes at a time the CPM has cautioned its cadres about minority extremism stemming from insecurity created by the Sangh parivar. A party booklet distributed last week at various CPM events mentioned attempts by minority extremists to recruit women from professional colleges. While the state government has been cautious in handling the sensitive issue involving two minority communities, the Congress-led United Democratic Front has castigated the Pala bishop saying his remarks are posing a threat to communal amity. State Congress president K. Sudhakaran called on Kallarangatt on Thursday after he and the leader of the Opposition, V.D. Satheesan, met Archbishop Mar Joseph Perunthottam of the Changanassery Diocese who had supported the Pala bishop’s controversial claims. The BJP is the lone party to have openly backed Kallarangatt. It has organised solidarity marches in support of his allegations, and several of its leaders have visited Kallarangatt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Youth Congress observes Modi's birthday as 'Unemployment Day'||The Congress on Friday wondered what Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday should be celebrated for — unemployment, destruction of democracy or selling national assets to crony capitalists. Though Modi’s birthday was observed as “Unemployment Day” by the Youth Congress last year as well, the party had avoided using the occasion for political warfare despite its irreconcilable differences with the BJP. But with the BJP going all out on Friday to use Modi’s birthday to try to undo the damage to the Prime Minister’s image in the pandemic, the Congress too did not pull its punches. Rahul Gandhi stuck to the customary birthday wish in the morning, but later tweeted: “There would have been no need for National Unemployment Day if the BJP worked for the people, not for friends.” The Congress held a news conference at which spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “Unemployment Day is being observed today by the youth across the country; it is an unmatched Twitter trend since morning. Women are observing the Prime Minister’s birthday as ‘Mehngai Diwas’ and farmers as ‘Kisan-Virodhi’ day. There are other achievements of the Prime Minister, which too cannot be forgotten — India is on sale and democracy is being attacked. We could also observe the day as ‘Covid mismanagement Day’ or ‘ED-Income Tax raid Day’. These issues make Modi’s legacy.” The party staged massive demonstrations in many states where slogans such as “Narendra Modi sharm karo” accompanied banners and posters on the jobs crisis. The Youth Congress joined the call to observe September 17 as “National Unemployment Day”, lending its might to the social media campaign. The Youth Congress not only changed its profile picture on Twitter to amplify the “National Unemployment Day” message, but also posted hundreds of videos and messages containing jobs data to ensure the topic trended worldwide throughout the day with millions of tweets. The Mahila Congress worked separately to highlight the burden of inflation, focusing on the prices of petroleum products and edible oil. The Youth Congress chipped in by selling pakoda and sabji-bhaji at several places, and polishing shoes in markets to highlight the scourge of unemployment. The messages posted on social media pointed out how engineers and post-graduates were applying for the post of peons and appointments were not being done in government jobs despite selection. Shrinate said: “Every Prime Minister is known for something. We have to look at the achievements of Modi as Prime Minister in the last seven years and what comes to mind is unemployment, cruelty to farmers, high prices of essential commodities — with petrol selling at Rs 100-plus and edible oil at Rs 200-plus, India being on sale in the name of monetisation of assets, playing havoc with people’s lives by Covid mismanagement and data manipulation, attack on democratic institutions and raid on rivals and critics by central agencies.” Asking the Prime Minister to worry about governance instead of headline management, Shrinate said: “Instead of delivering on his promise to create two crore jobs every year, his policies have ensured lakhs of jobs disappear every month.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Centre approves women CRPF for VVIP security duty||The Union home ministry has given its go-ahead to the Central Reserve Police Force to deploy its women constables for VVIP security duty, sources in the country’s largest paramilitary force said. “This is the first time the CRPF will deploy women constables for VVIP duty. We have initially selected 30 women constables and they will be given two months’ training before being deployed for VVIP duty,” said a senior CRPF official. The CRPF provides security cover to 62 VVIPs, including Union home minister Amit Shah, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress working president Sonia Gandhi and party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, among others. In December 2018, a parliamentary panel had asked the government to speed up the process of handing over VIP security to the special security group of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and relieve other paramilitary forces of their responsibility of guarding high-profile dignitaries. “The home ministry had then said two paramilitary forces — the CRPF and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) — would be phased out of VIP duties and the task assigned to the CISF special security group specially created for such responsibilities. But nothing happened after that and the two paramilitary forces continue to provide VVIP security cover,” said a CRPF official. The parliamentary panel recommended that the home ministry should progressively assign security of all VIP protectees, apart from high-risk protectees, to the CISF’s special security group. The committee had said that the ministry should implement this plan at the earliest and put an end to the issue of multiple forces being assigned the task of VIP security. Central paramilitary forces, including the CRPF and the National Security Guard (NSG), have over the past year urged the Centre to take them off VIP security duties and reduce their workload. Earlier in 2002, a group of ministers had recommended that the CISF be ideally assigned the task of VIP security and suggested that the ITBP, the CRPF and other security agencies be relieved of VIP duties so they could focus on the tasks they had been created for. VIP security has four categories — “Z-plus” (38 guards), “Z” (24 guards), “Y” (11 guards) and “X” (two guards). On an average, VIP security costs the exchequer nearly Rs 390 crore a year. “VIP culture continues no matter which party is in power. The home ministry has failed to act on the parliamentary panel’s recommendation and so far has not pulled out central paramilitary forces from such duties,” an NSG official said. The home ministry provides security to individuals depending on assessments of threat to their lives and the cover is continued, withdrawn, downgraded or upgraded based on periodic reviews.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Indian astrophysicist and teacher passes away at 64||Thanu Padmanabhan, an Indian astrophysicist who tweaked Albert Einstein’s theory of gravitation to explain an all-pervasive mysterious energy in the universe and was viewed by India’s science community as an outstanding teacher and mentor, passed away on Friday. He was 64. Padmanabhan — fondly known as Paddy — who was at the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA), Pune, and worked on cosmology and gravity among other physics areas was among the most-cited authors in the physical sciences from India, his fellow scientists said. “Scholar, communicator, extraordinary scientist, friend to many. He will be much missed,” principal scientific adviser to the government Krishnaswamy VijayRaghavan tweeted. Padmanabhan, whose work on gravity provides a possible understanding of so-called dark energy, a repulsive force discovered in the late 1990s that pushes everything in the universe away from everything else, was also known for his efforts at science communication through books, columns and wit. “Paddy was deeply engaged in all levels of the academic process,” said Somak Raychaudhury, IUCAA’s director who had known Padmanabhan for over 35 years. “His textbooks are among the most widely read and each of his popular books on science are unique in every way.” Padmanabhan’s lectures on myriad topics of physics available on various online platforms have “guided many a soul into physics”, said Ajay Thakur, an associate professor of physics at the Indian Institute of Technology, Patna, whose own research deals with another physics field. Among Padmanabhan’s many books, Thakur recalled, was one titled Sleeping Beauties in Theoretical Physics. “Padmanabhan’s wit shines through all his books,” said Raychaudhury. And his website that features the line: “Beam me up Scotty! There is no intelligent life out here,” a reference to a character and a line from the acclaimed US TV series Star Trek. In 2016, Padmanabhan won a 10-year old bet with a physicist David Wiltshire at the University of Canterbury, New Zealand, who had challenged his ideas, and received a $200 decorative lamp that Padmanabhan placed in his living room. At an international physics symposium in 2006, Padmanabhan claimed there was no evidence to contract his hypothesis. Wiltshire took up the challenge — and lost the wager in 2016. “I don’t think I’m going to make any more money from the cosmological constant,” Padmanabhan had said in 2016. Through his career, Padmanabhan had won multiple awards, including the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize, a prestigious award from the Indian government, the Infosys Foundation Prize, among other national and international awards. Padmanabhan post-graduated in physics from Kerala University before joining the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, for his PhD studies with the noted |Indian astronomer Jayant Narlikar as his supervisor. “He was committed to training young people and to reach out to the public.… He was still very young in his outlook and mind and had a long way to go,” said Raychaudhury who had first met Padmanabhan when he was a student at Cambridge and Padmanabhan was a visiting fellow there. “This is a loss beyond repair not just for his friends, students and associates, but for the Indian science community at large,” Raychaudhury said. Padmanabhan is survived by his wife Vasanthi and daugher Hamsa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-199
18-09-2021||India||Odisha High Court upholds state's cap on Durga idol height||The Orissa High Court on Friday rejected the petition filed by Balu Bazar Puja committee, one of the oldest Durga Puja committees of Cuttack, seeking relaxation on limiting the height of the Durga idol to four feet high. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena told The Telegraph: “The high court upheld the state’s order on limiting the height of the idols to four feet. We will not make any comments on the issue.” The high court bench comprising Chief Justice S. Muralidhar and judge B.P. Routray in its order on Friday declined to interfere with the order issued by the Odisha government which contained, among several other measures, a restriction on the height of the idols by mandating that it should not exceed four feet. Last year, the court had permitted only these nine puja committees in Cuttack, which had already constructed the idols of Durga, to have idols over 4ft high. The court said the organisers of all pujas in the four months beginning August and ending November 2021 have been given sufficient notice of the restrictions “Second, while the Covid-19 situation now may not be the same as it was in these months in 2020, the country as a whole and Odisha too is still not free from it entirely. The apprehension that any large congregation of people might turn out to be a super spreader event is real,” the court said. The court further said: “Durga Puja is indeed a major festival in the country, particularly in the eastern region. While Cuttack itself reportedly has over 150 Durga Puja Samitis/Mandalis, all over Odisha the number would apparently be in thousands. Relaxing a restriction for just one Durga Puja Committee would trigger similar demands all over, making it difficult for the Government to strictly enforce the measures it has put in place at a time when the State is still in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic.”The court also pointed out that barring the petitioners, it appears that none of the other Durga Puja Samitis have found the restrictions put in place by the impugned order on the height of the idol to be hurtful of public sentiment or interfering with their celebration of the events. “The impugned order dated August 9, 2021 ( referring  to SRC order to size of the idol less than 4 feet) has been issued taking into account all the Puja festivals in the months of August, September, October and November, 2021. These festivals include the Ganesh Puja, the Durga Puja, the Laxmi Puja, the Kali Puja and the Kartikeswar Puja. As noted in the impugned order, these are occasions where “people usually congregate and get in touch with each other to celebrate the festival/Puja during which it is not possible to adhere to COVID appropriate behaviour and such congregations have a potential to cause spread of the virus.” The court also observed that the Durga Puja festival itself is a combination of several elements of celebration, and the idol is but one important component. “In respect of these many elements there has had to be some amount of restriction on the scale and size. It is in that context that the restriction on the height of the idol has to be viewed. It cannot be singled out as an‘essential’ aspect of a tradition or practice without which, the festival itself may not have significance. On this particular aspect, the petitioners have not been able to convince the court that if the height of the idol is restricted to 4ft, then somehow the sanctity of the occasion, the devotion and fervour associated with the festival, and the religious sentiments of the people would be interfered with in a manner contrary to tradition,” the court observed. The court also said: “These may be matters of perception, but will have to be balanced against several countervailing interests and factors, which concern the health and safety of the public at large. These certainly are not easy decisions for the state to take. Equally, they are not to be interfered with lightly by the courts unless strong legal grounds exist.” The court is of the view that no case has been made out for modifying the condition in the Order dated August 9, 2021 (referring to SRC order to size of the idol less than 4ft), and that too only for the petitioners, that the height of the idol should not exceed 4 ft. “Accordingly, the writ petition is dismissed,” the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
18-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh government to set up Sevagram Ashram at Nava Raipur ||The Chhattisgarh government has decided to set up a Sevagram Ashram at Nava Raipur on the lines of the one in Wardha in Maharashtra to spread the philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi among the new generation. “The Sevagram for the 21st century is set to come up on 75-100 acres of land and will be built using clay, limestone and other natural materials to safeguard the memories of the freedom movement and keep the history alive and make the new generations learn from the Gandhian philosophies. “The work plan will be presented before October 2 (birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi) by the Nava Raipur Atal Nagar Development Authority,” a government spokesperson said. The inspiration behind the project is the Sevagram (village of service) in Wardha near Nagpur, founded in 1936 as a residence for Gandhi and his wife Kasturba to lead the freedom movement with a vision to serve the nation through rural reconstruction. The proposed Sevagram will have a visitors’ centre to spread Gandhian ideologies, arts and craft village, Vridh Ashram (for the elderly) and a school for the underprivileged. “The Visitors’ Centre will be a place to learn, a place to re-live, a place to remember Gandhi and to commemorate him. It intends to empower the locals by the economy generated by tourism, by celebrating the artisans of Chhattisgarh, by providing a second home for the elderly and by building a world-class system for knowledge for the best minds in the state with a motive to fight poverty,” a government communiqué stated. The proposed arts village will mirror the simplicity and traditions of the state and its people. “Chhattisgarh is known for its distinct arts and craft. Bastar, Raigarh and other districts of Chhattisgarh have various art forms using bell metal, wrought iron, terracotta, stone, fabric and bamboo. The tribal families in the Bastar and Sukma districts celebrate many festivals and fairs, which require ample common space for the villagers to set up such fairs and interact. “Sevagram will be a place where visitors will experience local arts and crafts, local cuisine through the community kitchen and host cultural events in an open-air theatre,” the communiqué added. Vridh Ashram is unique to Sevagram. It intends to become a second home for elderly people separated from their family and in need of care. “This ashram creates a holistic ecosystem that can offer its residents a quality of living and engagement with the other site activities. The idea of sustainable living having symbiosis between the elderly and site activities can make a very homelike experience. After all, Mahatma Gandhi believed that ‘the best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others’,” said a spokesperson. The school for the underprivileged will have a system inspired by the ancient gurukuls, well-equipped to empower young Indians to take over the 21st century. “The intent is to end poverty by providing education. As the saying goes — ‘The education of just one underprivileged child changes the future of many generations of the family as they are destined to move out of poverty’,” added the spokesperson. “The government also plans to make the project environmentally and financially self-sustainable by creating biodiversity parks and revenue streams by promoting arts and crafts and tourism. Building on the principles of sustainability, all the raw materials will be locally sourced,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-200
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo joins Trinamul month after 'quitting' politics||Former Union minister of state and Asansol MP Babul Supriyo quit the BJP on Saturday and hitched on to the Trinamul wagon, the announcement coming via Trinamul’s official Twitter handle, taking many by surprise. “Today, in the presence of national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien, former union minister and sitting MP Babul Supriyo joined the Trinamool family. We take this opportunity to extend a very warm welcome to him,” tweeted Trinamul sharing Babul’s pictures with Abhishek and O’ Brien. Though Babul has not resigned from his Lok Sabha seat yet, on Saturday he said will do so now. This  creates the possibility of Babul being sent to the Rajya Sabha as Arpita Ghosh's replacement by the Trinamul. Addressing a press conference after joining the TMC, Babul said, "If an opportunity comes your way, you should decide, and I have decided to take this." On whether he will quit as MP after joining the TMC, the leader said he will follow the rulebook. He added that he will work towards the development of Bengal. "When I had said two months back that I want to quit politics, I was serious about it. After getting this new opportunity, however, I decided to change my mind. "I am very excited about joining the TMC. I will work for the development of Bengal," he stated. Babul also said that he will be meeting Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday. "I am grateful to Abhishek Banerjee, (TMC national general secretary) and Mamata Banerjee for giving me an opportunity to work for the state. "I will follow the rulebook; there is no point in holding on to the Asansol seat when I have joined the TMC," he added. Since he was dropped from the Union ministry in the last reshuffle, a sulking Babul had announced that he had quit active politics, though he continued to remain a Lok Sabha MP. Babul, one of the earliest celebrities from Bengal to join the BJP ahead of the Lok Sabha polls in 2014, had won the Asansol Lok Sabha seat in his maiden election and went on to retain it five years later. Though he shared a warm rapport with Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, whose affection for people from the culture clan is well known, Babul had turned into a fierce critic of hers. Though the chasm had widened between Babul and the Bengal BJP since his defeat from the Tollygunge Lok Sabha seat in this Assembly election, he was retained as one of the star campaigners for the party in the upcoming Bhowanipore by-elections. In fact, the BJP nominee for the Bhowanipore by-election lawyer Priyanka Tibrewal is known for her proximity to Babul. She had represented him in several legal cases and joined the party holding his hands. “Many congratulations Priyanka Tibrewal (of the) BJP. She is a spirited girl & fought all my Legal Battles (Successfully) in Politics since 2014 with a lot of grit, LOGIC and confidence. That was a reason why I asked her to join the Party. Extremely happy for her,” Babul had tweeted eight days ago when Tibrewal’s nomination was announced. A section of the BJP in Bengal is now wondering why the leadership chose to back a candidate who is close to a defector. “Well, there could be sabotage during the elections. His joining the Trinamul has come at a very key moment,” said a BJP source. Babul’s entry into politics came holding the hands of the entrepreneur-television Yoga teacher Ramdev, who is close to the BJP. According to sources, in recent times Ramdev’s ties with the BJP have turned frosty though the actual reason is a matter of conjecture. Whether Babul’s exit is also linked to the dip in Ramdev’s stocks in the BJP is not known. In the seven years between 2014 and 2021, Babul had served as junior minister in urban development, housing, urban poverty alleviation, heavy industries, public enterprises, environment and forest among others. His criticism of the Trinamul had continued even after his loss in the Assembly polls. “Fake IAS, fake police officer, and now a fake CID officer… All of them have one thing in common; photographic evidence of their closeness with various TMC leaders,” Babul had tweeted on July 7. Till 4pm, Babul had not deleted the anti-Trinamul tweets. From Saturday he too would stand to be questioned over proximity with shady characters to Bengal’s ruling party. Before Suvendu Adhikary appeared on the BJP horizon, Babul Supriyo had been Trinamul’s foremost target. Trinamul MP Mohua Moitra had filed a case of “outrage of modesty” against Supriyo in 2017 during a TV debate that was later quashed by the Calcutta High Court. In January this year, before the polls were announced, Abhishek had sent a legal notice to Babul seeking him to apologise or face legal action over alleged derogatory comments. During the campaign of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, a case was filed against Babul under the Arms Act by a local Trinamul leader. He was also accused of entering a temple in a drunken state by the Trinamul. While he would keep locking horns with the Trinamul, his relationship with the BJP leaders in Bengal was an uneasy one. In his constituency Asansol, Babul depended on his band of handpicked youths called Team Babul for carrying out programmes and campaigns rather than the local BJP unit. He was considered an outsider and not a typical BJP leader which often led to public differences with the state unit president Dilip Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Woman set on fire over dowry||A 23-year-old woman was allegedly set ablaze by her husband at their Park Circus home in south Kolkata when she allegedly failed to fulfil his dowry demands, police said. She was admitted to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital with severe burns on Thursday. Hospital officials said her condition was ‘extremely critical’. “Her husband Sheikh Sajjad, a rickshawpuller, has been arrested on charges of attempt to murder,” police said. Sakina Bibi, a resident of a shanty along the Park Circus railway tracks, was found screaming for help and in flames by neighbours late on Wednesday. Her cousin, Asura Bibi, told The Telegraph the couple got married less than two years ago. “Her husband has been torturing her for money since then. Sakina’s father underwent a heart surgery recently. Despite that, her husband was insisting she bring money from her parents. When she refused, he poured kerosene on her before setting her on fire,” she alleged. when she allegedly failed to fulfil his dowry demands, police said. She was admitted to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital with severe burns on Thursday. Hospital officials said her condition was ‘extremely critical’. “Her husband Sheikh Sajjad, a rickshawpuller, has been arrested on charges of attempt to murder,” police said. Sakina Bibi, a resident of a shanty along the Park Circus railway tracks, was found screaming for help and in flames by neighbours late on Wednesday. Her cousin, Asura Bibi, told The Telegraph the couple got married less than two years ago. “Her husband has been torturing her for money since then. Sakina’s father underwent a heart surgery recently. Despite that, her husband was insisting she bring money from her parents. When she refused, he poured kerosene on her before setting her on fire,” she alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government confirms Indian citizenship of Gangadhar Pramanik||A team of Bengal government officials visited Radhanagar village in Bankura on Friday and confirmed the Indian citizenship of Gangadhar Pramanik, who was kept for over three years in a detention centre in Assam after he was declared a “foreigner”. “We have checked the land documents and details of his parents and their voter identity cards. Our officials also found his name in the register of the local primary school, where he studied till Class IV. This information makes it clear that he belongs to Bankura. We will now start the process to generate required documents and give him a job under the 100-day programme,” said K. Radhika Aiyar, the Bankura district magistrate. The team of officials was headed by Anup Kumar Dutta, sub-divisional officer of Bishnupur in Bankura. Gangadhar, 33, said: “I am really happy after so many officials visited my home and assured me not to worry. It is really a relief that now I will have documents to show that I am not a foreigner.” As a migrant worker, Gangadhar had moved to Assam in search of work to help his poor family. In December 2017, while working at a roadside eatery, he was declared a foreigner and sent to the detention centre, officially known as transit camp, in Goalpara. He was there till Tuesday before the Citizens for Peace and Justice (CJP) helped him secure bail. Nanda Ghosh, the CJP’s Assam chapter in-charge who had accompanied Gangadhar from the northeastern state, said after the visit of the Bengal government officials: “It was really a relief for Gangadhar as well as for us because the state government so quickly responded to help out the innocent person. We really thank the Bengal government for its quick move.” “All of us at the CJP are truly appreciative and grateful for this prompt, humane and utterly constitutional act of the Bengal government in gifting back life and vigour to Gangadhar Pramanik,” Teesta Setalvad, CJP secretary, said on Friday. “For all the misery and anguish he has suffered, including the loss of his dear father, this is some compensation.” “Hundreds of thousands of genuine working Indians of different castes and communities are wilting under this burden of a civil death — manipulative denial of citizenship despite all proof. “We hope that this action becomes a catalyst for this serial harassment to stop. We have managed to get 50 such hapless persons released on provisional bail. Genuine Indian citizens should not have to be at the mercy of vicarious acts of the Assam border police,” Setalvad added. Apart from confirming Gangadhar’s citizenship, the Bengal administration recorded the name of his mother in the list of widow pensioners. She will start getting the pension soon. The Swasthya Sathi form was also filled up in the name of his mother, which will ensure her free treatment. The officials have provided Rs 5,000 in cash, rice and clothes to the youth as immediate support. “We will immediately start the process to issue his voter identity card and Aadhaar card. Once the documents are ready, we will give him a job under the 100-day programme,” an official said. The local gram panchayat has arranged a temporary job for Gangadhar at a local sweetmeat shop, where he will join on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal: Astronomy outfit gifts remote hubs Covid aid ||An organisation in north Bengal primarily engaged in amateur astronomy and promotion of science will provide Covid-19 patients in some remote parts of the state with sophisticated medical equipment that it received as a grant from Italy. The Sky Watchers’ Association of North Bengal (SWAN) has taken the initiative to develop independent networks in three different regions of the state, the Terai, the Dooars and the Sunderbans. Here, groups headed by coordinators will volunteer and provide for free services of gadgets such as oxygen concentrators and CPAP machines to Covid-19 patients. “We are calling it the Covid Third Wave Preparedness Network or CWPN to help people in deep interiors of the Dooars, the Terai and the Sunderbans. The idea is to ensure they have access to basic critical care,” said Debasis Sarkar, founder secretary, SWAN, an affiliated networked institute of ISRO and recognised by the NASA Afterschool Universe. Sources in SWAN said before the initiative, they studied activities of around 30 organisations and few rural health centres  in remote areas. “We will hand over the equipment at their doorstep and train them on their use and maintenance. They will be monitored by dedicated coordinators of SWAN to confirm the equioment are being used at their optimum capacity at critical time of need,” Sarkar added. He said even if there is no third wave of the pandemic, these gadgets will empower people of far-flung areas. “Coordinators will prepare a database on the usage which can help researchers in future too,” he added. Around three months back, SWAN qualified for a grant from PRO-VIDA of Italy under its philanthropic initiative plan. “Initially, we were offered cash of around Rs 1 crore. But keeping in mind our infrastructure, we scaled it down and asked for a grant of Rs 40 lakh in the form of  equipment,” a source said. “They approved it and we could get sophisticated equipment made by reputed international companies. This, we believe, is the largest non-government grant received by anybody in north Bengal,” the source. added||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Bidyut Chakrabarty eloquent on rank, mum on students||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty on Friday tried to show the varsity’s “serious” effort in containing the relentless fall in its national rankings, for the first time in his nearly three-year tenure at the helm, but was not “in a position” to answer when rusticated students would be taken back in keeping with a recent Calcutta High Court order. Visva-Bharati was placed 64 among various state and central universities across the country in the list brought out by the National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) last week, a big slide from last year’s 50th spot. The decline seems to have become a trend, as the varsity ranked 37 in 2019, 31 in 2018 and 16 in 2016, when it first participated in the NIRF rankings. Chakrabarty joined Visva-Bharati in November 2018. On Friday, Visva-Bharati held a news meet where officials handling the NIRF ranking and the National Accreditation and Assessment Council (NAAC) were present, besides Chakrabarty and varsity officiating registrar Ashok Mahato and others. They tried to explain how authorities were worried about the slide in rank and were eager to take steps against it. The VC added: “In the two-and-a-half years, we did not think regarding this (fall in NIRF ranking) seriously. Now, the NAAC assessment lies ahead and I took the fall in NIRF ranking as a wake-up call.” But asked when the three rusticated students would be allowed to go back to their academic activities, the VC said he would speak on it later. “We are not in a position to answer what you want from us. We will meet you again, when I will speak on it,” he said. The high court on Wednesday ordered the rustication order be set aside for three dissenting students, Somnath Sow, Falguni Pan and Rupa Chakraborty. The students said they had not heard anything from the varsity so far. Many said Chakrabarty’s silence on the students contradicted his avowed intent to improve the varsity’s rankings, as students and teachers working in harmony is crucial to the performance of an institution “The performance of teachers and students is an integral part of the NIRF ranking, and interestingly both these communities have been living in an environment of fear following several unjust, harsh steps, like rustication and suspension. Chakrabarty should first be inclusive to get a good result, as no one can perform well in the environment of panic,” said a senior varsity professor. Sudhanshu Sekhar Maity, a statistics professor tasked to explain the poor show, claimed the fall in rank was the result of many better institutions taking party every year, but the varsity was trying to keep its score constant.  In the 2021 NIRF ranking, Visva-Bharati’s score was 42.76, down from 46.84 in 2020. Maity said the number of publications and their quality was a component in which the varsity has been lagging behind.  “We have to improve in several sectors, including the teachers-students ratio, which was very bad, as there was an embargo by the UGC on recruitment from 2014 to 2020. However, we have started recruiting faculty members now,” added Mahato. On Thursday evening, Visva-Bharati showcaused Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the suspended professor of economics, for his alleged role in instigating students in a protest movement over the rustication of the three students, in which the VC’s home was gheraoed for around a fortnight. “I did not instigate it, but I personally participated in the movement, as the teachers are facing unjust and disproportionate punishments, only for protesting the wrongs on campus,” said Bhattacharyya, the president of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association. Rusticated student Sow had lodged a complaint against a teacher of Visva-Bharati’s Sangeet Bhavana with Santiniketan police, accusing him of insulting him over his caste. Sow belongs to the Scheduled Caste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||2 cousins dead in unused vehicle in Murshidabad||Two cousins, who were playing in Murshidabad district’s Taltala village while their parents were away in Friday prayers, died a tragic death on Friday afternoon after wandering inside a junked private vehicle and getting locked in. A third cousin has been admitted to Behrampore Medical College on Friday evening in a critical state. All the three boys were aged between five and seven. Police have said that a faulty locking mechanism in the out-of-use vehicle contributed to the tragedy, with the prevailing afternoon heat claiming two lives in a matter of less than three hours. “The power windows were up and obviously there was no electricity in the car. The seat covers and inner windows bear signs of a desperate fight for life that these children fought in their final moments,” said a police official in Hariharpara. The deceased were identified as Ismael Sheikh, 7, and Israel Sheikh, 6. Alin Sheikh, 5, remains admitted in hospital. The three children are first cousins and live in the same household. Maennuddin Sheikh, Ismael’s bereaved father, spoke to the media later saying it was a “regular Friday afternoon” and the thought of their children being “trapped” inside a vehicle had not even occurred to them till around 3pm. “We simply thought they were playing somewhere and getting late,” said a distraught Maennuddin. They started getting worried when there was no sign of the children as the afternoon wore on. “Around 3pm, we got desperate and broke the darkened windows of the car lying near our house, just as a final guess as to where the boys could be,” he added. The shocked search party discovered the three children motionless inside. They were rushed to Hariharpara block hospital where Israel and Ismael were pronounced dead. Sources said Alin was “barely clinging to life” and was referred to Behrampore Medical College. The owner of the vehicle, Feroze Khan, was taken to Hariharpara station for interrogation and his defunct vehicle was seized. Police, prima facie, do not suspect any wrongdoing on his part. “Khan should have kept the doors of his vehicle locked, but maybe they weren’t working. We will find out,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Rs 1cr gold seized near border||A Border Security Force (BSF) team seized 2.24 kilo of gold valued at Rs 1.07 crore from a truck driver in North 24-Parganas on Friday. The BSF authorities have alleged that driver Kamal Hasan, 52, went to Satkhira land port in Bangladesh with export items a few days ago and returned to Ghojadanga land port in North 24-Parganas with 16 gold biscuits. Hasan and his helper Rajab Dhali, 45, — residents of Itinda and Panitor in Basirhat, respectively, were arrested and handed over to the customs authorities, along with the seized gold. J.S. Negi, the commanding officer of 153 battalion of the BSF, said: “Our team intercepted the vehicle near zero point at the border after it entered India on Friday morning. The gold biscuits were recovered from the driver’s cabin.” BSF sources said Hasan confessed during interrogation that the consignment was to be delivered in Basirhat. “Hasan was offered cash for this job and engaged as a carrier,” a BSF official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Illegal liquor seized, one arrested in Alipurduar||Police seized illegal Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth around Rs 9 lakh and arrested a person in this connection from Birpara in Alipuduar district on Thursday. “Our team intercepted a truck heading to Siliguri from Assam. As the vehicle was searched, 12,000 foreign liquor bottles worth around Rs 9 lakh was found. We have seized the vehicle and arrested driver Feroz Ahmed, who hails from Kanpur, after he failed to furnish any document to prove that the consignment is legal. We suspect the driver is associated with a racket that smuggles liquor to different states,” said a police officer. On Friday, Ahmed was produced in a Alipurduar court and remanded in police custody for seven days. In Siliguri, two persons were held with 21.6 kilo of cannabis estimated at Rs 1.25 lakh from Tenzing Norgay Central Bus Terminus on Thursday. Police said Dipankar Mallick and Anil Ram, both residents of Siliguri, had travelled from Cooch Behar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal mulls shift from ‘unwilling’ banks ||The Bengal government is contemplating to shift its accounts from some private and public sector undertaking banks as it has been observed that many of them are not participating in the government’s flagship welfare programmes. In a message to district magistrates, chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi has conveyed that most private banks were not participating in schemes such as student credit card, financing self help groups and issuing kisan credit cards and some public sector banks were reluctant to engage with the student  credit card scheme. “In the circumstances, the state government is contemplating to shift all the accounts of its different departments, corporations etc held with all private banks and few PSU banks, which are not wholeheartedly supporting the afore-stated flagship programmes, to those banks from whom the requisite support is readily available. FS (finance secretary) is requested to kindly prepare a list of such non-participating banks,” the chief secretary wrote. The message is significant as over three crore people have visited the recently concluded Duare Sarkar camps to register under welfare schemes wherein the government transfers money to bank accounts of beneficiaries. “If the government does not get support of banks, it is not possible  to deliver timely benefits,” said an official. Sources said Dwivedi was trying to ensure that chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s pet project, the student credit card, can roll out smoothly. Under it, all students from Class XI onwards can get collateral-free loan up to Rs 10 lakh for education. “The KCC and loans to SHGs are not a big headache as all PSU banks are supporting them. But students’ credit cards scheme is being refused by both private and PSU banks,” said a senior official. Sources said most banks feared rolling out the students’ credit card scheme as it covers all categories of students and there is no guarantor. “Banks are not sure if they can recover loans from all. It would have been more apt if the government had restricted it (the scheme) to certain categories, particularly students of technical subjects,” said a source. State government departments, district magistrates and various government agencies keep crores in the accounts of private and public banks before the money is utilised. For example, the earnest (or guarantee) money deposited by contractors for carrying out government projects are deposited in some private banks. “At least a few crores are deposited under this head every day. Similarly, funds for centrally sponsored schemes are kept in bank accounts before they are utilised. Moreover, district magistrates often keep unutilised funds with banks,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Three swollen rivers breach West Midnapore dams||Floods continued to wrack West Midnapore on Friday as well, with fresh breaches being reported in the dams of at least three overflowing rivers that impacted over 100 villages, mostly in the district’s Keshpur and Ghatal. Bagui, Keleghai and Kangsabati rivers overflowed at several points, in addition to breaching their dams. With this, the number of homes damaged in this week’s flooding is 74,232. “Rain abated as of Friday morning, but the combined effect of downpour that started on Tuesday has been immense,” said a district official. Two persons were feared dead on Friday. In Sabang, octogenarian Rajabala Kar, 85, was pulled in by rushing floods near her home. In Pingla, a similar fate befell homemaker Menaka Pengua, 45. Both went missing, prompting the National Disaster Response Force teams to rush to the areas. Earlier this week, five persons died when their homes caved in, and two drowned in floods. Keshpur, Daspur and Ghatal were reported waterlogged till late Friday evening, with over 50,000 people having to shift from homes for safety. District and NDRF officials have reportedly set up 463 rescue centres in West Midnapore this week. “The main damage has stemmed from the flooding of the Chandia river on Thursday night,” said an official. “Several betel and paddy fields have been destroyed,” he added. Residents of Keleghai did not permit the opening of nearby sluice gates on Friday morning fearing further flooding. They gheraoed district and irrigation officials to voice their demand, in the face of which large tracts of standing water could not be cleared in Mathura gram panchayat. On Friday, the Kangsabati river in Panskura was seen to be flowing some two feet lower from its level the previous night, providing a sign of assurance to local residents. “Still, we are keeping local metal roads closed to heavy vehicles pending further inspection,” said Chaitanyapur gram panchayat pradhan, Sasanka Bera.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Odisha blocks Digha dyke work by Bengal government||The construction of an embankment by the Bengal government on Udaipur beach, on the Odisha border of East Midnapore’s Digha, was stalled on Thursday evening by police in the neighbouring state. The Bengal irrigation department had reportedly undertaken the repairs and the construction of embankments in the area following Cyclone Yaas. “There is a concrete road in the area that serves tourists in getting to the beach, and it is effectively the border between the two states here,” said a local resident. “The following year, they had objected to the construction of a paid lavatory there, which we can accept. But how can we accept their objections to the construction of something which has proved to be vital to our survival here,” the villager said, referring to damage from floods. Speaking about the impasse, Ramnagar 1 block development officer Bishnupada Ray said: “We have informed our district officials who will take up the matter with their counterpart in Balasore.” An officer from Talasari police station in Odisha said: “This is a disputed land. Construction cannot be allowed.” Bhograi Tahesildar of Balasore district Kamalakanata Panda told The Telegraph: “There are many disputed sites along the Odisha-Bengal border. On this particular site at Udaipur beach (on Odisha side) near Digha beach, there is a disputed area of around 100 to 200 metres that both the states claim as their own. In 2016, it had been decided that no construction would be undertaken on the disputed site. Any such activity could be undertaken only after joint verification by senior officials on the disputed site. However, Bengal officials defied the decision.” Officials of the Bengal irrigation department, however, explained that they had even tried to persuade the Odisha officials to undertake the repairs of the portion of the guard wall falling on their side, an approximate 50m of a 100m project, but the work was halted. “The talks have been unfruitful so far,” said a source. Additional reporting by Subhasish Mohanty in Bhubaneswar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-86
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Metropolitan Police rescue local minor girl from Bihar||A team of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police rescued a local minor girl from the neighbouring state of Bihar on Thursday, where she was allegedly taken by a youth in the pretext of marriage. Rudal Kumar, the accused in his mid-20s, is arrested. Police said the 14-year-old girl got introduced to Kumar through social media. “On August 30, she went missing from her house and a complaint was lodged at the New Jalpaiguri police station. The girl was rescued from Damgara village in Bihar and will be handed over to her family after appropriate legal process,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
18-09-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal tourism's cry to junk entry rule||Stakeholders of the tourism industry in north Bengal have threatened to launch a movement against alleged highhandedness of the Sikkim government over the entry of hundreds of youths who serve in different hotels in the Himalayan state. According to them, the hotel employees who are from Bengal and other states, are not allowed to enter Sikkim unless they are fully vaccinated. “This is complete biasness. On one hand, tourists are allowed even if they have received a single dose and are carrying RTPCR negative reports. On the other hand, these employees are being stopped at the entry points in Rangpo and Melli even if they carry such reports. Otherwise, they will have to stay in a paid quarantine in the state for seven days. This is something unacceptable,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary,  Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network . According to sources, there are around 1,800 hotels in Sikkim, 70 per cent of which are being run on lease by companies based in Bengal. So far as the employees are concerned, around half of the staff at these hotels are from Sikkim while the rest are from Bengal and some neighbouring states. Because of absence of staff, half of the hotels are yet to reopen in the state. Avijit Sengupta, a Siliguri-based hotelier who runs a number of hotels in Sikkim, said tourists had already started pouring into the region. “These days, we are receiving bookings for accommodations and in the coming weeks, the inflow of tourists will only increase. If we cannot post our staff at the hotels, it would be tough to provide services to our guests once they check in. The Sikkim government should immediately give a second thought to the restriction that they have imposed over the entry of employees,” he said. Another hotelier pointed out that considering the different categories of hotels in Sikkim, there are at least five to seven employees who are from other states and who need to join their jobs immediately. “Altogether, there are around 7,000 people who serve in different places, ranging from reception to kitchen to housekeeping to restaurant. Their absence can pose a problem for any hotel if the number of guests goes up,” he said. The HHTDN, sources said, has already communicated with the chief minister and the chief secretary of the Himalayan state. “If there is no change in the situation by September 27, we will be forced to launch a movement. The Sikkim government should understand that proper services should be ensured to each guest checking into a hotel or else, it sends a bad message for the industry,” said Sanyal. Officials of the state tourism department of Sikkim could not be contacted. Another senior state official, who spoke on anonymity, said they are aware of the issue. “We hope the matter will be resolved in due course. The concerns of the tourism stakeholders might be genuine but the government will have to make a decision keeping in mind that the pandemic is not yet over,” he said. Celebration The HHTDN will organise different programmes throughout this month to celebrate the World Tourism Day. On September 27, that is, on WTD, they will hold an award function to felicitate different people and facilities associated with the industry. They have also taken a joint initiative with the Union tourism ministry to provide hospitality training to 90 drivers in Siliguri, Darjeeling and Kalimpong from September 19 to September 21. A similar training will be hosted for the forest guards at Chalsa in Jalpaiguri district. The organisation has also lined up cleanliness drives in the stations of Darjeeling Himalayan Railway, along the embankments of Murti river, a popular destination in Dooars and at Pedong in Kalimpong, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 719 more cases, 727 recoveries and nine deaths||Bengal on Friday logged 719 new Covid-19 cases, 727 recoveries and nine deaths. Total active Covid-19 cases fell by 17 to 8,008 on Friday, with 89 straight days of a fall. Calcutta logged 138 new infections and North 24-Parganas 124, the only two among Bengal’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases detected in a day. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Twenty Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta logged three deaths and North 24-Parganas five. The state’s recovery rate is 98.29 per cent, its highest this pandemic, and ahead of the national rate of 97.63 per cent. Its mortality rate is 1.19 per cent and that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal’s daily Covid-19 positive confirmation rate was 1.79 per cent on Friday. The state currently has over 15.6 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes more than 15.33 lakh recoveries and 18,629 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
18-09-2021||West Bengal||TMC mouthpiece carries MP speech pitching Mamata over Rahul as PM||The front-page of Trinamul Congress’s Bengali mouthpiece on Friday carried a speech by a party MP who said Rahul Gandhi couldn’t become the alternative face to Narendra Modi and the entire nation wanted Mamata Banerjee. MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay’s punch was part of an article laid out under a screaming headline in large, black and red font in Jago Bangla. The article read: “Rahul Gandhi pareynni Mamatai bikawlpo mukh (Rahul Gandhi was unable, only Mamata is the alternative face)”. The piece highlighted the key content of the speech delivered by Bandyopadhyay, Trinamul’s leader in the Lok Sabha, at a two-day meet of party workers which ended on Thursday. “We are never suggesting an Opposition alternative by excluding the Congress. But Rahul Gandhi is yet to be able to become the alternative face to Narendra Modi. The alternative face in the nation in Mamata Banerjee,” began the article. The piece does carry the disclaimer that it was not a decision of Trinamul, but only the stand taken by some leaders at the workers’ meeting. Although Mamata, during her tour of Delhi in July, visited interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s residence and met both the mother and the son there, doubts have remained on the Bengal chief minister’s perspective on the Wayanad MP and his leadership in the non-BJP space. “I have known Rahul Gandhi for a long time. But I am compelled to say this, that he has not been able to become the alternative face to Narendra Modi. The entire nation wants Mamata,” said Bandyopadhyay. The Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said it was “way too early” for such forecasts or speculation, warning Mamata and her party of eroding their credibility by repeatedly making such assertions at this stage. “She keeps saying everywhere that the Opposition alliance’s face will not be decided now. In Delhi, her party participates in the meetings of the national (non-BJP) alliance. Here, they are going on and on about Mamata supposedly being that face.” Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira on Friday approached Delhi High Court, praying for quashing of the summons by the Enforcement Directorate to them to appear in New Delhi. The duo sought the court’s directives that they be examined in Calcutta in accordance with the law of the land. “There is a serious apprehension about the fairness of the investigation being conducted by the ED, New Delhi, which is a department under the central government, and it is evident this agency is being used to intimidate, threaten, coerce and attempt to falsely implicate them,” said their lawyer Rupin Bahl.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Tea Board of India holds virtual meeting on 68-year-old law||The Tea Board of India held a virtual meeting on Friday with representatives of various associations of tea producers to discuss the proposal to review the Tea Act. The Tea Act, which is one of the key legislations that governs the industry, had been enacted  in 1953. For the past few months, there are indications that the Narendra Modi government intends to amend this act to make it contemporary to suit the current market scenario and make business easier for the tea industry, sources said. The Centre has already obliterated a number of clauses related to prohibitions over extension of tea plantation area. “These days, when most acts pertaining to industries have gone through the processes of deregulation and decontrol, the Tea Act which is 68 years old also needs to be updated,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, the secretary general of the Tea Association of India. Bhattacharjee added that the act had to be relevant to the times. Sources in the industry said that the act has provisions which mention the power of the central government to control price and distribution of tea or tea waste. Such a provision does not match the present market where teas are merchandised through different channels, including a modern online auction system which did not exist when the act came into force, sources pointed out. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, the president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista), said they had also sought relaxations in the licensing process. The small tea sector contributes around 50 per cent of India’s total tea production. “According to the Tea Act, there are various provisions when one needs to take an NoC (no-objection certificate) or licence from the tea board for certain activities. These are no longer required today. Also, back in 1953, there were no small tea growers in the country. That is why we have said that the amended act should have proper provisions for the protection and development of this sector,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
18-09-2021||West Bengal||Team from Calcutta visits sick kids in north Bengal||A five-member health team from Calcutta reached north Bengal on Friday to check out the health infrastructure available for children in the state-run establishments of the region and to confirm that the admitted children are getting proper medical care. For past 10 days or so, hundreds of children have got admitted to different hospitals of north Bengal, especially Jalpaiguri and Malda districts and Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling district. All of them showed symptoms such as fever, cough and cold. Doctors have recently found that in most cases the fever is being caused by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and B-type Influenza. During their visit, the team went to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) in Siliguri and the Siliguri district hospital. As of now, around 60 children are under treatment at NBMCH, among whom nine have fever. There are two others who have been detected with dengue and Japanese encephalitis, said sources. On the other hand, 54 children are under treatment at Siliguri district hospital. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal, said illness of the children from various areas of the region have made them draw up a fresh plan. “We are engaging surveillance teams to identify whether any cluster is developing in any locality. If any child is admitted with fever, the team will visit the patient’s house and also check out another 50 surrounding houses. The idea is to prevent mushrooming of clusters with the infection,” he said. In the NBMCH, 50 more beds for children will be added along with the existing 120 beds, added Roy. Later in the day, the team went to Jalpaiguri. As of now, 107 children are under treatment at the Jalpaiguri district hospital while in Malda Medical College & Hospital, around 200 children are under treatment. The visiting team  spoke with Jalpaiguri district health officials who informed that more beds would be made available for children. “The team members have suggested that to ease the load on the Jalpaiguri district hospital, authorities at block and subdivisional hospitals would be asked to treat the children in their places. Only if there is a critical case, should the child be referred to the district hospital,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-87
18-09-2021||North East||19-year-old examinee in shorts told to cover up in Assam||A 19-year-old student was stopped from entering a university exam hall because she was wearing shorts, and was later made to wrap her legs with a curtain while writing the test. Not in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan but in Assam. Jublee Tamuli faced this on Wednesday when she sat for the entrance exam of the state-run Assam Agricultural University. Jublee told The Telegraph on Friday evening that she had written to Assam education minister Ranoj Pegu about the “humiliation” she was subjected to at the Girijananda Chowdhury Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (GIPS) in Tezpur. “I was wearing shorts and a T-shirt. I was not allowed to enter the exam hall despite having all the documents by the invigilators, who said short dresses were not allowed. I was told to make alternative arrangements. When I told them that no dress code had been mentioned in the admit card, they said it was common sense,” Jublee said. “Two girls gave me a curtain so that I could cover my legs and sit for the exam. They too abused me for turning up the way I did,” she said. The two male invigilators were GIPS employees. AAU registrar Tapan Kumar Gohain said: “We have set up a three-member inquiry committee to get to the bottom of the matter and submit a report in 10 days.” He said there was no dress code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
18-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Temporary balm||The Narendra Modi government has unveiled a package of measures that professes to ease the pangs of the telecom sector and seemingly heads off the prospect of an emerging duopoly — an undesirable outcome that will stifle competition and compromise the interests of the consumer. Both the industry and the markets have reacted positively to the measures but it may be too early to jump to the conclusion that a floundering Vodafone Idea has been saved from the brink of financial ruin. That is not certain because the devil still lurks in the details. The 18 measures have been lumped under three heads: structural reforms, procedural reforms, and steps to address the liquidity concerns of telecom service providers. The big relief for Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel is the four-year moratorium that has been granted to them to pay back the mounting telecom dues. Vodafone Idea owes the government over Rs 500 billion and Airtel needs to cough up a little over half that amount. The Centre has also granted them the option to convert the unpaid interest into equity at the end of the deferment period while retaining its discretion to convert the outstanding principal amount into shares. Industry will also need to figure out whether the proposed change in the definition of adjusted gross revenue, which forms the basis for the computation of telecom dues, will eventually prove to be beneficial. The Centre has said it will cull the ‘non-telecom’ revenue elements from the AGR definition without elaborating on what these are. The so-called formula was a major bone of contention until the Supreme Court resolved the quibble in the government’s favour by stating unequivocally that telecom service providers could not resort to accounting jugglery and nitpick on the formula. The government has finally seen reason. However, the industry will have to wait and see whether the Centre will agree to dovetail the formula to the accounting standards prescribed under the Companies Act. A couple of other decisions are clearly welcome: the radio waves farmed out through future auctions will be granted for a 30-year tenure instead of 20 at present. Telecom companies will be encouraged to share revenue without being burdened with a fee for such arrangements. The move to allow foreign direct investment up to 100 per cent under the automatic route will need to be examined closely. After Vodafone’s experience with the retrospective tax, there are very few telecom players that will be ready to enter the country. Private equity players have also become more circumspect about investing in a sector that has been wallowing in losses. Experts warn that unless the promoters pump money into the business and raise tariffs, Vodafone Idea will continue to flounder, amplifying the risk of the industry contracting into a duopoly. The pall over the telecom industry has lifted — but only slightly. There is a long way to go before it can haul itself out of the rut.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
18-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Antony Blinken on Pakistan’s alleged ‘duplicity’||Dual game Sir — The observations of the secretary of state of the United States of America, Antony Blinken, on Pakistan’s alleged ‘duplicity’ in dealing with terrorism and the Taliban have raised public expectations that Washington may reverse its policy of indulgence towards Islamabad (“Late confession”, Sep 16). But this appears to be unrealistic. It is clear that the US’s ouster from Afghanistan has much to do with Pakistan — without the latter’s tacit support, it would have surely been difficult for the Taliban to evolve politically and militarily. But there are also suspicions that the US allowed Pakistan’s game to succeed. For quite some time, Washington’s purpose had been to extricate itself from Afghanistan — a goal that the current president, Joe Biden, pursued with the same vigour as his predecessor, Donald Trump. This could only be achieved at the cost of giving Pakistan — and the Taliban — a free rein and, in the process, deceiving the erstwhile government of Afghanistan and blindsiding India, which is otherwise considered an ally. India has not benefited from Pakistan’s purported cooperative attitude towards counter-terrorism. It must formulate its own political and military response to terrorist activities carried out by outfits based in Pakistan and now possibly in Afghanistan. The US’s value as an ally is also questionable. In all probability, the Biden administration intends to continue to engage with Pakistan in order to protect the US mainland from terrorist attacks. This could involve humouring Islamabad. It is, therefore, essential for New Delhi to not depend on other nations but rather fashion its own path. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — As it disengages with Kabul, the US will no doubt be compelled to defer its agency in the Afghan region to Pakistan. In spite of decades of perfidy on the part of Pakistan in hunting with the US and running with the Taliban, Washington is loath to exclude Islamabad from its Afghan equation, if only to counter Chinese influence in the region. Pakistan, on its part, would be more than willing to acquiesce. Antony Blinken’s recent statement about Pakistan betrays a strategic attempt to secure a staging post in India for strikes on Afghan soil in case such a measure is needed. But this could be detrimental to India’s interests. Its involvement in this matter could create a lasting conflict with Afghanistan and its tacit ally, Pakistan, along the entire north-western border. Such an interminable conflict could, in turn, benefit China — the other major stakeholder in the region — in the long run. Ultimately, it is possible that the US would renege on its commitment, leaving India to handle the aftermath on its own. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai Sir — It seems that the US has finally become aware of Pakistan’s true colours. Pakistan, a nuclear-armed State, has often been accused of nurturing religious extremism. When international pressure builds up to crack down on terrorist groups operating on its soil, it has allegedly done so only superficially, while covertly continuing to support them. This seems to have been Pakistan’s geopolitical strategy for years. But Antony Blinken’s recent remark regarding Pakistan’s ‘duplicity’ indicates that the threat posed by the State is being recognized at last. It is time for the US to realize that the indispensability of Pakistan to its own interests is only a delusion. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore  Charge ahead Sir — Change is finally in the air. The Calcutta police are set to take on lease 226 electric vehicles as they phase out the 15-year-old diesel-powered ones used by the force. This initiative is aimed at saving fuel and maintenance cost as well as reducing air and noise pollution. The move must be lauded — it will help raise awareness among citizens about environment protection and also give the e-vehicles industry in the country a boost. Vehicular emissions are a major contributor to the city’s pollution level. A shift towards such greener alternatives may be the only way forward. Preeti Singh,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
18-09-2021||Opinion||Shehla Hasan and big business||Shehla Hasan is perfectly placed to help bring business to West Bengal. She has taken over as executive director of the Manchester India Partnership, which was set up to attract inward Indian investment into Greater Manchester. Last week, she held a high-powered India summit and took guests to lunch at Old Trafford even though the fifth England-India Test was cancelled. Shehla, long recognized as one of the most successful women in corporate India, was recruited from Delhi where she was country director of the Confederation of British Industry for some nine years. She first moved to Bengal in 1995 after marrying Zulfiquar Hasan, a state cadre of the IPS, and worked as a journalist in Calcutta, followed by stints at the Indian Chamber of Commerce and the UK Trade & Investment based at the British deputy high commission. Originally from Odisha, Shehla speaks Bengali. “Our work is to facilitate collaborations, especially in healthcare, vaccine trials, diagnostics, sustainability, tourism and culture,” Shehla tells me. “We are very keen to engage with the SME IT companies looking for a global market, especially in e-commerce and cybersecurity.” She says the MIP wants “to encourage the youth of Bengal to think of new ideas, creating wealth for the community and build a start-up ecosystem. We are looking for collaborations for joint research with the Manchester universities. Football would be another area of mutual interest as well as cricket. The culture paradigm, too, is very important... Calcutta is home to the Dover Lane Music Festival, Nandan and several music schools like CSM and Sangeet Research Academy. This is worth exploring. Manchester Museum is launching its South Asia gallery next year. The Royal Northern College of Music in Manchester could be a good institution for securing tie-ups.” Bengali at heart Dr Bidhan Kumar Chakrabarti’s British-born daughters, Reeta and Lolita, have done exceedingly well. While the Oxford-educated Reeta is a frontline BBC TV presenter, Lolita trained to be an actress and writer at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. The latter is currently starring as lieutenant-commander, Erin Branning, in a gripping six-part BBC drama, Vigil, which tells of a police investigation after the suspicious death of a crew member on a British nuclear submarine while it is out patrolling the deep seas. There is nothing “Indian” about Lolita’s character, “a high-ranking naval officer who runs legal matters for the navy”, who looks intimidating in her uniform. Lolita says her father, who qualified from R.G. Kar in Calcutta, arrived in Britain with his wife, Rumi — she passed away five years ago — as a 26-year-old doctor in 1960. The girls grew up in Birmingham, where he was an orthopaedic surgeon at Selly Oak Hospital before becoming a consultant at King’s College Hospital, London. Now retired, he never misses Lolita’s TV and theatre performances. The family tried twice to return to Calcutta — when Lolita was three and 10, respectively — but came back to Britain. Lolita assures me that she is still Bengali: “Definitely, in terms of culture and food. Language is still there. I don’t speak it very often but I can understand it when I’m on the tube. You can’t take the Indian out of you, can you? It’s just there.” Tiger tiger, burning bright The artist, Chila Burman, has lit up Covent Garden, a popular tourist venue in London, with her latest work, do you see words in rainbows?, consisting of coloured neon lights. Its most dramatic feature is a tiger, fashioned from white neon tubes and positioned on a mirror table. The inspiration comes from the tiger replica her father, Bachan Singh Burman, had atop the ice cream van he had in Liverpool, after arriving from Calcutta with his wife, Kamala Vati, in 1954. They had lived in Calcutta for 16 years, when he worked for the Dunlop factory in Sahaganj. Three of their five children, including Chila, were born in Britain. Chila says her latest tiger also owes something to the Netflix adaptation of Aravind Adiga’s 2008 Booker Prize-winning novel, The White Tiger. Crime watch Neil Basu and I have one thing in common — both of us love the detective novels by Abir Mukherjee set in India. He always speaks fondly about his late father, Pankaj Kumar Basu, who arrived from Calcutta in the 1960s, married a Welsh woman, Enid Margaret Roberts, and served as a police surgeon for nearly 40 years. I consult Neil about Afghanistan since he is assistant commissioner and head of counter-terrorism at Scotland Yard — and the highest-ranking ethnic minority police officer in the country. He thinks Afghanistan will once again become a base for exporting terrorism; he also predicted “lone wolf” attacks by people based in Europe inspired by the Taliban victory “probably within two years”. He won’t be drawn into what his Indian counterparts should do. “Of course, I recommend all countries adopt the UK government’s strategy and the way that intelligence services, policing, government, business and the public pull together to create a whole society approach to counter terrorism with a real long-term focus on prevention.” Footnote British Vogue has amazing timing — it has landed a photo shoot and interview with Emma Raducanu in its current issue. Following her victory in the US Open, the 18-year-old is in great demand. But Edward Enninful, Vogue’s first black editor, showed remarkable perspicacity in commissioning the interview in July. Raducanu’s father is Romanian but she says about her Chinese mother that “they have very good self-belief... I really respect that about the culture.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
18-09-2021||Opinion||Faulty connection||Asaduddin Owaisi is often called the B-team of the Bharatiya Janata Party by his political opponents. The implication is that the Hindutva politics of the BJP and the Muslim-centric politics of Owaisi reinforce each other by splitting voters along communal lines. It is true that the rise of Hindutva has enabled Owaisi to expand his party beyond its base of Hyderabad. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen’s nascent political footprint has spread in an era dominated by Hindutva, presently spanning from Bihar in the east to Karnataka in the south and Maharashtra and Gujarat in the west. The party is now gearing up to establish a foothold in Uttar Pradesh, using a similar campaign strategy that had worked for it in Bihar. However, the relationship between the dominance of Hindutva and the scope of Owaisi’s politics is much more complex, even paradoxical, than a straightforward equation of mutual benefit. Hindutva politics has certainly facilitated the growth of Owaisi’s politics but it also tethers it in. To understand why, one must carefully understand the essential nature of the political pitch made by the AIMIM to Muslim voters. The facilitative role played by Hindutva is easier to grasp. Owaisi’s opening lies in Hindutva politics pushing secular parties towards a dilution of their secular commitment. As Hindutva becomes more mainstream, secular parties have started to become more pussyfooted in their outreach to Muslims. In a manner, whereas the courting of different caste groups is overt and high-pitched, the appeal to the Muslim vote is made in a more covert and sheepish way, as if they have internalized the charge of ‘Muslim appeasement’. In this gap, Owaisi comes with the unabashed rhetoric of furthering the interests of Muslims and giving rousing expression to their deeply felt grievances against Hindutva politics. This is why many thousands of people, especially young Muslims, turn up at his rallies in small towns of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. However, Hindutva also simultaneously places hard limits on the growth of Owaisi’s politics. This side of the equation is more complicated and, hence, easily overlooked. In a state such as Uttar Pradesh, the Muslim vote has historically been dispersed among different secular parties. Unlike the imagination of a unified Muslim ‘vote bank’, the Muslim vote is actually a diverse patchwork of transactional relationships mediated by caste, class and region. In a 2015 study of Muslim voting patterns in Uttar Pradesh, the political scientists, Oliver Heath, Gilles Verniers and Sanjay Kumar, observed that “Muslims are the only major ethnic group in the state who do not have a distinct political party to represent their interests — and partly for this reason they may be inclined to switch their support between the three secular parties (SP, BSP, Congress)...” What makes Owaisi’s electoral pitch to Muslims distinct from that of other secular political parties is that the AIMIM is not simply offering them a political bargain based on patronage or security. He is essentially offering them a political vision. The formative elements of this political vision are similar to the ones earlier espoused by Ram Manohar Lohia to other backward classes and Kanshi Ram to Dalits: the cause of the socio-economic backwardness of the given community is representational blockage in existing parties and, thus, the solution is to build up independent political power. If 11 per cent of Yadavs can elect a chief minister, then why can’t 19 per cent of Muslims elect 19 MLAs of their own, Owaisi asked in a recent electoral rally, imploring the community to unite behind the AIMIM. In other words, Muslims must forge a common political consciousness, leverage their numerical strength, build their own political leadership, and raise their ambitions beyond short-term concerns of patronage and security to the long-term goal of socio-economic equity. In contrast, the electoral pitch of the secular parties towards Muslims is oriented more towards the immediate political context. To the extent that intensification of Hindutva raises the stakes of the immediate political context, Muslims would be goaded towards the safer option of regional parties rather than the gamble of the AIMIM. Furthermore, as Hindutva has made Muslims the single-most politically radioactive community, the dream of a Muslim-led, cross-ethnic coalition (like the ones constructed by the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party) seems more fantastical than it ever did. A political vision aimed at a constituency succeeds when it manages to elicit a broad buy-in within that constituency, which, in turn, depends on the credibility of the vision. The intensification of Hindutva circumscribes Owaisi’s politics to the extent that it makes his vision less credible. Political visions succeed in a context of rising expectations, which raise the horizons of future possibilities. The success of Mandal politics was preceded by an unprecedented socio-economic advance of large OBC groups after the Green Revolution. The BSP was buoyed by a new class of upwardly mobile Dalits, nurtured by reservation in jobs and education, who had the confidence to dream of capturing political power for themselves. A loosening of the hierarchical grip of the caste system in the wider society also meant that the backward castes could make effective coalitions with each other without needing the leadership of Brahmins or other upper castes. In other words, the success of these political visions was based on burgeoning aspirations whetted by a favourable socio-political environment. In contrast, even as Owaisi’s exhilarating vision generates enthusiasm among a section of Muslims, it is immediately tempered by a gnawing reality of rising insecurity. The intensification of campaigns of communal prejudice and the normalization of hate crimes against Muslims in a state such as Uttar Pradesh can lend an existential urgency to the votes of many Muslims. Voters tend to have a sharp sense of risks and rewards. Since secular parties, and not Owaisi, remain by far the more potent force to defeat the BJP, they are better placed to corner the anti-BJP vote. How, then, was Owaisi able to make inroads into Bihar? For starters, four out of five seats won by the AIMIM in Bihar were won from the parliamentary constituency of Kishanganj where Muslims make up around 70 per cent of the population. Thus, Muslims voted for the AIMIM only in constituencies where the BJP had little chances of winning and the principal competitors were other secular parties. In these constituencies, the issue of safety was not a priority and, thus, Owaisi’s vision had a stronger purchase. Overall, 76 per cent of Muslims voted for the Rashtriya Janata Dal, decisively choosing the RJD over the AIMIM in seats where the BJP was a principal competitor. In contrast, there are hardly any safe Muslim constituencies in Uttar Pradesh — there is no outright Muslim-majority parliamentary constituency in the state. And as the BJP has shown in the last three elections, it can win through communal polarization in minority-concentrated districts such as Saharanpur, Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Azamgarh and Bareilly. Secondly, as Aditya Menon has pointed out in The Quint, the Muslims of Bihar, under the more moderate rule of Nitish Kumar, could also have been less influenced with security-driven anxieties than might be the case with Muslims under the harsher rule of Yogi Adityanath. This is the central paradox of Owaisi’s politics in the era of Hindutva: the political oxygen provided to the AIMIM is just enough to allow the germination of its politics but not enough to allow it to be firmly planted on the political landscape. This paradox extends to Owaisi’s relationship with the Opposition secular parties. Since the politics of the AIMIM is designed to poach the voters of secular parties, they then become the central target of its political attacks. However, this also shrivels the bargaining power of AIMIM MLAs post election. Had the strategy of Owaisi’s party been to contest in either a partnership or a covert understanding with secular parties, it could have credibly claimed to have a strong negotiating hand in any future secular government. Thus, whereas Owaisi’s promises are grander and embedded in a clear vision for the future of Muslims, his party’s credibility to deliver on those promises is very limited. On the other hand, the material benefits promised by the regional parties, although more incremental and transactional than the transformative promises of Owaisi, are much more realistic. Hence, both in terms of security and material benefits, secular parties are the safer, and more conservative, option as opposed to the bullish, but riskier, option of Owaisi. And in a more communally charged and turbulent electoral environment fomented by the BJP, one would expect Muslim voters to lean towards realism and conservatism than risk a leap into the unknown. Asim Ali is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
18-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to host Senior National Archery Championship||Archers from across the country will assemble in the steel city to participate in the 40th edition of the Senior National Archery Championship, which is scheduled between October 1 and 10. The event will be held in the Indian round (shooting with traditional bows and arrows), compound and recurve division at the archery ground at JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur. The championship is being organised by Jharkhand Archery Association (JAA) with Tata Steel being the local host. The championship will kick-off with the Indian round on October 2 and 3 followed by compound on October 5 and 6. The recurve round will be the final event and it will be held on October 8 and 9. “In keeping with the Covid-19 protocols and trying to avoid overcrowding, all participants will be arriving a day prior to their events and will leave before the next set of events commence," a JAA official informed The venue is in top condition and there is no need for decking it up. "We are looking forward to seeing some exciting action from the men and women archers," he said, requesting anonymity. The Jharkhand Archery Association announced the men and women team for recurve and Indian round after day-long trials on Saturday. The men's side for recurve include Jayanta Talukdar, Alpi Tudu, Mrinal Chouhan,  Somai Murmu  while women members are Komalika Bari, Ankira Bhakat, Laxmi Hembrom and Dipti Kumari. The men archers in the Indian round are Suraj Jamuda, Goldi Mishra, Lutu Soy, Gulshan Kumar while Dipti Bodra, Asrita Biruly, Ritu Kumari and Anku Kumari comprise women members. "The selection trials were conducted smoothly. Around 100 archers tried their luck in both recurve and Indian round categories. We intend to form a strong squad for the upcoming championship," another JAA official said. The trials for the compound round were held at the astro turf ground in Sill on Thursday. Forty eight aspirants attend the proceedings. The eight-member state compound outfit for the upcoming nationals include Pintoo Rana, Mukesh Goswami, Rohit Kumar, Sonu Kumar Mahto, Babita Kumari, Anita Kumari, Jhano Hansda and Pramila Bhumij||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
18-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town hospitality sector bounces back after 6 months||After the prolonged lull in the market since March this year, the marriage season scheduled from November 15 to December 15 has brought some relief to traders as customers flow has increased in the market for over a week. The hospitality sector of around 500 hotels, banquets, dharamsala, marriage halls of coal town are fully booked from November 15 to December 15. The majority of marriages scheduled from April 22 to July first week were cancelled due to lockdown and restriction over the number of participants in marriages during the second wave to pandemic. The wedding planners including decorators, florists, caterers, photographers, band operators, who faced worst days since the last two years are also expecting to make at least 50% compensation of their losses as the government has allowed participation of 100 persons in outdoor marriage functions etc. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Anutosh Bagchi, senior general manager of Hotel Skylark the oldest three star hotel of the district said, “We are heavily booked during November December and I hope if everything remains on the expected lines this marriage season will help our sector to sail through the crisis phase  rather recover and revive.” “Room occupancy wise we have already reached a comfortable situation with business guests moving continuously but as banquets are also an important part of our business I hope that marriage season will help to mop up business through banquets also,” said Bagchi. Pradip Singh, President of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association said, “We are happy as all decorators, florists, caterers, photographers etc are fully booked as majority of marriages which were cancelled earlier this year between April to July are being held although at a smaller level.” Singh added that the lagan season will also revive the market  as everything right from garments, footwear to jewellery, foodgrains, cosmetics are required in marriages. Srikant Agarwal, Secretary of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce said, “A host of factors including the relaxations provided in the lockdown including the permission for opening of restaurants etc upto 10 pm, permission for participation 100 persons in marriages besides the bumper marriage season and Durga Puja, Diwali and Chhath scheduled one after other have started showing activity in the market and it may lead to some revival of business. “The signs are good for the recovery of business  and if the third phase of pandemic  doesn’t affect people in  large the life will limp back to normalcy after a prolonged period of dull activity propelled by the marriage and festive season,” said Agarwal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
18-09-2021||Jharkhand||Training plan for Ranchi cops to identify undertrials with mentall ailments ||The Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) is set to organise special training sessions for cops to identify mental illnesses in undertrial prisoners and provide necessary support in an initiative that may help prevent suicides under police custody and address chronic mental health disorders among people in jail or police lockup, doctors from the Kanke institute said on Saturday. Dr Dipanjan Bhattacharjee, Associate Professor of Psychiatric Social Work at CIP, said a proposal for this training has already been prepared and doctors from the institute will meet Ranchi Senior Superintendent of Police soon to get his nod to start the training. Doctors at the institute aim to provide this training to officers in-charge of all police stations in Ranchi district in the first phase and gradually move to other policemen and women, said Dr Bhattacharjee, adding that policemen will also be informed about SoPs for involuntary hospitalisation of mentally-ill prisoners during the training sessions. “We are observing September as suicide prevention month, and it is important for us to also prevent suicides or other untoward incidents that occur under the watch of the police due to undiagnosed mental illnesses in undertrial prisoners and other offenders,” said Bhattacharjee. Several incidents of undertrial prisoners commiting suicide, or attempting to comit suicide, in jail have been reported across India this year. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) also took suo motu cognizance of some of two such incidents reported in West Bengal and Maharashtra and pulled up the jail administration. “It is for this reason that ceiling fans and hanging hooks are not provided in the prison cells,” the human rights panel observed. “If the police can identify such prisoners who are suffering from mental health disorders, it becomes much easier to keep a watch on them. It also allows doctors to provide proper psychiatric help to such prisoners,” said Bhattacharjee. During the training, cops will be informed about the basic behavioural differences between mentally-stable and mentally-ill people. While diagnosing mental illnesses in undertrial prisoners may not be easy for the police, only getting an idea that someone needs psychiatric help may make it easier for doctors to intervene and provide necessary treatment, doctors from CIP said. According to records with Jharkhand police, there are more than 50 police stations and outposts in Ranchi district. CIP doctors plan to provide training to officers in-charge of all these police stations, all inspectors and sub-inspectors in Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
18-09-2021||Jharkhand||Special train between Howrah and Hatia via Tatanagar ahead of festival rush||The South Eastern Railway has decided to run a special train between Howrah and Hatia from September 30 to accommodate the extra rush of passengers during the festival season ahead. The special train which will run for three months till December 31 will go via Tatanagar railway station. According to a notification issued by the Calcutta-based headquarters of SER on Saturday, the Howrah-Hatia Special (08615) will leave Howrah daily at 9.30 pm. The train will reach Hatia at 6.30 am the next day. In the opposite direction, the Hatia-Howrah Special (08616) will leave Hatia daily at 9.40 pm and will arrive at Howrah at 6.30 am the next day, covering a journey of about nine hours. The Up train from Howrah will reach Tatanagar railway station at 1.40am  while the return train from Hatia will reach Tatanagar at around 2.15am. The special train with one first AC, two AC two-tier, four AC  three-tier, eleven sleeper class and two general second class coaches will stop at Mecheda, Kharagpur, Jhargram, Ghatsila, Tatanagar, Muri and Ranchi between the two destinations- Howrah and Hatia. The return train Hatia-Howrah Special (08616) will also stop at Santragachi. A spokesperson of South Eastern Railway said the decision for introducing the special train was taken to ease the festive rush. "Various passenger outfits had also demanded a special train between the two destinations via Tatanagar for clearing extra rush of passengers during the festive season. The special train will immensely benefit passengers," said the SER spokesman. The SER headquarters, in a separate circular, appealed to passengers to follow Covid appropriate behaviour during their journey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
18-09-2021||Jharkhand||No excitement in Jharkhand trade body polls ||The annual election of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries, the apex trade body of the state, will miss its usual excitement this time. “After the last date of withdrawal of nominations on Thursday, 35 candidates have been left in the fray,” said Lalit Kedia, the chairman of the election committee that will oversee the election on September 26. About 3,000 trader-members will vote that day for electing 21 members who will form the executive committee, he said, adding that the elected members would then choose seven office bearers from among themselves who would run the show for next one year. The office-bearers consist of a president, two vice-presidents, one general secretary, two joint secretaries and a treasurer. Besides, there are also six regional vice-presidents — one each from North and South Chotanagpur, Kolhan, Palamau, Coal belt and Santhal Pargana regions. “But they all have already been elected unopposed as only one person had filed nomination from each of those regions,” Kedia said. The annual election of the trade body is an important event for the state’s trading community and it experiences a lot excitement when two 21-member teams led by two prominent businessmen contest for as many seats. But the election could not be held last year because of the pandemic and a group of office bearers, nominated by the trading community, is at the helm of affairs at present. Though the election is being organised this year, the charm and excitement would be grossly missing because the number of candidates (35) is insufficient for forming two 21-member groups to take on each other in a direct contest. “It’s true that, unlike the elections we fought earlier, those exciting campaigning would be missed this year but we also rejoice that the election is taking place and things are limping back to near normal state,” Deepak Maroo, one of the past FJCCI presidents, said about the upcoming trade body poll. There will, however, be one 21-member group led by the present vice-president Dheeraj Taneja that will contest the election and, if everything goes right, he is all set to be the next FJCCI president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
