19-09-2021||Business||Modi to take call on further infra investments in Afghanistan, says Gadkari||With Afghanistan coming under the control of the Taliban, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said a final decision on continuing infrastructure investments in the war-torn country will be taken by the prime minister along with the external affairs minister after considering the prevailing situation. Gadkari, who is helming the Road Transport and Highways Ministry, also said that while many infrastructure projects in that country have been completed by India, some are yet to be completed. Last month, the Taliban seized control of Afghanistan ousting the previous elected leadership which was backed by the West. "We have built a dam (Salma dam)... we have worked in areas of water resources in Afghanistan," Gadkari said while responding to a query on whether India will make further investments in the now Taliban-controlled country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will take a decision on whether India will now invest in infrastructure projects in Afghanistan or not, Gadkari said. "As a friendly country, we had discussions with Afghanistan government officials for building some roads (also)... good that I did not start construction of roads (in Afghanistan)... the situation there is of concern," he told PTI in an interview. India has invested around USD 3 billion in different welfare and infrastructure projects in Afghanistan. On Friday, Modi said the global community should decide "collectively" and "thoughtfully" on recognising the new setup in Afghanistan in view of questions over its acceptability as the change of power was not "inclusive".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
19-09-2021||Business||More states want GST compensation cess extended||The clamour for compensation to states beyond June 2022 grew louder on Saturday with Kerala finance minister K.N. Balagopal saying the financial situation of the state would be deeply impacted if the assistance is not extended. Balagopal pitched for extending the GST compensation beyond June next year as his state was already grappling with a significant revenue shortfall. He joins Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Rajasthan and Delhi in demanding the extension of the compensation. Analysts said the revenue guarantee has held the GST regime together and if that is snapped the indirect tax regime itself could come under cloud. Balagopal, who attended the GST Council meeting yesterday in Lucknow, said even BJP ruled states had voiced the need to extend the compensation beyond June 2022 Kerala will be receiving GST (Goods and Services Tax) compensation of over Rs 13,000 crore and another one-time grant of over Rs 19,000 crore in the current fiscal ending March 2022, he noted. In case the GST compensation ends next year, the state will face further revenue shortfall. Chhattisgarh Congress leader T.S. Singh Deo said: “The states did not surrender their right to tax to the Centre to be short-changed. The federal system has to function equitably and not at the cost of one another. We would all press for the GST Council to pass a resolution for the extension of the compensation as the revenue buoyancy has not been to the expected promised level.” Deo suggested that the “compensation should be extended for a period of another five years. If there is resilience in revenue collection, the Centre may not have to compensate the state. But, till that time, the states must have an assurance of compensation to fall back on.” He said: “If GST is not working, then you have a common rate of taxes in the country and you disband the GST council and the idea of cess for protected income or also allow the states to impose cess on sin goods.” States’ losses have been widening because collections have fallen short of the original projections that were built around the promise that states would receive an annual revenue increase of 14 per cent with the base year set at 2015-16. Rajat Bose, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said: “What the finance minister has said is the stated position of the existing law. However, there is no clarity on the cess collection too. What if the cess collection is buoyant, can the principal and interest of the borrowed sum  be paid back early. If so, will the cess not be till March 2026. Or will the sum be held back till that time. Can they do so?” Data showed that the cess collection in FY2018 was Rs 62,022 crore, FY2019 was Rs 97,639 crore, FY2020 was Rs 98,749 crore and in FY2021 it was Rs 87,215 crore. In the current fiscal, up to August, cess collection has been Rs 42,096 crore. For the current fiscal, the government has budgeted Rs 1 lakh crore cess collection. In 2020-21, the Centre had borrowed Rs 1.1 lakh crore on behalf of States to bridge the shortfall in the GST Compensation Cess collections that arose due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but some arrears are still pending, Sitharaman said. Similar borrowings have also been made this year of about Rs 75,000 crore, with another Rs 83,000 crore more estimated over the remaining part of the year. In 2020, the Council decided that the Compensation Cess levy will be extended to repay the principal amount as well as the interest payable on these borrowings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
19-09-2021||Business||GST Council decides stricter rules for GST filing||Businesses that default on filing summary return and paying monthly GST will not be able to file GSTR-1 sales return of the succeeding month from January 1 next year. The GST Council in its Lucknow meeting on September 17 has decided to take a host of measures to streamline compliance. The Council decided to amend Rule 59(6) of the Central GST Rules with effect from January 1, 2022 to provide that a registered person shall not be allowed to furnish Form GSTR-1, if he has not furnished the return in Form GSTR-3B for the preceding month. At present, the law restricts filing of return for outward supplies or GSTR-1 in case a business fails to file GSTR-3B for the preceding two months. While businesses file GSTR-1 of a particular month by the 11th day of the next month, GSTR-3B, through which businesses pay taxes, is filed in a staggered manner between the 20th and 24th day of the succeeding month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
19-09-2021||Business||Kaushik Basu dubs news of manipulation of World Bank's Doing Business Ranking as 'shocking'||Terming allegations of manipulation of World Bank’s Doing Business Ranking as ‘shocking’, former chief economist of World Bank Kaushik Basu said on Saturday that pressure was there from governments during his tenure, but the multilateral institution never gave in. The World Bank Group has decided to discontinue publication of its Doing Business (DB) report on country investment climates following allegations of irregularities. The decision was taken after a probe of data irregularities allegedly because of pressure from some top bank officials to boost China’s ranking in 2017 came to light. “The news of manipulation of World Bank’s Doing Business Ranking is shocking. DB was under my charge from 2012 to 2016. There was pressure from governments. We NEVER gave in. Sad that this changed. I may add, to India’s credit, I never had pressure from India’s government — current or previous,” Basu said in a tweet. He was the chief economist of World Bank from 2012 to 2016. “After reviewing all the information available to date on ‘Doing Business’, including the findings of past reviews, audits, and the report the bank released today on behalf of the board of executive directors, World Bank Group management has taken the decision to discontinue the Doing Business report,” the World Bank Group had said in a statement on Thursday. The group remains firmly committed to advancing the role of the private sector in development and providing support to governments to design the regulatory environment that supports this, it had said. “Going forward, we will be working on a new approach to assessing the business and investment climate. We are deeply grateful to the efforts of the many staff members who have worked diligently to advance the business climate agenda,” it had said. According to the ‘Doing Business’ 2020 report, India had jumped 14 places to the 63rd position on the ease of doing business ranking. India has improved its rank by 79 positions in five years (2014-19).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
19-09-2021||Business||Oil cos get good response to ethanol procurement tender||State-owned fuel retailing firms have received an “overwhelming” response to the tender they floated for buying ethanol for mixing in petrol, a government statement said on Saturday. “The first Expression of Interest (EoI) for signing long-term agreement with upcoming dedicated ethanol plants for supply of ethanol has received an overwhelming response, with 197 bidders participating in the same,” it said without giving details of the quantity ethanol manufacturers have committed to supply. The EoI was published by Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) on behalf of oil marketing companies on August 27 and it opened on September 17. “The bids are currently under evaluation,” it said. The oil companies floated the tender to buy ethanol for progressively raising the percentage of ethanol mixed in petrol to 20 per cent (80 per cent petrol, 20 per cent ethanol). The statement said 173 crore litre ethanol was procured last year and 5 per cent blending was achieved during ethanol supply year (ESY) 2019-20 (December 2019 to November 2020). The target for ongoing year ESY-2020-21 (December 2020 to November 2021) is 325 crore litre which will take the blending to 8.5 per cent. Actual achievement during ESY - 2020-21 so far has been 243 crore litre, accounting for 8.01 per cent blending, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-67
19-09-2021||India||S Jaishankar holds 'cordial and productive' meeting with Saudi counterpart||The developments in Afghanistan and ways to further expand bilateral ties in areas of defence, trade, investment and energy were the key focus of the wide-ranging talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his visiting Saudi counterpart Faisal Bin Farhan Al Saud on Sunday.  After the talks, Jaishankar described the meeting as "cordial and productive" and he had a "very useful exchange" of views with Al Saud on Afghanistan, the Gulf region and the Indo-Pacific.  The external affairs minister said on Twitter that he urged early resumption of direct flights to Saudi Arabia and that it was agreed to work closely on all Covid-related challenges.  Al Saud arrived here on Saturday evening on a three-day visit, in the first ministerial trip from Saudi Arabia to India since the outbreak of the pandemic.  The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the two sides deliberated on the developments in Afghanistan and explored ways to deepen ties in areas of defence, trade, investment and energy.  It said Jaishankar called for further relaxation in restrictions on travel from India to the Gulf nation while appreciating the country for the support provided to the Indian community during the Covid-19 pandemic.  "A cordial and productive meeting with Saudi FM HH @Faisalbinfarhan. Discussed our cooperation in the political, security and socio-cultural pillars of our strategic partnership," Jaishankar tweeted.  "Very useful exchange of views on Afghanistan, the Gulf and the Indo-Pacific," he said.  In a statement, the MEA said the ministers exchanged views on the developments in Afghanistan and discussed all matters related to their bilateral relationship and regional and international issues of mutual interest.  "The two ministers reviewed the implementation of the 'Strategic Partnership Council Agreement' signed between the two sides during the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Saudi Arabia in October 2019," the MEA said.  It said the two sides expressed satisfaction at the meetings held under the agreement and progress achieved.  "Both sides discussed further steps to strengthen their partnership in trade, investment, energy, defence, security, culture, consular issues, health care and human resources," the MEA said.  The MEA said the two sides also discussed bilateral cooperation in multilateral forums such as the United Nations, G-20 and Gulf Cooperation Council.  "The external affairs minister congratulated Saudi Arabia on its successful presidency of G-20 last year despite the Covid-19 pandemic," it said.  The Saudi foreign minister is scheduled to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.  The visit by the Saudi foreign minister to India came at a time India has been engaged with all leading powers on the developments in Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban.  It is learnt that the situation in Afghanistan was a major area of focus of the talks between Jaishankar and Al Saud.  Being a major regional player, Saudi Arabia's position on the developments in Kabul assumes significance as several countries in the Gulf region including Qatar and Iran were playing a role in the Afghan peace process before the Taliban's capture of power.  In the Gulf region, India has been in touch with United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Iran over the unfolding developments in Afghanistan.  In reflection of India's views on the matter, Prime Minister Modi on Friday said the global community should decide "collectively" and "thoughtfully" on according recognition to the new set-up in Afghanistan in view of questions over its acceptability as the change of power was not "inclusive".  He made the remarks during a virtual address at a meeting on Afghanistan of the heads of state of the SCO and the Collective Security Treaty Organisation.  The defence and security ties between India and Saudi Arabia are witnessing gradual expansion.  Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane visited Saudi Arabia in December last in the first-ever visit by a head of the 1.3 million-strong Army to the strategically important Gulf nation.  Gen Naravane held extensive talks with senior military officials of that country with an aim to enhance bilateral defence cooperation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
19-09-2021||India||Puri Jagannath Temple: Treasure hunt for possible hidden valuables||A treasure hunt has started at the Emar Mutt (Monastry), located in the southeastern corner of the 12th Jagannath Mandir, with teams of archeologists armed with metal detectors searching for a lost hoard. The search started on Thursday is being carried out following a request by the Narayan Ramanuj Das, the Mahant (head) of Uttarparshwa Mutt, who is in charge of Emar Mutt. The Mutt authorities as well as historians suspect that a hoard of valuables is buried inside the premises. The belief that a stash is buried underground comes from discoveries of two earlier troves. In 2011, the police had stumbled on a treasure trove of 522 silver ingots weighing 18 tonnes inside the Mutt worth about Rs 90 crore. Earlier in April this year, 45 more silver ingots weighing about 35 kg each were found inside the Mutt. Apart from silver ingots, a silver tree and silver flowers, about 16 antique swords, and a bronze cow sculpture were also recovered from the Mutt, stablished by Ramanujacharya in 1050 when he came to Puri. A special team of the State Archaeology Department in presence of officials of Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA), Puri district collector Samarth Verma, Puri SP KV Singh and trust member of the Emar Mutt, began the search inside the premises of the Emar Mutt in the pilgrim town on Thursday to trace hidden valuables. Puri Sub-Collector, Bhabataran Sahu said: "As of now, no material was detected during Thursday's inspection. We will take appropriate action on the report of the technical team which scanned the premises." The treasures recovered earlier from the mutt are now kept in the state treasury in Puri and guarded by armed police. As many as 18 mutts belonging to Ramanuja sect was established in Puri by Ramanujacharya. All these mutts are closely linked to the Shree Jagannath Temple and are involved in rituals associated with the Temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
19-09-2021||India||After Babul, another Bengal BJP MLA expresses anguish against party leadership||Expressing his anguish against the party's leadership, BJP's Raiganj MLA Krishna Kalyani on Sunday said he will take a decision on his political future soon if his grievances are not addressed. Speaking to reporters, Kalyani said those leaving the BJP must have serious grievances which have not been taken care of. "I have distanced myself from all programmes of the party and have given a deadline by which, issues raised by me should be addressed or else I will have to think," he said. Kalyani, however, did not elaborate on his grievances. Asked whether he will join some other party, Kalyani said that he was contemplating options and would make public his decision at the right time. MP Babul Supriyo and four MLAs, including Mukul Roy, have left the BJP to join TMC after assembly election results were declared on May 2. "It has to be seen on what circumstances they are leaving," Kalyani said. The TMC district leadership in Uttar Dinajpur said that they would welcome Kalyani to the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
19-09-2021||India||Tihar inmates to be professionally trained in sports||The Delhi Prisons Department will soon kick-start a new initiative to impart professional training to inmates of Tihar Jail in various sports, officials said on Sunday. Prison officials said two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, lodged in the Tihar jail after being arrested in the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl case which led to death of another wrestler, will also be allowed to engage in the activities as a participant if he shows interest. "Sushil Kumar is trained in wrestling but if he shows interest in playing badminton, volleyball or any other sports which is being organised under the new initiative, we will allow him to actively engage as a participant," a senior jail official said. “This is the first time that inmates of Tihar jail will be trained in sports with the help of coaches in a more professional and scientific manner,” jail officials said. Under the initiative, sponsored by the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) as part of their CSR project, the inmates will be trained in six sports -- Kho-Kho, volleyball, badminton, basketball, chess and carrom, they maintained. According to jail administration, the IOCL will send professional coaches to Tihar twice a week to train interested inmates in each of these selected games. They will also provide necessary sports equipments and jerseys for 20 inmates in each sports, a senior jail official said. Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said in collaboration with IOCL, the inmates will be soon trained by professional coaches in various sports. "Such activities will help create a positive and healthy atmosphere inside the prison. It will channelise their energy in a positive direction and most importantly, will help in keeping themselves both physically and mentally fit as well as healthy," he said. According to jail officials interested inmates and those who are already trained in such sports will be trained by the professional coaches so that they can further engage other inmates in these games. They said the female inmates lodged in central jail number six will be trained in badminton, chess and carrom. “It will also help these inmates in enhancing their performance in their annually held inter-jail sports competitions,” he said. “In the near future, such professional sports activities will be initiated in jails of Rohini and Mandoli as well,” jail officials said. According to prison officials, for over a month now, no new Covid cases has been reported among the inmates or staffs Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli jails. According to a latest data shared by authorities, 13,560 Covid vaccine doses have been administered to inmates in all the three jails, of which 11,609 were first doses and 1,951 were second jabs. The total number of inmates and staff in all the three jails is 17,100, prison officials said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
19-09-2021||India||Rajasthan issues guidelines to stop gaming addiction in children||The Rajasthan government has issued an advisory for parents and teachers suggesting measures to protect children from addiction to online gaming. The advisory issued by the Rajasthan Council of School Education on Saturday suggests technical points which are helpful in monitoring the activities and involvement of the children in gaming. The parents and teachers have been asked to keep a watch if children are behaving in an abnormal manner and whether they are mostly involved in online activities, sudden increase in time spent online, especially on social media, and they turn aggressive after using the internet. The advisory suggested establishing an "internet gateway" at home which will help in effectively monitoring their child's internet use. It also suggested that it should be ensured that the child accesses internet from a computer placed in family space. "In this age of technology, online gaming is very popular among children. The closure of schools due to the coronavirus pandemic has increased the use of mobile and internet among children, due to which the trend of online gaming among children has also increased rapidly," Sana Siddiqui, deputy commissioner of the council, said. She said these online games are easily accessible to children and are played on devices like computers, tablets and mobiles connected with the internet. "These games are designed in such a way that they excite the player to the extent of passion to play further. This is the reason why players become addicted to it and eventually suffer from gaming disorder due to which the educational and social life of the child is adversely impacted," Siddiqui said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
19-09-2021||India||Centre yet to take call on 68 names recommended by SC to appoint as HC judges||The government is yet to take a call on the recommendations made by the Supreme Court collegium on appointing a total of 68 judicial officers and advocates as judges of various high courts, sources aware of the procedure for appointment to the higher judiciary have said. Between August 8 and September 1 this year, the apex court collegium had processed over 100 names recommended by various high courts and had finally sent 68 names to the government for appointment as judges to 12 high courts. The government is yet to take a call on the names recommended by the SC collegium headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, the sources said. Out of the 68 names, two from Karnataka and one from Jammu and Kashmir have been sent for a third time, while 10 others have been recommended for a second time. The rest are fresh recommendations. Prior to these recommendations, in a historic decision on August 17, the SC collegium had sent nine names, including three women, for elevation as judges of the Supreme Court. The names were cleared with significant pace by the government leading to their swearing-in as apex court judges on August 31. On Friday, the Supreme Court collegium is learnt to have recommended eight names of judges, including acting chief justice of Calcutta High Court Justice Rajesh Bindal, for their elevation as chief justices of different high courts. Besides, the marathon collegium meetings on Thursday and Friday have led to recommendations of transfer of five high court chief justices, including Tripura High Court Chief Justice Akil Kureshi, and 28 other high courts judges. The combined sanctioned strength of the 25 high courts of the country is 1,098 judges. As on September 1, there were 465 vacancies, according data put in public domain by the Law Ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
19-09-2021||India||Delhi BJP expels 3 councillors for 6 years over 'graft charges'||Cracking the whip over complaints of corruption, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Sunday expelled three municipal councilors from the party for six years, and said more heads will roll if they are found involved in financial irregularities. Gupta termed the action, coming months ahead of the three municipal corporations early next year, as BJP's "zero tolerance" policy. "Not just councilors but officers of the municipal corporations (MCDs) will also not be spared if they are found involved in corruption," Gupta told PTI. He said people should make videos if anyone "extorts" money from them in the name of MCDs and provide it to Delhi BJP so that FIR can be registered against them. The councillors who have been removed from the party over graft charges are Sadulajab councillor Sanjay Thakur in South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), New Ashok Nagar councillor Rajni Babloo Pandey in East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) and Mukherjee Nagar councillor Pooja Madan in North Delhi Municipal Corporation, according to the orders issued by Delhi BJP president. The move comes ahead of the civic polls early next year where corruption and mismanagement in municipalities is likely to be the main issue. "You (Sanjay Thakur) are informed that due to numerous complaints of corruption against you, you are removed from the primary membership of the party for six years. "You were many times made aware of this and asked to mend your corrupt behaviour but to no avail. You are removed from the party for six years with immediate effect," the expulsion letter issued to SDMC councillor Sanjay Thakur by Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said. Similar expulsion letters were also issued to EDMC councillor Rajni Babloo Pandey and North MCD councillor Pooja Madan. Calls made by PTI to seek response of the expelled councillors on the development went unanswered. The three civic bodies North, East and South are ruled by the BJP while the city government is headed by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). The AAP is the primary opposition party in three MCDs. The civic bodies are set to undergo election early 2022 where opposition parties (AAP and Congress) will corner the BJP over the issue of "burgeoning corruption". In 2017 civic polls, the BJP has not given tickets to any of the sitting councillors due to corruption allegations against them. In last one year many AAP leaders including CM Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia had raised the issues of corruption and mismanagement in civic bodies. They had held that corrupt practices by BJP councillors and officials as responsible for poor financial situation of the three municipalities. AAP leaders had alleged that many BJP councillors were involved in "extortion and other corrupt practices" in all the three civic bodies. In April this year, senior AAP leader and MLA from Greater Kailash Saurabh Bharadwaj had accused BJP's Saidulajab councillor Sanjay Thakur of being involved in corruption. Bharadwaj had said that Thakur has a "nexus with local builders" and "extorts money" from common people when they try to do any type of construction in the area. Similarly, in August last year, senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak had accused New Ashok Nagar councillor Rajni Babloo Pandey and her kin of "extracting money" from people for illegally building houses in the area. The party had also released an audio recording between a builder and the councillor's brother-in-law where a man was purportedly heard saying that he had given money to civic officials and also to councillor's brother-in-law but still the construction was stalled. These allegations were, however, denied by the councillor as "baseless".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||I follow my conscience, says Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa ||Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa,  who is being tipped to be Punjab's new chief minister, says that neither he nor anyone else in his family has ever hankered for any post and that he has always followed his conscience. When the mediapersons here had asked that can it be assumed that they were talking to the future chief minister, Randhawa quipped, " You are talking to a Congressman". In a veiled dig at Amarinder Singh, he then added, "A chief minister remains (in his post) only till the time when his party, people of the state stand by him". Asked how soon can one expect the name of new CLP leader to be announced, Randhawa said, "We have authorised Congress president in this regard." He said the party senior leadership has not only to talk to the MLAs, but other stalwarts too before finalizing the name. Asked why so much time is being taken to announce the CLP leader, he said, "If you have to make a village sarpanch, sometimes it takes 20 days to decide". However, he assured the new CLP leader's name would be announced on Sunday. On Amarinder Singh saying he felt humiliated, Randhawa replied, "So far, the BJP has changed five chief ministers. And in the Congress too, some chief ministers have been changed. In Congress, Amarinder Singh has the maximum tenure of nine-and-half years as chief minister. The honour he got, I think no other chief minister got so much." To a question over what caused differences with Amarinder Singh, he said, "When we felt that promises which were made and elections were near and the Congress high-command and we too felt worried". Randhawa had earlier this year joined hands with Navjot Singh Sidhu, and had targeted his own government over alleged failure to fulfil the promises made in the run-up to the 2017 polls including those related to the sacrilege incidents (in 2015). On Amarinder Singh's outbursts against Navjot Singh Sidhu after he resigned as chief minister, Randhawa termed it as "unfortunate" that a senior leader had used such words. "I think it is unfortunate that such words have been used against Punjab Congress chief by a senior leader," he said. "Even when there were differences with Amarinder Singh since April 26, but you must have never heard me speak any word against him in a disrespectful manner," said Randhawa. "Even today, I consider him like a father," said the Jails and Cooperation minister in the outgoing cabinet of Amarinder Singh. "...Till the time we (Amarinder Singh and Randhawa) were together, you saw that I was very close to him. When he hurt me, then I followed my conscience," Randhawa said. The names of former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, the party's current state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are doing the rounds. The 79-year-old Amarinder Singh, one of the Congress' powerful regional satraps, had put in his papers after speaking to the Congress president and shortly before a crucial meeting of the CLP here on Saturday evening. He had later launched a no-holds-barred attack against Sidhu, describing his bete noire, a cricketer-turned-politician, as a "total disaster".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh has transformed completely since 2017, says Yogi in report card||Uttar Pradesh remained riot-free since 2017 while governance saw a complete transformation from the past with welfare schemes now reaching the deserving and the state emerging as number two in the ease of doing business, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday while making public the report card of his rule of four-and-half years. The BJP government has fulfilled every promise mentioned in the Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra in 2017, he said and voiced confidence that the party' tally will cross 350 seats in the 403-member House in the 2022 assembly polls. The chief minister also hit out at the opposition, saying they were busy building their houses when they were in power and indulged in corruption for transfer and postings while the state was seen as a laggard in development and its image linked with riots. Uttar Pradesh is now number one in implementing 44 central schemes be it the PM Awas Yojna or construction of toilets in the households and its image is no longer liked with riots due to effective and transparent governance, Adityanath said at a press conference while listing the achievements in various fields including development, law and order and handling of the coronavirus pandemic. "Unlike them (previous governments), we did not make luxurious houses for ourselves. Our government focused on building houses for the poor," he said, taking a veiled dig at his predecessor Akhilesh Yadav. "Government bungalows were demolished, and there was a competition to build houses for themselves as well as huge 'havelis' (mansions). But the four-and-half years were dedicated to good governance. And we did not build houses for ourselves, but for 42 lakh poor people of the state," he said. He said criminals were firmly dealt with irrespective of their caste and religion to provide a safe and secure environment in the state. "UP remained free from any riots during four-and-half years unlike in the past when there used to be communal clashes every 3-4 days," the chief minister said. He also claimed the government displayed sensitivity at every level. Facing criticism over the handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, the chief minister pointed out that the state has the highest number of tests and vaccinations and is among those with the lowest positivity rates. He said the investors' confidence in the state is growing and UP has emerged as number 2 in the country in terms of ease of doing business. Accusing the previous SP government of shuffling officials frequently, Adityanath said, "Transfer and posting had assumed the shape of an industry in the previous (SP) government. Every post was sold. "Earlier, the officials were shuffled like a pack of cards. But in the past four-and-half years, no person can level allegations of exchange of money for posting." A booklet titled 'Vikaas kee lahar, har gaav har shahr' which listed achievements of the UP government was also released on the occasion. "In the 2022 Assembly elections, BJP will win 350 seats (out of 403 seats), and there should be no doubts on this," the chief minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||In letter to Sonia, Amarinder expressed anguish over political developments||Hours before resigning as the Punjab chief minister, Amarinder Singh wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, expressing anguish over recent developments and concern that they may cause instability in the state. Singh had on Saturday written to Gandhi, apprising her of his decision. He said the political events of the last about five months were "clearly not based on full understanding of the national imperatives of Punjab and its key concerns." "Notwithstanding my personal anguish, I hope this will not cause any damage to the hard-earned peace and development in the state, and that the efforts I have been focusing on during the last few years would continue unabated, ensuring justice to one and all," Singh wrote in his letter to Gandhi, indicating his apprehension of instability in Punjab as a result of the political developments in the state unit of the Congress. At the same time, he expressed satisfaction at having done his best for the people as the chief minister of Punjab, which, as a border state, "has many geo-political and other internal security concerns, which I tried to handle effectively without any compromise." Congress veteran Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab months ahead of the Assembly polls after a bruising power struggle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. After submitting his resignation to the Governor on Saturday, Singh had said he felt "humiliated" over the way the party handled the protracted crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||Congress chooses Charanjit Singh Channi, a Dalit, as chief minister of Punjab ||Congress' Dalit face Charanjit Singh Channi was elected the leader of the Congress Legislature Party in Punjab on Sunday and will be the next chief minister, succeeding Amarinder Singh who resigned a day ago following a bitter power tussle in the party. AICC general secretary Harish Rawat said in a tweet, It gives me immense pleasure to announce that Sh. #CharanjitSinghChanni has been unanimously elected as the Leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab." Channi (58), a minister in the outgoing Amarinder Singh cabinet, comes from the Dalit community. Channi's selection assumes significance as the dissension-driven Congress faces the Assembly polls in less than five months. The BJP had earlier announced that if voted to power in Punjab, it will make a Dalit the chief minister, while the SAD, which is fighting the coming polls in alliance with the BSP, had said that its Deputy Chief Minister would be from the Dalit community. Channi met the Punjab Governor and staked a claim to form the government, sources said, adding that Rawat and the party's central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary accompanied him. Amarinder Singh said he hopes that Channi is able to keep the border state of Punjab safe. "My best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi. I hope he's able to keep the border state of Punjab safe and protect our people from the growing security threat from across the border," he said. Earlier, senior Congress leader Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was said to be the frontrunner for the post. However, after Channi's name was announced, Randhawa said, "I welcome the decision of the party high command." Another senior leader, Brahm Mohindra, too welcomed the election of Channi, who is considered close to state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Early in the day, hectic talks were held to finalise the name of new leader of the CLP, a day after Amarinder Singh resigned as the chief minister amid a bitter power tussle with Sidhu. Rawat, Maken and Harish Chaudhary who have been camping at a hotel here held discussions with the MLAs and took their feedback.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||Ambika Soni says no to Punjab CM post, says a Sikh should take charge||Veteran Congress leader Ambika Soni on Sunday said she was offered the post of Punjab chief minister but has declined it as she feels that a Sikh should occupy the top post in the state. Amid hectic deliberations within the Congress to find a successor for Amarinder Singh who resigned on Saturday, Soni met Rahul Gandhi at his residence on Sunday for further discussions on the new chief minister. She had met Gandhi on Saturday night also and held long deliberations. "Yes, I was offered the post but I declined. I am of the view for the last 50 years that a Sikh leader should be the face of Punjab. I have explained this to the Congress chief," she told reporters. "I feel that a Sikh should be the chief minister in Punjab. There is just one state in the entire country where you have a Sikh CM," she said, while expressing the hope that a new CM will be declared today. Soni said a party exercise is underway in Chandigarh, where the AICC general secretary is present along with two observers who are meeting all the MLAs and asking them for their opinion. She also said that there was no tussle in in Punjab Congress. Party sources had earlier in the day said in Chandigarh that a consensus is yet to be made on the name of the new CLP leader, who will be the new chief minister of Punjab. The names of former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, current state state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are doing the rounds. We will abide by whatever the party leadership decides, said a party leader. AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and party's central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary are currently in the city. Punjab Congress legislators on Saturday had authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick a new CLP leader. Congress veteran Capt. Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab with less than five months to go for the Assembly polls after a bruising power struggle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, and had said that he felt "humiliated" over the way the party handled the protracted crisis. The 79-year-old Amarinder Singh, one of the Congress' powerful regional satraps, had put in his papers after speaking to the party president and shortly before a crucial meeting of the CLP here on Satruday evening. He had later launched a no-holds-barred attack against Sidhu, describing his bete noire, a cricketer-turned-politician, as a "total disaster". Congress sources had said the party -- also battling dissensions in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh where its governments are in power -- is trying to balance equations in the poll-bound state and is likely to appoint a Hindu face like Jakhar to the top post. Jakhar, who is not an MLA, is believed to be close to the top Congress leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||Hope Amarinder Singh will work keeping in mind the interest of Congress, says Gehlot||A day after Congress veteran Capt. Amarinder Singh resigned as the Punjab chief minister, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot implored him to think about the party's interests and not do anything that may damage it. His remarks come after Singh on Saturday indicated that the dissension-driven party could see more tension. After submitting his resignation, Singh had said, "As far as my future politics is concerned, there is always an option and I will use that option when time comes." On Sunday, Gehlot said Singh is a respected leader and advised him to listen to his "inner voice" and keep the party's interest in forefront. "I hope that Captain Amarinder Singh will not take any such step which will harm the Congress party. Captain Sahib himself said the party had kept him as the Chief Minister for nine-and-a-half years. He has served the people of Punjab by working to the best of his capacity," Gehlot said in a statement posted on Twitter. "I personally believe that the Congress president chooses the chief minister at the risk of inviting displeasure of several leaders who are in the race for chief ministership. However, when the same CM is changed, he/she is displeased and holds the decision wrong," he said, adding that the high command sometimes has to take decisions in the interest of the party with feedback from MLAs and the people. Gehlot said the time now is to rise above oneself and think of the country and the Congress party. "The direction in which the country is moving due to fascist forces is a matter of concern for all the people. Therefore, at such a time, the responsibility of all of us Congressmen increases in the interest of the country. We have to rise above ourselves and think in the interest of the party and the country, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||Congress meeting to choose new Punjab chief minister deferred||A meeting of the Punjab Congress Legislative Party, which was slated for 11 am on Sunday, has been deferred, with party sources saying that a consensus is yet to be made on the name of the new CLP leader. A party leader said the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting has been deferred. Party sources said a consensus is yet to be made on the name of the new CLP leader, who will be the new chief minister of Punjab after the resignation of Amarinder Singh on Saturday. The name of former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar, current state state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are doing the rounds. "We will abide by whatever the party leadership decides," said a party leader. AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and party's central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary are currently in the city. Punjab Congress legislators on Saturday had authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick a new CLP leader. Congress veteran Capt. Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab with less than five months to go for the Assembly polls after a bruising power struggle with state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, and had said that he felt "humiliated" over the way the party handled the protracted crisis. The 79-year-old Amarinder Singh, one of the Congress' powerful regional satraps, had put in his papers after speaking to the party president and shortly before a crucial meeting of the CLP here on Satruday evening. He had later launched a no-holds-barred attack against Sidhu, describing his bete noire, a cricketer-turned-politician, as a "total disaster". Congress sources had said the party -- also battling dissensions in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh where its governments are in power -- is trying to balance equations in the poll-bound state and is likely to appoint a Hindu face like Jakhar to the top post. Jakhar, who is not an MLA, is believed to be close to the top Congress leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||WHO to take decision on emergency nod for Covaxin in October||The Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE) of the World Health Organisation would be meeting in October to make its recommendations on Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin on Emergency Use Listing. Bharat Biotech is expected to give a presentation on the Vaccine's safety and efficacy data of clinical trials (phase 1-3 trial results and post marketing)and Risk management plans and other implementation considerations, according to the SAGE draft agenda. SAGE is authorised with advising WHO on overall global policies and strategies, ranging from vaccines and technology, research and development, to delivery of immunization and its linkages with other health interventions. Hanna Nohynek, member of SAGE, will be presenting a draft recommendation for the vaccine and the session will make its recommendations. The session will thoroughly discuss the clinical data on Covaxin from phase 1, 2, 3 trials and post marketing studies on safety, immunogenicity, efficacy and effectiveness, besides update on global, regional and country level plans for vaccine safety monitoring, the agenda said. Bharat Biotech recently said it has submitted all the data pertaining to Covaxin to the WHO for EUL and is awaiting feedback from the global health watchdog. The WHO is currently reviewing the data submitted by the vaccine maker and the date for a decision on the jab is yet "to be confirmed," according to the update available on the WHO website. In an update on its website, the WHO said it began rolling data of the vaccine on July 6. Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. Covaxin is one of the six vaccines that have received emergency use authorisation from India's drug regulator and is being used in the nationwide inoculation programme, along with Covishield and Sputnik V.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||India logs 30,773 Covid-19 cases, 309 fresh fatalities||With 30,773 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a single day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,34,48,163, while the active cases declined to 3,32,158, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,44,838 with 309 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.99 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.68 per cent, the ministry said. A reduction of 8,481 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,59,895 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,23,40,168 The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.97 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 20 days The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.04 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 86 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,26,71,167, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 80.43 crore according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 309 new fatalities include 143 from Kerala and 80 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,44,838 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,469 from Maharashtra, 37,587 From Karnataka, 35,310 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 23,439 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,641 from Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-196
19-09-2021||India||PM says 'a political party got fever' seeing India set vaccine record||Fresh from his 71st birthday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wise-cracked on Saturday that “a political party ran a fever” after India administered a record 22.6 million Covid vaccines on Friday. Modi must have meant the Congress, some of whose leaders had raised questions about the timing. But a break-up of the vaccination data suggests that several states run by the BJP or its friends did indeed experience feverish activity on Friday and relative drowsiness just before the surge in the administration of doses. Six states ruled by the BJP or its allies accounted for 67 per cent of the over 22 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered on Friday, and some showed dips in daily doses just before Friday’s record sharp rise. The final Friday figure was revised to 22.6 million on Saturday. The number of doses administered in the six states — Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh — on Friday ranged three-fold to 15-fold higher than their own average daily doses over the previous seven days, according to the vaccination data. These six states account for 15.2 million of the 22.62 million doses administered across the country on Friday, coinciding with Modi’s birthday. On Saturday, during a virtual interaction with health workers and vaccine recipients in Goa, Modi said without taking names: “More than 2.5 crore people were inoculated. Some of them experiencing side effects is known. But for the first time I have heard that after midnight yesterday, a political party experienced a reaction, it ran a fever.” The session was seen as an attempt to build on the campaign the BJP has launched to bolster the government’s image scarred during India’s second Covid-19 wave. “Birthdays come and go. I have stayed aloof from such things. But yesterday was emotional for me, an unforgettable occasion,” Modi added. In Bihar, Gujarat and Karnataka, the daily doses administered one to three days prior to Friday’s record rise fell below their own seven-day averages, in line with suggestions by some health experts that authorities are orchestrating the vaccination campaign for dramatic effects. “We don’t have anything in social science that can explain why six million people sought vaccines on Thursday, over 22 million on Friday, then only 8 to 10 million on Saturday,” Rijo John, a health economist and adjunct professor at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kochi, told The Telegraph. Nearly 8.4 million doses were administered on Saturday. John and other experts tracking the vaccination campaign said the demand for jabs would be expected to display an overall rising trend with minor fluctuations — as more and more people seek inoculation — until the drive approaches completion or encounters hesitancy. “It can’t be that 2 crore people realised one day they want the vaccine. If awareness has abruptly grown across society, that momentum should continue,” John said. “We don’t see that. This can only mean the sharp rises are carefully planned.” A health official involved in the vaccination campaign had told this newspaper on Friday that such sharp spikes in daily doses were facilitated by an increase in the number of vaccination centres activated. The official said such large abrupt increases needed preparations through at least two weeks of planning during which vaccines, staff and recipients need to be mobilised. The number of active vaccination centres on Saturday was over 65,600 compared with 109,000 on Friday and 58,000 on Thursday. Karnataka showed the sharpest rise on Friday compared with its average over the previous seven days, administering 3 million doses, a 15-fold increase over its average of 199,000 doses from September 10-16. The state had administered only 81,000 doses on Thursday and 185,000 doses on Wednesday. Bihar’s Friday dose count was over 3.2 million, a 7-fold increase over the state’s average of 463,000 daily doses over the previous seven days. On the three days before Friday, the state had administered 380,000, 145,000 and 86,000 doses. Uttar Pradesh on Friday administered over 2.8 million doses, a three-fold increase over its immediate 7-day average of 839,000 doses. Except for Maharashtra and Rajasthan where Friday’s counts increased two to three times their 7-day average, several non-BJP states did not show similar sharp spikes. Bengal had administered 402,000 doses on Friday, close to its immediate 7-day average of 431,000 doses. In Delhi, around 153,000 people received doses on Friday, compared with an average of 126,000 daily doses over the previous seven days. “Such sudden spurts are likely to require massive efforts to mobilise recipients — how this is done over how many days is unclear,” a public health expert not associated with the vaccination campaign said. The campaign had administered over 14 million doses on August 31 and nearly 12 million doses on September 6. A health official has said more such surge days should be expected as the number of available doses increase in the coming weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
19-09-2021||India||Film spotlights ‘price’ paid by Bhima Koregaon 16 ||At the beginning, Father Stan Swamy appears on screen to say that what is happening to him is not happening to him alone. The film ends with the Jesuit declaring he is “ready to pay the price, whatever it may be”. An emotive yet simple narrative of the nearly four-year-old Elgaar Parishad case and the 16 rights activists, writers and lawyers arrested in connection with it was to release at an online film festival on Saturday night. The documentary, BK16 and the Incarceration of Justice, is about the detainees, who have come to be known as the “Bhima Koregaon 16” after the place near Pune where caste violence broke out during an Ambedkarite pilgrimage in 2018. One of the 16 — Father Stan, a Jesuit and tribal rights defender from Jharkhand – died of Covid-related complications in custody in July. The investigators have linked the accused to a Maoist plot. Produced by the Delhi-based NGO Karwan-e-Mohabbat, the 13-minute film edited and narrated by Anam Sheikh starts with the funeral service of the 84-year-old Father Stan. After a short introduction, Father Stan is shown in a video — recorded before his arrest in Ranchi last October — saying: “What is happening to me is not something unique happening to me alone. It is the broader process taking place all over the country.” He then briefly speaks about the widespread arrests of intellectuals in the case, which many see as a government crackdown on dissenters. Among the accused, Telugu litterateur Varavara Rao, Delhi University teacher Hany Babu M.T. and balladeer Jyoti Jagtap too contracted Covid. Rao, who is almost 81, is out on bail. The film’s creative producer, Natasha Badhwar, said the documentary was an attempt to refresh public memory and highlight the detainees’ plight. “It is our response to the wrongful incarceration of the BK16, including Fr Stan Swamy, and the many others arrested during the pandemic, the lack of medical care, and the Arsenal report that shows evidence was planted on many of the accused. (It’s) also to answer the question: what really happened at Bhima Koregaon?” Badhwar said. A US-based data forensics firm, Arsenal Consulting, has claimed that “evidence” was planted on the computers of two of the accused — Delhi-based human rights activist Rona Wilson and Nagpur lawyer Surendra Gadling — through malware. Both the National Investigation Agency, which is probing the case, and the Maharashtra police which had started the investigation, have opposed the admission of Arsenal’s reports in Bombay High Court. The film quotes Father Stan, a patient of Parkinson’s Disease, from the court hearings to highlight how his health had deteriorated during his eight months in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail. It shows footage of rights activist Umar Khalid, who’s not among the BK 16 and is in jail custody in Delhi on terrorism charges, accused of inciting the February 2020 Delhi riots through his protests against the new citizenship regime. Umar had attended the Elgaar Parishad event in Pune on December 31, 2017, and spoken about the historic importance of the 1818 Battle of Koregaon, in which a largely Dalit army had defeated the Peshwas. It’s on January 1, 2018 —the bicentennial of the Battle of Koregaon, which the Elgaar Parishad event was remembering — that the Bhima Koregaon caste clash that killed a man took place. Interviews of Hany Babu, legal activist Sudha Bharadwaj, and cartoonist and lawyer Arun Ferreira — all BK16 members — are also shown. The counter-narrative from the prosecutors and Tushar Damgude — the Pune businessman whose police complaint started the case — is absent. “Because of the pandemic and the restrictions on movement, we were unable to speak to anybody in Pune,” Badhwar explained. “We have put together facts that are already in the public domain, and put them in one place to answer questions like who filed the first FIR? How long did the police take to act on the FIRs filed by the Dalit activist (Anita Sawale) as well as the Hindutva groups? Who were the accused (of the caste violence, Sambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote) and how they were initially not arrested, and have still not been chargesheeted.” Sawale had accused Bhide and Ekbote — who have been linked to the Sangh parivar —of engineering the caste violence. Ekbote was arrested briefly before securing bail. The BK16 documentary ends with Father Stan saying: “I am happy to be part of this process because I am not a silent spectator. I am part of it, part of the game and ready to pay the price, whatever it may be.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
19-09-2021||India||Adolf Hitler cloud on BA history syllabus proposed by UGC||A BA history syllabus proposed by the University Grants Commission has attracted charges of promoting unverified claims and a “racial theory” of history reminiscent of Adolf Hitler’s Germany. Leading historians including Irfan Habib, Aditya Mukherjee and Pankaj Jha lambasted the draft syllabus at a webinar on “Defending the historian’s craft” on Friday. “In the UGC syllabus, a major share is devoted to the Aryans. By claiming India was a homeland for Aryans, we are doing what the Germans did. Purely a racial theory is being imposed,” Habib said. “Hitler had this theory that the Germans are a pure race. What happened in Germany should be a lesson for us. A kind of false history is being put forth by the RSS and the BJP.” Habib added: “There is no reference to the caste system as if it did not exist. It runs down the composite culture. Even the social reform movement of Raja Rammohan Ray finds no mention.” The UGC had unveiled the draft “Learning Outcome-based Curriculum Framework” for BA history in February and sought feedback from stakeholders. It is yet to finalise the syllabus, which glorifies the Vedic period and Hindu religious texts and diminishes the importance of Muslim rule. It plays up the “Indus-Saraswati Civilisation”, whose provenance is disputed. This is the first full-fledged history syllabus prepared by the higher education regulator, which had in the past suggested that individual universities would be allowed only “20 to 30 per cent deviation” from any syllabus it framed. Jha, a history professor at Lady Shri Ram College, said the proposed syllabus challenged history as a discipline. “This document starts with a theme, ‘the idea of Bharat’. The details under this theme show things that have no evidence,” he said. “The biggest problem is that you do not know who made this syllabus. The names of the syllabus makers are confidential.” Instead of focusing on factual history in the first paper, the draft promotes topics like “Eternity of Synonyms Bharat” and the greatness of the Vedas, Vedangas, Upanishads, Smritis and Puranas. While the existing Delhi University syllabus devotes three papers to the period from the 13th century to the 18th, the draft syllabus covers the period in one paper. “The idea of history as a discipline allows a multiplicity of views, based on verifiable information. All that is entirely ruled out in this syllabus,” Jha said. Mukherjee said State power was being used to construct an “imagined history”. He said the current trend of promoting a sectarian ideology in the garb of history resembled what the British did to stay in power. “The notion of permanent British rule was brought in. They (the British) tried to project themselves as if they were here to protect one community from the other. Their effort was to create divisions. The communalist parties helped the British,” Mukherjee said. He said the idea of religion being the bearer of nationhood was again being pushed. A.K. Mohapatra, dean of the School of International Studies at JNU, who describes himself as a “subscriber to the cultural nationalist ideology”, told The Telegraph that Leftist historians had hidden the truth to spread their line on India’s syncretic culture. “Professional historians are required to tell all that had happened, based on evidence,” he said. Mohapatra accused Leftist historians of covering up Aurangzeb’s demolition of Hindu temples and ignoring what he said was the fact of the Babri Masjid being built over a demolished temple. He said the Hindus were inherently secular and that “multi-culturalism is inherent to Hinduism”. Jha countered Mohapatra, saying a person’s religion is rarely if ever the sole determinant of whether they would subscribe to secularism and multiculturalism or become a fanatic or communalist. “It’s true that Left historians did not talk about Aurangzeb demolishing temples, but they did not refer to the Chalukyas and Cholas demolishing temples, either,” he said. “Nor did they mention that the only king (Harsha of Kashmir) to actually appoint an official to destroy the enemy territory’s temples was not a Muslim.” Left historians believe that the material aspects of life are more important to understanding history and therefore focused on economic history and the State as an instrument of exploitation, Jha said. The webinar was organised by the Democratic Teachers’ Front, a Left-backed association of Delhi University teachers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
19-09-2021||India||Kerala: Christian and Muslim communities end one row||Conciliatory efforts by leaders of two minority communities have led to the removal of objectionable content against Muslims from a catechism textbook published by a Kerala Christian diocese and provided a possible template on easing the tensions fuelled by a statement from a Catholic bishop. M.K. Muneer, the Indian Union Muslim League MLA from Koduvally in Kozhikode, led a delegation of community leaders to meet Bishop Remigiose Inchananiyil and his clergymen from the Diocese of Thamarassery in the district late on Friday evening over the controversial catechism textbook for Classes X to XII. What followed was an immediate agreement to remove the content that showed Muslims in poor light and an expression of regret. Bishop Inchananiyil issued a media statement announcing the withdrawal of the controversial contents within minutes of the meeting that started around 7pm, an Islamic scholar who was part of the discussion said. “Bishop Remigiose Inchananiyil informed about the withdrawal of a portion related to Islam in the book, titled Truth and Realities in 33 Questions and Answers, at a meeting held to discuss the matter. He expressed regret at hurting the religious sentiments of Muslims over some remarks in the book. The meeting held under the chairmanship of Koduvally MLA M.K. Muneer decided to work for communal harmony and against social ills,” the statement in Malayalam said. Dr Hussain Madavoor, the Islamic scholar, told The Telegraph on Saturday: “It seemed the bishop had already decided to remove the hurtful contents since he immediately agreed to our objections, apologised for the lapse and said the book had been printed without his knowledge.” The smooth reconciliation had shown that communal harmony could be strengthened through dialogue, cooperation and mutual respect as secularism was the “prime driver” of Kerala’s society, Church officials said. The row over the catechism textbook had erupted a few days after Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt of the Pala Diocese in Kottayam had told Christians to protect their children from “love jihad” and “narcotic jihad”. The choice of the phrases was seen as a deafening dog whistle targeting Muslims although the bishop’s supporters sought to claim that he was addressing his flock and his objective was to caution families against the drug menace among the youths. The subsequent exchanges in the public domain saw tensions rising between sections of Christians and Muslims like never before in a state where the minorities together account for around 45 per cent of the population and wield considerable political and economical influence. The balance is so delicately poised that even the usually assertive CPM-led government faced charges of walking the tightrope, unwilling as it was to antagonise any group by taking stringent action. CPM sympathisers have sought to defend party and government by saying that sagacity and restraint, not accusations that can drive the situation out of control, should be the immediate priority. The BJP, which has been unable to break out of its marginal role in state politics in spite of repeated attempts, has been accused of fishing in troubled waters by supporting the bishop and hoping to pit Christians against Muslims. Madavoor urged the state government to grab the initiative after the success of the conciliatory meeting in Kozhikode and call an all-party meeting involving religious leaders from both communities. “All parties (barring the BJP) have objected to the bishop’s (Kallarangatt’s) comments. We now need the government to organise a meeting so that this controversy can be buried forever,” Madavoor said. He suggested that Muslim leaders could meet the Pala bishop without harping on his inflammatory remarks. “We will not utter a word about what has already been said. The bishop could say he had referred only to extremists in our community. That should be sufficient to end this issue.” Madavoor said the Muslim delegation in Kozhikode had also offered to work with the Church to protect youths from drug abuse. While the Left government had on Thursday sent cooperation minister V.N. Vasavan to meet Kallarangatt, it was the Opposition Congress that has been playing the lead role of trouble-shooter. The Congress’s Kerala president, K. Sudhakaran, had met the bishop on Thursday after he and leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan met Changanassery Diocese Archbishop Mar Joseph Perumthottam, who had backed Kallarangatt. The Major Archbishop-Catholicos of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church, Baselios Cardinal Cleemis, has called for extra attention to maintain communal harmony in Kerala. “This is a time when we need to give a lot of attention, love and care to the relationship between Christians, Hindus and Muslims in Kerala,” he told Sathyadeepam, a Malayalam weekly published by the Angamaly-Ernakulam Archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar Church to which Kallarangatt belongs. “We have been able to maintain this friendship for years in Kerala. But we do see cracks in the relationship between communities…. So if you ask whether communal amity has suffered, the blunt answer is ‘yes’,” said the Cardinal, who suggested that the solution was to “strengthen our mutual love, respect and cooperation”. Shyju Antony, spokesperson for the Almaya Munnetam (Laity Movement), an influential Christian group, called for an immediate dialogue between the faiths. “The state government should take the initiative and start an inter-faith dialogue to end this issue, which is fuelled only by rumours and unsubstantiated claims.” He added: “The mental distance will only grow if the two communities don’t talk. Cardinal Cleemis has clearly sought a dialogue to restore the cordial relationship and brotherhood between all communities.” Antony noted that in a state with over 100 bishops, around 60 were from Kallarangatt’s Syro-Malabar Church, but only a couple of them had supported him. “This shows that the Church is not with him since secularism is the prime driver of Kerala’s society. So all it takes is a heart-to-heart discussion to solve this issue,” Antony added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
19-09-2021||India||Cong removes Amarinder, new chief minister to be announced Sunday afternoon||The Congress has removed Amarinder Singh as chief minister of poll-bound Punjab, taking a huge risk in the border state as finding an able successor is not going to be easy amid the political turmoil that a possible revolt could trigger. There seemed little chance of a smooth transition as the outgoing chief minister firmly declared his intent to oppose Navjot Singh Sidhu as his successor, describing him as a threat to national security. Amarinder, known as “Captain”, underlined that Sidhu was a friend of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and Pakistan army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa. While Sidhu, being a former cricketer, is naturally close to Imran, his embrace of Bajwa during a visit to Pakistan was seized upon by critics back home. Sidhu, the most charismatic leader in Punjab and who was made the state Congress chief a few months ago, is obviously the main choice of the MLAs while the high command would prefer a more experienced leader. The name of former state chief Sunil Jakhar was initially doing the rounds as the frontrunner. Jakhar, a former MP and MLA, is a Hindu and making him chief minister won’t be easy in a Sikh-dominated state. The Congress Legislature Party, which met on Saturday evening, authorised party president Sonia Gandhi to pick the new leader. Although it was initially indicated that the new chief minister’s name would be announced on Saturday night, a legislature party meeting has again been called on Sunday morning. The change of mind may have occurred after a savage attack by Amarinder, who clothed his personal missiles in the sensitive issue of national security and Pakistan-aided terrorism. Amarinder, left with no choice as he had clearly lost support in the legislature party, spoke to Sonia in the morning and expressed resentment at the meeting being called without consulting him. He said in Chandigarh after submitting his resignation to the governor: “I told Sonia Gandhi that I am resigning. This is the third time that a meeting of the MLAs has been called; twice in Delhi and again today here. There is an element of doubt… that I could not run the government. I feel humiliated. I can’t continue as chief minister like this. Let them elect whoever they want.” The chief minister, who resigned barely half an hour before the Congress Legislature Party meeting was to start, said in response to questions: “I will decide the future course of action after talking to my supporters and friends. Options are always open in politics.” Amarinder later made it clear that he wasn’t going to retire from politics, asserting that he was fit enough to carry on. “I’m not going to back out, won’t give up,” he said. The veteran launched a scathing attack on Sidhu: “He is a total disaster. He couldn’t run a ministry, how can he run the state?” In a brazen attempt to block Sidhu’s chances of becoming chief minister, Amarinder said: “I won’t accept him as chief minister. He is a friend of Imran Khan and Bajwa. Pakistan is sending drones and arms and ammunition into Punjab. I will oppose Sidhu for the sake of my country.” Ironically, Amarinder too had grappled with controversies about his friendship with a Pakistani journalist. The acerbic offensive created heartburn in the party as the outgoing chief minister was seen as trying to demonise Sidhu, the party’s face in Punjab whether he is chief minister or not. Some leaders were so angry that they alleged that Amarinder was dancing to the BJP’s tune and should have been sacked earlier. But the legislature party tried to pacify Amarinder by passing a resolution praising the contributions of the outgoing chief minister. The high command knows that Captain still retains enough clout to damage the party and would like to move cautiously to ensure he doesn’t take any extreme step. There is a fear that he can split the Congress and form his own party, ensuring that a multi-cornered fight throws up a hung verdict. The problem with the Congress is that Sidhu is the only popular leader but his administrative skills and political acumen are in doubt. Other experienced leaders do not have the charisma to lead the party to victory. The coming months will witness a volatile political atmosphere, and surprising developments cannot be ruled out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-197
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Life has opened a new avenue for me, says Babul Supriyo in press meet after joining TMC||Former Union minister and BJP MP Babul Supriyo, who switched over to Bengal's ruling TMC in a surprise move, on Sunday said life has now opened a new avenue for him from the prospect of being "retired hurt" from public affairs. Supriyo also said he has nothing to prove to anybody, and he has been involved in politics from the grassroots level since becoming an MP in 2014 on a BJP ticket from Asansol. "Life has opened a new avenue for me from the prospect of being retired hurt from public life," Supriyo said, addressing a press conference at the Trinamul Congress headquarters here. "I received a lot of love and support from a party (TMC) with which I had a very tumultuous relationship," he said. Blowing hot and cold for several weeks after being dropped from the Narendra Modi government, the BJP MP sprang a surprise on Saturday when he joined the TMC and asserted he will work for the development of the state. Supriyo, a two-term MP from Asansol, had earlier declared he will quit politics, before being persuaded by the BJP leadership to continue as a Lok Sabha member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Jumbo birth prompts forester vigil  in Bankura’s Sonamukhi||A wild elephant, moving with its herd gave birth to a calf in Bankura’s Sonamukhi on Friday evening. The birth prompted the forest department to halt the process of driving away the herd from an area close to human habitation and towards the state of Jharkhand. The forest department has posted around a dozen volunteers to ensure that the mother and newborn are undisturbed. “A wild elephant gave birth to a calf on Friday evening. We have alerted the residents of villages nearby not to disturb the animals now. Our guards are keeping watch from a distance,” said Kalyan Rai, divisional forest officer (north) in Bankura. Officials said they will wait till the baby elephant becomes capable of walking with the herd. The herd of wild elephants entered Bhulapathra forest of Bankura’s Sonamukhi from Dalma forest of Jharkhand a few days back. “We were driving the herd towards Jharkhand when we discovered that one of the female elephants gave birth to the newborn. As we know the herd may be violent, we stopped driving the herd away,” said a forest official. “We are yet to know whether the cub is male or female as we are keeping watch on the jumbos from a safe distance,” he added. Foresters said they had alerted villagers not to enter the forest to collect dry leaves and branches of trees. The volunteers have been deployed at the head of roads leading into the forest. Sukumar Roy, a volunteer and resident of a village near the forest, said: “There are many villages in the area and people use the forest to cut down on time. Since Friday night we are guarding stretches that people use to get into the forest. We are keeping a cautious watch on the cub and both the mother and newborn seem to be doing well.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Doctor dead, husband on the run in Purulia||Police on Friday night recovered the decomposed body of a lady doctor from her official quarters of a government hospital in Purulia and started a murder case based on a complaint lodged by her family members. The police said the body of Suchitra Singh, 40, a medical officer posted at Barabazar primary health centre in Purulia for the past 12 years, was recovered from her residence  locked from outside. The body was recovered after her neighbours complained of a bad smell coming out of her residence. “We have lodged a case of murder and started an investigation. Probe is on to find out the assailant,” said S. Selvamurugan, the superintendent of police in Purulia. Police said they would have to wait for the post-mortem report as the body was decomposed. Suchitra’s elder brother Salil Kumar Singh, a medical officer with Calcutta Municipal Corporation, accused her husband Santanu Pal of murder. Police said Santanu, along with his four-year-old son, was absconding and his mobile phone was switched off. “I last spoke to my sister on Monday night when she was with her husband and son. However, I could not contact either my sister or her husband after Wednesday. After I reached Purulia, I came to know that her husband Santanu had called up the block medical officer on Tuesday to inform Suchitra was unwell and would not work. I firmly believe Santanu is behind the murder,” said Salil. Her family members said Suchitra married Santanu, a medical representative, eight years ago without their consent. They said the two recently had a fight when Santanu allegedly tried to get access to Suchitra’s money. “My sister was unhappy with her married life. There was marital discord as Santanu controlled her finances. She was trying to come out of the relationship,” said Salil. The police said they were trying to get to the bottom of the case. “We are trying to nab the husband. That the residence was locked from outside raised our suspicions about him,” said a police officer. The Indian Medical Association’s Purulia chapter and Service Doctors’ Forum, have protested against the alleged murder and have written to the police and health department for a high-level probe. “The murder of the doctor in Purulia has proved the poor security of medical officers in government quarters. We demand better security in all government hospitals and doctors’ quarters,” said Sajal Biswas, a senior health official and state general secretary of the Service Doctors’ Forum. “We demand stern action against the culprit,” said Ajit Prasad, the IMA’s Purulia chapter secretary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government allots Rs 64 crore for court building||Two judges from Calcutta High Court on Saturday visited Alipurduar’s existing court campus and the proposed site where the building of the district and sessions court would be built, after the state government recently approved Rs 64 crore for its construction. Alipurduar became a separate district in 2014 — it was carved out of the Jalpaiguri district — and the district court is yet to come up here. The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to build a G-plus-six storey building in Alipurduar where the district and sessions court and some other courts will be set up. Justice Tapabrata Chakraborty and Justice Rajashekhar Mantha of Calcutta High Court reached Alipurduar on Saturday morning. They were accompanied by members of the judiciary from Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar, along with representatives of the local bar association. “The state has approved Rs 64 crore for construction of the seven-storey building where all the courts would be accommodated. We thank the chief minister and also Calcutta High Court as today (Saturday), two senior judges visited the campus and the proposed site of the building. They will submit a report to Calcutta High Court and we hope the process to set up the district court would be initiated soon,” said Surhid Majumder, secretary, Alipurduar Bar Association. A lawyer based in Alipurduar said because of the absence of a district court, proceedings of all cases pertaining to the district court are carried out in Jalpaiguri. “Whether it is the police and other government agencies or the litigants, all have to travel over 100km from Alipurduar on a regular basis,” the lawyer said. From places like Jaigaon and Kumargram, one has to travel nearly 150km to reach Jalpaiguri. The lawyer said that on September 7, the bar association had sent a letter to the Acting Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court, Rajesh Bindal, and had urged him to expedite the process of setting up the district court here. “It is good that soon after our letter, the acting Chief Justice sent these two judges here to check out the available land and for other ancillary information,” the lawyer added. Though administrative officials remained tight-lipped over the judges’ visit, sources said the district and sessions judges’ court is likely to be opened soon on an existing building on a temporary basis. “It will take around two-and-half years to get the new building ready. There is information that Calcutta High Court does not want people to face inconvenience anymore, so the district court is likely to be opened soon in another building,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Kid dies after bomb mistaken for ball bursts in Nandigram ||A nine-year-old girl was killed and two of her friends, both boys, were seriously injured on Saturday morning when a purported crude bomb exploded amid them in East Midnapore’s Nandigram after the trio mistook it for a ball. Class IV student Jahirun Khatun, 9, succumbed while being rushed to a private hospital in Calcutta from the Nandigram super speciality hospital, where she and her injured friends were taken to by bystanders. The boys, aged 9 and 10, are admitted in Nandigram in a critical condition. “The bomb was reportedly discovered near an abandoned home in the area, which had  been under litigation for years. It seems the children had wandered inside,” said Kalicharanpur panchayat pradhan, Sohail Kazi. “Why the bomb burst remains under investigation,” he said. District police superintendent Amarnath K. said a case of unnatural death had been started by Nandigram police. A forensic investigation has begun probe at the site. BJP leaders of the area alleged that goons had been stockpiling bombs with active support of Trinamul. “Ruling party goons always gather in that area and they must have left it (the bomb) there. Unfortunately, a child had to pay the price,” said district BJP vice-president Pralay Pal. Trinamul leader and panchayat samiti deputy chief Abu Taher refuted BJP’s claims, saying “such an incident should not to be politicised”. “Police will probe the incident,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Narcotics haul, 3 held in Jalpaiguri||The north Bengal unit of the special task force arrested three persons with 1kg of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, worth around  Rs 1 crore from the Pankouri area of Jalpaiguri district on Friday night. Tausif Ansari, who hails from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, Alimuddin Rehman and Saddam Ali, both from Kamrup district in Assam, were heading to Bihar in a bus when they were held. “Three ATM cards, about Rs 35,000 and some documents have also been seized from them,” said a source. Also, six persons were held with a gun, bullets and sharp weapons from Naukaghat area in Siliguri, on Friday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||In U-turn, Congress leader to contest bypoll||Congress leader Jaidur Rahaman on Saturday announced he was going back on his word and would contest the bypoll from the Samserganj Assembly seat in Murshidabad. The move comes as a huge relief for state Congress chief and Behrampore MP Adhir Chaudhury, who had been trying to persuade Jaidur to contest the election. Jaidur had earlier decided not to contest citing family reasons. His brother happens to be Trinamul district president and MP Khalilur Rahaman. Now, Jaidul will take on Trinamul’s Amirul Islam and CPM’s Modassar Hussain in the September 30 bypoll. Amirul had won the seat in the 2016 polls. “I will actively participate in the contest as the Congress candidate and from today (Saturday) will join the campaign,” Jaidul told this paper. Earlier in the day, a video clip went viral in which Jaidur said he had decided to contest. “A few days ago, I announced my decision of withdrawing from the contest. I had begged pardon from Congress workers for my decision. However, I am reversing my earlier decision following pressure from a few (Congress) leaders and the people. I will contest as the Congress candidate. I hope the people of Samserganj won’t misunderstand me,” he said in the video address. He confirmed the authenticity of the video later. Congress sources said Jaidur, who lives in a joint family home and runs a tobacco business, had cited family compulsions for withdrawing from the battle earlier. On Thursday morning, a delegation of Congress leaders, including Jangipur sub-divisional unit president Hassanuzzaman and MP Abu Hasem Khan Chowdhury, had visited Jaidur’s home to convince him to contest the bypoll. Jaidur had stuck to his stand even after the meeting. Afterwards, party workers had painted graffiti asking people to “vote for the Congress” without naming the candidate. This appeared to have changed Jaidur’s mind. Asked about Jaidur’s decision to contest as a Congress candidate, Khalilur said: “I am unaware that he has changed his mind. We will discuss it within the family.” Khalilur had earlier said that the Congress was putting pressure on his brother but such tactics would not work. “This is not how politics works. He (Jaidur) has had a change of heart since April and should be allowed to step aside,” he had said earlier this week. On Thursday, Jaidur had told reporters that he was “no more interested in politics" and was “busy with family business". Since May, Jaidur had gone on record as an outspoken admirer of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and praised her in front of the media and on social media. Bypolls for Samserganj and Jangipur seats were necessitated owing to the deaths of two candidates in the Assembly polls, respectively, Rezaul Haque of the Congress and Pradip Nandy of the RSP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Five crore Covid vaccine doses administered in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday recorded 728 new Covid-19 infections, 757 recoveries and 12 deaths. The state’s active cases fell by 41 to 7,967, less than 8,000 for the first time since April 2, 169 days ago. On Saturday, with around 12.34 lakh jabs administered from 4,859 centres (4,532 run by the state government), Bengal went past 5 crore doses of vaccine administered, with close to 5.06 crore doses in the state with a 10-crore population. Close to 2.62 crore doses have been given to men and 2.44 crore doses to women. The 5.06 crore includes nearly 1.47 crore second doses -- which means around 14.7 per cent people of the state are now fully vaccinated. The national total of the fully vaccinated is 14.9 per cent of the population. In Bengal, the 18-44 age group has received around 2.36 crore doses, the 45-60 age group has received 1.62 crore doses, while the 60-plus age group has received 1.08 crore doses. Calcutta leads the districts with more than 66 lakh doses, followed by North 24-Parganas, with nearly 52 lakh doses. At the bottom of the pile is the smallest district of Kalimpong, with 2.63 lakh doses. On Saturday, Calcutta logged 127 new infections and North 24-Parganas 121, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent and fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.65 per cent. The state’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.91 per cent on Saturday. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Saturday. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24-Parganas two. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress holds citizenship protest in Bankura||The plight of migrant worker Gangadhar Pramanik, 33, who returned home to Bankura’s Radhanagar village on Wednesday after three years at a detention camp in Assam, took a political turn on Saturday with Trinamul holding a protest rally at his native place to highlight how a genuine citizen was profiled as a foreigner and thrown into a “hellhole” in a BJP-ruled state. Trinamul workers also burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah and shouted slogans on the dangers of having the BJP in power. Trinamul’s move came a day after state government officials confirmed the Indian citizenship of Gangadhar after verifying documents such as his land and school records. Trinamul leaders said the purpose of the protest was to alert the people of Radhanagar about the dangers of the several citizenship matrixes that the duo of Modi and Shah wanted to thrust on the nation. The protest is politically significant as the BJP in Bankura, which is a part of Jungle Mahal, won eight of 12 Assembly seats this year. However, BJP’s Bishnupur MLA Tanmoy Ghosh switched over to the Trinamul recently and was present at the Radhanagar protest. “Gangadhar is an Indian citizen and a son of Bankura. The BJP-led Assam government did not bother to check Gangadhar’s antecedents before dumping him into a detention centre, where he was mentally and physically tortured. The story of this young villager tells how persons from other states are treated in BJP-ruled states,” said Alok Mukherjee, Trinamul president of Bankura organisational district. Mukherjee said the party planned to take the protests to other areas of the district to show how the BJP was dangerous for the country. “The incident justifies our chief minister’s protest against implementing the National Register of Citizens (NRC),” Mukherjee added. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been vocal against the NRC since its implementation in Assam. She has repeatedly assured the people of Bengal that she would not let it roll out in Bengal. When the NRC was being implemented in Assam, she sent a team of MPs in August 2018 to the neighbouring state but Trinamul leaders were not allowed to step outside Silchar airport. During her visit to Assam’s Dhubri while campaigning for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Mamata dubbed the NRC as a conspiracy by the BJP-ruled Centre. Trinamul sources said they would raise their pitch on Gangadhar’s plight as the NRC issue had paid the party rich dividends in Assembly polls. BJP president of Bishnupur organisational district (in Bankura) Sujit Agasty said Trinamul leaders were “playing dirty politics” with Gangadhar’s plight. “It is true he had been detained in Assam but it was the outcome of a decision taken by the Foreigners Tribunal in that state. Assam BJP had no role in it. We are happy he is back home but condemn the dirty politics that Trinamul is indulging in,” Agasty said. A chance intervention by the Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP) helped Gangadhar walk out on bail on September 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo-less saffron party on bargain high horse  ||State BJP leaders claimed in private on Saturday that although former minister and party MP Babul Supriyo’s defection to Trinamul had embarrassed the party for now, in the long term the singer-turned-politician’s exit would send the right message to its rank and file. “A celebrity quitting will make headlines and embarrass the party struggling to cope with the (Assembly) election results,” said a BJP insider. “But in the longer run, we will gain. It’s clear to everyone that Babul quit the party after failing to bargain with the central leadership after he was asked to resign from the cabinet. The fact that our party doesn’t allow leaders to bargain is a message that must trickle down the ranks,” he added, narrating the chronology of events since the Union  July shuffle in the Union ministry. Supriyo, then the junior environment minister, had to give up his berth and he didn’t hide his displeasure. He had tweeted on July 8, the day he resigned: “I am really sad for myself.” He deleted the post later. In July-end, in a Facebook post the singer-politician announced he was bidding “alvida” (farewell), signalling his decision to quit the BJP and Parliament. Although a BJP MP since 2014, Supriyo has had differences with the state party unit, especially its president Dilip Ghosh, who had accused him of not taking interest in the BJP’s  organisational matters. Several BJP insiders said that Supriyo’s long absence from the state during the first phase of Covid and after the Assembly polls cost him dear. According to a source, reports of Supriyo’s “reluctance to stand by party workers under attack” reached the Delhi leadership that cost him his ministerial berth. “Instead of changing himself, he tried to bargain with the central leadership after the reshuffle,” said another source. “One day he called up Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and said he wanted to meet him to tender his resignation as an MP.… As the news reached Amit-ji (Shah), he made it clear that Babul was free to resign. When the Speaker’s office contacted him to know when he would come to tender his resignation, he sought some time,” said a BJP source, adding that Supriyo had been upset on learning that he would have to vacate his sprawling residence in Lutyens Delhi. He apparently met party president J.P. Nadda and they agreed he would not resign as an MP, but distance himself from politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||West Bengal||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo joins Trinamul Congress||Former Union minister and BJP’s Asansol MP Babul Supriyo joined the Trinamul Congress on Saturday. “Today, in the presence of national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and RS MP Derek O’Brien, former Union minister and sitting MP Babul Supriyo joined the Trinamool family,” Trinamul tweeted in the afternoon. Supriyo is the first MP and fifth BJP lawmaker — after MLAs Mukul Roy, Tanmoy Ghosh, Biswajit Das and Soumen Roy — to have joined Trinamul in the past four months since the saffron camp’s Assembly poll setback. A two-time MP and minister known for his proximity with the BJP’s central leadership, Supriyo had been sulking since the July shuffle in which he was dropped as junior environment minister. He had earlier offered to resign as an MP, a decision he changed later, and announced his plan to quit politics. Once a bitter critic of the Trinamul regime, especially Mamata Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek — Supriyo had also publicly announced that he would not join any other political party. On Saturday, Supriyo tried his best to justify his decision to make a U-turn and hold the Trinamul flag. Speaking at a brief news conference after his induction, he said that the “opportunity” to join Trinamul and work for the people of Bengal suddenly came his way, “just four days back”. “When I said I’d quit politics I meant it from my heart. However, I believe a huge responsibility to serve the people of Bengal is being entrusted upon me (by Trinamul).… This happened over a matter of four days when I had called up Derek (O’Brien) over my daughter’s admission. Then I spoke to Didi and Abhishek. I’m proud to have changed my decision...,” Supriyo said. He added that his family and friends had already been asking him to reconsider his decision of bidding goodbye to politics. Asked if he would quit as Asansol MP, he suggested that he would. “Obviously!” he said. “Since I’ve joined Trinamul there is no point in holding the Asansol seat.… I’ve come to politics because of Asansol and I’ll do whatever I can for them.…” Asked whether he would be sent to the Rajya Sabha, Supriyo deflected the question to Derek, who helped him dodge a barrage of questions that flew thick and fast at him. Supriyo is scheduled to hold another news conference on Sunday. Trinamul sources said Supriyo might be asked to campaign for Mamata in the Bhowanipore constituency for the upcoming bypoll. If this happens, the irony would be striking as Supriyo had on September 10 congratulated Priyanka Tibrewal for being picked as the BJP’s candidate for the contest against Mamata. Supriyo was also named by the party as one of the star campaigners for Tibrewal. However, he had rejected outright such a possibility as he had “quit” politics. Although most leaders of the BJP’s Bengal unit had been unhappy with Supriyo for the past few years, they said his exit was an embarrassment in the short run while the party would gain in the longer run. Dilip Ghosh, the state BJP chief, said: “He was never a party worker. He used the party to be an MP and a minister.… For eight months during Covid-19, he sat in Delhi and never cared for the workers here.… Neither did he ever stand by the people, who were facing attacks by Trinamul goons after the Assembly polls,” Ghosh told The Telegraph. Ghosh, who always had differences with Supriyo, used the opportunity to express his displeasure with the central leadership. “I’ve been proved right about a lot of people.… Same goes for him. We have expressed our discontent with these leaders to our central leadership time and again, but nobody listens.” The BJP’s Asansol organisational district vice-president, Subrata Mishra, said Supriyo’s departure would only help the party to get stronger in the area because “nobody liked him”. Trinamul state secretary and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh has said that while Supriyo joined on Saturday, several others were waiting to switch to the party as they were unhappy with the BJP leadership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-85
19-09-2021||North East||Arunachal: Landslides in 20 spots affect traffic movement on key road||Two days of heavy monsoon rain led to massive landslides at more than 20 locations along the vital Balipara-Charduar-Tawang (BCT) Road in western Arunachal Pradesh, severely affecting movement of vehicular traffic, a Border Roads Organisation (BRO) official said on Sunday. No casualty was reported due to the landslides which occurred in West Kameng district following heavy rain on Friday and Saturday. A vast stretch of the road between Sessa and Nechiphu areas was damaged by the landslide, due to which a large number of commuters were stranded on both ends, the BRO official said. On receiving the information of landslides, the organisation mobilised men and machinery and started work on a war footing to restore connectivity by filling the breaches and clearing debris, BRO commander Col Anil Kotial said. The stranded vehicles started moving through the affected areas from Saturday night while restoration works continued till Sunday, he said. The BCT Road connects three districts - East Kameng, West Kameng and Tawang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
19-09-2021||North East||Opposition political parties, govt join hands for Nagaland peace||A decision taken by Nagaland’s ruling and Opposition political parties in August to have an Opposition-less government to facilitate an early resolution of one of Asia’s longest-running insurgencies fructified on Saturday with the renaming of the state government. A joint sitting of Nagaland MLAs in capital Kohima on Saturday unanimously resolved that the Opposition-less government would be called the United Democratic Alliance (UDA). The state government was earlier called the People’s Democratic Alliance (PDA). The solitary Opposition party, the Naga People’s Front (NPF) that has 25 MLAs, made good on its July pledge to join the new axis. The decision to have an Opposition-less government to help facilitate an early solution to the decades-old Nagaland insurgency had been inked by state leaders in August but the move got stuck because the BJP’s central leadership “took its time to bless” the initiative of the state leaders, sources said. This is the second time since 2015 that the northeastern state has had an Opposition-less government. The last such arrangement had been led by the NPF, which lost power to the NDPP-BJP combine in 2018. Now the government will formally write to the Assembly Speaker and the governor about the changes, the sources said. Senior leaders of the new coalition government, including chief minister Neiphiu Rio of the NDPP and deputy chief minister Y. Patton of the BJP, tweeted the development along with the resolution. The office of the NDPP secretary-general tweeted: “The Opposition-less government of Nagaland will now be called United Democratic Alliance (UDA). The nomenclature was proposed by the NDPP president and unanimously adopted by the House consisting of NDPP, BJP, NPF & Independent Members. May Real Unity and Genuine Peace prevail.” The pre-poll PDA alliance of the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) and the BJP had been running the government since 2018 with 34 MLAs in the 60-member House. The strength before Saturday’s deal was 59 — the NDPP with 20 MLAs, the BJP with 12, and 2 Independent lawmakers. The move to form an Opposition-less government took off after the NPF resolved in July to work with the NDPP-BJP coalition government to expedite the peace process. The efforts got further impetus when NPF president Shurhozelie Liezietsu recently made it clear that none of the party MLAs should expect any portfolio but be part of an Opposition-less government to help find a solution to the Nagaland insurgency. The development comes amid fresh efforts by the Centre to steer the stalled peace process to its logical end. The transfer of Nagaland governor and interlocutor to the peace talks R.N. Ravi to Tamil Nadu and the arrival of retired IB special director A.K. Mishra in Dimapur on Saturday “to hold talks” with the NSCN (IM) — the insurgent group — are being viewed as steps taken by the Centre to put the peace process back on track. The NSCN (I-M), the most influential rebel group in the region, had been pushing for Ravi’s removal since last year. The NSCN (I-M) and the government have been in a ceasefire since 1997 but talks have got stuck because of the group’s firm stand in favour of a separate Naga flag and constitution. The NSCN (I-M) is also a signatory to the 2015 Framework Agreement, the base on which the final, amicable and inclusive solution to end the insurgency is being worked out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
19-09-2021||Opinion||Gadkari's advice to politicians: play life like one day cricket||Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari seem to be the only members of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s old guard who have managed to remain in the Narendra Modi government after the recent rejig. While the defence minister, Singh, has chosen to lie low and continue with his work, the road transport minister, Gadkari, goes around speaking his mind, projecting himself as a visionary and performance-oriented leader. He had recently hit the headlines for calling Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Jawaharlal Nehru the two “ideal leaders” of Indian democracy. Surely, Gadkari cannot say he was not aware of how deep the dislike for Nehru runs in the present regime. Soon after, Gadkari was once again in the news for his remarks on how politicians are generally an unhappy lot — he said that even chief ministers are unhappy since they do not know how long they will remain in their posts. Given that the BJP was replacing chief ministers in Uttarakhand and Gujarat, this evoked whispers in the party corridors. At the same event, the Nagpur strongman reportedly said that his case was different: he was happy as he was not worried about the future. “No matter what position you hold, play (life) like one day cricket,” Gadkari said, trying to tell Rajasthan legislators how to be happy. There are murmurs that the way Gadkari himself is playing, it could result in a hit wicket sooner rather than later. A small town in Bihar — Bakhtiyarpur — has suddenly become the bone of contention between the members of the ruling National Democratic Alliance — the BJP and the Janata Dal (United), led by the chief minister, Nitish Kumar. The BJP demanded that the name of the town — it is known by the name of Qutbuddin Aibak’s general, Bakhtiyar Khalji, who is said to have torched the ancient Nalanda University sometime between the 12th and 13th centuries CE — be changed. It also dangled a carrot and said it would not mind if it is named after Kumar as he was born there and has tried to re-create the Nalanda University. “No chance,” Kumar thundered; he reportedly added that he was happy being a son of Bakhtiyarpur. A political ally, the BJP is surely aghast at losing one of the issues it was trying to whip up. Twitter must have been confounded when, all of a sudden, thousands of Congress leaders and workers began to sport Rahul Gandhi’s photograph as their profile picture. Even those without artificial intelligence were confused about what was happening among Congressmen across the country. The phenomenon continued for several days until a senior leader of the party revealed its reason. “This was our protest against Twitter for suspending the handle of our leader. We decided to sport his photo instead of our own pictures and it caught [on] like wildfire among the party workers,” he said. Although Rahul’s Twitter handle was back in action in just a couple of days, some of his party members reportedly continue to sport his image. A Congressman asserted that many of the party leaders were afraid of being the first to remove their leader’s photograph, which led to a delay of weeks in doing so. Now they are slowly reverting to their own pictures. Everybody knows the country runs on butter. Temples have a new guardian in the Congress in Karnataka after the BJP-ruled state demolished a shrine in Mysore in connection with a court order to remove all illegal structures on encroached land. Several more shrines were earmarked for demolition, much to the chagrin of the BJP that is caught between its own ideology and the court order. But the Congress leader, PC Siddaramaiah, could not let this opportunity pass. He called the BJP ‘fake Hindutva proponents’ as the government went ahead with the demolition. A true-blue socialist with no known affinity to religion, Siddaramaiah has taken a vault to emerge as the champion of what was perceived to be the sole domain of the sangh parivar. With the 2023 state elections in sight, and a BJP that is already a divided house, Siddaramaiah and his party could not have chosen a better time to leverage the issue of faith in a state where religion is an important matter. The decision of the Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, to not bow down before the blackmailing tactics of sections of party leaders in Odisha has yielded results. It has brought to heel rebel leaders like the member of the legislative assembly, Tara Prasad Bahinipati, who had been issuing statements against the Pradesh Congress Committee president, Niranjan Patnaik, and even threatening to quit the party. He was opposed to the re-induction of his rival, a former MLA. Bahinipati’s wife, Meenakshi, the Koraput district Congress Committee president, had also been spewing venom against the leadership. The stand of the husband-wife duo had caused concern as it sent a wrong message to the rank and file. The Congress chief despatched the Odisha in-charge, A Chellakumar, to settle the issue. Chellakumar met all sections of leaders and made it clear that the leadership would not tolerate such indiscipline or change the PCC president. He warned the rebels to leave the party if they so desired. Bahinipati and his followers immediately fell in line. The MLA publicly stated that he had no intentions of quitting the party. The Malayalam actor-turned-MP, Suresh Gopi, known for playing the super cop in many of his films, recently forced a police inspector who is part of his security detail to salute him, although the members of parliament are not entitled for such display of power. The act triggered protests. Unmindful of the criticism for demanding respect, Gopi has attempted to justify his action, even as Congress workers staged protests offering salute with slippers to the BJP lawmaker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
19-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Kohli quitting as T20 skipper not good for team||Sir — The skipper of the Indian men’s cricket team, Virat Kohli, recently announced that he will be stepping down as the captain of the shortest format of the game after the International Cricket Council’s Men’s T20 World Cup scheduled to begin next month (“Kohli bows to ‘workload’ at top”, Sep 17). Speculation is rife about why Kohli has taken this decision, but most would agree that with a month to go for the World Cup, it is ill-timed. We must admit that the cricket schedule has increasingly become more hectic with players expected to remain in top shape throughout the year. There is very little room for error and this has taken a heavy toll on cricketers. But Kohli stepping down as the captain of the Twenty20 team may just result in more complications. Reportedly, Rohit Sharma might replace Kohli as the captain. However, rumours indicate that all is not well between the two players. If it is true, then this may just lead to a clash of egos. This would not be good for the performance of the team. Nevertheless, we all hope that whoever may be the next captain of the T20 team will do his best to lead the Indian side to victory. Ishan Anand,Ujjain Sir — While it may be true that Virat Kohli is one of the most successful T20 captains, he has lately been in poor shape. His captaincy in all three formats of the game has been questionable and the recent cancellation of the final Test match against England was a disaster. It is a testament to his irresponsibility that he chose to attend the launch of Ravi Shastri’s book — a crowded event — in the midst of the pandemic, knowing full well his responsibilities to the team and the country he represents. Thus his departure as the T20 captain does not come as a surprise. Rumours have been floating around the internet that Rohit Sharma could be crowned the next skipper of the Indian T20 men’s team. We are hoping for an early announcement but it is likely to come only after the conclusion of the T20 World Cup, which would mark the end of Kohli’s T20 captaincy. Kohli might have stepped down from leading the T20 team, but he still remains the captain for Test matches and one-day internationals. As fans, we do hope that the Indian team, under Kohli’s leadership, excels in the upcoming matches and brings home the T20 World Cup as well as the ICC Men’s Champions Trophy. M. Srikanth,Chennai Sir — Thailand’s strict Covid-19 restrictions have drastically reduced the number of taxis plying on the streets, leaving many without a source of income. But rather than letting the taxis sit idle, miniature gardens have been assembled on the hoods of the vehicles. The drivers as well as the fleet owners are hoping that the eye-catching installations will compel the government to take note of their plight and ease their burden. If not, the vegetables being grown can help feed their families. It is truly unfortunate that governments continue to be blind to the needs of the people. Suchitra Ramanujan, Chennai Sir — It is crucial that we are aware of the ingredients going into any packaged food that we consume and make informed choices (“Bitter taste”, Sep 17). Packaged food has not only led to the younger generation abandoning local cuisines, but also home-cooked food in general, which has contributed to a massive spike in non-communicable diseases. Food, heavily laden with sugar, monosodium glutamate, saturated fat and trans fat, is responsible for heart ailments, diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver among other things. It is the responsibility of the manufacturers to at least be transparent about what they put in their products. If we are to remain healthy, we must cut out processed food as much as possible. India is blessed with a fantastic range of locally available fruits, vegetables and grains. As such, each region has a unique and diverse cuisine that can cater to everyone, irrespective of dietary restrictions. We must adopt a clean and balanced diet for our well-being. H.N. Ramakrishna, Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
19-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Doppelgängers’ day||In Sonar Kella, Jatayu, aka Lalmohan Ganguly, had confessed that a ride atop the ‘ship of the desert’ was a childhood dream. It now seems that the dream of the ship of the desert, the camel — of turning into the proverbial princess from the toad, in a manner of speaking — could turn true. The news, admittedly, may sound bizarre, as bizarre as one of Jatayu’s plots, but this is not exactly fiction. Reports suggest that cloning is in high demand in the competitive world of beauty pageants for camels, leaving scientists at a Dubai clinic working round the clock to produce carbon copies of the near-perfect beast. Apparently, not every camel is blessed with drooping lips and a tall, elegant neck — assets that seem to send camel aficionados into raptures. But technology — cloning — will now allow wealthy owners to replace their most beautiful camel with ones that resemble its grace and poise. Vanity is not the only reason why camels are being cloned either; there is, as always, a commercial aspect. Many owners want to reproduce racing camels, or animals that produce large amounts of milk — reproductive cloning to improve livestock breed or agricultural yields is not restricted to camels — while others want to recreate a beloved animal to beat the spectre of mortality. It is estimated that 95-97 per cent of animal cloning attempts end in failure. Yet, as science advances, bringing cloning out of the realm of science fiction and into the domain of reality, there is growing concern about its implications. Nightmares envisioned in literature and popular entertainment have ranged from projects to clone dozens of dictators — imagine a world full of Hitlers — to recreating hordes of workers tasked to perform menial work only. In an ideal world, the goal of cloning, be it in humans or in animals, should be therapeutic — curing common and rare ailments such as diabetes and degenerative brain diseases. But this cannot rule out the very real fear that cloning could be used to facilitate eugenics to enhance certain traits to the exclusion of others. This can have unpredictable effects on the relationship of species with their environment, threatening the already fragile biodiversity. There is also concern that cloning could impair diversity in gene pools. And what about the question of consent? Would the camel or a human approve of the dawn of the Day of the Doppelgänger? The most pervasive fear concerns the upending of the theory of natural selection. That a cloned being with superior abilities could survive and then dominate the rest of its fellow beings is a possibility that cannot be ruled out. The United Nations’ Declaration on Human Cloning says that cloning is “incompatible with human dignity”: why, then, does such ethical concern elude animal cloning? Those who endorse cloning argue that it could turn out to be humanity’s antidote for mortality. But here, too, science is yet to provide a convincing answer. A cloned camel or a human may resemble the departed to a T, but can it really be said that the heart — those perfect droopy eyes and elegant neck notwithstanding — of a clone beats with the same rhythm as that of one who is now gone?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
19-09-2021||Opinion|| August office||The prime minister of India is Numero uno. And that is how, in an electoral democracy, it should be. The person who commands the majority in Parliament is in command of India. But India being India, the same dynamic makes our chief ministers Numero unos in their states. Be it Mamata Banerjee, who is about to contest a much-watched by-election to th West Bengal assembly; be it Yogi Adityanath who is gearing up to fight for a second win to power in Uttar Pradesh. Or be it Uddhav Thackeray who has taken to the chief ministership of Maharashtra as to the manner born and M.K. Stalin who has done likewise in Tamil Nadu. They hold sway over millions and hold their own vis-à-vis the Centre. This, too, is how it should be. This column is dedicated to the office of the chief minister in India, with specific reference to two post-Independence chief ministers of Madras as Tamil Nadu was known then — K. Kamaraj (years in office: 1954-1963), whose death anniversary falls fourteen days from now, and C.N. Annadurai (years in office: 1967-1969), whose birth anniversary occurred four days ago. But I will start with a story pertaining to another chief minister of the state, C. Rajagopalachari (years in office: 1952-1954), that I was told about by a venerable resident of Chennai, Kangayam R. Narasimhan. In 1959, when Narasimhan was a student at Loyola College, Rajaji was invited to the college’s annual day. He had demitted office as chief minister five years earlier but his stature was what it always was — sky-high. Medals were handed by him to Loyola’s high achievers on the occasion, Narasimhan a brilliant student of economics being among them. Prize-giving over, Rajaji started his speech by saying something like this: ‘It is given to but a few to receive medals. I congratulate those who are doing so today. But allow me to say that those who receive medals do not necessarily do well in life. Those who do not, do somewhat better. Take my own case…’ And with that he brought the house, 99 per cent of which had won no medals, down. Rajaji, for all his famed intellect, had won no medals in school or in college. Destiny had made him a sought-after medal-giver, not a soon-to-be-forgotten medal-receiver. It was in the state of Madras, which he had helmed as ‘Premier’ from 1937-1939 and chief minister fifteen years later, that the Rajaji legend had grown, making him known as Gandhi’s southern General, a position that over-arched his being India’s first and last governor-general. And it was again in Madras that he was inspired to found in 1959 — the same year as of the Loyola event — the Swatantra Party. The octogenarian was to puncture the Congress’s ‘one party rule’ across many states and, most significantly, catalyze, in 1967, the demolition of the Congress in Madras state by the DMK-Swatantra coalition, making that province a symbol of the power of India’s regions and of its ‘provincial’ leaders. Rajaji has many achievements — political, administrative, intellectual, philosophical — to his credit but one that history will recognize as pivotal is his helping India realize the criticality of its regions and, very particularly, of its chief ministers. Rajaji’s successor as chief minister, K. Kamaraj, had dropped out of high school at the age of eleven and, as a consequence, received no sustained ‘education’ and, so, no medals. But no one knew the region he belonged to, understood the strengths of his people and their weaknesses, better than this son of Virudhunagar. Tamil Nadu was, for Kamaraj, like a goading medallion on his palm — a criss-cross of problems and of opportunities to solve them. A notable figure in local politics by the time he turned eighteen, Kamaraj had decided, irreversibly, to be a nationalist in the Congress’s Gandhi-Nehru mould, acquiring personal charisma from his uncompromising integrity, unwavering commitment and unflagging energy, which the nearly 3,000 days that he spent in the raj’s various jails only intensified. By the time he finished his last prison term under ‘Quit India’ in June 1945, Kamaraj was Tamil Nadu’s tallest leader after Rajaji whom he deinstalled from office and succeeded as the state’s chief minister in 1954. And what a formidable chief minister he made over three successive terms! Industrializing the state, strengthening its agricultural infrastructure and its educational sinews, he became for India’s national leaders, from Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru down to other ‘provincial’ leaders like himself, Kamaraj-ji, the wise ‘Madrasi’, a concentrate of experience and understanding, a go-to person for party-crises, policy-choices, political strategies. More than anything else, the ‘man-of-few-words-but-many-insights’ Kamaraj became a silo of solutions for national problems, the most daunting of which faced the Congress after its electoral setbacks in 1962. Resigning from office on Gandhi Jayanti, October 2, 1963, Kamaraj proposed to Nehru that senior ministers resign to take up organizational work. The Kamaraj Plan, as it came to be called, had mixed results but it was an unmixed lesson in a chief minister heaving national tectonics. In Nehru’s declining years, Kamaraj became the Congress’s inevitable choice for its presidentship — a fortuitous elevation because as Congress president, Kamaraj was able to navigate the prime ministerial transitions from Nehru to Shastri and from Shastri to Indira Gandhi. India owes to Madras and to its leader, Kamaraj, the safe handling of those two national leadership crises. Coming from an opposite pole, C.N. Annadurai, the last chief minister of what was ‘Madras’ and the first chief minister of what became, at his initiative, ‘Tamil Nadu’, unfurled the first non-Congress government in the state. As leader of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, this political descendant of Periyar E.V. Ramasamy and the Dravidar Kazhagam, was the very embodiment of Tamil identitarianism, Dravidian assertion and regional pride. Elected to the Rajya Sabha in 1962, he stunned Parliament and through it the nation by his oratorical fluency but even more by his ideational autonomy. Not a Marxist and yet a soldier for social justice, he flaunted no ideology, no creed. Secular he of course was. He also hated bigotry. An opponent of Hindi domination, he bore not the slightest ill-will for the language of Premchand, Nirala and Mahadevi Verma. A plain and simple sense of his part of the country, hoary in time, classical in cultural stature, being short-changed by North-centric India made him speak passionately of Tamil Nadu’s hurts and hopes. Prime Minister Nehru heard him in Parliament, quite gripped, as did future Prime Ministers, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Morarji Desai, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Chandra Shekhar. That he had come to the Rajya Sabha with the blessings of both Rajaji and Periyar added a further dimension to the future chief minister’s appeal. It made him a federal icon. When, after the Sino-Indian war, Annadurai formally gave up the DMK’s plank of separatism for a charter of federal aspirations, his place in the scroll of national statesmen was assured. Kamaraj and Annadurai are much more than former chief ministers of the state in which Tamil flourishes. They are role models for chief ministers who want federalism to flourish, for India to be freed from dominations, whether of region or language or creed. They are, above all, exemplars of the kind of statesmanship that chief ministership calls for not just because chief ministers are likely future prime ministers but because they can tell prime ministers that a great river is made of waters that flow into it from catchments and from tributaries that feed it mid-flow. Chief ministers have it in them to show how India, a Union of states, is nothing but India’s states that the Indian Union holds together for the states’ and for India’s greatness. And they wear a medal coming from the mint called India, with Bharat written on its obverse in Hindi and on its reverse in every Indian script.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
19-09-2021||Opinion||The monk and his cownstituency ||The current chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Ajay Mohan Bisht, most likely has a phobia. It seems he is terrified he might wake up one day and speak humane-like, turn likeable and so he makes the extra effort to be perfectly offensive to one and all. Women. He said once, “Women also don’t need independence, they need protection.” Children. When a dozen children died in an accident at an unmanned crossing in UP, he said to the grieving, agitating parents, “Stop this nautanki.” To the gasping. “No oxygen shortage in UP.” But the state government had reportedly ordered oximeters and thermal scanners for cows in gaushalas. For staff, not cows, a clarification was put out later. And then there are Muslims, of course. Bisht aka Yogi Adityanath recently said while addressing crowds at UP’s Kushinagar town, “Are you getting ration? Did you get this ration prior to 2017? Back then, those who say ‘abbajaan’ would digest all the ration.” He has said other incendiary things in the past. “If given a chance, we will instal statues of Gauri, Ganesh and Nandi in every mosque.” Yes, yes and he infamously equated SRK with the Pakistani terrorist Hafeez Sayeed. And then, “If they take one Hindu girl, we will take 100 Muslims girls.” (But the UP Cabinet has passed harsh laws to counter cow slaughter.) The semantics of his latest abbajaan comment is a many-barrelled offensive. At one level, it is of course levelled at Muslims. There might be in there an acerbic suggestion of stereotypical large families too guzzling ration. As to why he chooses abbajaan instead of ammijaan is possibly unadulterated chauvinism, but some may read into it a nod to patrilineality or a dismissal of the womb. At another level it is a pointed jibe at his predecessor Akhilesh Yadav and his progenitor. Some days ago in a television interview he had made a reference to Akhilesh Yadav’s “abbajaan”. This repeat reference then works as a dig at the SP regime, the father-son duo and their politics of appeasement. In fact, in another recent speech, Adityanath criticised the older order. He thundered thus, “Even our cows and buffaloes didn’t feel safe…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
19-09-2021||Opinion||Mujhe Jaan na Kaho, Meri Jaan||We do not like terms of endearment. Or, mostly we don’t like endearment at all. We prefer enmity, marking folks out and telling them you are not us. We are, have no doubt, the vasudhaiva kutumbakam people, but we have now amended the definition of vasudha and kutumb. We are dedicated to this project of change, we wish upon us a new vasudha and a new kutumb, and the beginning of such a quest must be to define who is not our kutumb and who is not part of this new vasudha. We wish no endearment with those who aren’t part, we want to erect enmities so the defining lines are clear. We will twist their hearts and put them on skewers. Us and them. Our hearts (or our heartless hearts) and their hearts. Our words, their words. Our sentiments, their sentiments. Which are chalk and cheese, of course. It’s up to you to decide which is chalk and which cheese, both have their uses, but up to you. Up to you to decide your vasudha and your kutumb. We have shrunk them both, made them narrow, like drainpipes coughing refuse. You know what I mean, those things that are meant to pass through drainpipes, I am merely trying to use civilised words for them, although there should be no obligashun to do so because what these fellows do with the implikashuns of what they vomit through the other, you know what is deserving of very few considerashuns. Not even if we were to do it for a considerashun. They deserve none. If they cannot have jaan, they must have the opposite of it. You know what, of course you do. Jaan. Life. But yet more than life. Life upon which life may be sacrificed. Case for inclusion in the OED, for you are the benevolent and expanding one, you add each year to your volumes more words of value and worth and each of those goes into the making of your worth and your value even more than they have been before. Such is this word: Jaan, four letters, probably two syllables, infinite possibilities: Jaan. Everything. To give for. To take away for. Usage: Dadajaan. Dadijaan. Nanajaan. Nanijaan. Abbajaan. Ammijaan. Betijaan. Betajaan. Chachajaan. Chachijaan. Khalujaan. Khalajaan. Phuphajaan. Phuphijaan. Bhaijaan. Aapajaan. Jaan. Jaan. Jaan. Jaan. Jaan. Meri Jaan. Teri jaan… aisa apna pyaar… or so some song goes about dosti etcetera. But we don’t want dosti-shosti, no endearment. Full. Stop. What I have to tell you dear And do please lend me your ear I shan’t bite, only so you can hear That there’s nothing that works like fear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Dhanbad colliery workers support farmers Bharat Bandh||Dhanbad: The colliery workers union, affiliated to the 10 central trade unions who have extended their support to the Bharat Bandh called by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on September 27 against the farm laws, have also chalked the plan of action with regard to the protest. Rashtriya Khan Mazdoor Federation, a colliery workers union affiliated to Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) has planned a review meeting at Ranchi on September 25 during which different issues pertaining to coal workers are likely to be discussed. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: The biennial polls of Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI), Kolhan's largest trade outfit took an interesting turn when nine office bearers including the one contesting for the post of president were elected unopposed on Sunday. But, a formal announcement in this regard would be made only after the biennial polls slated to take place on September 27. Businessman Vijay Anand Moonka was elected as the new president of the trade outfit unopposed along with eight other office bearers. Moonka had filed his nomination papers along with eight other contestants for various posts on Saturday. The polls will also elect 23 executive committee members. The SCCI has 1,380 registered members who would exercise their franchise through secret ballot. (Pinaki  Majumdar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town anti-encroachment drive to ease traffic jams||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation is carrying out anti-encroachment drives across different localities of the district intended at regulating traffic congestion by removing illegal structures on the roads and public facilities like drains. Notices have been given to different allottees of DMC shops near Vivekanand Chowk of Hirapur who have encroached on land beyond their allotted space on the road causing traffic congestion due to lack of availability of space for vehicles to be parked. Several illegal pavements constructed by encroaching public drains of DMC have also been removed by the DMC team. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Anil Kumar, Food Inspector of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation leading the anti-encroachment drive said, “Though, slight projection erected upto two feet by DMC shop allottees  have yet not been issued notices so far but our focus at present is on those who have made blatant violation by carrying out encroachment upto ten feet or more” “Several of these allottees have illegally constructed another shop other than the one allotted to them and realised rent from them,” said Kumar. “We have launched the drive against illegal construction last week and removed around 10 illegally constructed garages and vehicle washing bays lying on the roadside on the road connecting the golf ground to Hirapur Hatia More,” said Kumar. “An inspection of the housing colony locality was conducted on Saturday during which the illegal pavement constructed over the public train by an electronics item shop, Gupta Electronics, have been removed under our supervision while notices have also been given to operators of Dr Kailash Prasad’s Hospital for flowing the drain water on road,” he said. “The move is aimed at preventing encroachment of the public places at a time when all efforts are being taken by the district to improve the traffic situation by regulating the movement of public buses, heavy vehicles as well as auto rickshaw,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tejashwi pep-talk to  RJD workers to revive party in Jharkhand ||Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav kicked off his Mission Jharkhand campaign from Ranchi on Sunday to strengthen the party that has seen its support base shrink ever since the state was carved out of Bihar in 2000 with the RJD now reduced to only one MLA . As a part of the campaign, Tejashwi held a state-level meeting with party workers from all 24 districts of Jharkhand at a banquet hall in Dibdih. The meeting began post noon and went on for about four hours. Earlier in the day, Tejashwi also met with chief minister Hemant Soren at his residence and called upon newly-appointed state Congress president Rajesh Thakur. Tejashwi asked all RJD  workers present to revive the party in Jharkhand. “RJD is not just a party for Muslims and Yadavs, as being touted by some. We are a party with secular ideals to cater to all. The country cannot prosper unless old Bihar (Jharkhand) does not progress. And RJD will have a great role in that,” he said, announcing that along with Bihar, his focus would now be on strengthening the party in Jharkhand. “I have decided to come here every month to meet, talk and discuss with you all on our mission,” he said. Tejashwi also advised workers to focus on reviving the party rather than lobby for posts. “Posts will follow if the party is strengthened. Netaon ka parikrama nai, janta ka parikrama pe jor dena hai (Rather than lobby before leaders, we must focus on working among the masses),” he said. Taking a dig at the BJP-led government at the Centre, he said that for the last seven years the nation has been divided on the lines of religion, while the common man has burdened with price hikes. “The promise of achche din is still a dream,” he said. “There was a time when the BJP was in Opposition, and it likened price hike to a dian (witch). Now, after coming to power, it seems that inflation has become BJP’s mebooba (beloved) and bhaujai (sister in law),”  he added. Later, RJD’s state spokesperson Anita Yadav told The TelegraphOnline that Tejashwi's visit had enthused everyone in the party. “Our leader will now visit Jharkhand every month, going to each of the 81 Assembly constituencies to hold similar meets there. We have already begun a membership drive with a target to add 10 lakh new workers," she said. Tejashwi, former Bihar chief minister and RJD patriarch Lalu Prasad's younger son, reached Ranchi on Saturday afternoon and held a road show from the airport to the state guest house,  paying his obeisance to statues of late Karpuri Thakur and tribal icon Bhagwan Birsa Munda on the way. After Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar in 2000, RJD had nine MLAs. In 2005, the number of RJD MLAs was reduced to seven. It became five in 2009. Now, RJD has only one MLA, Satyanand Bhokta, who is  a  minister in the Hemant Soren-led coalition government of Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad town permits for 667 autos, those left out cry foul||The Dhanbad district transport department on Sunday allotted passes to 667 auto rickshaws to  ply within the town as per  new  regulations that are to come  into effect from Monday, prompting those left out to launch a stir. As per the new regulations,  the Dhanbad administration has restricted the number of autos to be allowed to ply in the town from 8,000 to 1,500. But  only 667 operators were able to submit all the required documents like vehicle fitness certificate, pollution NOC and the driver's licence. Hence, permits for Dhanbad were issued only to 667 autos. But various auto drivers' and operators' associations, representing those who were left out,  carried out demonstrations at the district transport office and termed the administration action as hasty. The members of these associations demanded more time to  update their documents. They also accused the transport authority of being arbitrary in their judgement about the authenticity and validity of documents. Many auto drivers with "genuine" papers were denied Dhanbad permits, they alleged. District transport officer Om Prakash Yadav said, “Though 667 autos have submitted all documents and have been provided passes,  others will also be provided passes as soon as they submit the relevant documents.” Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Chhotan Singh, President of Jharkhand Diesel Auto Chalak Mahasangh, said “We are protesting against the anomalies in scrutiny of papers as several auto rickshaw registered at other districts  have been provided passes while others have not been provided passes.” Sunil Singh, President of Jharkhand Pariwahan Mazdoor Union, said, “The regulations are being imposed without proper homework. The authorities have sought auto papers through unions. But many auto drivers are not affiliated to any union. Hence, they have been deprived of the opportunity to get passes despite having the valid documents.” In all, six routes have been fixed by the administration as per the new regulations for the entire district. Each route has been divided into several parts restricting the entry of long-distance autos into Dhanbad  town. A dress code for auto drivers has also been made mandatory. As  per the new regulation,  drivers will have to wear sky blue shirts and black trousers. Besides, all auto rickshaws will have to paste stickers on  the windscreen and the rear screen mentioning the route they are playing in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclonic circulation triggers rain across Jharkhand||An active monsoon, aided by a cyclonic circulation over  the Bay of Bengal, triggered rainfall across several places in Jharkhand on Sunday. Weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre said the cyclonic circulation was hovering over north west Bay of Bengal and neighbouring areas of Odisha and West Bengal coasts extending between 1.5 km and 5.8km above the mean sea level. Met statistics revealed that Kurdeg in Simdega and Jamshedpur recorded rainfall of  around 40mm on Sunday. Several other places, including Ranchi, Simdega, Ramgarh, Dumka, Khunti, Latehar, Lohardaga, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan district, witnessed intermittent rains on Sunday due to the impact of the cyclonic circulation. According to Met statistics, around a dozen IMD observatories recorded rainfall between 10mm and 20 mm. Head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said they have issued a forecast of moderate rain with thunder and lightning for the next 48 hours. Met data  revealed that against a normal of 981.8 mm, the state has so far received 931.1 mm of rain, a deficit of five per cent. Weathermen said most districts would continue to get a good spell of rain later this month. The monsoon trough was on Sunday running from west Rajasthan to northeast Bay of Bengal across eastern Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh and Daltonganj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 3.5 lakh appear for JPSC prelims across Jharkhand||More than 3.5 lakh aspirants appeared for the prelims of the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC) examinations that were held in two sittings on Sunday for shortlisting candidates for the main exams to vie for as many as 252 civil service job vacancies . The tests for General Studies I and General Studies II were held at 1,102 centres across the 24 districts in Jharkhand and most aspirants found the questions to be easy for anyone who has put in at least “some effort” in preparing for the tests. “The papers were easy. There were no tricky questions, and anyone who has put in some efforts to prepare for the tests would score well,” said Pintu Kumar, an aspirant at Hatma Government School in Ranchi. Most of the aspirants appeared satisfied with their performance after the first sitting of the exam from 10am to 12pm. Prashant Mahto, an  aspirant at Hatma School, said that  chances of scoring high and clearing the exam were higher as there was no negative marking. “The fear of negative marking often keeps us from attempting questions even if we have a little doubt over the answer. The paper was easy and we had the freedom to attempt all the questions,” said Mahto. Both the papers only had objective questions and the candidates had to mark the answers on an OMR sheet. The questions were mostly based on general knowledge and some of them were related to Jharkhand, the aspirants said. The sixth JPSC exam, which is still in dispute, was held in 2016. So, the prelims  held on Sunday were for JPSC seven, eight, nine and 10 with candidates who meet the eligibility criteria from the year 2017 to 2021. The Jharkhand Cabinet in February decided that candidates who were 35-year-old or younger on August 1, 2016 will be eligible to appear for the JPSC exams – a decision that also gave working professionals with over a decade of experience a chance to crack civil services. Earlier, the government had decided to conduct the prelims  for JPSC on May 2, but the exam had to be postponed due to the Covid-19 situation in the state. The exams on Sunday were conducted amid strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocol, officials said. All the aspirants had to wear face masks and maintain social distancing inside the exam centres. The aspirants were also advised to carry hand sanitisers to the exam halls and were allowed to enter the centres after thermal screening. JPSC issued admit cards to as many as 3,69,327 candidates for the prelims tests. The ones who clear the prelims will go on to appear for the JPSC Main exam and the ones clearing it will fill up the 252 vacancies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Over 1.45 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand as cases drop ||Jharkhand on Saturday vaccinated more than 1.45 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of the disease dropped further down to 74 as Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection by a fair margin, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 93,045 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 52,152 beneficiaries. According to a document shared by the NHM, at least 25,000 residents were inoculated in East Singhbhum, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, while close to 14,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Ranchi. Dhanbad, on the other hand, vaccinated at least 7000 residents. At least 23 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on Saturday, while only three people were found infected by coronavirus, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. All the three fresh Covid cases surfaced in Ranchi. However, at least 14 Covid recoveries brought the active caseload here down to 45. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of at least 42,580 residents and 0.007 per cent of them were found infected by the coronavirus. As per government data, over 3.48 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 so far and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. As per government data, at least 13 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not have active cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. Ranchi accounted for more than 60 per cent of the total active cases of Covid-19 in the state. According to a press communique from the health department, more than 1.23 crore residents have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and at least 34 lakh of them have also received the second dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||XISS, Ranchi opens centre to ‘understand psychology’||It’s a Thursday club with a difference, more so because it is supported by a Bschool. If the participants discussed about coping and man¬aging humiliation last Thursday, they will attend a daylong workshop on children’s mental health and psychological support at the Centre for Behavioural and Cognitive Sciences (CBCS) next Thursday. “The CBCS is an interdisciplinary centre meant for providing a space to academics, researchers and students to think, develop and come out with new ideas and thoughts,” said Anant Kumar, an associated professor at the Xavier Institute of Social Service (XISS), Ranchi, about the centre that the Bschool opened recently. Asked why a Bschool needed such a centre, he replied: “Understanding psychology doesn’t have any disciplinary boundary and helps professionals irrespective of their field of activities.” He added that students would become better managers if they understand the psychology of the people they will deal with in the future, for example consumer behaviour in respect of students specialising in marketing. “We plan to take up specific topics for discussion every Thursday,” said Dr Nishant Goyal, associate professor at Ranchi’s Central Institute of Psychiatry (CIP) who is a member of the advisory board of the CBCS. “It’s a unique effort by the CBCS and CIP for organising sessions on issues related to behavioural science and public mental health,” said XISS director Father Joseph Marianus Kujur, who hailed the idea of holding sessions like the one on humiliation that he described as “destructive”. “We normally don’t discuss about facing humiliation with others but we should do that as it may not be limited to workplace only and we may take it home for our dear ones,” Kumar said, justifying why they took up such a topic. He added that all should know about the consequences of humiliation and behave responsibly. “In most cases, it is found that a person who humiliates others also faced it himself at some stage of his life,” Dr Goyal said, adding that things would be easier if people un¬derstand their rights and responsibilities. “The children may not identify humiliation when they are subjected to it and there may not be any visible scar but the trauma it causes remains with them for a long time,” said Madhumita Bhattacharya, assistant professor of clinical psychology at the CIP, adding that responsible behaviour towards children would be of much help. Asked about their workshop next Thursday, Dr Goyal said they will discuss the impact of pandemic on mental health and psychological wellbeing of children. They will also explore how best they can provide resources to caregivers so that they could engage with children positively and effectively, he further said. “Nothing like if we can help them connect emotionally with children so that they understand their concern and be aware of situations leading to violence and abuse and create a congenial environment,” he summed up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Seven girls drown while performing religious rituals in pond in Latehar||Seven girls drowned while performing religious rituals in a pond in Latehar district of Jharkhand on Saturday morning. The girls had gone to the pond for immersion after Karma Puja, a popular harvest festival of tribals in Jharkhand sources said. According to reports, six girls were from the same family and all the deceased were residents of the same hamlet Manandih Tola in Bukru village under Sheregada panchayat of Balumath block in Latehar district, around 120km from Ranchi. “Around 10 girls had gone to immerse the Karma wood in the village pond. One of the girls fell into a deep pit dug during the construction of the Tori-Balumath Shivpur railway line. While trying to rescue her, six other girls drowned as they were holding each other’s hands and fell into the pond. Four girls were found dead when their bodies were taken out while the remaining three were declared brought dead by doctors at the Balumath Primary Health Centre,” said a source in the Balumath police station. A pall of gloom descended on the entire block following the incident. The police have sent the bodies of all seven girls for post-mortem at Latehar Sadar Hospital. The deceased have been identified as Rekha Kumari, 17, Lakshmi Kumari, 8, and Reena Kumari, 11, all three daughters of Akhlu Ganjhu, Meena Kumari, 8, daughter of Laldev Ganjhu, Pinki Kumari, 15, daughter of Jaggan Ganjhu, Sushma Kumari, 7, daughter of Charan Ganjhu, and Sunita Kumari, 20, daughter of late Bifa Ganjhu. Villagers later staged a protest along National Highway 98 connecting Chanda (in Latehar) with Chatra demanding Rs 20 lakh compensation, government job for each of the deceased girl’s family and directing the railways to immediately fill up the trenches dug for laying the tracks. Chief minister Hemant Soren in a tweet on his official Twitter handle expressed shock at the incident. Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran has constituted a high-level team to probe into the incident. “The agitated people have stopped their protest. A high-level team led by Latehar deputy development commissioner Surender Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate Shekhar Kumar, district mining officer Anand Kumar, district social welfare officer Bindeshwari Tattma and child welfare committee chairperson Reena Kumari has been directed to identify the reason for the mishap. We will give compensation to the family members as per the government norms, said Imran. Sources in the district administration said that if the probe team finds the railways was not filling up trenches, it will be asked to give jobs on compassionate grounds to the family members of the victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
19-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Bid to save pythons in Dalma hill||Jamshedpur: Dalma hill, known for wild elephants, is also home to a variety of reptiles, including pythons. The forest department has taken an initiative so that the snakes including pythons which come under the Wildlife Protection Act can be conserved. Going ahead with the initiative, the forest department has not only started creating awareness among the villagers on how to lead a safe life without causing any harm to the snakes but has also started identifying the pythons' habitats in the hill.  Wildlife activist Raja Ghosh who works in tandem with the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary functionary said to have identified at least five habitats of pythons in the Dalma hill. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: The failure of policy makers, including Central as well as various state governments to bring fuel prices under GST as witnessed during the GST Council meeting has irked traders and industrialists as they criticised the policy makers for adopting a short-sighted approach on the issue. The industrialists of the district while criticizing the approach of policy makers towards the fuel prices issue as exposed during the GST council claimed high fuel prices leads to high transport charges affecting the production cost, which in turn leads to price and lesser sale of product causing loss to producers and continuous losses also affect its employees. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
