20-09-2021||Business||Sensex tanks 525 points on global selloff ||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 525 points on Monday, led by losses in index majors HDFC twins, Tata Steel and ICICI Bank amid a selloff in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 524.96 points or 0.89 per cent lower at 58,490.93. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 188.25 points or 1.07 per cent to 17,396.90. Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, sinking nearly 10 per cent, followed by SBI, IndusInd Bank, HDFC, Dr Reddy's and M&M. On the other hand, HUL, Bajaj Finserv, ITC and HCL Tech were among the gainers. "Indian markets finally seem to be taking a small pause, largely driven by nervousness in the global markets," said Milind Muchhala, Executive Director, Julius Baer. "Two key factors playing on the minds of global investors include the upcoming Fed meeting and the uncertainty building up in the Chinese real estate market due to stress on one of the major property players in the country," he added. While the markets are keenly awaiting clarity on Fed's taper plans in terms of timelines and quantum, we believe it may give an advance notice on tapering in this week's meeting, followed by a formal announcement at the following meeting in November, he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, Hang Seng ended over 3 per cent lower. Bourses in China, Japan and South Korea were closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with steep losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.92 per cent to USD 73.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
20-09-2021||Business||Amazon India to launch voice shopping in Hindi soon||Amazon India on Monday said it will expand its regional language offering further with the launch of voice shopping experience in Hindi in the coming weeks. The e-commerce platform has also announced that customers can now access Amazon.in in Marathi and Bengali, in addition to the five previously available languages Hindi, English, Kannada, Malayalam, Tamil and Telugu. "These launches break the language barrier and make e-commerce more accessible and convenient for millions of customers across India," Amazon India said in a statement. For the launch of Amazon.in in Marathi and Bengali, Amazon worked with expert linguists to develop an accurate and comprehensible user experience in each of the languages. The team has chosen commonly used terms over perfectly translated words to make the shopping experience authentic, easy to understand and delightful for customers, the statement said. Amazon customers can select their preferred language across Android and iOS apps, mobile and desktop sites. Once selected, the language preference will be recorded and remembered for future visits. The upcoming launch of the voice shopping experience in Hindi follows the launch of Voice shopping in English in 2020. When the feature is launched, customers will be able to use their voice in Hindi to search for products or check their order status. The voice offering will be available only for Android devices. With this launch, customers will be able to navigate to various touchpoints on Amazon.in Android app, search for products and add items to cart among many more using their voice in Hindi or English. "Our aim with regional language shopping experience is to make e-commerce accessible, relevant and convenient for customers. Every month, tens of millions of customers visit Amazon.in in regional languages and 90 per cent of the customers are from tier II and below cities," Amazon India Director (Customer Experience and Marketing) Kishore Thota said. This festive season, Amazon is happy to expand the Amazon.in experience for customers in Marathi and Bengali, he added. "Since the launch of voice shopping in 2020, we are humbled to see by the adoption of voice by Amazon.in customers to fulfil their shopping needs has grown by 2X year-on-year. We will continue to focus on bringing new features for our customers on voice to make their shopping experience exciting and fulfilling," Thota said. Amazon India has been innovating to expand the digital opportunity to both customers and businesses by localising various offerings in the areas of regional language, voice and video. Since June 2020, Amazon.in has introduced seller registration and account management services in languages such as Hindi, Tamil, Kannada, Marathi, Telugu, Malayalam and Bengali. In voice, Amazon Alexa - a cloud-based voice service that powers the Echo range of smart speakers - is available in English and Hindi and also understands proper nouns in various languages such as Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, Kannada, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu etc. In video, Amazon Prime Video makes titles available in Hindi, English, Marathi, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam, Kannada, Marathi, Gujarati, Punjabi and Bengali. In addition, through Kindle Direct Publishing, authors can self-publish their work in five Indian languages including Hindi, Tamil, Malayalam, Marathi and Gujarati in addition to English.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
20-09-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped over 350 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index majors Tata Steel, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid thin trade in global markets. The 30-share Sensex was trading 355.27 points or 0.60 per cent lower at 58,660.62. Similarly, Nifty fell 108.50 points or 0.62 per cent to 17,476.65 in initial deals. Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, sinking nearly 6 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, M&M, HDFC, PowerGrid and Maruti. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, HUL, HCL Tech and TCS were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index settled 125.27 points or 0.21 per cent lower at 59,015.89, and Nifty slipped 44.35 points or 0.25 per cent to close at 17,585.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,552.59 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, markets are likely to turn volatile from now on. "Possible tapering timeline from the Fed this week, rising bond yields in the US, strengthening dollar (dollar index above 93) and news of the crisis in the large Chinese real estate developer Evergrande are likely to weigh on markets," he said. With valuations in stretched territory, corrections are possible, particularly in the broader market. On the positive side, FIIs continue to buy imparting resilience to markets. But this can quickly change. Investors may adopt a wait-and-watch strategy till clarity emerges, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, Hang Seng was trading with steep losses. Bourses in China, Japan and Tokyo remained closed. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.66 per cent to USD 74.84 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
20-09-2021||Business||IDBI Bank sale: Most merchant bankers indicate 52 weeks' time||Most of the merchant bankers who had submitted bids to facilitate the strategic sale of LIC-controlled IDBI Bank has indicated a time-frame of one year to complete the elaborate process, sources said. During a presentation before the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) held recently, most of the eligible transaction advisers gave a time-frame of 50-52 weeks to undertake several stages of the privatisation process of IDBI Bank, market sources said. However, the government intends to complete the transaction during the current fiscal itself. Thus, the merchant banker has to find a buyer in about 26 weeks or six months. According to sources, as many as seven bids — Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP, Ernst and Young LLP, ICICI Securities Ltd, JM Financial Ltd, KPMG, RBSA Capital Advisors LLP and SBI Capital Markets Ltd — were received. Dipam on behalf of the Government of India had floated a tender in June inviting bids from transaction advisers to facilitate and assist the strategic disinvestment of IDBI Bank. The last date for submission of bids was July 13. KPMG placed the lowest bid of Re 1, and was selected as the transaction adviser, market sources said, adding, the firm will assist the government in the sale for Re 1. The cabinet had in May given in-principle approval to IDBI Bank’s strategic disinvestment along with transfer of management control. The central government and LIC together own more than 94 per cent equity of IDBI Bank. At present, LIC has management control with a 49.24 per cent stake, while the government holds 45.48 per cent. Non-promoter shareholding stands at 5.29 per cent. The transaction adviser would be required to advise and assist the government on the modalities of disinvestment and the timing; recommend the need for other intermediaries required for the process of sale/disinvestment and also help in the identification and selection of the same with proper terms of reference. The transaction adviser will assist in the preparation of all documents such as preliminary information memorandum, organise roadshows to generate interest among the prospective buyers and suggest measures to fetch optimum value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
20-09-2021||Business||Fortune Park to add five hotels in India by December 2022||Fortune Park Hotels, a member of ITC’s hotel group, will be opening five properties with over 375 rooms in India by the end of next year, as part of its robust expansion plans in the country. The company has 38 operating hotels with around 2,900 rooms across 34 cities of India. “Apart from opening five hotels with over 375 rooms across four cities of India from our active pipeline by the end of December 2022, we are in advanced negotiations for a few more projects, some of which are anticipated to open before the end of next year,” Fortune Park Hotels managing director Samir MC said. These five hotels will be — Fortune Resort Benaulim Goa, Fortune Park in Hoshiarpur (Punjab), Fortune Park in Tirupur (Tamil Nadu), Fortune Select in Goa and a Fortune Inn in Haldwani (Uttarakhand), he added. On the company’s business model, Samir said, “While our primary model is on managed hotels, we continue evaluating different operating models, including franchise model.” Fortune Park Hotels was set up in 1995 to cater to the mid-market to upscale segment in business and leisure destinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||125cc bikes to witness double-digit growth post pandemic||The 125cc motorcycle category is poised to see double-digit growth post pandemic while the other segments will see a flattish growth curve. The 125cc segment is targeted at young aspiration buyers who will propel a 25 per cent growth in the segment, TVS Motor Company vice-president Aniruddha Haldar said at the launch of the company’s first motorcycle in the segment, the TVS Raider, last week. Talking about the popular demand for 125cc bikes, Haldar said: “Over the last five years, the 125cc segment has been witnessing double-digit growth. The pandemic has not changed that because the segment has a strong component of first-time buyers as well as replacement buyers.” “It is the 18-25 age group seeking mobility, campus goers, first jobbers, middle-class slightly affluent commuters both in rural and urban India that form the potential customer base for TVS Raider,” Haldar added. The TVS Raider will carry a price tag of Rs 77,500 (ex-showroom, Delhi). EV aggregator The electrical vehicle ecosystem is gradually shaping up in India with the first aggregator of EV charging stations going live. EV Plugs, a start-up, went live on September 7 with more than 1,000 verified listings to help EV owners find a charging station nearby. EV Plugs co-founder Manish Narang said, “We expect the market to be flooded with EVs across categories and by default charging stations. However, it’s going to be multiple decades before we reach a situation similar to diesel and petrol where one can be assured of finding one station within a few kilometres. EV Plugs addresses this need of EV owners.” There are 69,000 charging stations at present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||US trade official calls India's ban on Mastercard 'draconian' move||A senior US trade official privately criticised India’s July decision to ban Mastercard Inc from issuing new cards, calling it a “draconian” move that caused “panic”, according to US government emails seen by Reuters. The documents show frustration within the US government after India’s central bank banned new card issuance by American Express and Diners Club International in April, then took similar action against Mastercard in July. The Reserve Bank of India accuses the companies of breaking local data storage rules. The bans do not affect existing customers. The ban on Mastercard  a top payment network in India alongside Visa  triggered a flurry of emails between US officials in Washington and India as they discussed next steps with Mastercard, including approaching the RBI, the government emails show. “We’ve started hearing from stakeholders about some pretty draconian measures that the RBI has taken over the past couple days,” Brendan A. Lynch, the deputy assistant US trade representative for South and Central Asia, wrote on July 16, two days after the Mastercard announcement. “It sounds like some others (Amex, Diners) may have been impacted by similar actions recently,” wrote Lynch, asking his colleagues in India to get in touch with their central bank contacts “to see what’s going on”. Lynch, spokesperson for the Office of the US Trade Representative and the US Embassy in New Delhi did not respond to requests for comment. The US government has not publicly commented on the Mastercard ban. The RBI did not immediately respond. A Mastercard spokesperson told Reuters, “We’ve had very constructive engagements with the Indian and U.S. governments over the past few weeks and appreciate the support of both.” This includes discussions with the RBI, and Mastercard has “made good progress” as it looks to resolve the situation quickly, he said. Mastercard counts India as a key growth market. In 2019, it had said it was “bullish on India”. The Mastercard ban rattled the company and upset India’s financial sector as Indian partner banks fear a hit to their income as they struggle to swiftly partner new networks to offer cards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||Telecom reliefs to put added pressure on India's fiscal health||The Centre’s bouquet of telecom reliefs are expected to put additional pressure on the country's fiscal health in this fiscal on account of lower non-tax revenue. Icra chief economist Aditi Nayar said non-tax revenues will take a Rs 14,000-crore hit. She said the reliefs would defer the payment of non-tax revenues by Rs 46,000 crore for four years, comprising Rs 14,000 crore on AGM dues and Rs 32,000 crore on spectrum. Since the spectrum dues were  under moratorium for this fiscal, the net impact for the year is limited to Rs. 14,000 crore. The Centre has announced a four-year moratorium on adjusted gross revenue (AGR) and spectrum payments. She said “the government had budgeted for inflows of nearly Rs 54,000 crore from other communication services for the current year, presumably boosted by the expectation of fresh auction inflows. We now assess the inflows from telecom into the government’s FY2022 non tax revenues to be limited to Rs 28,000 crore, trailing the budgeted Rs. 54,000 crore, which will modestly widen its fiscal deficit.” The government is targeting a fiscal deficit of 6.8 per cent of GDP in FY22, a big improvement over the previous year when fiscal deficit shot up to 9.3 per cent . With 5G auctions likely early next year, the upfront payment by the telcos may come in by the end of March, which may offset the impact of the deferment of the dues. Brokerage Motilal Oswal has said the moratorium helped to solve the immediate liquidity woes of Vodafone Idea, but the comany’s ballooning debt and annual EMI after four years will be difficult to address. The government has, however, given the operators the option to convert the interest component during the moratorium period into equity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||Labour codes unlikely to be implemented this fiscal||The four labour codes are unlikely to be implemented this fiscal in view of the slow progress in the drafting of rules by the states and also for political reasons such as the elections in Uttar Pradesh, a source said. The implementation of these laws assumes significance because once these are implemented there would be reduction in the take-home pay of employees and firms have to bear higher provident fund liability. “The ministry of labour is ready with the rules under the four labour codes. But the states have been slow in drafting and finalising those under the new codes. Besides, the government is not keen to implement the four codes due to political reasons, which are mainly the elections in Uttar Pradesh (due in February 2022 onwards),” the source said. The four codes have been passed by Parliament. But for the implementation of these codes, rules under these must be notified by the central as well as the state governments for enforcing those in the respective jurisdictions. “It is likely that the implementation of the labour codes may be dragged beyond this fiscal,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||PE major Advent snaps up Eureka Forbes for Rs 4,400 crore||Private equity firm Advent International is set to acquire a majority stake in Eureka Forbes Ltd (EFL), part of Shapoorji Pallonji Group (SP Group), for an enterprise value of Rs 4,400 crore. EFL, known for its water purifiers and vacuum cleaners, is at present a subsidiary of Forbes & Company Ltd. It will be demerged into a standalone company and be listed on the BSE. Upon its listing, Advent will have a stake of around 72.56 per cent of the company. It will subsequently make an open offer to acquire the remaining shares of the firm held with institutions. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges, Forbes & Company said it will not receive any consideration from the deal as the transaction is between Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Pvt Ltd and Lunolux Ltd, an arm of Advent. For SP Group, the transaction will enable it to trim debt estimated at Rs 20,000 crore. Of this, around Rs 11,000 crore comes under the RBI’s one-time restructuring package which gives a two-year moratorium to the group to clear its dues. It is expected to sharpen focus on the flagship construction and engineering business. SP Group had been looking to sell EFL for some time. It is also reportedly planning to divest stakes in other companies such as Sterling & Wilson Solar. The group had to look at these options as its plans to raise funds after pledging a portion of its 18 per cent holding in Tata Sons, which was objected to by the Tatas. The transaction is subject to closing conditions and receipt of relevant statutory and regulatory approvals. Though the announcement was made late on Sunday evening, an SP Group statement was silent on when the process will be completed. Advent was competing with Warburg Pincus, and Swedish home appliance maker Electrolux “We are pleased that Eureka Forbes Ltd, a jewel in the Shapoorji Pallonji Group, has found a new home with Advent, while at the same time unlocking value for shareholders. This transaction also reflects our stated objective and strategy of significant de-leveraging and focusing on our core competencies and businesses,” said Jai Mavani, executive director, Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Pvt Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||Row over Nepal tea engulfs Tatas||The Tatas have been dragged into a snowballing controversy over an unchecked flood of Nepal tea imports into the country. The Rs 7,287-crore Tata Consumer Products Ltd (TCPL, formerly Tata Tea) has been accused of using Nepal blends in their packet teas without proper labelling. The company, which has a registered office on Bishop Lefroy Road in Calcutta, has said it does not directly import any tea from Nepal but admits it blends a ‘small quantity’ to provide ‘specific characteristics’ that are not available in India. Many in the tea industry believe the accusation against the Tatas has whipped up an unnecessary tempest in a teapot that diverts attention from the problem over unfettered imports of Nepal tea into the region — which is the main issue highlighted in a public interest litigation filed by a body of Bengal-based tea planters and an owner of a Darjeeling tea estate in the Calcutta high court. The PIL does not mention TCPL at all. Nor is it a party to the case that came up for hearing earlier this month before a bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs, Tea Board of India and Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) have been named as respondents in the case, among others. The court has asked the respondents to file their replies before the next hearing in November. Fear of fallout Darjeeling tea industry doyens are peeved by the accusations against the Tatas and the disastrous fallout that this might have on the gardens in the region. “A section of tea traders have been trying to pass off Nepal tea as Darjeeling tea — and that is a serious problem, not the Tatas. They are a big buyer of our tea and support Darjeeling gardens,” said Anshuman Kanoria, owner of Jungpana and Goomtee tea estates. The Tatas purchase up to 1 million of kg of Darjeeling tea every year. The industry is upset that the sideshow in the entire controversy that has engulfed the Tatas will persuade them to stop all procurement of Darjeeling and Nepal teas in the region which would strain the balance sheets of the 87 gardens in Darjeeling. Industry participants say the gardens in lower altitudes depend on big packeteers like the Tatas and Unilever to sell their monsoon flush teas which find few buyers abroad. Darjeeling planters, battered by a triple whammy of declining yields, rising costs and tepid prices, can ill afford to antagonise a big, steady buyer. “Any move by TCPL to reduce Darjeeling procurement would spell disaster for an already struggling industry,” Kanoria argued. The whistleblower The accusation against the Tatas have been whispered within the industry for a while but it burst into the open after Shanti Chhetri, a Rajya Sabha MP from Trinamul Congress and a three-time MLA from the hills, wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal in which she complained about how imported teas from Nepal were hurting the fortunes of the Darjeeling tea industry. In her letter, Chhetri said TCPL was blending Nepal tea in their popular brand Tata Gold without mentioning the country of origin of such teas, the name and address of the importer, and the premises where the tea was packed. Chhetri claimed that a specific complaint had been made to the Tea Board but no action had been taken so far. That complaint to the Tea Board was levelled by Sanjay Choudhry, director of Ringtong tea estate, who is a co-applicant in the court case. Choudhry does not believe that the charge against the Tatas should be swept under the carpet. “All I am saying is that the Tatas should disclose the origin of the tea on the pack. If it is blending Nepal tea, it should be mentioned,” said Chaudhury. He stressed that there should be stringent quality control on the import of Nepal tea which often fails to meet the health and safety standards of FSSAI. Moreover, the seller must disclose the origin of the tea at each stage of distribution as per Tea Board circulars. Chhetri’s letter mentioned — and Chaudhury corroborated — that the Tatas have stopped buying tea from his garden in retaliation against his whistleblower act. Tata response TCPL officials told this newspaper that the company was compliant with all applicable FSSAI regulations. “All tea procurement for our India brands is only from tea traded in the India domestic market which meet FSSAI regulations. This could include a small amount of tea produced in Nepal and available in the local market as per government regulations. This tea is available to and purchased by a cross section of buyers and packers in the country, including Tata Consumer Products, for whom such tea, in total, constitute less than 1 per cent of our total procurement for the India domestic market. These small volumes, if used, are typically procured to provide specific characteristics that are not available domestically,” TCPL said in its response to a questionnaire. The company, which  also owns gardens in Assam and south India through associate companies, went on to add that it was among the largest buyers of teas in India. It ranks among the largest buyers from key tea centres such as Darjeeling, Siliguri, Guwahati, Calcuta, Coonoor, Cochin and Coimbatore. “The company is a strong supporter of the India tea industry and, for almost two decades, has chosen to be the single largest buyer from Darjeeling. Tata Consumer produces over 160 million kg of India’s finest blends of tea, utilising a variety of teas, all of which meet existing FSSAI regulations and standards, and all our blends are subjected to our own stringent quality standards,” the company said. Bijoy Gopal Chakraborty, who heads an association of smaller tea growers, lent his support to Choudhury. “Tatas are buying large quantity from Nepal at a lower cost than what bought leaf factories can offer. We are suffering,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||Business||BNPLs and how they compare to other forms of unsecured credit||There’s a new player in town, and it’s called BNPL. Buy Now Pay Later loans are not a recent invention. However, considering the economic difficulties caused by the pandemic, they are becoming increasingly popular. While people have struggled with income stability and had to dip into their savings for sustenance, it’s also become tougher for some to avail of other forms of credit. For example, without stable income and repayment of other loans, it is tough to avail of a fresh personal loan. Therefore, there’s a need for a short-term credit solution that can be availed of without hassle and be repaid without charges. Think of it like maintaining a tab with your local grocer: at the end of a month, you make a bullet payment to clear your dues, and there is no interest or processing fee. In fact, you may get a small discount for paying on time. As you head into the festive season, you’re going to hear about your borrowing options. So let’s look at BNPLs and how they compare to other forms of unsecured credit. What is BNPL? BNPLs have been around for some years and you would have seen them on as a ‘payment’ option on taxi aggregators, online groceries or food delivery services. In a BNPL loan, you are provided micro-credit — Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000 in most cases — and you need to repay the dues within 14-90 days. The loan is interest-free. There are no processing fees or renewal fees either, but only a penalty for late payments. You can avail one quickly from your preferred BNPL provider. BNPLs are now visible on a number of online services. Though the number of use cases they currently have are low, but the number of merchants being onboarded by lenders is rapidly rising. Why is it gaining popularity The global BNPL market was valued at $7.3 billion in 2019 and is expected to grow to $33.6 billion by 2027, according to one market survey. The Q4 2020 BNPL Survey says that in India, the gross merchandise value will rise to $52.8 billion by 2027. The rapid rise of BNPLs in India coincides with pandemic-linked loss of income as well as the public going online for every necessity, be it paying bills or buying groceries. Many fintech lenders now offer BNPLs and a couple of large private banks have also entered the fray. Availing a BNPL Unlike bank loans where credit score and income checks are necessary in loan underwriting processes, BNPLs are less stringent. BNPLs can be availed online with minimal paperwork or without even having to meet the lender. It’s a good option for new-to-credit borrowers, especially those yet to take credit cards. Once you’ve signed up for a BNPL, you need to link the account to the merchant you want to shop with, and use the BNPL as your payment option while completing your purchase. Credit card vs BNPL The similarities between the two are ease of access and use, revolving credit, and an interest-free window. But there are many differences. Credit cards may allow much higher spending limits compared to BNPL which may go up to only Rs 1 lakh in a few cases. In BNPLs, late payments attract penalties but not interest charges, except for EMI BNPLs where interest may apply. Cards charge both penalties and interest. Cards are universally accepted, online or offline, in India or globally. BNPLs can only be used with merchants linked to the lender on specific platforms. Cards also come with loads of rewards, cashbacks and benefits which can enhance the borrower’s lifestyle, but BNPLs largely do not have rewards. Cards allow cash withdrawals at additional interest charges; BNPLs don’t. Personal loans vs BNPL Personal loans can be as large as Rs 40 lakh in some cases, and can be repaid with interest over tenures of up to five years. BNPLs are micro-credits with much shorter tenures and without interest. Loans are deposited to your bank from where you can spend the money according to your need, even as cash. BNPLs remain with your lender who settles bills on your behalf with partnering merchants. Personal loans are one-time loans while BNPLs, like credit cards, can be used repeatedly from your approved loan balance as long as you keep repaying your dues. BNPLs, credit cards, and personal loans are various forms of unsecured credit, each with its own unique benefits. Borrowers with good credit profiles will get plenty of offers for these in the festive season. But any form of credit needs to be used with financial discipline. Users must not over-borrow, and should minimise their use for funding lifestyle and consumption. BNPL sign-ups normally don’t require a hard credit check, which can slightly lower your credit score. However, late payments are sure to harm your score. Therefore, borrowers must ensure they read the terms and conditions carefully, borrow thoughtfully, and always repay their dues in time. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-66
20-09-2021||India||Union finance ministry to kick-start budgetary exercise from October 12||The finance ministry will kick-start the exercise to prepare the annual Budget for 2022-23 from October 12 amidst signs of revival of the Indian economy hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. The budget for the next year will have to address critical issues of demand generation, job creation and putting the economy on a sustained 8 per cent plus growth path. It will be the fourth budget of the Modi 2.0 government and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. "The pre-Budget/RE (Revised Estimate) meetings will begin on the October 12, 2020," according to the Budget Circular (2022-23) of the Budget Division of the Department of Economic Affairs, dated September 16, 2021. "All financial advisers should ensure that the necessary details related to these meetings contained in the Appendices I to VII are entered in RE module of the UBIS (Union Budget Information System)," the circular added. The Budget Estimates (BE) for 2022-23 will be provisionally finalised after the expenditure secretary completes discussions with other secretaries and financial advisers. Pre-Budget meetings will begin from October 12 and continue till the second week of November, it said. "Given the special circumstances of this year, the basis of the final budgetary allocations will be overall fiscal position, and subject to that the absorptive capacity of the ministry/department," it said. Ceilings for all categories of expenditure, including the central sector and centrally sponsored schemes will be discussed, it said. Accordingly, the RE 2021-22 and BE 2022-23 for all categories of expenditure, and select schemes/projects, may be indicated separately for revenue and capital expenditure, it said. For the Budget Estimates of 2022-23, it said, "the allocations will be finalised for the establishment and other central government expenditures. For the Central Sector (CS) schemes and Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS), tentative ceilings would be discussed during the pre-budget meetings." The Budget 2022-23 is likely to be presented on February 1 during the first half of the Parliament's Budget session which usually begins in the last week of January every year. The Budget for the current fiscal had projected a growth rate of about 10.5 per cent in real terms while fiscal deficit was pegged at 6.8 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP). Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government scrapped a colonial-era tradition of presenting the Budget at the end of February. The then finance minister Arun Jaitley had for the first time presented the annual accounts on February 1, 2017. With the pre-ponement of the Budget, ministries are now allocated their budgeted funds from the start of the financial year beginning April. This gives government departments more leeway to spend as well as allow companies time to adapt to business and taxation plans. Previously, when the Budget was presented at the end of February, the three-stage Parliament approval process used to get completed some time in mid-May, weeks ahead of onset of monsoon rains. This meant government departments would start spending on projects only from August-end or September, after the monsoon season ended.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Standoff with China and situation in Afghanistan among India’s big security challenges: FS Shringla||As a neighbour of Afghanistan, India is naturally concerned about the recent changes in that country and their implications for the region, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Monday.  Referring to a recent resolution on Afghanistan by the UN Security Council, he said it addressed the main pending issues and demanded that Afghan territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts.  The foreign secretary was speaking at the sixth JP Morgan 'India Investor Summit'.  "The situation in our neighbourhood, particularly in Afghanistan, and with China on our eastern borders reminds us that while the new realities are making themselves felt, traditional security challenges remain," he said.  Talking about the eastern Ladakh standoff, Shringla said Chinese attempts over the last year to unilaterally alter the status quo in the region have seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity in the border areas.  "We have made it clear to the Chinese side that peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our relationship. Development of India-China relationship can only be based on 'three mutuals' -- mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests," he said.  On Afghanistan, the foreign secretary said New Delhi is concerned about implications of the recent developments for India and the region.  "As an immediate neighbour, we are naturally concerned about the recent changes within Afghanistan and their implications for us and the region," he said.  He said India's immediate focus was on the evacuation of Indian nationals from Afghanistan and that most of the Indian nationals have been able to leave Kabul in August.  "A number of Afghans, including minorities, who wanted to travel to India, have also been able to do so. However, this process could not be completed due to the security situation at the airport," he said.  "Resumption of flights from Kabul airport is, therefore, a priority. We are closely monitoring the unfolding situation," Shringla added.  He also mentioned the UN Security Council resolution 2593 on Afghanistan that was adopted on August 30 under India's presidency of the global body, and noted that it comprehensively addressed the main pending issues relating to that country.  "The resolution demands that Afghan territory not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts; and specifically refers to terrorist individuals proscribed by the UN Security Council, including the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad," Shringla said.  The foreign secretary said India is also monitoring developments related to the humanitarian needs of Afghanistan.  "In UNDP's assessment, there is an imminent threat of poverty levels rising in Afghanistan. There is also a threat of an imminent drought and a food security crisis," he said.  "It is important for the humanitarian assistance providers to be given unrestricted and direct access to Afghanistan," the foreign secretary said.  He also underlined the need to ensure that the distribution of humanitarian assistance is done in a "non-discriminatory manner" to all sections of the Afghan society.  "India's approach to Afghanistan has been guided by our civilisational relationship with the Afghan people. We have extended over USD 3 billion as development assistance for the welfare of the people of Afghanistan," he said.  The foreign secretary said India has undertaken over 500 developmental projects spread across all 34 provinces of Afghanistan.  "These initiatives have earned us tremendous goodwill in the country. Our friendship with the Afghan people will continue to guide our approach in the future," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||NCW chief asks Sonia to remove Channi over #MeToo allegations||National Commission for Women (NCW) Chief Rekha Sharma has today requested Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi to remove Punjab's new Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi from his post "until he comes clean", citing reported allegations that he had sent an inappropriate text to an IAS officer in 2018. Expressing her disappointment and calling Mr Channi a threat to women, Rekha Sharma, in an interview with news agency ANI, said, "Today, he has been made Punjab Chief Minister by a party that is headed by a woman. It is betrayal. He is a threat to women's safety. An inquiry should be conducted against him. If he doesn't come clean, he is not worthy to be a chief minister. I urge Sonia Gandhi to remove him from the post." "Allegations were levelled against him during the Me Too movement in 2018. The State Women Commission had taken a suo moto cognizance of the matter and the chairperson sat on a dharna demanding his removal but nothing happened," she further added. Rekha Sharma wrote an open letter today stating: "One can only imagine what would be the state of women's safety in the state given the one at the helm of affairs is himself accused of threatening women/security. If an IAS officer has been denied justice in the state, how can the Congress party ensure that the common women of Punjab would be safe?" "Despite being a woman herself, the Congress chief did not consider the Me Too allegations made against Mr Channi and appointed him the chief minister. The Punjab State Commission for Women, too, had taken cognisance of the incident. Yet the state government did not take any action against him. This is shameful and highly objectionable that such a person has been appointed as the Chief Minister of Punjab. We do not want another woman to go through the same experience and endure the same harassment that the IAS officer had faced. Mr Channi needs to be held accountable and should resign from the post," it further read. Charanjit Singh Channi was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Punjab today. Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office to Congress leaders Sukhjinder S Randhawa and OP Soni as ministers in the state cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Kashmir: Mobile, internet blocked in Uri after infiltration attempt||Internet and mobile phone services have been suspended in Jammu and Kashmir's Uri sector near the Line of Control after an infiltration attempt by a heavily-armed group of terrorists, authorities said on Monday. The army said a counter-infiltration operation has been underway for the last over 30 hours. Reinforcements have been called in and a large area has been cordoned off. This is the second infiltration attempt this year, according to the army. A senior army commander however said that there has been no ceasefire violation this year and no instigation from across the border. "No ceasefire violation this year. We are prepared for any ceasefire violation. But frankly there has been no instigation from across the border," Lt Gen DP Panday, the General Officer Commanding of the 15 Corps said. "On infiltration, there have been some attempts, unlike previous years. Tere was hardly any successful attempt. As per my knowledge, only two attempts have succeeded. One was neutralised in Bandipore. We are looking for the second one," he said. "There is operation which is ongoing for the last 24 hours in Uri, in which we felt that there is an infiltration attempt which has been made. We are looking for them. Are they on this side or gone back after making attempt, that issue is not been clarified or verified on the ground. But we are quite alert and we will ensure minimal infiltration takes place," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Can't give 'judicial diktat' to send children to schools: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday observed it cannot give a 'judicial diktat' for sending children to schools disregarding the possibility of a fresh spike in COVID cases as it refused to entertain a Class 12 student's plea seeking resumption of physical classes across the country. Stating that it should be left to the government to take a call on "governance issues", the top court also advised the 17-year-old student from Delhi to focus on studies instead of getting involved in seeking Constitutional remedies. At the same time, the court said it would not call the student's Public Interest Litigation(PIL) a "publicity gimmick" but it was a misplaced petition and that children must not get involved in such issues. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna said the student may pursue his remedies with the state government. Ask your client to focus on studies in school and not get involved himself in seeking Constitutional remedies. You see how misplaced this petition is. Imagine the (COVID) situation in Kerala....Maharashtra cannot be the same in Delhi. I am not saying it is a publicity gimmick but this is why children must not get involved in these issues. We don't have any kind of data before us , the bench told advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra. The top court then perused the prayers in the PIL and said the petitioner wants re-opening of schools to enable physical classes. The court said that after Article 21A has been brought into force, it has obligated the state governments to provide free and compulsory education to all children between the age 6 and 14. "You see the governments are ultimately answerable. They are also concerned about the need for children to go back to schools. That is the purpose of schools. We cannot, by judicial diktat, say that you shall send your children back to school, oblivious of the dangers which may be there." The country has just come out of the second COVID wave but there is still danger of a possible spike of viral infection, the court said. “I am not saying it will necessarily happen or that it will be similarly devastating. Fortunately, we now have reports which suggest that the spike will not be of that nature. Vaccination is taking place but children are not vaccinated, even many teachers may not have been vaccinated. We cannot just say send all children to schools. There are governance issues,” it added. The court further said the complexities of governance do not permit the court to start issuing directions and we should leave something for the democratic way of life that the country has adopted. Surely the government wants their children to go back to the schools . The court said that in Karnataka a decision has been taken to open the schools and similarly in Delhi also a decision has been taken, but we cannot allow young kids to go and mix with senior students and instead let the States take an informed decision where the spike is taking place." “There may be some state with 75 districts or 52 districts and there may be states with high density of population in some districts and others may be sparsely populated. These are the matters in which we should let the government take a call,” it noted . Justice Chandrachud said there has to be some balancing of interest of children, who are at home and how they are being affected physically, mentally or physiologically with the dangers which may be posed to them, if they are to mix with each other in a school environment. The government has taken a decision to vaccinate the children. Our government has taken a decision to have a phased reopening of school at the board level. We cannot pick up children in the first standard and mix them with the children of board level, who are to make a foray into higher education, he said. The court suggested that the petitioner must withdraw the petition and pursue other remedies like representation to the government and said, This issue is fraught with great complexities. We cannot give any judicial mandate in a petition where we don't have any data . The court said the government itself has to tread with extreme care when the issue is of exposing the younger children to the dangers of COVID-19. "So the court needs to be equally or even more careful because there is absence of data before us, absence of scientific knowledge on our part and the petitioner. This petition is not based on any scientific assessment . Justice Chandrachud said judges also read newspapers and know what has happened when schools were opened in many countries at an early stage of pandemic. We need not mention the names of those countries but we know what happened in such countries where schools were opened at earlier stages." Mehrotra, who is the father of the minor, agreed to withdraw the petition, which the court allowed him to do. In his plea plea filed last month, the minor petitioner contended that he has filed the PIL on account of the "indecision and vacillation" on the part of the Union Government and several state governments/UTs in the country in the re-opening of schools and resumption of physical classes. The petitioner is also echoing the sentiments and feelings of a large body of the student community and fraternity of the country, particularly including the underprivileged and voiceless children, in raising this very vital issue regarding the deprivation and ill-effects, both psychological and actual, of school children being kept away from attending their schools physically.., the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Allahabad Muth’s top seer Mahant Narendra Giri dies of suicide||Mahant Narendra Giri, the president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, was found dead on Monday at Baghambari Muth here, police said. The Parishad is the largest organisation of sadhus in India. According to Inspector General of Police K P Singh, Mahant Giri's body was found hanging from the ceiling by his disciples. A purported suicide note was also found at the site in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and was ending his life. He had also delegated various responsibilities to his disciples in the note, the police said. The IGP said that police had received a call at 5.30 PM from the Muth that Giri had hanged himself. Prima facie it appeared to be a case of suicide but things will be clearer after the post-mortem and forensic tests, the police said. The influential Hindu seer was hospitalised in April after he tested positive from COVID-19. Several political and religious leaders condoled the demise of Giri. "The death of Mahant Narendra Giri ji, President of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, is an irreparable loss to the spiritual world. I pray to Lord Shri Ram to grant the departed soul a place at his feet and strength to the bereaved followers to bear this sorrow. Om Shanti," Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Raj Kundra gets bail in porn films case after two months||A magistrate court here on Monday granted bail to businessman Raj Kundra, an accused in a pornographic films case in which he was arrested two months ago. Kundra's associate Ryan Thorpe, who was arrested along with him in July, was also granted bail by the court. Kundra (46) had filed a bail plea before the court, claiming there was not a single evidence against him in a supplementary charge-sheet filed by the Mumbai police crime branch in the case. The businessman, in the plea, had claimed there was no evidence of him being "actively" involved in creation of alleged questionable porn content and that he was being made a "scapegoat" in the case. The crime branch, probing the case, had recently filed a supplementary charge-sheet in the court against Kundra and three others in the case pertaining to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. Kundra, husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested on July 19 by after being booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Pfizer, BioNTech say trials find Covid jab safe for kids of 5-11 yrs||Global pharma major Pfizer and BioNTech SE on Monday said trial results of COVID-19 vaccine showed that it is safe and produced robust neutralizing antibody response in children aged five to 11 years, and they plan to seek regulatory approvals as soon as possible. Children aged five to 11 years were given a two-dose regimen of 10 microgrammes (g) administered 21 days apart, a smaller dose than the 30 g dose used for people 12 years and older, the companies said in a joint statement. "In participants 5 to 11 years of age, the vaccine was safe, well tolerated and showed robust neutralizing antibody responses," the statement said. The companies plan to submit these data to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), European Medicines Agency (EMA) and other regulators as soon as possible, the statement said. "Since July, paediatric cases of COVID-19 have risen by about 240 percent in the US underscoring the public health need for vaccination. These trial results provide a strong foundation for seeking authorization of our vaccine for children 5 to 11 years old, and we plan to submit them to the FDA and other regulators with urgency," Pfizer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla said. For the United States, the companies expect to include the data in a near-term submission for Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) as they continue to accumulate the safety and efficacy data required to file for full FDA approval in this age group, the companies said. A request to the EMA to update the EU Conditional Marketing Authorization is also planned, they added. "We are pleased to be able to submit data to regulatory authorities for this group of school-aged children before the start of the winter season. The safety profile and immunogenicity data in children aged 5 to 11 years vaccinated at a lower dose are consistent with those we have observed with our vaccine in other older populations at a higher dose," BioNTech CEO and co-founder Ugur Sahin said. Topline readouts for the other two age cohorts from the trial children 2-5 years of age and children 6 months to 2 years of age are expected as soon as the fourth quarter of this year, the statement said. The Phase 1/2/3 trial initially enrolled up to 4,500 children ages 6 months to 11 years of age in the United States, Finland, Poland, and Spain from more than 90 clinical trial sites, it added. "It was designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine on a two-dose schedule (approximately 21 days apart) in three age groups: ages 5 to 11 years; ages 2 to 5 years; and ages 6 months to 2 years," the statement said. Based on the Phase 1 dose-escalation portion of the trial, children aged 5 to 11 years received two-dose schedule of 10 g each while children under age 5 received a lower 3 g dose for each injection in the Phase 2/3 study. The trial enrolled children with or without prior evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||Here’s how Avi Mittal entered the World Book of records for excellence in helping people!||Every country across the globe suffered when the Covid 19 Pandemic hit back in 2020. Many places saw the worst financial crisis ever and a lot of people were effectively put out of jobs, causing their lives to get drastically derailed. Many efforts and joint ventures were put into place by not only the government of India but individual organisations as well. One such venture was the hotline established by the Indian Chapter of BRICS under the leadership of Avi Mittal. The hotline proved essential during the second wave of the virus in India as it helped people locate and source necessary services be it plasma or hospital beds or oxygen tanks. The hotline was spread across the Indian subcontinent with many people volunteering to help out to the best of their abilities. During the second wave, Avi’s hotline helped over 1000 people in terms of assistance. Avi and the other members of the BRICS committee even helped provide monetary assistance by personal inputs and also by raising funds via various NGO’s. For their contributions in times of dire needs, The BRICS India chapter was entered in the World Book of Records for ‘Excellence in helping people’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
20-09-2021||India||NSHM waives the tuition fees for all students who lost their earning parent ||The on-going pandemic has brought about significant socio-economic changes and uncertainties. The student community has been one of the worst suffering sections. On one hand, regular classes have been stalled, exams are getting postponed or cancelled; and on the other hand, a dismal placement scenario. Additionally, there is the most critical concern of difficulties in payment of tuition fees due to extraordinarily harsh scenarios. Plight of the students have skyrocketed due to these factors;and hence student’s welfare becomes the top most priority for all leading institutes and NSHM is no exception. In these trying times, NSHM has played an important role in helping those in difficulty. NSHM’sBoard of Trustees have taken the decision that all the current students at NSHM Durgapur and Kolkata campus who have lost an earning member(mother or father)for any cause of death not just limited to Covid-19 at any point of time during their study tenure; the University shall waive 100% of the tuition fees from the upcoming semester until the student graduates from NSHM. “NSHM already offers a range of financial assistance in the form of Academic Scholarship based on merit, Defence Forces Scholarship, Financial aides based on family’s financial standing and more.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To add to this bouquet, NSHM has come up with a fee waiver scheme to mitigate the hardship of the students during the pandemic. Under this scheme up to 100% of the tuition fee is waived off for students who have lost their parent or earning member of their family due to Covid-19,” said Mr. Cecil Antony, Chief Mentor & Managing Trustee, NSHM Knowledge campus. Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology  or MAKAUT(Formerly known as West Bengal University of Technology) is playing a pivotal role in this fee waiver scheme. Under this scheme, 50 % of the waiver is contributed by the University and the rest 50% by NSHM (which is also affiliated to MAKAUT). Students have to submit their applications along with necessary documents like, death certificate of the earning member, grade card of the student ( not applicable for students who have not completed their 1st semester ), registration certificate of the University and admit card, EPIC Card, Income certificate and character certificate from the principal of the institute. Covid-19 has created an unprecedented level of uncertainty and difficulty to everyone’s lives. However, the institute is working closely with students to safeguard their interests and support their needs. Along with provisions of online classes, NSHM is securing internships and placements for students for their continued education and career development. Looking after the interest of the students and responding to their needs is the sole objective of this programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||NEET: SC to hear plea against ‘last-minute’ changes in exam pattern||The Supreme Court Monday agreed to hear a plea challenging the alleged "last-minute" changes made to the examination pattern for the upcoming National Eligibility cum Entrance Test - Super Specialization (NEET-SS) 2021 which is scheduled in November. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna issued notice and sought responses from the Centre, National Board of Examinations (NBE) and National Medical Commission (NMC) on the plea filed by 41 post-graduate doctors. The apex court, which posted the matter for further hearing on September 27, also permitted the petitioners to file brief note of their written submissions. The petitioners, who are qualified post-graduate doctors from across the country and are aspiring to become super specialists by cracking the NEET-SS 2021, have said the dates for the examination was announced on July 23 but the changed pattern was made public on August 31. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the petitioners, said the NEET-SS 2021 exams are scheduled on November 13-14 and it is fairly settled principle including in educational matter that once the calendar is announced, there is no question of then altering the scheme. The plea, filed through advocate Javedur Rahman, has sought quashing of the scheme of NEET-SS 2021 contained in the August 31 information bulletin, as notified by the NBE and approved by the NMC, alleging it to be "illegal" having been carried out without any authority of law. "As per the existing/earlier pattern 40 marks use to be come from the base subject and 60 marks were in respect of the two optional courses opted by the aspirant. This was very important since the candidate themselves would choose the fields of their interest and not only obtain theoretical knowledge of it but will be engaged in acquiring practical knowledge of the same," it said. The plea claimed that the information bulletin has "completely transformed" the entrance examination and the NBE has stated that the exam would be of the "level of exit exam of post-graduation". "Thus, post-graduates from different broad specialities can appear for a single super-speciality exam," it said. The plea said the erstwhile pattern had a paper with 60 per cent questions from critical care, that is the super-specialty subject, and 40 per cent were mixed questions from all the five broad specialties, including General Medicine and Anaesthesiology, ensuring a "level-playing field". "The proposed new pattern is forcing all the candidates from above-mentioned broad specialties to write a single paper which will have 100 per cent questions from General Medicine. There will be no questions from broad specialties of other four post-graduate branches. The pattern is not just a waste of time and effort for all those who have prepared for critical care but also grossly biased against few broad specialties," it claimed. The plea has also sought direction restoring the pattern of exam for NEET-SS 2021 and in the alternative, directing that the changes in the scheme shall not be implemented in this year exam on account of paucity of time but be implemented in 2022 and onwards. "The petitioners were surprised to see the scheme of the NEET-SS exams in part 4, having undergone a complete change without any sort of advance intimation, with only two months left for the exam whilst the petitioners have all along been preparing in terms of the extant pattern/scheme of the exam, having absolutely no reason to think that any such drastic change will be made so close to the specified date and without the lawful authority i.e. the Central Government directing to do so," it said. It said the petitioners, who have had the "most challenging experiences" of their professional lives in this time being at the forefront of the battle against COVID-19, have all through this period prepared for NEET-SS 2021 exam legitimately expecting that the pattern is unchanged, just like it was in the previous three years. "That apart, in view of such hasty and last-minute decision to change the exam pattern, the aspirants who have only recently completed the post graduation (PG) would have an edge over aspirants who have completed the PG some time back and are working in units dedicated to super speciality with the objective of acquiring fundamental and practical knowledge in the field," the plea said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Schools must be haven for children, says Kailash Satyarthi||The longer schools are shut the more the likelihood that children from poor families will never return to their classrooms, says Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi while stressing that the decision to reopen has to be medical assessment driven. Describing schools as a haven for children, the renowned child rights activist also expressed concern over the situation in Afghanistan after the Taliban seized control over large parts of the country last month following the withdrawal of US-led forces. "The progress we have made till now for the safety and protection of children and women in Afghanistan must not be lost. Schools must be a safe haven for children and no child must be used in any form of combat. This is essential to basic human liberty and dignity," Satyarthi told PTI in an exclusive interview. Weighing in on the much debated issue of whether or not schools in India should reopen now that the Covid graph seems to be dipping in several parts, Satyarthi underscored the urgency of the situation. "This has to be a medical assessment driven decision. But we do need to accelerate action to make schools safe for children. The longer schools are shut, the more the likelihood of children from poor families never returning to classrooms, especially those without access to digital tools, he said in the phone interview. Schools, Satyarthi added, are not only centres of academic learning but also places of emotional, mental and social development. Schools give children a sense of community and allow a more meaningful relationship of trust with the teachers," he said. Satyarthi, who was last week appointed one of the 17 global advocates for the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) by UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, said the move comes at a "very critical and challenging time for children . The 67-year-old social reformer said every child should be "free, safe and educated" and the UN community should not make any false promise to reach the goals but actually deliver. "Our response to this generation can make or break our future world. I have accepted this appointment with the responsibility and honour of bringing their voices to the centre of global decision making." The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), also known as Global Goals, were adopted by the United Nations in 2015 as a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity by 2030 (Agenda 2030). The 17 SDGs are integrated they recognise that action in one area will affect outcomes in others, and that development must balance social, economic and environmental sustainability. Discussing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on children and their future, Satyarthi expressed his displeasure over the global response towards the sufferings of thousands who were either orphaned or went hungry after their families lost incomes or because their schools closed. "We have all witnessed the suffering of the world's children during this pandemic. Thousands of children have been orphaned, entire households have lost their income, and school closures have led to millions of children going hungry. Despite the gravity of the situation, we have seen a grossly unequal response to the crisis globally," he said. He said children from the most marginalised communities suffered the most with increased vulnerabilities for child labour, trafficking and slavery. The Nobel laureate further pointed to the increase in child labourers and said it "is a wake up call to warn us that we are setting ourselves up for the failure of the entire Agenda 2030 . "Even before the pandemic hit, the first increase in child labour in two decades was reported. This occurred during the first four years of the SDGs, when an average of 10,000 children between five-11 years were pushed into child labour every day during these four years. Satyarthi spoke at length about the creation of a Global Social Protection Fund, He referred to the success of schemes such as midday meals in India, Bolsa Familia in Brazil and direct cash transfers in several African nations that have helped lift millions out of poverty. The fund would also help increase "global GDP because the economy grows quicker when children are learning in school rather than working to survive", he said. "A Global Social Protection Fund can bridge the growing inequality of our world. We are demanding that as part of this, a fair share of resources be allocated for direct benefits to children. This includes school feeding programmes, access to free and quality education and healthcare, safe housing, clean drinking water and sanitation. These are the fundamentals of human dignity." The Fund, if set up, should encourage low income countries to invest in national social protection floors. At this time of crisis, powerful countries cannot look away from their partner countries, he said. Discussing the 'Fair Share to End Child Labour Campaign', a global partnership campaign around the International Year for the Elimination of Child Labour, Satyarthi said, "It is a challenge to the inherent discrimination and inequality that lies at the heart of child labour. "We need a fair share to end child labour, a fair share of policies, financial resources and social protection for the most marginalised children. Our campaign challenges the very foundation of child labour and exploitation - the immoral and unjust division of global wealth, policies and protection." He said the campaign has grown incredibly quickly with a new country campaign forming every fortnight. It has a broad youth led coalition behind it and has started to mobilise in spite of the pandemic. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||India to resume export of surplus Covid vaccines next month, says health minister||India will resume export of surplus COVID-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool, but vaccinating its own citizens remains the topmost priority of the government, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Monday. Addressing the media, the minister said the government will receive over 30 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines in October and over 100 crore doses in the next three months. He also said that cumulative doses administered so far across the country have crossed 81 crore and the last 10 crore doses were administered in only 11 days. Asserting that vaccination of our own citizens remains the government's topmost priority, Mandaviya said the export of surplus vaccines would begin in the next quarter (October-December) under the Vaccine Maitri programme and in order to fulfil the commitment of India towards COVAX. This is in line with our motto of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam', he said. He said that the surplus supply of vaccines will be used to fulfil India's commitment towards the world for the collective fight against COVID-19. COVAX is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and WHO. Highlighting the importance of indigenous research and production of Covid vaccines in India, he said that it is due to the relentless efforts and guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that India was simultaneously undertaking research and production of Covid vaccines in such a big way. India's vaccination drive has been a role model for the world and it is marching ahead with great speed, he said. Talking about the expected production and supply trends in the coming months, he said that more than 30 crore doses will be produced in October and more than 100 crores in the coming quarter. India on Friday administered a record number of over 2.50 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday. The daily COVID-19 vaccination in the country was over 1 crore on September 6, August 31 and August 27. India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30-crore mark, according to the ministry. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore doses and then 20 more days to cross the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6, it said. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark and took only 13 days to reach 70 crore from 60 crore on September 7, the ministry said. It then took just 11 days to reach 80 crore from 70 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Dalits should be wary of Cong's election stunt: Mayawati ||With Charanjit Singh Channi taking oath as Punjab's first Dalit chief minister, BSP president Mayawati on Monday termed it an election stunt of the Congress and asked Dalits to be wary of it. Mayawati, whose party has tied up with Shiromani Akali Dal for the upcoming Punjab assembly polls, also said whatever the "casteist parties" are giving to Dalits and OBCs, whether it is in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh or other states, it is for their votes and to serve selfish motives and not for ameliorating their lot. Making a person belonging to Dalit caste as the chief minister of Punjab is nothing but an election stunt. I have come to know through the media today that assembly elections in Punjab will be fought under a non-Dalit leader and not under Channi, Mayawati told newspersons here. Attacking the Congress, she said, It still does not have faith in Dalits. Dalits need to be very alert to their double standards. I have full faith that Dalits of Punjab will not fall for this stunt." The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister also claimed the Congress is rattled by the SAD-BSP alliance for the Punjab Assembly polls. The BSP and SAD had in June joined hands for the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had announced that if their alliance wins, the deputy chief minister would be from the Dalit community. The reality is that Congress and other political parties think of Dalits only in times of crisis, Mayawati charged. Referring to Dr B R Ambedkar, the BSP chief said, If the Congress had any other capable person, it would not have included Ambedkar in the exercise of framing the Constitution. The legal rights which Dalits, adivasis and OBCs have got would not have been possible then. Even the religious minorities, especially the Muslims, have got whatever security they have because Ambedkar framed the Indian Constitution not based on any caste or religion but secularism, she stressed. Drawing a parallel with Uttar Pradesh which also goes to polls early next year, Mayawati targeted the BJP, alleging its "drama" for the OBCs is just for their vote. The BJP has acquired a newfound love for the OBCs but it is just an eyewash. Had there been any truth and honesty in their concern for the OBCs, the central and BJP led state governments filled their backlog in government jobs alongwith SC/STs. "They would also accept the demand for a caste-based census. BJP and other casteist parties are panicking (over census ) just as their people had launched a violent protest at the time when Mandal Commission recommendations were implemented, she said. "Like the Dalits, OBCs will also not fall for Congress, BJP or any other casteist party as they know that whatever they have got is because of Ambedkar's efforts," Mayawati said. The BSP president said that she has full faith that Dalits or the backwards in UP, Punjab or any other state, will not fall to such gimmicks. The Congress' decision to name Channi, who hails from Rupnagar district in Punjab's Malwa belt, assumes significance as almost 32 percent population of the state comprises Dalits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor slam UK's Covid travel rules||Former Union ministers Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor on Monday slammed the UK's COVID-19-related travel rules under which Indians vaccinated with Covishield would still be treated as unvaccinated, with Ramesh saying it "smacks of racism". Passengers who aren't recognised as being fully vaccinated with authorised vaccines and certificates under England's international travel rules, including Indians, will still have to take a pre-departure test, a day 2 and day 8 PCR test, and self-isolate at their given address for 10 days upon entry, according to the rules. Tweeting on the restrictions, Congress leader Ramesh said, “Absolutely bizarre considering Covishield was originally developed in the UK and The Serum Institute, Pune has supplied to that country too! This smacks of racism.” Tagging a thread on Twitter that explained the rules, Tharoor also slammed the restrictions on vaccinated Indians, saying, "Because of this I have pulled out of a debate at the @cambridgeunion & out of launch events for the UK edition of my book #TheBattleOfBelonging (published there as #TheStruggleForIndiasSoul)." “It is offensive to ask fully vaccinated Indians to quarantine. The Brits are reviewing!” the former minister of state for external affairs said. From October 4, the current traffic light system of red, amber and green countries based on levels of COVID-19 risk will be scrapped in the UK and replaced with one red list only. The scrapping of an amber list, which is what India is currently on, means reduced cost burden for travellers -- especially for the Indian diaspora vaccinated in the UK -- related to compulsory PCR tests. However, an expanded list of countries whose vaccines are recognised in England does not include India, which means that Indians vaccinated with Covishield -- the Serum Institute of India produced Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine -- would still be subjected to the restrictions mandatory for those unvaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Sonu Sood issues statement on alleged tax evasion of Rs 20 crore ||Every rupee in his foundation is awaiting its turn to be used to reach the needy and save lives, actor Sonu Sood said in a statement on Monday in response to the CBDT's allegation that he and his associates evaded tax of Rs 20 crore. Speaking for the first time since multiples searches at his premises and those related to his associates last week, the 48-year-old actor stated that he had been busy "attending to a few guests", the reason why he was unable to be at the service of the people for four days. "Here I am back again in all humility. At your humble service, for life. My journey continues. Jai Hind," he wrote in a statement posted on Instagram. Sood routed his "unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities", the Central Board of Direct Taxes claimed after the Income Tax Department raided the actor and a Lucknow-based infrastructure group. It also accused the ‘Dabangg’ actor -- who came into the national spotlight for his work with migrants and others during the Covid pandemic through his Sood Charity Foundation -- of violating the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) while raising donations from abroad. Sood said in his statement that he had pledged himself to the service of the people of India with all his "strength and heart". “You don't always have to tell your side of the story. Time will. Every rupee in my foundation is awaiting its turn to save a precious life and reach the needy. In addition, on many occasions, I have encouraged brands to donate my endorsement fees for humanitarian causes too, which keeps us going,” he said. Kar bhala to ho bhala, ant bhale ka bhala (A good deed always ends well)," he wrote in Hindi. In a statement on Saturday, the CBDT claimed it had found "incriminating evidence pertaining to tax evasion" during the course of searches at the premises of the actor and his associates. The searches began on September 15 and continued for three more days. “The main modus operandi followed by the actor had been to route his unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities,” the statement had read. It added that, so far, the use of 20 such entries has been found and the providers of which, on examination, ‘accepted’ on oath to have given ‘bogus’ accommodation entries (transaction entries in accounts). Sood hit the headlines after he arranged free transport through rail, air and road for numerous migrant workers to reach their home states during the nationwide lockdown clamped last year to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic. The CBDT said the charity foundation set up by the actor was incorporated on July 21, 2020 and had collected donations to the tune of Rs 18.94 crore from April 1, 2021 till date. Out of this, it said, the foundation has spent around Rs 1.9 crore for various relief works and the balance of Rs 17 crore has been found lying "unutilised" in its bank account. Funds to the tune of Rs 2.1 crore have also been raised by the charity foundation from overseas donors on a crowdfunding platform "in violation" of FCRA regulations, it alleged. The Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP government in Delhi recently appointed Sood ambassador of its 'Desh ka mentors' programme under which students will be guided in making their career choices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Congress appointed Channi as CM to gain Dalit votes before next year's Assemby polls, alleges BJP||The BJP alleged on Monday that the Congress has made Charanjit Singh Channi Punjab chief minister for a few months merely to grab Dalit votes as part of its conspiracy, and cited previous instances of the party giving the key position to a leader from the community only for a short tenure. Hitting out at the Congress, BJP general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam, who is the party's in-charge for the state, noted the reported statement of Harish Rawat that the Congress will fight the assembly elections under its state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu's leadership. Rawat is the Congress' pointsman for handling its Punjab affairs. "This is an old habit of the Congress. It believes that it can capture Dalit vote bank by making a Dalit chief minister for a few months. A conspiracy is being hatched in Punjab to grab Dalit vote bank," Gautam said. He noted that the Congress had made Dalit leader Sushil Kumar Shinde Maharashtra chief minister in 2003 but replaced him with Vilasrao Deshmukh when it won the 2004 assembly election. Similarly, he said, the Congress had made Jagannath Pahadia Rajasthan's chief minister in 1980 but removed him in over a year. Gautam, also a Dalit leader, alleged that the Congress has resorted to this tactic often and claimed that it often used former deputy prime minister Jagjivan Ram to get the votes of the community but "insulted" him and even removed him from the party when it came to giving him his due. The Congress also never gave B R Ambedkar Bharat Ratna or made memorial in his name or did anything to preserve his memory, the BJP leader claimed. "The Congress has humiliated Dalits innumerable times," he alleged. Channi, 58, was on Monday sworn in as chief minister of Punjab, making him the first Dalit to hold the top post in the state. The state will go to the polls early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Channi talks about inclusiveness as internal rift in Punjab Congress deepens  ||Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi was on Monday sworn in as chief minister of Punjab on Monday, making him the first Dalit to hold the top post in the state, but the road ahead for him seems to be rocky with leaders issuing public statements reflecting the dissension within the party. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni were also sworn in. They will be designated as deputy chief ministers. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered oath to the 58-year-old Channi at a ceremony held at the Raj Bhawan. Thanking the party leadership, Channi told reporters, "The party has given a common person a great honour." Channi said he will become the voice of the common people of Punjab and will always remain accessible to the people. In his first press conference after being sworn-in, he appealed to the Centre to repeal the contentious farm laws. "Together, we have to make Punjab prosperous. Punjab is primarily an agrarian state. This government is a pro-farmer government, this is Congress government," he said. However, Channi, who took oath in Punjabi, will need to resolve internal rifts which are tormenting the state unit before the Assembly elections due next year. Earlier on Monday, Congress leader Sunil Jakhar questioned AICC general secretary Harish Rawat's reported statement that the upcoming state elections would be fought under the leadership of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Jakhar, who is also the former Punjab Congress chief, dubbed Rawat's statement as baffling, saying it is likely to undermine the authority of the chief minister. On the swearing-in day of Sh @Charnjit_channi as Chief Minister, Mr Rawats's statement that 'elections will be fought under Sidhu', is baffling. It's likely to undermine CM's authority but also negate the very 'raison d' tre' of his selection for this position, said Jakhar in a tweet. Jakhar was one of the frontrunners for the post of new Congress Legislative Party leader after Amarinder Singh was nudged into quitting ostensibly over his failure to fulfil the promises made by the party in the 2017 assembly polls. However, Congress finally picked Channi for the post and it was learnt that Sidhu backed it. Reacting to Jakhar's tweet, BJP leader Amit Malviya called it a huge insult to the Dalit community. This is a huge insult to the entire Dalit community if Charanjit Singh Channi has been made the CM, only to hold the seat for Navjot Singh Sidhu, the chosen Gandhi family loyalist. This completely undermines the Dalit empowerment narrative being peddled by the Congress. Shame, said Malviya in a tweet. After his swearing in, which was held in the presence of senior Congress leaders including Rahul Gandhi, Channi said, "This government is of the people of Punjab, he further said, adding that Congress' ideology is to take everyone along. On his predecessor, Amarinder Singh, Channi said he did good work as CM. "He is also known as protector of water rights. He is our party leader," he said. "The party high command has given an 18-point programme and we are committed to it, said Channi," adding promises made will be fulfilled. We will ensure a transparent government, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Nadda slams Opposition over their 'irresponsible' remarks about Covid vaccination drive||The Opposition parties should introspect over their "irresponsible" statements about the Covid vaccination programme of the Modi government that has proved to be the "biggest and fastest" in the world, BJP president JP Nadda said on Monday. In a visit to a vaccination centre at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here, he congratulated and thanked a team of Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, state health ministers, medical fraternity and people for making the vaccination campaign a "success". Over 2.5 crore people were vaccinated on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday on September 17, setting a world record in vaccination. It proves that this campaign is the "biggest and fastest" in the world, Nadda said. "The Opposition parties should introspect over their silence on 2.5 crore vaccinations on September 17 and their irresponsible and laughable statements in the past one year on the vaccination drive. They should think what impression they have left on the society and their role in a democracy," he said. It was his second visit to the AIIMS vaccination centre since the drive began earlier this year. He interacted with people who had come for vaccination at the centre and the medical staff and thanked them for making the drive a success. The visit by the BJP president was part of the party's 20-day mega campaign, titled 'Sewa Aur Samarpan Abhiyan', launched on Modi's birthday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-193
20-09-2021||India||Javed Akhtar defamation case: Kangana Ranaut appears before Mumbai court||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut appeared before a Mumbai court on Monday in connection with a criminal defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. The court had last week said it will issue a warrant against Ranaut if she fails to appear on the next date of hearing on September 20. Ranaut appeared before the metropolitan magistrate's court on Monday for the first time since summons was issued to her in February this year. Earlier this month, the Bombay High Court dismissed a plea filed by Ranaut seeking quashing of proceedings initiated against her by the local court on the criminal defamation complaint filed by Akhtar. Justice Revati Mohite-Dere had said in the order that there was no procedural illegality or irregularity in the metropolitan magistrate's order initiating the proceedings. Akhtar (76) had filed the complaint in the court in November last year, claiming Ranaut had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ranaut dragged his name during an interview while referring to a 'coterie' existing in Bollywood, following the alleged suicide committed by actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Channi takes oath as Punjab Chief Minister||Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi was on Monday sworn in as chief minister of Punjab, making him the first Dalit to hold the top post in the state. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni were also sworn in. They will be designated as deputy chief ministers. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered oath to the 58-year-old Channi at a ceremony held at the Raj Bhawan here. Channi took oath in Punjabi. The Congress on Sunday picked Channi as the next chief minister of Punjab after the resignation of Amarinder Singh. Prominent among those who were present at the oath-taking ceremony were Rahul Gandhi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Amarinder Singh, who resigned as chief minister two days back, was conspicuous by his absence. Channi becomes chief minister with less than six month to go before the assembly polls in Punjab. Amarinder Singh was nudged into quitting ostensibly over his failure to fulfil the promises made by the party in the 2017 assembly polls. It is not clear if the new CM will be able to accomplish the task in the time available to him, observers say. But his appointment will allow the party to play the Dalit card in the coming elections. An estimated 30 per cent of the state's population, counting both Sikhs and Hindus, is from that community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Rawat's reported remarks on Sidhu baffling, says Punjab leader||Congress leader Sunil Jakhar on Monday questioned AICC general secretary Harish Rawat's reported statement that the upcoming state elections would be fought under the leadership of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Jakhar, who is also the former Punjab Congress chief, dubbed Rawat's statement as baffling , saying it is likely to undermine the authority of the chief minister. On the swearing-in day of Sh @Charnjit_channi as Chief Minister, Mr Rawats's statement that 'elections will be fought under Sidhu', is baffling. It's likely to undermine CM's authority but also negate the very 'raison d' tre' of his selection for this position, said Jakhar in a tweet. New Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi took oath on Monday, in the presence of Rahul Gandhi and other senior Congress leaders. Rawat had reportedly said that the Punjab Assembly polls next year will be fought under Sidhu. Jakhar was one of the frontrunners for the post of new Congress Legislative Party leader after Amarinder Singh was nudged into quitting ostensibly over his failure to fulfil the promises made by the party in the 2017 assembly polls. However, Congress finally picked Channi for the post and it was learnt that Sidhu backed it. Reacting to Jakhar's tweet, BJP leader Amit Malviya called it as huge insult to the Dalit community. This is a huge insult to the entire Dalit community if Charanjit Singh Channi has been made the CM, only to hold the seat for Navjot Singh Sidhu, the chosen Gandhi family loyalist. This completely undermines the Dalit empowerment narrative being peddled by the Congress. Shame, said Malviya in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||India logs over 30,000 fresh cases, 295 casualties in a day||With 30,256 people testing positive for coronavirus infection, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,34,78,419, while the active cases declined to 3,18,181, the lowest in 1,823 days, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,45,133 with 295 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,18,181 comprising 0.95 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.72 per cent, the health ministry said. A reduction of 13,977 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. A total of 11,77,607 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,36,21,766. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.57 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 21 days, it said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.07 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 87 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,27,15,105, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent, it said. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 80.85 crore, according to the ministry. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 295 fresh fatalities include 152 from Kerala, and 49 from Maharashtra. Of the 4,45,133 deaths reported so far in the country, 1,38,518 are from Maharashtra, 37,603 from Karnataka, 35,337 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 23,591 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,652 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Over 34,000 idols immersed on last day of Ganpati festival in Mumbai||A total of 34,452 idols of Lord Ganesh and Goddess Gauri were immersed in water bodies across Mumbai on the last day of the Ganpati festival held under the shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic for the second year in a row, civic officials said on Monday. Three boys, who were swept away in the sea waters at Versova jetty here during the Ganesh idol immersion on the culmination of the 10-day festivities on Sunday night, were still missing. Two others accompanying them were rescued, they said. No other untoward incident was reported in the city during the final day immersions, the officials said. A Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said of the 34,452 idols immersed on Sunday, 13,442 were immersed in artificial lakes which were created across the city to avoid crowding at natural water bodies. Out of the total immersed idols, 5,043 were of 'sarvajanik' (public) mandals, 29,060 household Ganesh idols, and 349 idols of Goddess Gauri. Among the idols immersed in artificial lakes here, 11,387 were household Ganpati idols, 1,890 of public mandals and 165 of Goddess Gauri, the official said. The famed idol of the 'Lalbaug Cha Raja' Ganesh mandal in the metropolis was immersed at Girgaon Chowpatty by around 3 pm on Sunday, an official earlier said. The BMC also deployed 715 lifeguards at various natural and artificial immersion sites, he said. The festival began on September 10 across the state and was celebrated in a low-key manner for the second year in a row in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier, more than 41,000 idols were immersed in various water bodies in the city on the second day of the festival, 66,000 on the fifth day and 15,000 on the seventh day. The BMC had capped the height of household Ganesh idols to two feet and of public mandals to four feet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi likely to attend oath-taking ceremony of new Punjab CM||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to attend the oath-taking ceremony of Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister of Punjab on Monday, party sources said. Channi, who is set to take oath at 11 am, paid obeisance at a gurdwara in Chamkaur Sahib in Rupnagar district on Monday morning. He will be the first Dalit to hold the post in the state. The Congress on Sunday picked Channi as the next chief minister of Punjab. After having picked Channi as the next chief minister of Punjab, the Congress is likely to pick two senior leaders from the state as Deputy CMs. A tweet from senior Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal, who is AICC treasurer, revealed the names of two senior leaders and outgoing ministers in the previous Amarinder Singh's cabinet -- Brahm Mohindra and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa -- as the party's choice for the Deputy chief minister's posts. While Mohindra is the Hindu face of the party, Randhawa is the Jat face. Mohindra was considered a close confidant of former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Heartiest congratulations to @Charanjit channi for elevation as#PunjabCM and@Brahm Mohindra & @Sukhjinder INC as Dy CMs. Best wishes for their grand success in the services of Punjab under the leadership of Smt. Sonia Gandhi and Sh @ Rahul Gandhi, Bansal, a former MP from Chandigarh, tweeted. Channi on Sunday had met Governor Banwarilal Purohit to stake claim to the top job in the poll-bound state soon after being elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party. Amarinder Singh was nudged into quitting ostensibly over his failure to fulfil the promises made by the party in the 2017 assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Kolkata anchor ‘gang-raped’ in Patna hotel alleges police inaction ||A 24-year-old woman from Kolkata who works as an anchor has alleged that she was gang-raped at a hotel in Patna in July, when she went there to anchor a programme organised by an event management company. According to her complaint, two men, including the owner of the company, had allegedly raped her and threatened to kill her if she raised an alarm. She returned to Kolkata and lodged a complaint with Jadavpur police station in south Kolkata in July, after which the case was shifted to Patna. The woman alleged on Sunday that even more than two months after the complaint was lodged, Patna police had not made any arrest. She said she was still receiving threat calls from the alleged perpetrators. Officers of the Patna police said they were probing the matter and would take necessary action. “It is a two-month-old incident. The case was initially registered with Kolkata police and then moved here. Whatever is there in the FIR, we are looking into them. There are serious allegations of rape. Why wouldn't they be arrested? But before that we are making a detailed investigation,” said Rahul Ambarish, superintendent of police, Patna City (Central). The station house officer (SHO) of Gandhi Maidan police station in whose area the hotel is, denied that ‘nothing has been done’ by the police. “We have sent teams from Patna to Muzaffarpur thrice in the past two months. Both accused were absconding. Their phones were switched off. Their last tower location was in Muzaffarpur,” said SHO Ranjit Bats. Bats, the SHO, said the police had examined CCTV footage and were trying to verify the anchor’s account. The woman had mentioned in her complaint lodged with Jadavpur police station that she had gone to Patna in the last week of June to anchor an event. “I was categorically told by the wife of the event management company’s owner that my husband should not accompany me as they were not in a position to bear any additional expenses. She assured me that she and I would stay on the same floor of the hotel. But on reaching the hotel, I was told that she was not there,” the complainant said on Sunday. The alleged incident happened early on July 3 — hours before she was to catch a train back home from Patna Junction. “After the event, the owner came to my room around 1am to make the payment. When he started opening a bottle of whiskey, I strongly objected and started shouting. At that point, another man — a friend of the owner — entered the room and shut the door. I realised they had come prepared,” she said. The woman said she tried to pick up the receiver of the land phone in the room but the men snapped the wire. The men allegedly threatened to kill her if she dared raise her voice. “I tried my best to resist them but they overpowered me. After that, they dragged me into the washroom and poured water on me to wipe all evidence. One of them thrust a contraceptive pill in my mouth before they both accompanied me to the station to ensure I did not raise any alarm,” she said. The woman boarded a train at 4.25am and reached Kolkata in the evening. The next day she went to Jadavpur police station and lodged her complaint. A senior police officer at Lalbazar said they had started a ‘zero FIR’ under IPC sections related to gang-rape and transferred the case to the Patna police. Zero FIR can be lodged anywhere irrespective of the place of occurrence. The woman said she went back to Patna on July 29 to get her statement recorded before a magistrate under Section 164 of CrPC. “I have been calling up the investigating officer in Patna, who keeps assuring me the accused will be arrested. But to the best of my knowledge, nothing has been done. Now, the wife of the event management company’s owner is threatening me with dire consequences if I do not settle the matter,” the complainant said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Punjab gets its first Dalit CM in Charanjit Singh Channi ||Punjab is scheduled to have its first Dalit chief minister with the Congress picking Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday to replace Amarinder Singh in a surprise decision. Channi, 58, who was minister of technical education, culture and tourism in Amarinder’s government, is a three-time MLA and considered a confidant of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Caste is expected to play a key role this election. The Scheduled Castes make up about a third of Punjab’s population but the state has never had a Dalit chief minister. Jat Sikhs, barely 20 per cent of the population, have always dominated Punjab politics because of their financial and social clout. The largely uneducated and poor Dalits have remained on the margins, surviving mostly as farm labourers and sanitation workers. While Sidhu himself wanted to be chief minister, the party high command decided to insure against any political backlash from Amarinder who has had a running feud with the state president. Earlier, Sunil Jakhar and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa were being portrayed as front-runners since Saturday. The high command was keen on Jakhar but he lost his chance primarily because the dominant view favoured a Sikh leading the government. Jakhar is a Hindu. Randhawa missed out because the party decided to tap the Dalit symbolism ahead of the upcoming Assembly elections — but not before the day witnessed the unseemly drama of supporters distributing sweets claiming he had been selected for the hot seat. The high command had earlier sprung another surprise by offering the chief minister’s post to veteran Ambika Soni, who declined it citing health issues and her conviction that Punjab must be led by a Sikh. This seemed to have queered the pitch for Jakhar. Central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chowdhary and the general secretary in charge of the state, Harish Rawat, then began seeking the views of individual MLAs. But state leaders like finance minister Manpreet Badal started quietly working with Rahul Gandhi to push Channi’s candidature. By evening, Randhawa, who had the support of the majority of party MLAs, had faded from the scene and Channi had emerged as the dark horse. Channi, spotted by Amarinder a decade ago, had moved to the Sidhu camp a few months ago. There is speculation about his being a stop-gap arrangement till the February elections, when the party can look at Sidhu’s claim if it retains power. Apart from his caste advantage, Channi is a safe bet because he appears acceptable to the various party factions. The Congress leadership had been worried about the Dalit vote this time after the Akali Dal struck an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and promised a Dalit deputy chief minister. The Congress has sought to upstage the Akalis by giving the top post to a Dalit. Besides, the Aam Aadmi Party has made deep inroads into the Dalit vote bank and was being seen as the main challenger this time. The Congress has taken care of this front as well by picking Channi. Punjab’s Dalits once saw the Congress as their natural choice but have in recent years begun looking at other parties. However, the BSP couldn’t spread its roots in Punjab despite Kanshi Ram being a native of the state. Kanshi Ram, born into a Ramdasia Sikh family, had won his first Lok Sabha election from Hoshiarpur in Punjab. But while the BSP became a dominant force in Uttar Pradesh, the best it could do in Punjab was to win 9 of the 117 Assembly seats in 1992. The BJP too had been working seriously on the Dalits in Punjab after the Jat Sikh farmers revolted against the party over the new farm laws. It appointed Vijay Sampla, a Dalit from the state, as chairperson of the National Commission for the Scheduled Castes, and he reached out to the community in a big way. The Congress now hopes to turn the tide on this front too. It’s the Congress that had made Giani Zail Singh, an OBC from Punjab, the President of India. The Congress also gave India its first Muslim President (Zakir Husain), first Dalit President (K.R. Narayanan), first woman President (Pratibha Patil), first woman Prime Minister (Indira Gandhi), first woman chief minister (Sucheta Kripalani) and first Muslim woman chief minister (Anwara Taimur).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Modi’s tenure sees sharp decline in minority status nod||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tenure has seen a sharp decline in the number of educational institutions awarded the minority status by the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions, a quasi-judicial body funded by the central government. The commission, established in 2004, can grant the minority status to institutions set up by individuals or organisations from the Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain and Parsi communities. The state governments too can independently grant the minority status, which allows an institution to reserve up to half its seats for members of its community. While the Modi government’s early years witnessed a relatively mild decline in the award of the minority certificates by the commission — from 1,500-1,600 a year to around 1,100 — the figures nosedived from 2017, falling to 10 in 2019 and 11 in 2020. (See chart) An education ministry official blamed the decline on procedural changes in clearing the applications, but academics complained that these changes amounted to “harassment” of the minority institutions and alleged that the motive was “political”. The four-member commission has three members now: Justice Narendra K. Jain (chairperson), Jaspal Singh and Shahid Akhtar. Jain became chairperson in October 2018. According to commission records, of the 522 institutions awarded the minority status between August 2017 and March 2021, some 245 had been established by Christians, 185 by Muslims, 70 by Jains, 21 by Sikhs and 1 by Buddhists. The commission has not published community-wise break-ups of the minority certificates issued before August 2017. The education ministry official said the number of applications had fallen over the years — from up to 2,000 a year witnessed mid-decade to about 600 a year now. Asked why the number of certificates awarded had plunged to around 10 a year, he blamed it on delays caused by procedural changes. An institution can apply to its state government or the commission for the minority status. Following a Supreme Court judgment in 2018 in Sisters of St Joseph of Cluny vs West Bengal, institutions applying to the commission have to attach a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the state government. The states are often slow to grant NOCs. However, if an institution can furnish proof that it had applied to the state government for an NOC more than 90 days ago, the commission can consider this “deemed NOC”. “Now the applicants have to furnish an NOC from the state government, and a unique ID from the Niti Aayog if the applicant is a registered society or a trust,” the ministry official said. An official from an applicant institution, asking not to be identified, provided a fuller explanation of how systematic delays had led to a piling backlog, with just a handful of certificates issued each year. He said the format for the application to the commission was changed three times between 2017 and 2019, each time seeking additional details such as student and teacher data or imposing new requirements such as the Niti Aayog ID. “Each time they changed the format, they asked us to withdraw the application and resubmit it. They could have easily asked for an affidavit with the additional information sought,” he said. “The withdrawals and resubmissions led to delays.” The pandemic has further slowed the process. The commission usually conducts three hearings before awarding the certificate — a process that earlier took between one and two years. Akhtarul Wasey, academic and former commissioner for linguistic minorities, expressed concern at the repeated changes to the format. “The commission has no reason to change the format repeatedly. This is harassment of the applicants,” Wasey said. He demanded that the commission provide year-wise data on its website about the number of applications received. Jessy Kurian, Supreme Court lawyer and former commission member, said delaying the minority certificates amounted to discouraging the minority institutions. “Delays defeat justice. The commission should speed up hearings for faster decisions,” Kurian said. Sociologist Andre Beteille had in March last year told this newspaper he had a feeling that the reasons for the decline in minority certificates were “political”. “On the whole I’m opposed to quotas of any kind. But something (that had been) going on for decades declining sharply calls for anxiety,” he had said. “There must be a very sound reason for such decline. I have the impression that the present Prime Minister is not favourably disposed towards minorities. I think it is political.” An email sent to the commission on August 31 seeking the reasons for the fall in the number of institutions receiving the minority status has evoked no response so far. However, Justice Jain, the commission head, had told this newspaper in March last year that there was no pressure from the government on the issuance of the minority certificates. He had attributed the falling numbers to delays caused by the format changes. Former National Commission for Minorities chairperson Naseem Ahmad said the vacancies in the commission too were a reason for the delays. Two members’ posts were vacant till last month, when Akhtar was appointed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Delhi talks with Saudi minister||India and Saudi Arabia on Sunday discussed intensifying political and economic cooperation during a foreign minister-level bilateral engagement here as part of the ongoing deliberations between world capitals on the situation in Afghanistan. Saudi Arabia’s foreign minister Faisal bin Farhan Abdullah, who is on a three-day India visit, met external affairs minister S. Jaishankar and reviewed the implementation of the Strategic Partnership Council Agreement signed between the two sides in Riyadh in October 2019. “They expressed satisfaction at the meetings held under the agreement and progress achieved,” the external affairs ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-194
20-09-2021||India||Rahul takes a jab at India's vaccine drive a day after Modi's birthday||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday tweeted a visual showing how vaccinations had dropping after the spike on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17, and wrote: “Event khatam (over)”. India recorded 3.6 million doses on Sunday and 8.5 million on Saturday after Friday’s record of 22.6 million doses. The line chart uploaded by Rahul also showed the relatively low numbers of doses administered in the days preceding September 17. Less vaccines are usually administered on Sundays.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
20-09-2021||India||Patna court asks Bihar cops to book Tejashwi in cash-for-poll-ticket case||A Patna court has ordered Bihar police to register an FIR against Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti, state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha and two others in connection with a cash-for-poll-ticket case. The court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Vijay Kishore Singh issued the order after hearing a case in which lawyer and Congress leader Sanjeev Kumar Singh has accused the five leaders of swindling him out of Rs 5 crore on the pretext of giving him a ticket to contest elections. Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore and former party leader Sadanand Singh’s son Subhanand Mukesh are the other two accused. Sanjeev has also accused Tejashwi of threatening to get him killed when he demanded his money back. “These leaders promised to give me a ticket to contest the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Bhagalpur and took Rs 5 crore from me. However, they did not give me the ticket,” Sanjeev told reporters. “When I demanded my money back, they promised to field me in the Assembly elections from Gopalpur (in Bhagalpur district) and my brother from Rupauli (in Purnea district), but did not keep their word again. When I told them to return my money, Tejashwi threatened to get me eliminated,” Sanjeev added. The RJD and the Congress are in an alliance in Bihar. The CJM’s order and papers related to the case were sent to Patna senior superintendent of police Upendra Kumar Sharma, who forwarded them to Kotwali police station on September 16 for further action. Kotwali station house officer Sunil Kumar Singh told this newspaper that he was yet to receive the papers for the FIR. Asked about the case and the directions for an FIR, Tejashwi’s aide Sanjay Yadav told The Telegraph: “There is no need for us to react to nonsensical and baseless allegations. We do not know anything about the case or the person who has filed it. If the court has ordered an FIR, so be it.” The other accused leaders did not respond to phone calls. However, some Congressmen claimed that Sanjeev had ceased to be a member of the party a year ago. “The man in question was expelled from the party during the Assembly elections last year after he put up posters declaring himself as the chief ministerial candidate of the Grand Alliance. He seems to be mentally unstable. The government agencies must probe how he got Rs 5 crore, which is a huge amount,” Congress leader Rajesh Rathore told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
20-09-2021||India||Odisha: Rains hamper states's radio collar drive on elephants ||The incessant rain for the past few days has stalled O the Odisha government’s ambitious plan to attach radio collars on elephants to monitor the herds’ movement. The scientists from the Indian Institute of Sciences (IISc), Bangalore, have left Odisha, official sources said. According to the plans, the radio collars supplied by IISc, Bangalore, will be fitted in three elephants in Chandaka sanctuary, located on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar and four in Similipal sanctuary in Mayurbhanj district in northern Odisha. The radio collars will be fitted after tranquilising the elephants. “We had identified an elephant to tranquilise it for the purpose of putting a radio collar in Chandaka sanctuary. However, we did not take the risk at this moment as the atmosphere was not conducive for the purpose. We had made the survey of the herd of elephants but the ongoing rainfall has foiled our attempt,” Chandaka divisional forest officer (DFO) Md. Jameel told The Telegraph. Honorary warden, Khurda wild life division Subhendu Mallick told this newspaper, “The forest officials had identified an elephant called Ramu and tried to tranquilise it by shooting eight darts. But the elephant overcame it and ventured into the deep forest. They failed to track the movement of the elephant. Now everything has come to a standstill.” Odisha is witnessing heavy rainfall for the last 10 days following depression in the Bay of Bengal. Bhubaneswar also witnessed heavy rainfall on Sunday. Most of the areas are submerged and all the roads leading to Chandaka sanctuary have also become muddy. “We will wait for a few more days. We need to have patience to go for tranquilising an elephant at this moment. There may be some adverse situations that have emerged because of the rain. We have to wait till the rains are over and the situation inside the forest improves,” said a senior forest official. In a bid to bring down cases of human and animal conflict Odisha during the upcoming Rabi season, the Odisha government has also decided to install wooden beehive boxes in select forest divisions of the state to keep elephants away from human habitations. “Engaging honey bees to ward off elephants has been successful in South Africa, Assam, Uttarakhand and Karnataka. We have planned to implement this in Odisha’s selective forest divisions on a pilot basis,” Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) Shashi Paul told this newspaper. The project has been named RE-Hab (Reducing Human-Elephant Attacks Using Bees). With this the government is hopeful that the human habitations as well as the crops will be safe from jumbo attacks. Cases of animal and human conflict are generally noticed in the months between October and March. According to the plan, the beehive boxes will be put up at several places known for the movement of elephants. “When a jumbo tries to cross the border and comes in touch with the wire connected to the beehive box, the door of the box will open. Angered at being disturbed the army of honeybees will come out and attack the herd of elephants. Scared by the sudden attack, the elephants will run away and will not enter the human habitations and destroy the crops,” said Paul. The state government will launch a pilot scheme in the Athmallik-Keonjhar forest division. It will procure the beehive boxes from the Khadi and Village Industries Commission. As per the government report, at least 282 pachyderms have died due to human and animal conflict in the past three years. Similarly, 912 people have lost their lives in elephant attacks during the past 10 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
20-09-2021||India||China builds 10 new airbases along the Line of Actual Control ||China appears to have built at least 10 new airbases along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh besides ramping up infrastructure at its exiting airbases close to the Indian frontier, sources in the security establishment have said. The latest assessment has strengthened the suspicion that the Chinese have been using the time afforded by the ongoing talks with India to buttress their positions in the “occupied” zones in Ladakh. “Intelligence reports suggest the Chinese have built at least 10 new airbases along the LAC in Ladakh, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh. This is very serious considering the 16-month-old border standoff in eastern Ladakh,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry said. He said the Chinese army had earlier built additional military camps as well as watchtowers with CCTV cameras atop them inside India-claimed lines in Ladakh to monitor Indian troop deployment. “It’s a matter of extreme concern the way they have been ramping up their military and air force infrastructure close to the LAC and also inside the occupied zones,” the security official said. “It’s apparent that the Chinese are bolstering their positions while talks are under way to resolve the border standoff.” The standoff continues in Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains while there have been “partial” disengagements at the Galwan Valley, Pangong Lake and Gogra – but with both sides pulling back by an equal distance within India-claimed lines. This means India has ceded additional territory while the Chinese still remain within India-claimed lines, military veterans say. On the strategically crucial Depsang Plains, the Chinese are said to be entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines. Military veterans suspect that China wants to establish a new status quo at the LAC, claiming the territory occupied since May last year as its own. They have flagged with concern the long absence of any reference to “status quo ante” in the official statements issued after each round of talks. Defence ministry sources said India’s military preparedness along the China frontier was being reviewed regularly. India has carried out mirror deployment at the LAC to match the Chinese, moving in additional troops, artillery and infantry combat vehicles, and is conducting regular aerial surveillance. “The defence top brass have been conducting regular meetings to discuss infrastructure and capability development along the LAC,” a ministry official said. India has been building 73 roads of operational significance along the China frontier, he said, but at a far slower pace compared with China’s rapid expansion of military infrastructure in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-195
20-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP sacks Dilip Ghosh as Bengal unit chief||The BJP removed its Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh in a surprise move late on Monday evening, and handed over charge to the party’s Balurghat MP, Sukanto Majumdar. BJP insiders say the steady erosion in the party's ranks despite emerging as the only major Opposition in Bengal could be one of the reasons behind Ghosh’s sudden removal. For Union minister Babul Supriyo was the latest heavyweight to leave the BJP for the Trinamul Congress, saying that it was Mamata Banerjee's party had given him the opportunity to work for the people again. Ghosh was also criticized for leaving the BJP’s doors open for anyone and everyone from any political party to make a switch. In his defence though, Ghosh had claimed he was not in favour of the policy but was following instructions from the national leadership. The tenure of Ghosh, who has been at the helm of the party since 2015, was to continue till December 2022. As a consolation, the Kharagpur MP was made one of the national vice-presidents of the BJP. A hardcore RSS man, Ghosh was inducted to the BJP in 2014, when it won two Lok Sabha seats in Bengal. While almost the entire country was swept by the Narendra Modi wave, Bengal had largely remained untouched. Ghosh, a thorough organization man, was also a loose cannon whose comments often left the party red-faced. However, it is to his credit that the BJP gradually built an electoral machinery in Bengal. In 2016, the BJP managed only three MLAs, including Ghosh’s maiden electoral victory over the Congress stalwart “Chacha” Gyansingh Sohanpal from Kharagpur Sadar. Three years later, under Ghosh’s leadership, the BJP had a stellar performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when the party won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats, and dealt a body blow to the ruling Trinamul and Mamata Banerjee, forcing her to change her strategy, like roping in poll strategist Prashant Kishore. Ghosh himself was elected as an MP for the first time. The 2019 Lok Sabha results gave rise to the BJP’s hopes in Bengal, a still unconquered territory, and it was projected as a viable alternative to the Trinamul as the traditional Bengal parties, the Left and the Congress, continued to bleed. The 2021 poll results, however, turned into a debacle as the BJP came nowhere near forming the government, or even posing a threat to the Trinamul. Ghosh’s supporters in the party, however, insist that it was under him that the party got its highest number of seats ever, 77. Though Ghosh led the BJP during the elections, he did not contest the polls himself, while several other MPs like Locket Chatterjee contested and lost. Things have, however, changed for worse for the BJP in Bengal as its elected representatives made slow but steady shifts to the Trinamul camp. While the MLAs who have defected are those who came from Trinamul, on Saturday two-time BJP MP Babul Supriyo made his exit and switched to the Trinamul. On Sunday Trinamul minister Firhad Hakim had claimed that even the likes of Dilip Ghosh were keen to defect.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo meets Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo, who joined the Trinamool Congress last week, met Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday. Supriyo, the BJP MP from Asansol, visited state secretariat Nabanna to meet Banerjee. "It was great meeting 'Didi'. We had a very good discussion. I thanked her for giving me an opportunity to work for Bengal and serve the people. I am really touched by the affection and warmth of 'Didi' and Abhishek Banerjee," he told reporters after the meeting. Asked about his role in the TMC, Supriyo said it was for the party to decide. "I have nothing to say about it. It is for the party and our supremo Mamata Banerjee to decide. It is her prerogative," he said. This was Supriyo's first meeting with Banerjee after he joined the TMC on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: BJP cries out of RS bypoll, TMC's Sushmita Dev will be elected unopposed  ||The main Opposition BJP in West Bengal said on Monday that it would not field a candidate for the October 4 Rajya Sabha by-poll, paving the way for the ruling TMC nominee's election to the upper House unopposed. The TMC had last week named Sushmita Dev, who recently joined the party after quitting the Congress, as its candidate for the by-poll. Dev, the daughter of veteran Congress leader from Assam,  the late Santosh Mohan Dev, was the chief of the women's wing of the Congress. She is likely to file her nomination on Monday, sources close to her said. The by-election has been necessitated as TMC's Manas Bhunia quit the Rajya Sabha after winning the assembly election from Sabang in Paschim Medinipur. "BJP will not nominate any candidate for Rajyasabha bypoll due in West Bengal. Outcome is predetermined. Our focus is to make sure unelected CM to be unelected once again. Jai Ma Kali," leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari tweeted. Adhikari, who defeated Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, was apparently referring to her contesting by-election from Bhabanipur assembly seat in Kolkata. In an earlier by-election for a Rajya Sabha seat in July, the BJP had decided against fielding its nominee. TMC candidate and former Prasar Bharati CEO Jawhar Sircar had got elected unopposed. The BJP had won 77 of the 292 seats in the March-April assembly elections and the Trinamool Congress 213. The ISF and GJM had bagged one seat each. BJP MLAs Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats, bringing down the party's strength in the Assembly to 75. Four other BJP legislators switched over to the TMC but are yet to resign as MLAs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||2 dead in car-truck crash on highway in Alipurduar ||Two persons died and another got injured in an accident on NH31C in Mantharam under Kalchini police station of Alipurduar district on Sunday. Police said Jyotish Sakar, 31, and Ratan Sarkar, 35,  were headed towards Siliguri in a car from Srirampur of Assam. On the way, the vehicle collided head-on with a truck and fell into a roadside ditch. Both the occupants of the car died on the spot. Police rushed to the spot and rescued the injured truck driver. Both the vehicles have been seized. “We have obtained details of both the victims. Their family members have been informed,” said a police officer. Troops of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) posted at the India-Nepal border arrested a Chinese national on Saturday. Sources said the SSB personnel of 41 battalion intercepted Lobsang Nayma at Panitanki, around 35km from Siliguri, and found Indian voter, Aadhaar and PAN cards along with Chinese identity proofs and currencies of India, Nepal and China on him. He was handed over to the police of Kharibari, Darjeeling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 635 new cases, 685 recoveries and 11 deaths ||Bengal on Sunday logged 13 weeks or 91 days of a non-stop fall in its total of active Covid-19 cases, with 635 new infections, 685 recoveries and 11 deaths. Active cases fell by 61 to 7,906. Calcutta logged 117 new infections and zero deaths on Sunday. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, with 107 cases were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Sixteen Bengal districts, including Calcutta, reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.7 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate was 1.66 per cent on Sunday, down from  almost 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave earlier this year. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Anit Thapa and Bimal Gurung visit each other’s strongholds||Anit Thapa and Bimal Gurung were at each other's home turfs on Sunday, signalling an intense rivalry to influence each other’s core constituencies. Anit Thapa, the president of the newly floated Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatrantrik Morcha, was in Tukvar, long considered to be a fiefdom of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Gurung. “He was there because we, too, have our supporters in large numbers there,” said a leader of the newly formed BGPM, who did not want to be named as he is not authorised to speak to the media. The social media team of Thapa was quick to widely publicise the cavalcade of vehicles accompanying Thapa and the welcome he received in Tukvar. Even after being on the run for the past three-and-half-years since the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation, Gurung’s Morcha faction did lead from Tukvar during the  Bengal Assembly elections this summer. Gurung’s candidate P.T. Ola, however, lost the Darjeeling seat to GNLF leader and BJP candidate,Neeraj Zimba. Old-timers recalled how leaders from other political parties would hardly visit the Tukvar when Gurung was in absolute control of the hills. “One would hardly find any Opposition leaders visiting the area to organise political events. Those contesting the elections, mostly Assembly elections, would just do a road show in Tukvar at the most,” recalled an old-timer. Much has changed since.. When Gurung was on the run, Binay Tamang, who was then the chairman of the board of administrators, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, did visit Tukvar. Tamang headed the rival Morcha faction. “There seems to be some message in Thapa’s decision to hold a meeting at Tukvar,” said an observer. Gurung, too, has been in Kurseong for the past few days. On Sunday he visited the Sitong-Latpanchar area in Kursesong which has a relatively strong presence of Thapa supporters. Gurung trekked for 3 kilometres to reach Rolak village in Sittong area on Saturday. “I have no interest in doing politics for my gain but I am in politics to ensure a better future for the youths and the coming generation,” said Gurung. Former Morcha leader Binay Tamang also made news. Tamang, in Kalimpong, hinted his new political party will be floated before Diwali. Mann Ghisingh, the president of Gorkha National Liberation Front and Subash Ghisingh’s son, is also touring Kalimpong, where supporters of other parties joined his party. Mann’s one-time friend Ajoy Edwards, who left the GNLF recently after claiming he was sidelined, however had the largest number of persopns joining him on Sunday.  Mnay from Tamsang, Salbari, Ghoom, Dudhiya, Jhaldhaka, Sukhiapokhri, Chota Mangmaya, Takdha, Singtam and other places came to extend their support to Edwards, has not yet floated any political party. He will visit Kalimpong soon, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: TMC leaders ask party workers to stop infighting ||Trinamul leaders in Siliguri subdivision directed party workers in different rungs of the party, especially in rural areas, to refrain from internal feuds and instead make an effort to secure rural and urban bodies that it had never won so far. According to party insiders, on Saturday evening a meeting was held at Shivmandir Matigara block of the district where Papiya Ghosh, the newly appointed Trinamul president of Darjeeling (plains) asked party workers to work in a concerted manner to improve the performance in the district. “Ever since I took charge, all I found is that workers and leaders in different positions are meeting me only to complain about their party colleagues. It is unfortunate that instead of coming up with concrete proposals on how Trinamul can perform better, they are busy fighting with each other. This has to stop,” Ghosh told party supporters. Sources said Ghosh lamented that if such infighting went on, “it would not be possible even for Mamata Banejee to bring a change in Darjeeling district.”. Although Trinamul has won Bengal’s seat of power thrice since 2011, the party’s performance in Darjeeling district has remained abysmal. “The party could win only the Siliguri Assembly seat once (in 2011) and the Mirik municipality. In all other elections, right from the parliamentary to panchayat, the party has lost to the Left and Congress earlier and now to the BJP,” pointed an observer. The new district president, sources said, has made it clear that there is specific instruction from the state leadership to take all necessary steps so that Trinamul can secure a win in Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) and Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad, both prestigious entities. Trinamul has never won in both, an observer pointed out. Gautam Deb, the former MLA of Dabgram-Fulbari who lost to BJP in the Assembly polls this year, spoke on similar lines. “Our party may be in power in the state but in this district, we are the Opposition. This is something we have to change,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid jab rider puts Bengal traditional drummers in a fix||Naresh Mali, a veteran dhaaki or traditional drummer, would travel to Guwahati from Cooch Behar every year during the Durga Puja to play the dhaak at a Puja organised by a club there. Earnings would be decent and Mali would return with gifts too, given by club members and pandal-hoppers happy with his performance. This year, when less than a month is left for the Puja, Mali is morose. Sitting at home in Malipara under Cooch Behar-I block, Mali is unsure  whether anyone in the neighbouring state will hire him during the festive days. “The scheduled date for the second dose of my Covid-19 vaccine is after Durga Puja. But in Assam, the puja organisers have made it clear that they would hire only a dhaaki (drummer) who is fully vaccinated with both doses. Most of us like me (with one dose of the vaccine) are in a fix and don’t know how many of us would be able to make it to Assam,” the 55-year-old drummer said. Altogether, around 15,000 drummers live in Cooch Behar district. During festive occasions, at least 5,000 of them go to Assam while others fan out across Bengal. “Durga Puja is the festival for which we eagerly wait every year. This is the occasion when we make most of our earnings for the whole year. But the pandemic has changed everything,” said Uttam Badyakar, a drummer in Vivekananda Colony, also in Cooch Behar I block. According to him, among drummers, hardly half have received the first dose. Only a few hundred of them have received the second dose, he added, dimming their chances of getting hired. Usually,  Puja organisers enter into a contract with well-known drummers during the Vishwakarma Puja. “But hardly any club turned up this year (for Vishwakarma Puja on Friday). Even in our state, clubs are preferring drummers who have received both doses of the vaccine and asking for certificates. So very few among us will be able to get jobs during Durga Puja,” said Badyakar. Tapash Mali, another drummer, said the district administration and health department should understand their compulsions. “They should see to it that all the drummers get vaccinated. Also, a drummer who has received one vaccine dose should be allowed to perform in clubs with an RT-PCR negative certificate,” he suggested. A health official said they could take steps to facilitate the first dose for drummers. “But as far as health protocols in festivities are concerned, the onus is with the state governments. Drummers who are yet to take their second dose will get them in due time based on the Centre’s regulations,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad: Sip and surf at tea stall run by varsity student||Rubel Shah, 25, is a second-year history master’s student at the Murshidabad's Open University. But the student of history who lives in Domkal, Murshidabad, could well inspire management students with his innovation in business. Son of marginal farmer Saidul Shah, Rubel saw hard times as the pandemic started last year. To supplement his farmer’s meagre income from farming, Rubel had opened a tea stall on the ground floor of his family home in March 2020. But the lockdown happened, and the tea stall was shut for three months. When it opened, business took time to pick up. Rubel said he noticed that tea stalls in Domkal, or for that matter Murshidabad district as a whole, not only serve biscuits and snacks, but also leave a television set on the whole day. Customers love watching news or sports or films on television as they take a bite of bread or biscuit and sip from their cuppa. But Rubel could not afford a television set. “The television at a tea stall is a cultural touchstone over here. No one will come to a stall without a television set,” Rubel said. So he did what he could, serving the best tea possible, introducing coffee, keeping his snacks fresh and his service warm. He got a loyal clientele but without television people did not linger at his tea stall. A lingering customer means more business as he keeps ordering tea and coffee at intervals. Finally, this June, Rubel thought of an out-of-the-box idea to draw bigger crowds than his competitors in the vicinity. Rubel took a leaf out of coffee shops in cities to offer free Wi-Fi to his customers. The innovation, unique in his area, completely changed his business. Rubel installed a fibre optics broadband cable in his tea stall and made the bandwidth publicly available. As word spread, from early July, his tea shop turned into an office, a library and a hangout rolled into one. “People are coming here from even Islampurbazar, 8km away. Customers come for the free Wi-Fi, but it compels them to stay longer and they end up drinking more tea and coffee,” said the enterprising youth, who lives on the second floor with his parents. Business is good. He pays a bill of Rs 590 a month for the unlimited broadband usage. In turn, over July itself, he generated Rs 25,000 in revenue. His father Saidul also helps him out. Murshidabad is no stranger to large numbers of unemployed youths in a sparsely industrialised area. It is known as one of the main generators of migrant labour  across India. In such a scenario, Rubel’s initiative to do something different while studying has drawn appreciation. “His tea is excellent too,” added a regular customer. Rubel insists his customers wear masks and follow Covid safety protocol given the prolonged crowding. “People are willing to follow precautions for the reward (Wi-Fi),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda girl’s body exhumed, murder finger at kin||The body of a 12-year-old girl, who was allegedly strangulated by her grandparents and uncle around 10 days back, was exhumed on Sunday after her parents filed a police complaint on Friday. The police are in search of the three accused who have gone into hiding. Sources said on September 17, Tazkera Khatun and Sahabuddhin Sheikh of Milangar-Kochpulur village under Harishchandrapur police station, had filed a police complaint, alleging  their daughter Dolly Khatun had been murdered. A police officer investigating the case said that according to the parents, they were away on some work on September 9, and on their return found Dolly dead at home. “Mahabuddin Sheikh and Uzlefa Bibi, Sahabuddin’s parents (the girl’s grandparents), and Tarikul Islam, their younger son (the girl’s uncle),  strangled the girl and claimed that she committed suicide, the parents said in the complaint,” said the officer. The victim’s mother told the police that the relatives buried the body in a graveyard in a hurry and did not let them inform the police or send the body for an autopsy. “That’s why I suspected my daughter was killed. I became convinced when my brother-in-law Tarikul threatened to kill my younger daughter too,” Tazkera said. She claimed that Sahabuddin, her husband, had bequeathed his land to his two daughters which the grandparents and uncle did not accept. On Sunday, a police team went to the graveyard. The body was exhumed and sent to post mortem. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report. Searches are on for the accused,” said Sanjay Das, inspector-in-charge, Harishchandrapur police station. As the news spread, angry residents demanded stringent punishment for the accused. “It is disappointing that a girl had to lose her life at the hands of her grandparents for ancestral property. The police should find all the three accused,” said Hanif Sheikh, a schoolteacher and a local resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo dominates Bengal byelection bites ||Former junior Union minister Babul Supriyo’s defection to the Trinamul Congress dominated the campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll on Sunday with the BJP seeking to downplay his importance and Trinamul claiming that more leaders would desert the saffron camp soon. “He (Supriyo) is a political tourist. Going to Trinamul is an emotional outburst (for him)..… Those who cannot settle themselves down in one place will never be able to settle anywhere,” Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said on the sidelines of a meeting in the Bhowanipore Assembly segment on Sunday. “Thousands, lakhs of leaders and workers had joined us, coming from Trinamul, before the election. Did that stop Trinamul from winning? Likewise, even in this case, his departure will make no difference to the BJP,” he added. The BJP had named Supriyo as the party’s one of 20 star campaigners for Priyanka Tibrewal, its candidate for the bypoll. The Asansol MP had announced earlier that he would not participate in the campaign. Asked at a news conference on Sunday if he would campaign for chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the Bhowanipore candidate of his new political party,  Supriyo hinted that he was not keen on that either. “Priyanka is like a sister to me. She fought several cases for me. We know our families as well. I hope my party (Trinamul) will spare me this embarrassment. She is a fighter,” said Supriyo. “But does Mamata Banerjee even need me to campaign for her in Bhowanipore? I don’t think so,” he added. Earlier in the day, Tibrewal had said Supriyo was virtually a sibling to her. At the news conference organised by Trinamul, which Supriyo had declared on Saturday would be a tell-all, he opted for sarcasm or silence on certain questions. Some of the key questions were why he had quit the BJP, what ailed the party in Bengal and what Trinamul had offered him, which he, by his own admission, couldn’t refuse. Minister Firhad Hakim, who was campaigning in Bhowanipore on Sunday, said: “Why only Babul Supriyo? Many, many others will join Trinamul now because the BJP has no future in Bengal.” “Even the likes of him (Dilip Ghosh) are keen to defect,” he added. “Slowly, but surely, they will have no importance in India either…. The BJP is a party of madmen. They can’t be allowed to run the country any longer. Those who are slowly realising that are abandoning ship.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal meets kharif paddy cultivation target||The Bengal government has achieved the target of sowing kharif paddy this season despite Cyclone Yaas and floods and the officials are giving the credit to the welfare schemes initiated by the state for farmers. “This year, the target of kharif cultivation was 42.06 lakh hectares. A total of 100.80 per cent of the target area was cultivated in the kharif season this year. This is a success considering the challenges we faced because of the cyclone and floods,” said a senior government official. But, sources said, schemes like Krishak Bandhu scheme and Kisan Credit Cards played an important role in drawing farmers to the fields despite the cyclone and floods that had inundated their fields. “In June, the first instalment of Krishak Bandhu Scheme, which ensured Rs 10,000 for an acre, was released. Moreover, compensation for the cyclone-affected was also released by June. All these gave confidence to the farmers to cultivate their plots,” said a source. A section of officials also said the initiative by the government to issue KCCs to majority of the farmers also helped. “Now, nearly 80 per cent of the 72 lakh farmers are covered under the KCC which enables them to get loans on easy terms from the banks reducing their dependency on local money-lenders. Moreover, crops of the farmers who get loans are insured automatically. So, the farmers who were facing trouble also went for cultivating their plots,” said another official. Achieving the target of kharif season is important in Bengal as this is the only season when maximum paddy production is done. Besides, the state also needs huge quantum of paddy to run free foodgrains scheme like Khadyasathi in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. “So achieving the target will mean that we will remain self-reliant on rice,” said an officer. Bengal has a consumption requirement of 155 lakh tons of paddy, while the state’s average production is 165 lakh tons. “So, a shortfall in production could have led to a tough situation for the cash-strapped government. The government would have been forced to buy paddy from outside to run the cheap grains scheme,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI calls Bhuniya for questioning today in connection with probe into iCore scam||Bengal minister Manas Bhuniya has been summoned by the CBI in connection with its probe into the iCore deposit-mobilisation default “scam”. The water resources investigation and development minister was asked to meet the sleuths at their office at the CGO Complex in Bidhannagar near Calcutta on Monday. Sabang MLA Bhuniya has been asked to appear before the CBI since the investigators plan to quiz him over his purported presence at an event organised by the now defunct iCore group. Bhuniya was purportedly present at the event alongside Anukul Maiti, the chief of the group. The investigators have access to video footage of the event and want to question Bhuniya over praise he purportedly lavished on the group, said sources. Maiti, who was arrested by the CBI and was lodged in the Jharpada prison in Odisha’s Bhubaneswar, succumbed to Covid-19 in November last year. “The programme was held around the time when several complaints were already lodged against iCore for allegedly duping investors,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||West Bengal||1,000 acres of land in Durgapur not of power utility: Bengal||The Bengal land department has ended a dispute between two government organisations, the Asansol Durgapur Development Authority (ADDA) and power utility Durgapur Projects Limited (DPL), over a plot measuring over 1,000 acres. The land department earmarked the 1,067.04 acres to the ADDA, which the DPL had claimed as its own. Land officials said after a thorough survey they found the land parcel originally belonged to the ADDA but in records was mistakenly said to be of the DPL’s. The joint secretary of the land and land reforms department wrote to West Burdwan district administration on September 1 asking them to rectify records of the 1,067.04 acres in favour of the ADDA and report to the government. The DPL’s claim to the acres had come after the loss-making power utility started taking stock of 3,759 acres it purportedly owned in the wake of the state government deciding to either sell or lease out the company’s unused land. The DPL management had claimed the land that has been “occupied” by the ADDA was located at Gopinathpur mouzas, presently known as Bidhannagar and Fuljhore in Durgapur town. Here, private schools, colleges and hospitals have come up since past decades. The DPL also put up boards on the lands saying it belongs to them. Sources in the land department said that entire land in Durgapur and its adjoining areas excluding privately owned lands belonged to the Durgapur Development Authority (DDA) or the Industrial Board during the 1950s. The DDA later transformed to ADDA. “The land which the DPL had been claiming was either of the DDA or the Industrial Board. There may have been a communication gap in the land records or they were not updated properly after the formation of the DPL and the ADDA,” said an official. Former chairman of ADDA, Bansagopal Chowdhury during the Left regime, had earlier said that both DPL and ADDA were government organisations and the matter could be sorted out easily. “I had earlier said that the matter could be solved easily if the government takes initiative. It is not a big issue,” he said. However, DPL officials said after rectification of the land records for 1067.04 acres, DPL land has been reduced to nearly 2,700 acres. The DPL comprises a power plant, coke oven plant and water works. Of the 2,700 acres, the power plant, coke oven plant, water works and township have come up on around 2,400 acre. The government has already decided to hand over the water works to Durgapur Municipal Corporation. The closed coke oven plant on 200 acres is in the process of being dismantled to free the land. The township will be merged into a smaller area to free around 600 acres. “The government is eyeing vast unused plots of the DPL to monetise land. Apart from lands of the closed coke oven plant and township, after the merger we have to evacuate encroachers from the rest of the unused plots,” said a DPL official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||West Bengal||School funds cloud on principal in Murshidabad||The headmaster of a reputable high school in Murshidabad’s Bhrampore had been chargesheeted by police in June for alleged misappropriation of Rs 10.43 lakh from school funds, but “scant action” has been taken against him since then, the institution’s authorities have said in a news meet. Administrators alleged the whereabouts of accused Himadri Chowdhury, headmaster of the 150-year old school since 2019, are known and he was living at home despite the chargesheet saying he was “absconding”. An FIR relating to the same offence was filed in February by the school managing committee, along with a letter to the district inspector of schools prompting an internal investigation, authorities of Krishnath College High School told the media on Friday. “Initial estimates pegged missing funds in excess of Rs 23 lakh, which prompted us to write to the district inspector,” said Debashish Nandy, a managing committee member of the school. “The DI’s review confirmed Rs 10 lakh was unaccounted for, following which we filed an FIR in Behrampore in February. Nonetheless, scant action has been taken against the offender (Chowdhury) despite a chargesheet and evidence of his wrongdoing. This is why we held this press conference,” added managing committee president Sanjib Mazumdar. Administrators have since alleged this inaction could be because of “ruling party connections”. “There is ample evidence of his wrongdoing, starting with an internal probe by the DI. Bank officials were consulted too,” said Mazumdar. This paper tried to contact two of Chowdhury’s phones but none was answered. Managing committee members are of the opinion that aside from the evident crime, Chowdhury and his “evasion of justice” were bringing "slander to our prestigious school". District superintendent of police, K. Sabari Rajkumar, said he had not been apprised of the details of the case yet but would make an inquiry. Police said that an arrest could not be made without a court warrant unless the proven offence attracted at least seven years in prison. Chowdhury stands to be proven guilty, according to committee sources, under Sections 420, 406 and 403 of the Indian P enal Code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-84
20-09-2021||North East||Congress to fight assembly bypolls in Assam alone without forming any alliance||The Congress is gearing up to fight the assembly by-polls in Assam, likely to take place by the end of this year, alone without forming any alliance, state party president Bhupen Kumar Borah said on Monday. The state Congress has decided to field its own candidates in the seats going where by-polls will be held as it wants to regain the lost ground in the constituencies that were offered to alliance partners before the assembly elections held earlier this year, he said. Five assembly seats are now lying vacant due to deaths and resignations of MLAs while another legislator who became a Union minister is yet to quit his membership in the House. “Due to the alliance, our organisation became weak in many areas like the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR). Our cadres got demotivated in those constituencies where we did not contest. We need to strengthen those seats,” Borah said in an interaction with senior journalists of the state media. In order to enthuse the ground workers and strengthen the party organisation keeping in mind the Lok Sabha polls in 2024 and the assembly elections in 2026, the Congress will fight the by-polls alone, he added. The Congress, which was in power for 15 years in Assam since 2001, had formed a 'Grand Alliance' with the AIUDF, BPF, CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM), RJD, Adivasi National Party (ANP) and the Jimochayan (Deori) Peoples Party (JPP) to fight against the BJP-led NDA in the assembly election this year. The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee last month decided to break the alliance with the AIUDF and the Bodoland People's Front (BPF), while the CPI(M) has said it only had a seat-sharing arrangement with the Congress but was not a part of an alliance. “It will send a strong message to our workers that we are serious about rebuilding the party. We had some discussions with regional opposition parties like the Raijor Dal (RD) and the Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP). But the Raijor Dal has already announced the candidate for one seat,” Borah said. He, however, said the proposal of AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi to give a common candidate in one seat is still under consideration. “We have sought applications from interested Congress leaders in the six constituencies by September 27. We will make a final decision only after that. If we insist on united opposition, we cannot enthuse our workers,” Borah said. In the 126-member Assam Assembly, byelections will take place in six seats -- Mariani, Thowra, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Gossaigaon and Majuli. Two MLAs of the Congress and one of the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) have joined the BJP and resigned from the assembly. One legislator each of the United People's Party Liberal (UPPL) and the Bodoland People's Front (BPF) died. The sixth seat is likely to fall vacant when former chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal resigns as he has joined the Union Cabinet as a minister. At present, the BJP has 60 MLAs but effectively 59 as Sonowal is yet to resign from the Assembly. The ruling alliance partners -- the AGP has nine and UPPL has five MLAs. The Congress' strength is 27, while the BPF has three and the CPI(M) has one MLA. There is one Independent MLA also.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
20-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Bhowanipore bypolls and religious sentiments||Crucial fight Sir — Strange spectacles are on display on the campaign trail for the Bhowanipore by-election. While the chief minister and Trinamul Congress candidate, Mamata Banerjee, is rushing around gurdwaras, mosques and temples, the Bharatiya Janata Party candidate was seen dancing with a thurible and also beating drums. Pandering to religious sentiments has become the only way to please the electorate. Secularism seems to have become an obsolete concept in Indian politics. Secularism aims to keep religion away from politics and State affairs. What we are witnessing now is a reversal of this concept. This is a tragedy that will shock any secular, conscientious person. All religions must be respected, but they should not be misused for political purposes. The martyrs of the freedom movement sacrificed their lives for liberation. Instead, the Indian democracy is chained up in corruption, injustice, communalism and many other evils. The voters’ minds are so polluted that they would pick religious sentiments rather than vote for an honest person. Honesty is rapidly losing its avowed place in society. S. Sarkar,Berhampur Sir — The BJP knows that it has no chance of winning against Mamata Banerjee in the Bhowanipore by-election. It is thus resorting to dirty tricks: it demanded the cancellation of Banerjee’s nomination for not mentioning five criminal cases pending against her. Similar charges had been levelled against Banerjee before the assembly elections too. Both times, the Election Commission rejected them. One hopes that the Election Commission stays firm and lives up to the unbiased behaviour expected of it. Kamalendu Das,Calcutta Fishy business Sir — I read the article, “Gumnaam hai Koi, Badnaam hai Koi” (Sep 19), with keen interest. Like most Bengalis, I love eating fish. It is true that koi is a bony fish and people have to exercise much caution while eating it. But any difficulty that one faces while consuming it is more than compensated for by the delicious dishes that Bengali kitchens can conjure up with koi maachh. Any Bengali worth his salt would surely swear by tel koi, shorshe koi and phulkopi-aloo-dhone pata diye koi maachher jhol. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — is the king among fish — from gods like Krishna to saints like Swami Vivekananda, none can do without this fish. Durba Roy,Howrah  Something special Sir — Nothing sets the cash registers clanging like a dose of sweet nostalgia, with a twist. Cadbury, the chocolate brand, seems to be well aware of this trick. It has recreated its iconic ‘Kuch khas hai’ ad, this time with a woman cricketer hitting a six and her boyfriend doing an ecstatic jig across the field. One wonders, though, why the company roped in an actress and not an actual cricketer to play the part. It is a shame that women cricketers do not get even half the endorsement contracts as their male counterparts. Annesha Ghoshal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
20-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Heavy burden||That justice delayed is justice denied is a reality with which Indians are all too familiar. A decade ago, India already had the world’s largest backlog of cases; the total has now climbed to a monumental 4.6 crore. The pandemic, predictably, has exacerbated the problem, with the number of pending cases increasing by nearly 25 per cent since last year’s lockdown. As expected, the brunt is being borne by the lowest rung of the judiciary — district and subordinate courts now account for more than four crore of these cases. This is all the more worrying since the lower courts comprise the first line of defence to secure justice for citizens. The state of infrastructure in subordinate courts is partly responsible for the glut: most lack basic facilities for litigants, judges, and staff. Digitization remains an equally intractable problem. Although 16,845 district and subordinate courts have been computerized as of 2020, the reluctance of Bar associations in several states to accept e-courts and digital hearings has compromised the efficacy of the new system. Even in state capitals where facilities such as high-speed internet and video-conferencing are available, digital court proceedings have not been fully initiated. Another significant factor behind legal pendency is the number of judicial vacancies, especially in the lower courts — more than 5,000 seats have remained vacant over the last decade. Clearly, the problem is not merely technical. There is a need to identify the specific challenges faced at the different levels of the judiciary. Trial courts, often plagued by external — political — pressures must be further empowered. Their high caseload must be matched by necessary changes in infrastructure and bench strength, and regional committees should be convened to address local resistance against a smooth digital transition. Fortifying the lower echelons of the judiciary could ease the burden on its upper tiers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
20-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Crime watch||Crime must be met with punishment in a polity that honours the rule of law. But punishment need not be a deterrent by itself. What is required is continuous engagement with the nature of criminal activity in order to facilitate timely and effective intervention. The suppleness in strategy is necessary because crime evolves. Evidence of the changing nature of criminal transgressions has been brought to light, once again, by the data collated and published by the National Crime Records Bureau for the year, 2020. ‘Traditional crimes’, the report says, have registered a decline. This category — it includes crimes perpetrated against women and children, the elderly as well as robbery, theft and so on — witnessed a drop of about two lakh cases. ‘Violent crimes’, too, have waned, if only marginally. These findings may be reassuring but they do beg a question. There had been reports of the lockdown coinciding with a spike in domestic violence against women: official data of the National Commission for Women had indicated that this, indeed, was the case. Yet, the NCRB report has found fewer cases comparatively. In fact, the NCW has stated that the NCRB data do not reflect the reality. What can possibly explain the difference? Worryingly, ‘newer’ forms of crime — a testament to the changing nature of offences — have been on the rise. For instance, there has been an astounding 214 per cent increase in the number of cases concerning fake news and rumours, with Telangana topping this ignoble list. Again, a significant number of violations pertained to public disobedience of Covid regulations. Cybercrime, too, has been burgeoning: it rose by 11.8 per cent. In a sign of the times, communal rioting spiked — by 96 per cent — as did cases of civil conflict. Yet, Crime in India also reveals that there are worrying consistencies amidst this churn on India’s crime map. For instance, the conviction rate for rape remains abysmal; 3,451 cases from earlier years and 363 from 2020 attained the coveted status of conviction. The backlog in legal arbitration in rape has also increased. The conviction rate in sedition was low, baring a different kind of mischief: the misuse of the law of sedition by the State to stifle dissent. Significantly, ‘Offences against the State’ rose in Uttar Pradesh, even as the charge witnessed an overall drop. The NCRB data expose some old frailties: a high pendency rate, shoddy investigative work, vacancies in courts, toxic discrimination in private and public spheres and so on. Some of the solutions are fairly straightforward. Higher number of judicial appointments at every legal tier could go some way in tackling pendency while better — unbiased — investigation could bolster conviction rates in some categories. But the emerging areas of crime — cyber transgressions, for instance — need to be studied further to craft adequate policy responses. For this to happen, the collation of data is a must. Therein lies the importance of these periodic reports by the NCRB, provided they reflect the realities — old and new — on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
20-09-2021||Opinion||War of words||What I cannot tell some people, I take out on telemarketers. They mostly call to offer personal loans. I play with them for a while like gau rakshaks play with cattle sellers, or cat with mice, and then deliver the fatal blow. Or try to, because often, matters remain unresolved, complex. Not that I do not need personal loans. But the telemarketers almost always speak in Hindi and that opens up for me an area of activity that is its own reward. My interactions with them become ghastly, bloody, perverse, but I love these, because this is the one place where I can say what I want and people listen, even apologize. I put up a controlled, well-rehearsed, deadly performance. Collateral damage happens. The telemarketer becomes the collateral damage. But I have the perfect excuse. “Good morning, Mrs Bhattacharya, aap ke liye ek special loan offer hai...” my caller starts. I pounce on him. “What makes you assume that I understand Hindi?” I ask in English, with special stress on the word “assume”. The power of English tends to remain unchallenged in the face of the greatest Indian adversities, and I use it. If I do not have money, let me use what little other capital I have: some English, and a lot of middle class. This is the only way to talk back to the powers that be, in the absence of any other. So I use language in a coded, perhaps mystic way, obliquely, through an unsuspecting medium. My last statement, for example,was my protest against the Central Vista. My caller struggles again. “Ma’am, main...” I strike. “What makes you assume that all Indians in every part of the country speak Hindi? In 28 states and eight Union territories?” This one was for the CAA. The poor boy seems stunned. He has fallen silent. My voice is rising. “Do you know that Hindi may be the official language of the Union, but so is English? And Hindi is not the national language.” This one was for the farm laws. The trick is not to let him get in a word. Not pause for long. “There are 22 scheduled languages, including Bengali, Bodo, Kashmiri and Urdu.” Here I launch into a full-fledged tirade. “But would you ever think of selling personal loans in any of these? Because you can’t formally discuss money in these? Besides, the Constitution does not say Hindi is the national language, just as nowhere is it mentioned that cricket is our national preoccupation. So how this misconception has been grown needs to be explored. Maybe it has something to do with the fact that our prime minister only addresses the nation in Hindi? Other than on certain occasions, such as when he tried to quote Tagore in Bengali in his Atmanirbharta speech.” This for the high unemployment and the low GDP. “But why would you assume that I speak and understand Hindi? Why would you assume anything? You have assumed that I am married. Have you also assumed that I am a tolerably good singer? What if I am not? You must have assumed that I get up by 8 am every day. What if I don’t? You must have assumed that I do not eat beef. What if I do?” The last one for Yogi Adityanath. “The fact is you cannot assume anything. Assumption of a uniform, homogeneous, majoritarian identity for a country, or for that matter, playlist for the evening with only nostalgic Bengali songs, is the foundation of a Fascist project. Would you be unknowingly acting as an agent of this sinister design? Or are you doing it knowingly? The imposition of any one language on a diverse country is wrong.” This one for the attempt to clap the virus away, in Hindi. In broken English, my caller says that he is sorry and he will ask someone who knows English to call me. I have broken him with my English and delivered the longest speech I am capable of. But my caller disconnects, I seem to see him running away, an exit pursued by a bear, and I have got my pound of flesh (and also a tiny Shakespeare remix). I have done my bit. However, I have only won a war. The battle is long and may not be won, perhaps, in this age of late capitalism, with what ultimately is a foreign language. Two hours later, I get a call from another young person. “Madam, main...” she begins.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
20-09-2021||Opinion||Democracy’s broken pledges||In a rather interesting development, the Orissa High Court has held that the “term ‘unemployment’ sounds like a death knell for youth, duping them on [the] pretext of securing job is ‘cheating of highest order’”. Without going into the specifics of the judgment, let’s take away the larger message here — a fake promise or a lie is equivalent to cheating and is, therefore, a criminal offence. Let us, for the purpose of this piece, apply the Orissa High Court’s judgment to political leaders making false promises during an election campaign. False campaign promises have never received serious consideration as an actionable legal wrong. There is no existing mechanism to enforce such promises made by leaders before an election; neither is there a provision in our laws to punish such lies. If one were to look at several campaign promises on unemployment in India chronologically in the last two decades, one would find a series of lies. The former prime minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, came to power in 1999 promising jobs. What he did, instead, was simply set up a Task Force on Employment Opportunities under Montek Singh Ahluwalia that suggested strategies to provide 10 million jobs a year. Later, Vajpayee set up another Special Group on Targeting Ten Million Employment Opportunities Per Year under S.P. Gupta. The reports slipped into bureaucratic oblivion and Vajpayee lost power. The Congress led-United Progressive Alliance promised the same and sat over it for 10 years. In 2013, in an election rally in Agra, the then chief minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi, said that if the Bharatiya Janata Party was voted to power, it would bring 10 million jobs, the same promise Vajpayee had made in 1999. The BJP won by a thumping majority and Modi was elected the prime minister. The statistics on unemployment have only worsened ever since. Current unemployment rates are at an all-time high. This was the case even before the pandemic and has worsened thereafter. The reason why elections are a legitimate exercise or are perceived to be such among the masses is because people have trust in the process. Elections are respected because voters believe that they exercise their franchise freely and fairly. However, if a voter’s democratic right is tainted by manipulation, then it damages the entire political process and harms democracy in the long run. It increases distrust, lack of confidence and disillusionment among citizens. Making false promises knowingly during an election also reduces the amount of accurate information that flows into the media that enables voters to make informed choices. Attaching legal liability would ensure that the democratic process is respected and honoured. The model code of conduct drafted by the Election Commission has guidelines that prohibit political parties from making promises in their manifestoes that would exert an undue influence on voters. However, the code is not legally binding. The Representation of the People Act, 1951 contains provisions that define ‘corrupt practices’ as those that include promises by a candidate aimed at inducing an elector to vote or refrain from voting. However, the declaration of public policy or a promise of public action does not fall within the ambit of these provisions. The courts have also not appreciated this concern. In 2015, in response to a public interest litigation on the issue of holding political parties accountable for promises made before an election, the Supreme Court said that it is not the court’s job to adjudicate on matters of unfulfilled promises at the time of elections as they are not legally bound to do so. This position, adopted by the courts and our laws, needs to change and accountability needs to be fixed. Else, we face a grave danger to both democracy and the rule of law. Anurag Tiwary is an Impact Fellow at Global Governance Initiative. Abhinav Narayan Jha is an LLM candidate from CNLU||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
20-09-2021||Opinion||The digital Davids||Intolerance of media criticism is in the DNA of the government and the ruling party at the Centre. It accounts for the many ways in which media houses and journalists are being harassed under a range of laws and have had cases slapped on them, often for nothing more than a factual news report, or a tweet or a Facebook post. But a government tying itself up every week into paranoid knots has to stop and ask itself why the old methods of bringing a recalcitrant media to heel are not working. What has changed Simply this: provocation to the government, both at the Centre and in the states, now comes more from the digital media, including social media, than from the mainstream media. That helps explain income tax department ‘surveys’ this month at the offices of NewsClick and Newslaundry, first information reports lodged against reporters of The Wire in Uttar Pradesh, and the frequent jailing of the Manipur journalist, Kishorechandra Wangkhem, who has been jailed thrice in almost three years, including a preventive detention stint under the National Security Act, for Facebook posts criticizing the state government. These journalists don’t back off either when harassed by the government. Neither NewsClick nor Newslaundry has altered the tenor of its reporting in the period between the two visits by the Enforcement Directorate and the income tax authorities this year. Both news portals expose politics, governance and the media establishment on a range of issues. Established newspapers and television channels are, however, more vulnerable. Their business model makes them more susceptible to government pressure than a clutch of upstart web portals because they have far bigger businesses to protect and are at least partially dependent for their revenue on advertising from the Central government or state governments. Their proprietors don’t have the stomach to stand up to bullying by the State beyond a point. And it affects their journalism. A striking example of this is the reporting in TV and print around the young man killed during the tractor parade in the capital on January 26 this year. The Wire report from Rampur in UP that earned it an FIR from the UP police quotes the victim’s family as saying the post-mortem report suppressed the bullet injury in the man’s head. It is accompanied by a video, which clearly shows two such injuries. Three sedition cases were filed in three states, including UP, against those in Delhi who tweeted about the man being shot. One of them was Rajdeep Sardesai of India Today TV. His channel took him off air for a period after airing the anchor’s retraction of his tweet. It did not procure and show the same video footage in defence of its anchor. Meanwhile, Newslaundry has reported more recently that national and regional TV channels, India Today is among them, received Rs 160 crore from the UP government in advertising in the financial year, 2020-21. The latest instance of a print publication caving in came just last week when the Outlook Group sacked its editor-in-chief after he returned from leave and alerted his staff that he was planning a cover story on communal polarization in UP in the run-up to next year’s polls. In previous months, the magazine had carried cover stories critical of the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and on its misuse of anti-terror laws across the country. Several news websites in India have followed a different track from commercial media as foundations came up over the last decade to fund independent media. When the government went after the businessmen who contributed to these foundations, the founder-editors struck out on their own with public support. If you think of this category of media as tenuously viable, think again. They don’t have to do events to garner revenue and keep the government in good humour so that its ministers grace these sponsored events. Nor do they have to balance their investigative journalism and editorial criticism with offers of prime editorial space to the government leadership to have their say, as one paper famously does. They don’t have a stable of publications to protect; when they are short of money, the public steps in with crowdfunding. If they are dragged to court or have cases slapped on them by the government of the day, there are enough public-spirited lawyers around to fight those battles for them pro bono. The more the government’s attack on digital news media widens and deepens, the more it stirs up public-spirited responses. They are seen as Davids ranged against the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Goliath. Abhinandan Sekhri’s cock-a-snook tweet a few days after the IT visit to Newslaundry sums it up pithily: “Since the IT ‘survey’ in 2 days we have got over Rs 14 lakh [in] subscriber contribution. No sarkari ads & no grovelling to large corporations & they wonder how we get funded. THATS HOW.” Sekhri is the co-founder of Newslaundry. The site has solicited reader subscriptions from the beginning, even as it has been supported by the Omidyar Network. Around the time Newslaundry was visited for the IT ‘survey’, news was emerging that the government had put 10 foreign-funding organizations, including Omidyar Network, in the Prior Reference Category under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act 2010. More pressure? But more and more feisty digital ventures just have to do courageous, independent journalism to have the resources to fight off this pressure. They don’t need circulation departments: their stories are instantly amplified on social media and some get enough traction for the mainstream media to want to pick them up. Take the Pegasus spyware investigation as the latest example. The Wire was the Indian news organization chosen for the collaborative investigation anchored by Forbidden Stories, the France-based, publicly-funded network of journalists. Not one of the country’s print majors. State harassment will not stop public-spirited journalism. It will merely give government and party a bad name and make the big boys of print and television look like wimps. Sevanti Ninan is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi to host New Zealand-India T20 tie in November||Ranchi’s Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) will host one of the three T20 matches between India and New Zealand on November 19, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announced on Monday while releasing the fixtures for three T20s and two Test matches. While Jaipur will host the first T20 on November 17, Ranchi will be hosting the second header two days later followed by Kolkata on November 21. Two test matches will be played in Kanpur and Mumbai between Nov. 25-29 and Dec 3-7 respectively. BCCI also announced fixtures for West Indies, Sri Lanka and South Africa’s tour of India next year. Former team India skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s home town will be hosting an international T20 tie after a gap of four years. JSCA stadium had last hosted a T20 match between India and Australia on October 7, 2017. India had beaten Australia by nine wickets in that rain-curtailed match in a three-match series. Since its inception in 2013, JSCA stadium, with a seating  capacity of 50,000, has so far conducted 2 Test matches, 5 ODIs and 2 international T20s besides a few IPL matches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||In-person lessons for classes 6 to 8  from September 24 in Jharkhand||The School Education and Literacy Department of Jharkhand has decided to resume in-person classes for students of class 6 to 8 from September 24 after utilising the next couple of days to sanitize or classrooms and make preparations, officials from the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) said on Monday. Students attending in-person classes at schools will, however, have to produce an undertaking from their parents, stating that none of their family members was suffering from any symptoms of Covid-19 and that they were willingly sending their children to school, an official from JEPC said. Even though students will get to attend in-person classes at schools, Midday Meal (MDM), under which students at government schools are provided free cooked meals daily, will remain suspended for the time being. Eligible students will, however, be provided ration during this period. “Since schools have remained closed for several months, we wanted to sanitise the classrooms and ensure complete safety for children before resuming classes,” said Abhinav Kumar, the state coordinator for quality education. “All students will have to produce an undertaking from their parents and follow Covid-appropriate behavior,” he added. JEPC has decided to keep all air conditioners switched off in schools during classes and allow only one student to sit on a desk at a time. Teams from the district administration have also been instructed to conduct regular Covid tests at schools for early identification of any student suffering from the disease, officials said. Students will have the option to continue online classes depending on what their parents decide. Some private schools have also held parent-teacher meetings recently and asked parents to fill up a questionnaire to see if they were willing to send their children to school for in-person classes and exams. While the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) allowed resumption of in-person classes for students of class 6 to 8 at its latest meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren on September 14, it did not announce specific dates for classes  to resume. In-person classes for students of class 9 to 12 resumed in August, but a negligible number of students have been regularly attending classes at schools, sources said. Many parents preferred online education over in-person classes for their children for fears of a possible third wave of Covid-19, a teacher from a renowned private school in Ranchi said. Students attending offline classes at schools are made to undergo thermal scanning every day and those suffering from any illness are instructed to stay at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city Durga puja pandal business hit by Covid norms||The Covid-19 restrictions, for the second consecutive year of Durga Puja, has caused tent house owners, pandal decorators, light and sound system providers to turn wary. Following the state government guidelines issued on Thursday, most of the 200 plus tent house owners and decorators are in a dilemma whether to take orders for pandal installation or during the ensuing grand Puja. The restrictions imposed in 2020 in view of Coronavirus had broken their financial backbone and repetition of the similar guidelines this year will ruin the business completely, they said. "Last year when Covid-19 pandemic hit the steel city, leading the state government to issue notification for restricted Puja by setting up small pandals and small idols, we coped up the situation like a testing period. But when we are poised to have a similar situation this year too, providing service for pandal erection and decoration is painful for us," said Arvind Kumar Singh, proprietor of Shubham Tent to The Telegraph Online. Singh said whereas an average Puja pandal used to be of an area measuring 60 ft by 80 ft at a cost of Rs one lakh, most of the pandals were set up on an area measuring 15 ft by 20 ft only. "I used to set up three Puja pandals every year. Last year, I managed to buy new clothes for the pandals as it is necessary for decorating the pandals for Goddess Durga. I had also managed to set up miniature pandals by engaging a minimum number of workers. But this year neither am I in a condition to buy new clothes for the pandals nor able to engage minimum workers. Because the workers for such things remain in groups and none of the groups is ready to work in a fragmented way," explained the tent house owner. Another tent house owner, Anup Sablok also echoed what Arvind Kumar Singh said. "I used to set up and decorate Puja pandals at a cost starting from Rs 70,000 to Rs 10 lakh every year. But the organisers of the big budget Puja had not given any order for the traditional Puja pandals last year due to Covid pandemic. This year also I am going to face the same problem," said Sablok, owner of Bharat Tent while talking to The Telegraph Online. Sablok said like several other tent house owners, he used to earn a good profit by setting up Puja pandals, but having incurred huge loss last year he is no more interested to bear any further loss by indulging in Puja pandal business. In Jamshedpur, over 300 public Puja are organised, most of the organisers would install elegant pandals by spending lakhs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel Long Products Limited and two others bid for Incab's takeover||The revival hope of ailing Incab Industries Limited got a shot in the arm with three entities expressing interest to take over the company. The three entities - Tata Steel Long Products Limited, Vedanta Limited and One City Infrastructure Private Limited - have submitted their expression of interest in response to a notice issued in this regard by Pankaj Kumar Tibrewal, the resolution professional (RP) of Incab, appointed by Calcutta- bench of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The last day for submission of the expression of interest was September 16. The expression of interest submitted by the three entities is subjected to scrutiny by the RP. The final list of the prospective applicants, after considering objections if any, would be notified by the resolution professional on September 24. Tata Steel Long Products Limited formerly Tata Sponge Iron Ltd is promoted by Tata Steel. It has its plants in Jharkhand and Odisha while Vedanta Limited is a mining company, with its main operations in iron ore, gold and aluminium mines in Goa, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Odisha. The third applicant- One City Infrastructure Private Limited is a Delhi-based company which is majorly into real estate and renting business for the last 16 years. Various unions of Incab Industries were hopeful of the company's revival over this latest development. "We want the company to be revived and are against any liquidation or winding up moves. With three entities including Tata Steel Long Products submitting their expression of interest things look optimistic," said Aloke Sen, assistant secretary of Incab Employees Association talking to The Telegraph Online over phone from Calcutta. Senior functionary of The Indian Cable Workers' Union Ram Binod Singh said," Tata Steel Long Products Limited submitting an expression of interest with the resolution professional is a positive development. This has given hope to employees. However, everything depends on NCLT's decision." The next hearing of NCLT's Calcutta bench on Incab Industries is slated on November 8. The ailing Incab Industries has around 900 workers on its rolls who are deprived of their salary for over two decades. In the mid-1990s, Malaysian promoter Leader Universal Holdings Berhad took over the company, but it started suffering losses and slid deeper in the red. Ultimately it had to be referred to the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) in 1999. Later, the case was also taken up for hearing at the Appellate Authority for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (AAIFR). However, both the statutory bodies were dissolved on December 1, 2016 paving the way for National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), which helps in the revival process of sick industries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town private schools resume classes after over a year||Classes for standard VI to VIII resumed after a gap of 18 months in around 60 private schools of the district including Delhi Public School, DAV Group of Schools and De Nobili Schools. Following the state government’s permission, students attended classes and met their friends. Though some of these schools have completely discontinued online classes following the permission to attend classes physically, several others are conducting classes in hybrid mode, both online and offline. Over 500 government schools of the district are yet to open and are likely to open from September 24 after making necessary preparations for observing all laid SOPs. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, I.A. Raza, Vice Principal of Delhi Public School, Dhanbad said, “We have made the arrangement of alternate day classes in an odd, even system and all students having odd roll numbers were allowed to attend classes today for the first day.” “All SOPs right from mandatory use for sanitizers for hand at the main gate besides thermal scanning at the main gate besides have been made and today altogether 202 students i.e 65% students of odd numbers of the VI to VIII attended the classes today on the first day,” said Raza and added that besides the arrangement of sanitizers at the main gate they have sanitizer arrangement at each of the floor. Vikrant Singh, a student of Class VII of Delhi Public School Dhanbad while talking to Telegraph Online said, “I was very excited ever since we received the message from the school last week regarding the launching of the classes and felt quite happy after meeting my friends after a long gap of 18 months.” Indrani, another student of Class VI of the same school said, “Though classes were being held online during the lockdown but offline classes have its own advantage and it inculcates the feeling of competition among students which encourages students to perform better and appreciation by the teachers during the offline classes also creates an altogether different feeling.” Father Sebastian Puthenpura, Principal of De Nobili School, Bhuli said, “The classes opened today for VI to VIII and attendance was around 80% attendance.” “We will decide to implement the odd-even system of alternate day arrangement for holding classes in a day or two after finding attendance patterns as we have spacious classrooms and will take the decision  as per attendance pattern,” said Puthenpura. Indra Bhushan Singh, District Superintendent of Education said “We have provided the SOPs to all the schools on Saturday itself and will ensure strict observance of laid norms,” and added that vaccination of teachers have also been carried out to ensure safety. S.K. Sinha, a parent of a Class VI student of Delhi Public School, “Thought initially we were quite hesitant due to safety concerns but when I went to school today to drop my son I got satisfied with the strict arrangement for observing all rules at the school.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid caseload drops to 27 in Ranchi||At least 20 Covid recoveries against two fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection brought the active caseload of Covid-19 down to 56 in Jharkhand on Sunday, while the state vaccinated over 1.40 lakh residents against the deadly virus, figures released by the health department highlighted. Ranchi and Lohardaga reported one Covid case each, while Ranchi alone reported 19 of the 20 Covid recoveries, which brought the active caseload here down to 27, data from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. East Singhbhum reported one Covid recovery against zero fresh cases of infection and the active caseload there dropped to two. This is the first time that the active caseload of Covid-19 has dropped below 30 in Ranchi since the second wave hit Jharkhand, health officials said. However, the district still accounted for about 50 per cent of the total active cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection in Jharkhand. As per government data, at least 12 of 24 districts had zero active cases at the end of Sunday. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of at least 36,895 residents and 0.005 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. So far, over 3.48 lakh residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of them could not survive. As per provisional data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 94,462 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 46,163 beneficiaries. More than 27,000 residents were administered the vaccine in East Singhbhum, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand on Sunday. Ranchi, on the other hand, vaccinated over 25,000 residents, the second highest among the districts. About 12,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Dhanbad. Records with the health department highlight that the state has so far administered at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to more than 1.24 crore residents and at least 40 lakh of them have also received the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Nameplate gesture to fight skewed sex ratio in Jharkhand||Residents of a Jharkhand village with a skewed sex ratio have decided to install house nameplates carrying the names of their daughters to promote gender equality. Sixty families at Bharatia village in Garhwa district, around 215km from Ranchi, will have the nameplates installed on September 21 in the presence of the local MLA and state drinking water and sanitation minister, Mithilesh Thakur. Efforts will continue to persuade the rest of the families — the 2011 census had counted 113 households in the village — to follow the example, said village mukhiya Bindu Devi. She said the move had been inspired by the deputy collector-cum-district education officer, Sanjay Kumar Pandey. “Pandey regularly interacted with us and inspired us to promote gender equality as our village has one of the worst sex ratios in the state,” Devi said. “Unfortunately, several families in our village still consider it unlucky to have a girl child. The nameplates will be a small step towards encouraging men and women to change their attitudes.” Devi had organised a survey and handed Pandey a list of the names of daughters or other women of the households so that the nameplates could be prepared. Devi said Pandey would be paying for the nameplates, to be inscribed in Hindi, out of his own pocket “Some people had objected to the idea as they felt it would mean passing on the ownership of their houses to their daughters,” Devi said. “But we are trying to educate them about the objective behind this symbolic gesture. We also plan to plant a sapling of a fruit-bearing tree at each house, which will be named after a daughter of the household (complete with a name tag).” Bharatia, 7km from Garhwa town, is a village of the Other Backward Classes and tribal families. “The sex ratio here is 740 females per 1,000 males, which is much lower than the national average of 943 and state average of 948,” Pandey said. “That apart, the child sex ratio in this village is only 658 girls per 1,000 boys. I found it alarming and held several rounds of discussion with progressive-minded villagers with the mukhiya’s support and managed to convince them about this symbolic (nameplate) gesture.” Pandey said the nameplate campaign was “only a beginning”. “The village women will be encouraged to start a series of campaigns aimed at changing the mentality of the men towards the girl child,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand government to set up herbal park in Dumka||The Jharkhand government will soon set up a herbal park in Dumka on a pilot basis. “The state government aims to promote herbal farming that, in turn, will provide livelihood opportunities to the people,” said state’s agriculture director Nisha Oraon, adding the agriculture department was already working on establishing the park and it will come up soon. “The district horticulture officer of Dumka will invite request for proposal (RFP) in respect of the park soon after receiving an allotment order,” Oraon told The Telegraph. She further informed that the RFP would be floated in October. The government will also invite investment in herbal sector for setting up processing units for various types of herbal plants grown in the region. Jharkhand is known for its flora and fauna and it is believed that many valuable herbs and plants are available in the state that are its natural treasures. In the initial stage the authorities would collect and preserve the herbal plants available in the state and will then proceed with, in the next phase, importing exotic and rare species, the agricultural director further informed. The proposed herbal park will have separate gardens for aromatic, spice, ornamental and cosmetic herbs at the same place that is also expected become a tourist attraction, the agriculture department hopes. The department is also hopeful that the park will inspire people to take up herbal cultivation and also encourage investors to use of the herbs for processing to get finished herbal products. The popularity of herbal farming in the region is also expected to enhance the prospects of setting up of processing units for various kinds of herbal products, they think. The processing units that may eventually come up around the proposed herbal park are units for extraction and distillation of herbal oil, processing aonla (amla) juice, aloe vera juice and jelly, ginger and turmeric drying, making herbal shampoo and soap and also those for making organic fertiliser, the departmental officials said. Though earlier proposals for opening a herbal park in Ranchi fell through, the capital city has Nakshatra Van, a garden of important medicinal plants, near the Raj Bhavan that was established at the behest of one of former governors of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
20-09-2021||Jharkhand||Covid cases decrease in Jharkhand ||The Covid situation in Jharkhand has remarkably improved during the past week and only three positive cases were found in the state on Saturday. Though the health department continued testing up to 50,000 samples everyday, only up to a maximum 11 of them were found to be infected with Covid-19 during the past week. Out of the 42,580 samples tested on Saturday, only 3 of those turned out to be positive. All those were from Ranchi district while the rest 23 districts did not have a single positive case. The positivity rate in the state stood at 0.007 per cent on Saturday. Jharkhand had an active caseload of 74 Covid-19 patients at 9pm on Saturday and Ranchi alone had 45 that accounted for nearly 61 per cent of the total caseload. While 13 districts had not a single active case that time, Jamtara had 7 cases and Chatra 5 while Khunti, Seraikela, East Singbhum, Deoghar, Lohardaga, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Latehar had less than 5 cases each. Ranchi has the maximum number of positive cases because people from across the state come here on various work and outsiders also use its airport or railway stations to reach the state and some of them are found positive when put to test, experts explain why the state capital had maximum active cases. “Covid is under control but people should follow Covid-appropriate behaviour as the second wave is still not over and the country is recording more than 30,000 positive cases everyday,” said Dr Matin Ahmad Khan who recently took voluntary retirement from the post of a medical college professor. “We are now living in a global village where international movement is very common and that is more the reason we have to be on alert because the disease is around,” he added. “But the good thing is that the last survey found presence of antibody in about 68 per cent population, indicating we are perhaps heading towards herd immunity,” the doctor sounded hopeful. He, however, cautioned that the disease, though may not remain a pandemic, will not be eradicated soon and may be present as endemic in certain parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
