21-09-2021||Business||Sanjiv Goenka receives prestigious Business Leader of the Year award||All India Management Association ( AIMA )  bestowed the Business Leader of the year award to Dr Sanjiv Goenka , Chairman RP Sanjiv Goenka Group, on Wednesday. Dr Goenka after receiving the award said, " It is a real honour and a great privilege to get this award . AIMA Managing India Awards has become an institution and is very special . " This is the 11th year of the Awards. Past recipients of the award include  Pawan Munjal and Rajiv Bajaj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||India witnessing consumption revival, says Deloitte report||Indians are slowly making their way back to the office and is witnessing a consumption revival in the country with spending intent shifting towards more discretionary items, according to a report by global consultancy and advisory firm Deloitte. After witnessing two waves of the pandemic, India is "cautiously returning" to a state of "business as usual", said the Deloitte's Global State of Consumer Tracker. “Decreasing number of Covid-19 cases as well as an aggressive vaccination drive have brought in a new wave of confidence amongst Indian consumers,” it said. The findings of the report reflect that the Indian consumer is "ready to spend more on discretionary items, feels safe about returning to work place, wants to spend on travel". Moreover, Indian consumer is less hesitant about in-person events and activities all of which are positive trends for India's economic revival, it added. “The easing of Covid-19-related restrictions across the country along with an accelerated vaccination drive has fuelled positive consumer sentiment,” said the report. “Our latest survey insights indicate higher levels of consumer spends, and a decline in anxiety levels will boost India's economic revival albeit with a touch of caution,” said Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP Partner and Consumer Industry Leader Porus Doctor said. According to the report, with robust vaccination initiatives by the government, Indians have gained confidence and are slowly returning to the workplace. "However, the employees are expected to be in office on a need basis and with utmost precautions, keeping strong safety protocols in place," it said. Moreover, as the festive season around the corner and lower Covid-19 cases, Indian consumers are showing lower levels of anxiety, resulting in their willingness to increase spending on more discretionary items. "Consumers are seen actively spending 12 per cent on alcohol, 36 per cent cable TV, 36 per cent clothing / footwear, 33 per cent electronics, 25 per cent furnishings and 22 per cent on restaurants," the report, which is based on a survey, said. The survey is based on a 30-day analysis of consumer spending behaviour of 1,000 persons in India, during July-August. Besides, the Indian consumers are all set for international travel as several countries lifting travel restrictions for India. Fifty-seven per cent Indians surveyed are planning international travel for leisure in the next three months. "With several initiatives to allow the movement of passengers between nations like air bubbles, vaccine passports, travel corridors and now vaccinated travel lane (VTL), search inquiries for travel to international destinations, have been on rise, providing a glimmer of hope for the beleaguered travel and hospitality sector," it said. According to the findings, the Indian consumer has also transformed to be a socially conscious shopper "Sixty-eight per cent respondents would like more locally sourced items and 74 per cent purchased from brands that responded well to the crisis," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Amazon spent Rs 8,546 crore in legal expenses during 2018-20 ||US e-commerce giant Amazon, which is said to be investigating alleged bribes paid by its legal representatives in India, spent a staggering Rs 8,546 crore or USD 1.2 billion in legal expenses for maintaining a presence in the country during 2018-20, sources said. Sources aware of the firm's public account filings said six entities of Amazon Amazon India Ltd (Holding Company), Amazon Retail India Pvt Ltd, Amazon Seller Services Pvt Ltd, Amazon Transportation Services Pvt Ltd, Amazon Wholesale (India) Pvt Ltd, and Amazon Internet Services Pvt Ltd (AWS) paid Rs 3,420 crore in India during 2018-19 and Rs 5,126 crore during 2019-20 towards legal fees. Amazon is locked in a legal tussle over the takeover of Future Group and is facing a probe by the Competition Commission of India (CCI). While the company declined to comment on the legal fee issue, traders body CAIT claimed that Amazon spending 20 per cent of its revenue on lawyers was questionable. "The whopping amount spent under legal professional fees clearly shows how Amazon and its subsidiaries are misusing their financial muscles to bribe and manipulate Indian government officials," CAIT National Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal wrote to Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal. Without offering any proof for his claim, he demanded a CBI inquiry. On Monday, a report by Morning Context stated that Amazon has initiated an investigation against some of its legal representatives for allegedly bribing Indian government officials. Its senior corporate counsel has reportedly been sent on leave in this matter. The company had stated that it takes allegations of improper actions seriously and investigates them fully to take appropriate action. While it did not confirm or deny the allegations, Amazon had said it has "zero tolerance for corruption". "Which company over the globe while spending more than 20 per cent of its accrued revenue on paying to lawyers is able to sustain in business and that too even making losses year by year but yes it is global e-tailer Amazon in India which is a living example of this mind-boggling acrimony," CAIT alleged on Tuesday. Khandelwal in a statement claimed that Amazon has spent about "Rs 8,500 crore on legal and professional fees against a turnover of about Rs 45,000 crore in two years (2018-20)". Amazon also faces a probe by India's fair trade watchdog CCI for alleged anti-competitive practices, predatory pricing and preferential treatment of sellers. The US-based firm has also locked in a legal tussle with Future Group. Amazon is contesting a Rs 24,713-crore deal between Future Group and Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd and has dragged Future Group to the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). It has argued that Future violated the contract by entering into the deal with rival Reliance. Amazon and Future Group had also filed litigations in Indian courts, including the Supreme Court, on the issue. Amazon is an investor in Future Coupons, that in turn is a shareholder in Future Retail Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Sensex rebounds 514 points to close above 59,000||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 514 points on Tuesday, led by gains in Infosys, Bajaj Finance and ITC amid a supportive trend in global markets. The 30-share Sensex ended 514.34 points or 0.88 per cent higher at 59,005.27. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 165.10 points or 0.95 per cent to 17,562. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 5 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Tata Steel, ITC, Bajaj Finserv, Tech Mahindra and Infosys. On the other hand, Maruti, Bajaj Auto, Nestle India, PowerGrid and Axis Bank were among the laggards. "Domestic benchmark indices witnessed sharp recovery mainly led by brisk rebound in defensive sectors like IT, pharma and FMCG," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, Nifty metal also witnessed strong rebound as investors utilised steep correction in metals stocks as opportunity to buy in dips, he said, adding that positive cues from global equities also supported market recovery. Elsewhere in Asia, Hang Seng ended on a positive note, while Nikkei was in the red. Bourses in China and South Korea were closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe rallied over 1 per cent in afternoon trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.96 per cent to USD 74.63 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Adani takes on Ambani, to invest USD 20 billion in renewable energy||Unveiling his infrastructure conglomerate's green vision, billionaire Gautam Adani on Tuesday said his group will invest USD 20 billion over the next 10 years in renewable energy generation and component manufacturing and will produce the world's cheapest green electron. The port-to-energy conglomerate plans to triple its renewable power generation capacity over the next four years, foray into green hydrogen production, power all data centres with renewable energy, turn its ports into net carbon zero by 2025, and plans to spend over 75 per cent of capital expenditure until 2025 in green technologies, he said. Speaking at JP Morgan India Investor Summit, Adani Group chairman said the USD 20 billion investment will be in renewable energy generation, component manufacturing, transmission and distribution. Adani Group's "integrated value chain, our scale, and experience put us on the path to be the producer of the least expensive green electron anywhere in the world," he said. The announcement came weeks after India's richest man Mukesh Ambani announced an investment of Rs 75,000 crore (USD 10 billion) in clean power and hydrogen fuel over three years. Many have seen the June 24 announcement as the petrochemical czar's direct competition with the country's second-wealthiest man, Adani who has had a strong presence in the renewables space for many years. This month, Ambani said hydrogen can be made from renewable energy at USD 1 per kilogram in a decade's time. Hydrogen has no carbon emissions and can be used as fuel in industry and automobiles. And on Tuesday, Adani outlined his vision with an investment size of USD 20 billion and the cheapest green electron. He said no company in the world is building a renewable power portfolio on the scale the Adani group is doing. The group currently has 4,920 MW of operational renewable energy generation capacity and another 5,124 MW under execution. It has a confirmed pipeline of 9,750 MW and another 4,500 MW where it is likely to win contracts. "Today, we are already the world's largest solar power player when we account for our generating, under construction, and contracted projects. We have done this in just two years and our renewables portfolio has reached our initial target of 25 Gigawatts a full four years ahead of schedule. This puts us well on track to be the world's largest renewable power generating company by 2030," he said. This, he said, opens up several new pathways including "setting us up to be one of the largest green hydrogen producers in the world." He however did not elaborate on plans to produce hydrogen. "Our actions clearly indicate that we are putting our money where our mouth is: Over 75 per cent of our planned capex until 2025 will be in green technologies. Today, of our EBITDA from utilities, 43 per cent is already from the green business." The group will triple renewable power generation capacity over the next four years from 21 per cent now to a high of 63 per cent. "Over the next 10 years, we will invest over USD 20 billion across renewable energy generation, component manufacturing, transmission and distribution," he said. "We will be the first port business that is ahead of its target to get to net zero by 2025. This business has committed to 1.5-degree pathway through SBTi." It will also be the first Indian data centre company that will power all its data centres with renewable energy by 2030. On other businesses, Adani said the focus will continue to be on infrastructure sectors that are underserved and critical to nation-building. "We are now India's largest private sector power producer, largest private port operator, largest private airport operator, largest private consumer gas and electric utility business, largest private electric transmission company and largest infrastructure developer in renewables." The group would also grow by expanding into adjacent sectors and incubate new businesses. It will in each of its businesses, develop deep operational expertise and then grow aggressively, both organically and through acquisitions. "In just the last eight years, we have acquired over 50 assets amounting to about USD 12 billion," he said. On digital business, he said the Adani Group's plans for airport-centered growth include metropolitan developments that span entertainment facilities, e-commerce and logistics capabilities, aviation-dependent industries and smart city developments. Adani said over the next two decades, India will have the biggest and youngest middle class that has ever existed. Over the next decade it will be among the world's top four countries in terms of market capitalization. "This is leverage from which we must benefit." India, he said, will be driven by homegrown companies and those international businesses that are truly committed to being and acting local. "But, as if the pandemic were not enough, yet another challenge looms ahead of us and India will have to play a major balancing role. If the crisis in 2001 was the bursting of the dot-com bubble, and in 2007 the bursting of the housing bubble, and if in 2020 the crisis was the pandemic, we now have to collectively confront and manage the crisis of climate change," he said. Managing the climate crisis will require every country in the world to unite, perhaps like never before, and work together. "Those criticising the pace of climate reform in countries like India must remember that the economic and industrial might of the West sits on a carpet of carbon soot several centuries deep. A hundred years ago, today's climate reformers were burning over 800 million metric tonnes of coal - that is more coal than what India produces today," he said. From pre-industrial times until now, India accounts for only 3 per cent of the extra carbon in the atmosphere and will eventually end up consuming less than 8 per cent of the entire remaining carbon budget, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors Infosys, HUL and TCS amid sustained foreign fund inflow. The 30-share Sensex was trading 264.5 points or 0.45 per cent higher at 58,755.43. Similarly, Nifty advanced 80.85 points or 0.46 per cent to 17,477.75 in initial deals. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by HUL, Infosys, Asian Paints, Tata Steel and ITC. On the other hand, Maruti, Nestle India, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finserv and Bajaj Auto were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 524.96 points or 0.89 per cent lower at 58,490.93, and Nifty tumbled 188.25 points or 1.07 per cent to close at 17,396.90. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 92.54 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be soft as cascading impact of Evergrande defaults may turn investors risk averse in the near to medium term," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, considering increasing possibility of earnings downgrade in the US markets following sharp rise in coronavirus daily caseload and continued reform measures undertaken by the Indian government appear to have revived FIIs' interest in the domestic market, he noted. On the global front, equities witnessed heavy selling pressure on Monday as growing fears of China's second largest real estate giant Evergrande's possible default spooked markets. All three indices in the US recorded fall of around 2 per cent. Further, investors turned to be cautious ahead of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting outcome on Wednesday, wherein many investors expect hawkish commentary from the US Federal Reserve, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, Hang Seng and Nikkei were trading with losses. Bourses in China and Tokyo remained closed. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.91 per cent to USD 74.59 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||SpiceJet to finalise compensation deal with Boeing next month||Low-cost carrier SpiceJet is expected to finalise its compensation deal with Boeing next month. The US-based aircraft manufacturer would compensate SpiceJet for the grounding of the B737 MAX, which was grounded globally following two fatal accidents. Sources indicated that SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh is scheduled to fly to the US next month to finalise the deal. The airline has so far claimed more than Rs 1,200 crore in compensation from Boeing following the grounding of the planes since March 2019. Auditors to SpiceJet said during its June quarter results that the carrier would have reported steeper losses had it not recognised the other income, which were the dues from Boeing. The airline had 13 737 MAX at the time of the ban. SpiceJet had in 2017 ordered 205 Boeing planes, including 100 units of 737 MAX 8 aircraft. Industry sources said SpiceJet may not receive Boeing’s full compensation as aircraft makers do not prefer a direct or full cash payment and instead opt for other structures, which include discounts or roll-over of payments. Deals with lessors SpiceJet has reached commercial settlement with two major lessors of MAX aircraft which will result in a saving of around Rs 300 crore for the airline. The deal with the two lessors enables the airlines to get four planes and it is hopeful of reaching the deal with other lessors soon. While neither the airline nor the two lessors — Avolon and CDB Aviation — have made public the details of the agreement, sources said the lessors have agreed to write-off around Rs 300 crore of lease rental dues that had to be paid by the airline. The airline hopes to save around Rs 1,000 crore in all once the settlements are finalised with the three other MAX lessors, SpiceJet sources said. The deal with the lessors comes at a time civil aviation regulator DGCA has lifted the ban on B737 MAX ahead of the festive season. Sources said the airline plans to start flying it from the first week of October, which is considered as the busy earnings season for the airlines. The airline is pinning hopes on the MAX as it hopes to cut fuel and maintenance bills resulting in massive savings. With the UAE  opening up for Indian tourists, SpiceJet can deploy these fuel-efficient aircraft on these short-haul international routes that would result in savings in terms of fuel and maintenance costs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Bharat Coking Coal signs Rs 1,880 crore contract to extract methane||Coal India subsidiary Bharat Coking Coal Limited has signed a Rs 1,880 crore revenue sharing contract with Ahmedabad-based Prabha Energy Private Limited for the commercial extraction of coal bed methane from Jharia. The agreement comes at a time of the commissioning of the ambitious gas pipeline infrastructure in eastern India under the Urja Ganga project. In February 2021, the 348kilometre Dhobi-Durgapur natural gas pipeline was commissioned under the project In the methane project, Bharat Coking would put up close to Rs 370 crore towards the cost of land and the rest will be met by the private developer The project is scheduled to commence in three phases. The first phase of exploration is two years followed by the pilot phase for three years and a production phase of 30 years. Coal India expects the first two phases will be completed ahead of the deadline. Coal bed methane will be extracted from CBM Block-I which has an estimated resource of 25 billion cubic metres. The average production capacity is estimated at 1.3 million metric standard cubic metres per day when commercial operation starts. Coal bed methane extraction is part of Coal India’s plan to diversify under the clean coal energy initiative. The methane could be utilised for city gas distribution or through pipeline for potential commercial users. Further, removing methane from underground coal mines can improve mine safety, productivity, increase revenue and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This is the first time Coal India will extract coal bed methane from its own leasehold area. It plans to extract methane from two other blocks — one in Eastern Coalfields and another in South Eastern Coalfields — that have a combined resource of 2.7 billion cubic metres per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Wow! Momo raises $17 million from private equity investors||Calcutta-based quick service restaurant chain Wow! Momo Foods has raised $17 million (Rs 123.5 crore) from private equity investors in the latest round of funding, valuing the company at Rs 1,225 crore, a hefty 43 per cent rise in two years. The capital infusion is being led by Singapore’s Tree Line Investment management which is investing around Rs 100 crore. Two of the existing shareholders, The Lighthouse Funds and Indian Angel Network, are bringing in the rest. The QSR chain, which operates two brands Wow! Momo and Wow! China, had last received funding from Tiger Global in September 2019 when it was valued at Rs 860 crore. Even though the pandemic upended the dine-in and take-out food business for close to 18 months, investors’ appetite for QSR chains appears to be intact. Wow! Momo itself had to put up with a string of losses for over 16 months before it turned around in July 2021. Launched in 2008, Wow! Momo plans to utilise the money to build a large manufacturing base in Greater Noida and Kasba in Calcutta, expand the number of outlets by 150 and cloud kitchen by 50 and launch two more brands. The company makes frozen momos and sauces in their manufacturing bases/ central kitchens to support the kiosks and sit-down outlets. It has also launched ready to eat momos as a stepping stone for the packaged food business. After this transaction, the founders and employees who are recipients of employee stock options would continue to hold close 57 per cent stake in the company. Sagar Daryani, CEO and co-founder of Wow! Momo Foods, said this could be the last round of funding before  taking the company public in two to three years. “Our entire business has pivoted around delivery which is now 70 per cent of the business compared with 25 per cent during the pre-pandemic time. Last two months, we have started making profits again, even though the EBIDTA margin has come down. With the ongoing relaxation in store timing, we hope that sales from the outlets will reach 50 per cent, which is going to be a sweet spot,” Daryani said. The company, which is present in 17 cities, is making a revenue of Rs 21-22 crore a month, the highest so far, for the last two months. Earlier this year, two pan-India food chains debuted in the stock market with a thumping valuation. The stocks of Barbeque Nation Hospitality and Devyani International Ltd, which runs Pizza Hut and KFC, were lapped up by the market. Commenting on the transaction, Zaheer Sitabkhan, founder of Tree Line Investment Management said: “As India is rapidly emerging from covid, we are enthusiastic about their growth plans both in the QSR and ready to eat category.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||HDFC Bank to launch co-branded credit cards with Paytm||HDFC Bank will launch co-branded credit cards along with Paytm. This marks the first aggressive alliance struck by the lender after Reserve Bank of India lifted the ban imposed last year on the bank barring it from issuing credit cards because of recurring glitches to its backend platform. HDFC Bank lost market share to peers ICICI Bank and SBI due to the ban and is now looking to claw back the 200 basis point lost market share in the crowded and competitive credit card business in the country. HDFC Bank’s market share fell to 23.6 per cent  In June 2021 from 25.6 per cent in November 2020 but the bank retained its lead with a base of 1.48 crore credit cards. The credit card, powered by Visa, is planned for launch in October 2021 to coincide with the festive season. EMIs and buy now pay later option with the full suite of products will be offered by the end of December. Under the partnership HDFC Bank and Paytm will also introduce business credit cards for merchants from smaller cities and towns and enable them with access to credit with instant and paperless approvals. Paytm has a base of 330 million consumers and 21 million merchants as of March 31, 2021. “As a leader in the cards space, our objective is to help enlarge the ecosystem through such collaborations, which ultimately offers a differentiated experience for customers,” said Parag Rao, group head - payments, consumer finance, digital banking and IT, HDFC Bank. Kotak stake in fintech firm Kotak Mahindra Bank is investing Rs 310 crore to pick up a 9.98 per cent stake in registrar and transfer agency KFin Technologies which provides services to mutual funds, alternative investor funds, wealth managers and companies. The General Atlantic-backed firm, which posted a turnover of Rs 481 crore in 2020-21, also provides financial technology solutions across other asset classes such as insurance and pension. It serves 25 mutual funds and has a 35 per cent share in equity assets under management. KFin also provides back-office operations and data processing services, besides being a central record-keeping agency under the National Pension System. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges on Monday, Kotak Mahindra Bank said that the all-cash deal is a financial investment and will be completed by the end of October 2021. Kotak Mahindra Bank’s joint managing director Dipak Gupta said the investment was in line with the private sector lender’s stated strategy of making minority investments in businesses which are professionally managed and have deep client entrenchment. “As a platform of choice for asset managers, investors and corporates, we believe KFin is well-positioned to continue growing its market position,” Gupta said, adding that the bet will create long-term value for its stakeholders. “With Kotak Mahindra Bank’'s support, along with the continued support of General Atlantic, an existing shareholder of KFin, we shall be able to achieve greater heights in our technology, business processes, leadership depth and governance,” KFin chairman M.V. Nair said while commenting on the development. Shares of Kotak Mahindra Bank on Monday ended marginally lower at Rs 2,001.25 on the BSE. According to Kfin’s chief executive Sreekanth Nadella, the lender’s vision to deliver outstanding value in a simple and straightforward manner complements Kfin’s commitment to provide unparalleled client outcomes on demand. “We believe this investment shall serve as a strong foundation for KFin to build next generation techfin solutions for financial infrastructure institutions,” he added. The Kotak Mahindra group was recently in the news when it acquired the vehicle financing portfolio of Volkswagen Finance, the domestic captive financing arm of Volkswagen Group. With the acquisition, Kotak will gain access to over 30,000 customers with a total loan outstanding  of around Rs 1,340 crore which are classified as standard under Reserve Bank of India (RBI) norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
21-09-2021||Business||Fourth budget making process of Modi 2.0 to kick-start from Oct 12||The fourth budget making process of Modi 2.0 will kick-start from October 12. This budget will have to address issues of demand generation, job creation and try to put the economy on a sustained 8 per cent plus growth path. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will have to come up with measures to revive the Covid-19 battered economy and put it on a sustained growth path. “The pre-Budget/RE (revised estimate) meetings will begin on October 12, 2020,” according to the Budget Circular (2022-23) of the budget division of the department of economic affairs. The budget for the current fiscal had projected a growth rate of about 10.5 per cent in real terms while fiscal deficit was pegged at 6.8 per cent of the gross domestic product “All financial advisers should ensure that the necessary details related to these meetings contained in the Appendices I to VII are entered in the RE module of the UBIS (Union Budget Information System),” the circular added. The Budget Estimates (BE) for 2022-23 will be provisionally finalised after the expenditure secretary completes discussions with other secretaries and financial advisers. Pre-budget meetings will begin from October 12 and continue till the second week of November, it said. “Given the special circumstances of this year, the basis of the final budgetary allocations will be overall fiscal position, and subject to that the absorptive capacity of the ministry/department,” it said. Ceilings for all categories of expenditure, including the central sector and centrally sponsored schemes, will be discussed, it said. Accordingly, the RE 2021-22 and BE 2022-23 for all categories of expenditure, and select schemes/projects may be indicated separately for revenue and capital expenditure, it said. For the Budget Estimates of 2022-23, it said, “The allocations will be finalised for the establishment and other central government expenditure. For the Central Sector (CS) schemes and Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS), tentative ceilings would be discussed during the pre-budget meetings." Budget 2022-23 is likely to be presented on February 1 during the first half of the Parliament's Budget session which usually begins in the last week of January every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
21-09-2021||Business||CARS24 raises $450 million in funding ||CARS24 on Monday said it has raised $450 million (about Rs 3,321.3 crore) in funding from DST Global, Falcon Edge, SoftBank Vision Fund 2 and others, helping the pre-owned vehicles’ e-commerce platform nearly double its valuation to $1.84 billion. The series F round of funding was a mix of equity ($340 million) and debt ($110 million), a statement said. The equity round was led by DST Global, Falcon Edge and SoftBank Vision Fund 2 along with participation from Tencent and existing investors, Moore Strategic Ventures and Exor Seeds, it added. The debt funding came from diversified financial institutions. CARS24 has clocked more than 13 million monthly traffic and over 4 lakh transactions till date. It has also procured a non-banking financial company licence and launched consumer lending business with CARS24 Financial Services and two-wheeler segment, BIKES24. It is backed by marquee investors like Sequoia India, SoftBank and Falcon Edge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
21-09-2021||Business||RIL shareholders begins voting to appoint Yasir Othman al Rumayyan as independent director||Shareholders of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) on Monday began voting on a resolution seeking to appoint Aramco chairman Yasir Othman al Rumayyan as an independent director on the board of the company. The Mukesh Ambani-led firm is seeking shareholder approval through a postal ballot. It is seen as a precursor to the much-anticipated Aramco investment in RIL’s oil-to-chemical (O2C) business. Reports indicate that the oil giant may pick up a 20 per cent stake in the business which RIL plans to spin off later this year. Aramco is believed to have offered to make the up to $25-billion deal  through a mix of cash and its stock wherein RIL could be offered a 1 per cent stake in the Saudi entity and the rest in staggered cash payments. While RIL shareholders have already approved the demerger of the O2C business, this is now pending with the National Company Law Tribunal. Al Rumayyan is also the governor of the Saudi Public Investment Fund — one of the world's largest sovereign wealth funds which he has been heading since 2015, leading all its areas of operation. He also serves as an adviser to the general secretariat of the cabinet of ministers of Saudi Arabia. He has over 25 years of experience in working with some of Saudi Arabia’s prominent financial institutions. RIL has engaged the services of KFin Technologies Pvt Ltd, Registrar and Transfer Agent to provide remote e-voting facility to its members. The e-voting facility, which began on Monday, will end on October 19 at 5pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
21-09-2021||Business||Sebi relief for mutual fund sector, junior staff allowed to invest||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Monday gave some relief to the mutual fund industry from the onerous conditions of its April 28 circular by allowing junior staff to invest in a phased manner. The market regulator also allowed other employees to set off their existing investments against the fresh purchases they have to compulsorily make in their own schemes. In the April circular on the skin-in-the-game norms, Sebi had stipulated that at least 20 per cent of the salary of senior executives of mutual funds should be paid in the form of units of mutual fund schemes in which they have an oversight. The regulator had also said that such investments in mutual fund units will be locked-in for a minimum period of three years or for the full tenure of the scheme, whichever is less. In a set of clarifications issued on Monday, the market regulator retained the October 1, 2021 timeline for implementation of the rules. However, it gave some breathing space to junior employees. A junior employee is one below 35 years of age, excluding the CEO, head of department and fund manager. Such staff will have to invest 10 per cent of their compensation in the mutual fund units of the fund house from October 1, 2021. From October 1, 2022, this will rise to 15 per cent and from October 1, 2023, it will be further go up to 20 per cent. The phased implementation for junior employees will cease to apply from the date such an employee attains the age of 35 years. For key employees (in its April circular) — called designated employees by Sebi — the circular said they may set off their existing investments, as on the date of the applicability of the circular, against the requirement of fresh investments in the same schemes. This could see their take-home pay not getting affected severely. However, such investments will be locked in for a period of three years. The market regulator did not specify who were these designated employees. In its previous circular it had said that the key employees will include the CEO, chief investment officer (CIO), chief risk officer (CRO) and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
21-09-2021||Business||Vodafone to use 4-year moratorium, unlikely to take equity conversion||Vodafone Idea will use the four-year moratorium allowed by the government but is unlikely to take the equity conversion option which is one of the key elements of the relief package announced by the Centre for telecom firms. Last week, the Centre allowed telcos such as Voda Idea to defer past payments for a period of four years. However, they will have to pay a small interest during the moratorium period. The government will have the option to convert the deferred due amount and also the annual interest on this deferred payment into equity at the end of the moratorium. For Vodafone Idea, the package will come as a big relief as it reduces the payment burden by an estimated Rs 25,000 crore annually for four years. However, brokerages such as ICICI Securities feel that in the worst case, Voda Idea could become majority owned by the government because of the equity conversion option. Analysts said in such a case, the Centre could hold anywhere between 30 per cent and 70 per cent in Voda Idea. It may be recalled that Aditya Birla group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla had even offered to transfer his stake in Voda Idea to the government or any other entity that the Centre may consider worthy. This was, however, before the package was announced. With the relief, it has now dropped the idea. Birla owns more than a 27 per cent stake in Vodafone Idea Limited (VIL), while British giant Vodafone Plc holds over 44 per cent. Latest reports indicate that the promoters are not keen to take the equity conversion option, which could mean that they could look at bringing in strategic investors into the firm. “With the relief package coming, the confidence of the company management in bringing strategic investors like a PE firm will go up,’’ an analyst with a domestic brokerage said. A CNBC TV-18 report quoting sources said the company feels that the equity option “defeats the purpose of ownership” and that Voda Idea will strategise structural changes to put business back on track. The firm also reportedly feels that a reduction in promoters stake would defeat the purpose of having competition in the telecom sector. The Voda Idea stock on Monday ended nearly 4 per cent lower. On the BSE, it settled at Rs 10.75 — a drop of 3.76 per cent over the last close. Analysts also feel that Voda Idea will have no other option but to hike tariffs and infuse capital as it has other liabilities that includes a Rs 60,000 crore NCD (non-convertible debenture) payment. “It needs to get funding both in debt and equity for accelerating capex investment and meeting other liabilities, and without tariff hike, securing funding will be difficult. We see a possibility of 30-40 per cent tariff hike in the near future in popular 4G prepaid category and postpaid,’’ the ICICI Securities report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
21-09-2021||Business||Videocon Industries lenders seek fresh bids for company||Lenders to Videocon Industries Ltd executed a neat somersault on Monday when they decided to seek fresh bids for the company and 12 other firms after coming under fire for accepting a lowball debt resolution proposal from Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta group. The Vedanta resolution plan, which was approved by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in June, involved a massive haircut of almost 96 per cent. The State Bank of India, which heads the committee of creditors, has approached the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) seeking permission to invite fresh bids — a move that could run foul of a Supreme Court verdict last week that said no debt resolution plan could be withdrawn once the lenders had approved it and submitted it before the company law tribunal. The Videocon resolution plan —  proposed by Twin Star Technologies, a Vedanta group firm — had been accepted by the creditors in December last year and then approved by a division bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) bench comprising Ravikumar Duraisamy and H.P. Chaturvedi. A two-member NCLAT bench headed by Justice Jarat Kumar Jain and Kanthi Narahari, member, has posted the matter for hearing on September 27. Under the resolution plan, Twin Star would have acquired the assets of Videocon’s oil and gas, and consumer durables businesses. Videocon was swamped by claims from creditors worth Rs 71,433.75 crore. The resolution professional overseeing the company that had been steered into the insolvency resolution process admitted claims worth Rs 64,838.63 crore. However, the Twin Star resolution had proposed a payment of only Rs 2,962.02 crore, resulting in a total haircut of 95.85 per cent for the creditors. The NCLT order was stayed by the appellate tribunal on July 19 following petitions filed by two creditors of the Videocon group: Bank of Maharashtra and IFCI Ltd. On Monday, SBI requested the NCLAT to permit the resolution professional to seek fresh expressions of interest of the 13 companies of the debt-ridden group. The country’s largest lender cited the strong observations made by the NCLT against the winning bid by Twin Star Technologies. The assenting creditors of the Videocon resolution plan represent 94.98 per cent of the vote in the lenders’ committee. In its affidavit, the SBI said the assenting financial creditors — the majority of which are public sector banks and financial institutions — have to give serious consideration and weightage to the observations of both the NCLT and NCLAT. Although the NCLT had granted its approval to the Twin Star plan, it had raised several questions. The division bench had observed that the resolution applicant (Twin Star) had valued all the assets and liabilities of all the 13 companies of the group and arrived at almost the same value of the registered valuers. Under the CIRP Regulations, the liquidation value and fair market value are supposed to be kept confidential. On the resolution plan, it had observed that the assenting secured financial creditors would get only 4.89 per cent, dissenting secured financial creditors would get only 4.56 per cent and assenting unsecured financial creditors would get a meagre amount of 0.62 per cent. On the other hand, dissenting unsecured financial creditors would get nothing while operational creditors would receive a piffling 0.72 per cent from the payout. The NCLAT, which granted an interim stay on the resolution plan, observed that there were certain "exceptional facts" in the case. The observations of the Adjudicating Authority (NCLT) and the Appellate Tribunal "necessitated a reconsideration by the Assenting Financial Creditors of their decision to accept the haircut of 95 per cent,” it said. In its affidavit, the SBI said the assenting financial creditors — the majority of which are public sector banks and financial institutions — have to give serious consideration and weightage to the observations of both the NCLT and NCLAT. "The appellate tribunal may be pleased to remand the matter back to the CoC for its reconsideration and in view of the observations regarding the value offered by the successful resolution applicant, resulting in a 95 per cent haircut, the appellate tribunal may be pleased to... allow the COC and the resolution professional to conduct a fresh process of inviting fresh expressions of interest and resolution plans from all interested resolution applicants or take a decision to liquidate the corporate debtors as per the provisions of the Code," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
21-09-2021||India||Mahant's death: 18-member SIT formed to probe case; disciple Anand Giri detained||The Uttar Pradesh Police on Tuesday constituted an 18-member SIT to probe the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri and detained a disciple of the seer in Haridwar. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said all aspects related to the death are being investigated and the guilty will not be spared. Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya too said his government is ready for every kind investigation into the matter. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has demanded a judicial probe by a sitting high court judge. A plea seeking a CBI probe into the death was also sent to the chief justice of the Allahabad High Court. The seer, who was the president of the largest organisation of sadhus in India, was found hanging by his disciples at Baghambari Muth in Allahabad on Monday. A purported suicide note was also found, in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and upset with one of his disciples, police had said. According to a release, the 18-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by Allahabad SSP will include two circle officers. Meanwhile, ADG (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar in Lucknow said the state police detained the seer's disciple Anand Giri on Monday night in Haridwar. Anand Giri was detained after a case for abetting suicide was lodged against him, Kumar said. The ADG said in the suicide note, names of three people were mentioned and on the basis of the FIR, Anand Giri was detained. "He is being brought to Allahabad for further probe," he said, adding that evidence in the case is being collected. An "unbiased and transparent" probe into the matter is on and the state police is capable of handling the case, the officer said. About the veracity of the suicide note, Kumar said forensic experts are looking into it. CM Adityanath, who rushed to Allahabad to pay his respects to the seer, told reporters that the case will be solved soon. Every single aspect connected with the case will be exposed and the guilty will be punished, he added. Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, who paid floral tributes to the mahant, said the guilty will not be able to escape and his government is ready for every king of probe, be it by police of the CBI. Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday demanded a judicial probe by a sitting high court judge. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister also visited Baghambari Muth in Allahabad and paid homage to the seer. Meanwhile, a lawyer, Sunil Choudhary, mailed a petition to the chief justice of the Allahabad High Court, seeking a CBI probe into the case. Choudhary said according to some news portals, a high-rank UP police officer and land mafia were involved in the case. The probe must be transferred to the CBI and the state government be directed to suspend the Allahabad district magistrate and the SSP, the petition added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
21-09-2021||India||DoT issues order to enable people to get mobile SIM at doorsteps by using Aadhaar, Digilocker docs||The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) on Tuesday issued an order that enables customers to apply for a new mobile connection online and get the SIM delivered at their doorsteps after verifying themselves by using Aadhaar or any other eligible document stored in Digilocker. The move from the DoT is part of the telecom reforms approved by the Cabinet on September 15. Customers will have to pay Re 1 for the process of authentication through Aadhaar-based e-KYC services of UIDAI for getting new mobile connections, according to the new rules. The government already amended the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, in July 2019, for the re-introduction of Aadhaar-based e-KYC process for issuing new mobile connections. "The telecom service providers shall implement a process...for issuing of new mobile connections using Aadhaar-based e-KYC," the DoT said. The government has issued an order allowing conversion of prepaid to postpaid and vice-versa using a one-time password (OTP)-based process. "The issuing of mobile connection to the customers is done through an app/portal-based online process wherein a customer can apply for mobile connection sitting at home/office and gets the SIM delivered at his doorstep using documents electronically verified by UIDAI (Aadhaar) or Digilocker," The DoT's order said. Currently, to obtain a new mobile connection or conversion of mobile connection from prepaid to postpaid or vice-versa, a subscriber has to undergo the KYC process that entails a visit to the retail shop along with the original documents of identity and address proof. "Online service delivery has become an acceptable norm in the recent past and most of the customer services are being offered through the internet with OTP authentication. "Contactless services in the Covid-19 era need to be promoted for subscriber convenience and also for the ease of doing business," the DoT said in a statement. It added that customer consent has been made compulsory in case the Aadhaar is being used and demographic details are being obtained electronically from UIDAI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
21-09-2021||India||Jaishankar meets French and Iranian counterparts at UN||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday met his French and Iranian counterparts at the UN and held talks on contemporary issues, including Afghanistan and Indo-pacific. Jaishankar, who arrived here on Monday to participate in the high-level 76th session of the UN General Assembly, began his day with a meeting with India’s “strategic partner” France. He met his French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian and held a comprehensive discussion on Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific and other contemporary issues. “Began the day meeting with our Strategic Partner France. A comprehensive discussion with FM @JY_LeDrian on Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific and other contemporary issues. India and France are solid partners in the UN Security Council,” Jaishankar said in a tweet. He also met Iran’s Foreign Minister H Amirabdollahian and held talks on strengthening bilateral cooperation. “Good to meet FM @Amirabdolahian of Iran again. Continued our conversation on strengthening bilateral cooperation. Meeting reaffirmed our convergence on regional issues,” the External Affairs Minister said in another tweet. Jaishankar and senior Indian officials arrived in New York starting Monday for the annual high-level UNGA session which returned to a more hybrid and in-person format this year after going virtual last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. During the week, Jaishankar will meet his counterparts from several member states and participate in the G-20 meeting that will focus on Afghanistan and the G-4 Foreign Ministers meeting with focus on Security Council reforms. India will participate in three high-level meetings organised by UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Climate, Energy and Food Systems. The 76th UNGA session commenced from September 14 under the Presidency of Abdulla Shahid. The high-level week - the General Debate - commenced on Tuesday with US President Joe Biden addressing world leaders. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the General Debate on September 25. The Taliban seized power in Afghanistan on August 15, two weeks before the US' complete troop withdrawal on August 31 after a costly two-decade war. This forced Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to flee the country to the UAE. The Taliban insurgents stormed across Afghanistan and captured all major cities in a matter of days, as Afghan security forces trained and equipped by the US and its allies melted away. Thousands of Afghan nationals and foreigners have fled the country to escape the new Taliban regime and to seek asylum in different nations, including the US and many European nations, resulting in total chaos and deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
21-09-2021||India||Air Marshal V R Chaudhari set to become new IAF chief||Air Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari will take charge as the chief of the Indian Air Force after the incumbent, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, retires on September 30, the defence ministry said on Tuesday. Air Marshal Chaudhari is presently serving as Vice Chief of the Air Staff. "The government has decided to appoint Air Marshal V R Chaudhari, presently Vice Chief of Air Staff, as the next Chief of the Air Staff after the retirement of Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on September 30," the ministry said in a brief statement. He has held command, staff and instructional appointments at various levels and took over as Vice Chief of Air Staff on July 1. Before becoming Vice Chief of the IAF, he was serving as commander-in-chief of the Western Air Command (WAC) that looks after the security of Indian air space in the sensitive Ladakh sector as well as various other parts of north India. An alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Air Marshal Chaudhari was commissioned into the fighter stream of the IAF on December 29, 1982. In a distinguished career spanning nearly 38 years, the officer has flown a wide variety of fighter and trainer aircraft in the inventory of IAF. He has a flying experience of more than 3,800 hours, including operational flying on MiG-21, MiG-23 MF, MiG 29 and Su-30 MKI fighter jets. He was the commanding officer of a frontline fighter squadron and has also commanded a frontline fighter base. Apart from various operational issues, Air Marshal Chaudhari will have to also address matters related to the ambitious theaterisation model of the armed forces. The theatre commands are being planned to integrate the capabilities of the three services and to ensure optimal utilisation of their resources. The theatre commands are being set up under a larger mandate of ensuring synergy among the three service chiefs to deal with future security challenges. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat has been focusing on bringing convergence among the three services and restructuring military commands to effectively deal with future security challenges. There has been a growing perception that the Indian Air Force has some reservations about the theaterisation programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
21-09-2021||India||India will not buy Pfizer, Moderna vaccines as domestic output surges||India's government will not buy COVID-19 shots from Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna, three government sources told Reuters, mainly because domestic output of more affordable and easier-to-store vaccines has jumped. That essentially means the globally popular vaccines, which their makers have pledged not to sell to private parties during the pandemic, will not be available for now in the world's two most populous countries - China and India. The Indian government has also declined to meet the U.S. companies' requests for legal protection over any side-effects from the use of their shots, which are currently made only in the United States or Europe, two of the sources said. No company has received such protection in India. "Earlier, there was a shortage, there was a need," said one of the sources, referring to India's appeal to the companies in April for vaccines when infections exploded and shots were in short supply. "Their price will be high. Why should we take on their conditions?" A second source said: "The government will not buy Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. They are free to have private tie-ups after necessary regulatory clearances. But sovereign indemnity is clearly something we can't give". A Pfizer spokesperson in India said discussions were ongoing and it remained committed to bring the vaccine to the country. The company reiterated that "during the pandemic phase, it would supply the COVID-19 vaccine only to central governments and supra-national organisations". Moderna and India's health ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Moderna, through its Indian partner Cipla (CIPL.NS), already has emergency-use authorisation in India for its vaccine, which, like the Pfizer one, needs ultra-cold storage - facilities that much of India lacks. Both vaccines cost several times more than India's main shot, Covishield, a licensed version of the AstraZeneca  drug. India's monthly domestic output has trebled since April and will reach 300 million doses in October, according to Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who on Monday announced a restart of India's vaccine exports from the October quarter. read more The government, however, is expected to buy locally filled and finished doses of Johnson & Johnson's vaccine, Reuters reported on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
21-09-2021||India||Narendra Modi, Emmanuel Macron discuss bilateral collaboration in Indo-Pacific||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday discussed the recent developments in Afghanistan and shared their concerns about possible spread of terrorism, narcotics, illicit weapons and human trafficking. During their telephonic conversation, the two leaders reviewed the increasing bilateral collaboration in the Indo-Pacific region, and the important role that the India-France partnership plays in promoting stability and security in the region, a statement released by the Prime Minister's Office here said. President Macron and Prime Minister Modi agreed to act jointly and with Europe in the Indo-Pacific, to keep the region stable, rules-based and free of any hegemony, French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain said on Twitter. After his conversation with Macron, Modi tweeted, "Spoke with my friend President @EmmanuelMacron on the situation in Afghanistan. We also discussed closer collaboration between India and France in the Indo-Pacific." "We place great value on our strategic partnership with France, including in the UNSC," Modi said. The PMO said the two leaders discussed regional issues, including recent developments in Afghanistan. "In this context, they shared their concerns about possible spread of terrorism, narcotics, illicit weapons and human trafficking, as well as the need to ensure human rights, rights of women and minorities," the statement said. The leaders agreed to maintain close and regular consultations, in the spirit of the India-France Strategic Partnership, which both countries cherish deeply, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||Serum Institute to supply 22 crore Covishield doses to Centre in October||The Serum Institute of India has informed the Centre that it will be able to supply around 22 crore doses of Covishield in October as the Union government has announced resuming the export of surplus Covid vaccines in the coming fourth quarter under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme, official sources said. In a communication to the Centre on Monday, Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII), said the firm has enhanced its production capacity of Covishield and it will be able to supply 21.90 crore doses in October to Government of India and private hospitals. The Pune-based pharmaceutical company has enhanced the manufacturing capacity of Covishield to more than 20 crore doses per month. "Starting from January 2021, we have supplied 66.33 crore doses of Covishield to MoHFW, Government of India in addition to supply of more than 7.77 crore doses to state governments and private hospitals till 19th September 2021 evening. "All this has become possible under the dynamic leadership and kind direction of our Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji, continuous support from team Ministry of Health and GoI, visionary leadership of our CEO, Dr Adar C Poonawalla, along with untiring efforts of Team SIIPL," a source quoted Singh as having communicated. Singh futher assured that by December 31, keeping with the timeline, the firm will complete the recent supply order of 66 crore doses. "At this juncture, I can assure you that by December 31, 2021, we will complete supply of 66 crore doses of Covishield against the recent order and will touch supplies of more than 130 crore doses of Covishield in the year 2021. We are working relentlessly to fulfill our prime minister's dream for successful completion of world's largest vaccination drive so that our country overcomes COVID-19 pandemic," the communication stated. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday announced that India will resume export of surplus COVID-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool, but vaccinating its own citizens remains the topmost priority of the government. Talking about the expected production and supply trends in the coming months, the minister said the government will receive over 30 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines in October and over 100 crore doses in the coming quarter from October-December. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has crossed 82 crore. Of all the vaccine doses administered, around 88.45 per cent are Covishield, around 11.44 per cent are Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and less than one per cent are Sputnik V. India on September 17 administered a record number of over 2.50 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday. The daily COVID-19 vaccination in the country was over 1 crore on September 6, August 31 and August 27. India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30-crore mark, according to the ministry. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore doses and then 20 more days to cross the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6, it said. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark and took only 13 days to reach 70 crore from 60 crore on September 7. It then took just 11 days to reach 80 crore from 70 crore. According to official sources, over 22 per cent of India's adult population have received both doses of COVID-19 vaccine and nearly 65 per cent have got at least one dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||UK travel restrictions: Congress urges govt to ensure Indians don't face inconvenience||The Congress on Tuesday expressed concern over the latest Covid-related travel restrictions announced by the UK and urged the government to ensure that there is no inconvenience faced by any Indian travelling to that country. According to new rules announced by the United Kingdom, Indian travellers who have received both doses of the Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) will be considered unvaccinated and will have to undergo self-isolation for 10 days. Reacting to the development, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, "We are very concerned about the kind of inconvenience our people will have to face while travelling to the UK." Taking a dig at the Modi government, he said this raises pertinent questions on the way the government has handled international relations. "So much for the diplomatic heft that Mr. (Narendra) Modi claims he has. It does not come to the rescue of ordinary Indians unfortunately. It does not come to the rescue of the interests of India. When push comes to shove, we pay a heavy price," Khera said at a Congress media briefing at the party's headquarters here. "We would request the government to immediately intervene and ensure that there is no inconvenience faced by any Indian travelling to the UK," he said. His remarks come a day after former Union ministers and Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh, Anand Sharma and Shashi Tharoor slammed the UK's COVID-19-related travel rules, with Ramesh saying it "smacks of racism". While Tharoor had said that because of the restrictions he had even pulled out of a debate at The Cambridge Union debating society and from the launch events for the UK edition of his latest book, Sharma urged the Prime Minister's Office to take a stand against the UK's double standards and cancel the proposed India-UK trade talks. From October 4, the "traffic light system" of red, amber, green countries based on levels of COVID-19 risk will be replaced in the UK by one red list of countries. The scrapping of the amber list, which is what India is currently on, means a reduced PCR test cost burden only for some travellers. However, the expanded list of countries whose vaccines are recognised in the UK does not include India. It means Indians vaccinated with Covishield, the SII-produced Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, would be required to undergo compulsory PCR tests as well as self-isolation. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has urged for an "early resolution" of the COVID-19 quarantine issue during his meeting with the newly appointed British Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss in the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||NDA preparing for inducting women into team, exam notice by May: Centre to SC||The Defence Ministry has informed the Supreme Court that a notification allowing women candidates to appear for the entrance exam to the National Defence Academy (NDA) will be out by May next year. Keeping the timeline in mind, deliberate planning and meticulous preparation is needed to ensure smooth induction and seamless training of such women candidates, the ministry said. "The Government of India, in line with its commitment, hereby place on record its clear and categorical stand that the women candidates shall be considered for entry in the three defence services, in the existing streams, through National Defence Academy," said in an affidavit filed before the top court. The NDA entrance exams are held twice a year and the government proposes to have necessary mechanism in place by May 2022, the time by which UPSC is required to publish the first notification next year, for the exam, it said. A Study Group has been constituted by the Defence services, comprising of the experts to expeditiously formulate the comprehensive curriculum for women cadets at NDA, it said, adding that a Board of Officers has been convened to give a holistic and futuristic proposal for training of women Cadets at NDA incorporating all relevant aspects. The Centre had earlier told the top court that the armed forces have decided to induct women into the NDA. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, had told that a decision has been taken at the highest level of the armed forces as also the government that females will be inducted for permanent commission through the NDA. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Kush Kalra which has raised the issue of exclusion of eligible and willing female candidates from joining the prestigious NDA solely on the ground of sex which allegedly is a violation of fundamental right of equality. The plea said the authorities allow unmarried male candidates having adequate 10+2 qualification to take the 'National Defence Academy and Naval Academy Examination', but eligible and willing female candidates are not allowed to take the examination on the sole ground of their sex and without any reasonable or justifiable explanations within the Constitution. It alleged that this act of discrimination is a dishonour committed by the concerned authorities to the Constitutional values of equality and non-discrimination. The petition stated that UPSC conducts the 'National Defence Academy & Naval Academy Examination' and as per eligibility criteria, any unmarried male candidate with the required educational qualification and aged between 15-18 years can appear in it. The plea said the candidate, on qualifying the exam and on successful completion of training at the NDA and subsequent training at the respective academy of the service the cadet opts for, gets commissioned into the service as a permanent commissioned officer by the age of 19-22 years old. This opportunity to take the NDA and Naval Academy Examination at the age of 15-18 years, with the eligible academic qualifications is not available to eligible and willing female candidates and the sole reason for this categorical exclusion is on the basis of their sex, the plea said. It claimed that duration of training for the Short Service Commission women officers is very less compared to the training that a male permanent commission officer, who gets entry through the NDA, gains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||Income Tax department bound to maintain confidentiality of seized Newslaundry data, says Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Tuesday said the Income Tax department is bound by its assurance to maintain the confidentiality of the material seized during a survey operation at news portal Newslaundry's premises and to ensure that it is not leaked. The court, which was hearing a petition by the news portal and its co-founder Abhinandan Sekhri, said the grievances related to a challenge to the survey operation can be agitated by them at a subsequent stage, if required. Rights and contention of parties are kept open, the bench stated. Counsel for the I-T department assured a bench of Justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla that the material seized by the authorities will be used only in accordance with the law, which may include sharing it with other government agencies, and will not be leaked to third parties. "Seized material is in safe custody of the Income Tax department. Seized material shall not be leaked. It will be illegal to leak such material," said lawyer Ajit Sharma for the department. "The respondent assures and undertakes before the court that the seized material shall not be leaked and the concept of confidentially as enshrined in the Income Tax Act shall be abided. The said undertaking given by the respondent is accepted by the court and respondent is held bound by it," the court recorded. Senior counsel Siddhartha Dave, representing the petitioners, stated that the apprehension of a leak would not have arisen had the department given them an opportunity to delete personal data before taking it away. However, in view of the I-T department's assurance, he informed the court that he would not press the prayer with respect to a challenge to the survey operation at this stage. On September 17, the court had granted time to the I-T department to clarify its stand on giving an undertaking against any leak of seized material in the present case. Senior counsel for the petitioners, while seeking a direction to the I-T authorities not to leak any data and delete whatever is of no relevance to the proceedings, had said that four notices under the I-T Act were issued to his client. He said the survey was held at the news portal's premises on September 10, during which several devices, including a mobile phone and a laptop belonging to the petitioner co-founder, were seized by the I-T authorities, which contained information which has no relevance to any income tax proceedings. The seized data might contain personal photos and information pertaining to investigative stories. The senior lawyer argued that any data breach would be in violation of right to privacy and therefore a direction should be passed to the IT authorities to not leak any data and delete whatever is of no relevance to the proceedings. It was also contended that any seizure during a survey operation was beyond the scope of survey and that no hash value of the seized data was given. In the petition filed through advocate Nipun Katyal, the petitioners said that the income tax officers and authorities do not have any power to interrupt the ordinary peaceful citizens of the country in any manner they like by utilizing the large powers given to them, without keeping strictly within the four corners of those large powers. The Petitioners are heading a news organization, the Petitioners herein have sources, contacts and other information on the digital machines. It is the fiduciary duty of the Petitioners to protect them and keep it confidential. "It is further submitted that the legal communication regarding existing cases is present in the personal laptop and phone of the Petitioners. If in any circumstances, the leaks are committed, it shall be a clear breach of the attorney client privilege as well as whistleblowers confidentiality, the plea added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||No interim relief for TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee in coal scam case||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday refused to grant any interim relief to TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee and his wife seeking quashing of summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal. The high court asked the ED to respond to the plea by Banerjee and his wife Rujira Banerjee within three days. Justice Yogesh Khanna listed the matter for further hearing on September 27. Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira Banerjee, who were asked by the agency to personally appear before it in Delhi today along with a voluminous set of documents, have contended that they are residents of Kolkata and should not be compelled to join the probe in the national capital. The ED opposed the plea saying money laundering has national and trans national ramifications and its investigation is not restricted to any police station or area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||Covid-19 R-value drops below 1 in mid-September||R-value, which reflects how rapidly coronavirus pandemic is spreading, dropped to 0.92 by mid-September after spiralling over 1 by August-end, according to researchers. However, the R-values of major cities, Mumbai, Calcutta, Chennai, Bengaluru, are over 1. The R-value of Delhi and Pune are below 1. The R-values of Maharashtra and Kerala are below 1, giving a much needed relief to these two states with the highest number of active cases. The R-value was 1.17 by the end of August. It declined to 1.11 between September 4-7 and since then it has remained under 1. "The good news is that India's R has continued to be less than 1, as is that of Kerala and Maharashtra, the two states having the highest number of active cases," said Sitabhra Sinha of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. Sinha is leading a team of researchers who calculate the R-value. According to the data, the R-value of Mumbai stands at 1.09, Chennai 1.11, Calcutta 1.04, Bengaluru 1.06. The Reproduction number or R refers to how many people an infected person infects on average. In other words, it tells how 'efficiently' a virus is spreading. After the devastating second wave that saw hospitals and health infrastructure being overwhelmed by the patients infected with SARS-CoV2 coronavirus, the R-value started to decline. During the March-May period, thousands of people died due to the infection, while lakhs were infected. The R-value value between September 4-7 was 0.94, 0.86 between September 11-15 and 0.92 between September 14-19. Meanwhile, India added 26,115 new cases of coronavirus infection in a single day taking the total tally to 3,35,04,534, while the active cases declined to 3,09,575, the lowest in 184 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The active cases comprise 0.92 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said, adding the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.75 per cent. A reduction of 8,606 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,13,951 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,50,35,717. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.85 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 22 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.08 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 88 days, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,27,49,574, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The 252 fresh fatalities include 92 from Kerala, 31 from Punjab and 28 from Maharashtra. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 81.85 crore with 96.46 lakh doses being given on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India|| Army chopper crash lands in Udhampur||Two pilots were killed when an Army helicopter crash-landed in a dense forest near Patnitop in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district on Tuesday, officials said. "Today, during a training sortie in Patnitop area, Indian Army's Cheetah helicopter crash-landed in Shiv Garh Dhar area in the district," a Jammu-based defence spokesman said. He said that two pilots -- Major Rohit Kumar and Major Anuj Rajput -- were injured in the incident and evacuated to the nearest medical facility but they succumbed later. Army Commander, Northern Command, Lt Gen Y K Joshi paid rich tributes to the slain officers. "Army Commander, Northern Command, and all other ranks salute the bravehearts who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty on 21 September 2021 at Patnitop and offer deepest condolences to their families," the Army's Northern Command said in a tweet. Officials said the incident reportedly occurred between 10.30 am to 10.45 am when the chopper was caught in bad weather, officials said, adding the helicopter belonged to the Army Aviation Corps. There was a thick fog over Patnitop when the incident occurred, they said. Local residents were the first to reach the site and they pulled out the pilots from the severely damaged helicopter, they added. Police, along with the Army, rushed to the scene to join the rescue operation and evacuated the injured pilots to a hospital, the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||AAP promise for Goa ahead of polls: 80% jobs for locals||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said if voted to power in Goa in the 2022 polls, his party will ensure that 80 per cent of jobs, including in the private sector, will be reserved for local people. He also assured a monthly remuneration of Rs 5,000 to families dependent on the mining and tourism industries till these sectors are normalised. Speaking to reporters in Mapusa town, Kejriwal further said that at least one unemployed person from each family in Goa would be given a government job and jobless youths will get a monthly allowance of Rs 3,000 till they find jobs. Assembly elections are due in Goa, currently ruled by the BJP, in February next year. This is the second visit of Kejriwal to Goa in the last two months. In his earlier visit in July, the Delhi chief minister had assured free electricity up to 300 units per month to people in Goa if his party forms the government after polls. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Kejriwal said, "80 per cent of jobs, including in the private sector, will be reserved for Goan youths. We will pass a law making it mandatory for private industries to employ 80 per cent of workers from local people . Kejriwal also tried to woo the people dependent on the mining and tourism sectors, the major recruiters in Goa. While mining came to a standstill after the Supreme Court ban, the COVID-19 induced lockdown has adversely affected the tourism industry. "Families dependent on the mining and tourism industries will get a monthly remuneration of Rs 5,000 till these sectors are resumed," he said. In another promise, Kejriwal said a Skills University will be set up in Goa on the lines of Delhi where youth would be skilled and made employment-ready. He said if the AAP comes to power only the deserving people will get jobs in the state government only on merit. "The current practice of recruiting people in government through favours from MLAs or influential politicians will be discarded. The entire system of job recruitment in the government sector would be made transparent and accountable, he added. Referring to the doorstep delivery of services introduced by the Pramod Sawant government, Kejriwal said a similar initiative was implemented by the Delhi government. As per our scheme, government officers go to the doorstep of people with the required facilities. People don't have to move out of their homes, he said. He claimed the Sawant government has been copying the Delhi government's initiatives. Why choose duplicate when you have original, he quipped. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the AAP had drawn a blank. The Congress had then won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House in Goa restricting the BJP to 13. Surprising the Congress, the saffron party allied with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar, now deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||Mahant Giri death: All aspects being probed, says Adityanath||All aspects related to the death of top seer Mahant Narendra Giri are being probed and the guilty will be punished, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday. The influential Hindu seer was found dead on Monday at Baghambari Muth in Allahabad. He was the president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the largest organisation of sadhus in India. The police under ADG (Allahabad zone) and commissioner, Allahabad are working as a team, the chief minister who rushed to Allahabad to pay respects to the seer told newspersons there. Asserting that evidence has been collected in connection with the seer's death, Adityanath said the case will be solved soon. Every single aspect connected with the case will be exposed and the guilty will be punished, he added. According to the wishes of the seer's followers, the body will be kept for darshan (public viewing) on Tuesday so that people can pay their last respects, Adityanath said, adding that a five-member team will conduct a post-mortem examination on Wednesday. After that, he will be laid to rest in a samadhi' as per religious rites and beliefs, the chief minister said. According to the police, the seer's body was found hanging from the ceiling by his disciples on Monday. A purported suicide note of seven-eight pages was also found at the site in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and was ending his life. The seer had written he was upset with one of his disciples, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-189
21-09-2021||India||SC collegium recommends eight names to Centre||Thirteen high courts in the country will get new Chief Justices (CJs) as the Supreme Court collegium headed by CJI N V Ramana has recommended to the Centre eight names, including acting Calcutta High Court CJ, Justice Rajesh Bindal, for elevation and transfer of five sitting CJs to other high courts. The collegium's decisions, reported earlier by PTI, were uploaded on the apex court's website on Tuesday. Besides Justice Bindal, who would now become the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court if the Centre assents to the recommendation, there are other seven judges whose elevation as CJs have been recommended by the collegium which also comprises Justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar. The Supreme Court Collegium in its meeting held on 16th September, 2021 has recommended elevation of Judges as Chief Justices of the High Courts, as mentioned..., the apex court's statement said. Besides Justice Bindal, the Collegium has recommended names of Justices Ranjit V More, Satish Chandra Sharma, Prakash Srivastava, R V Malimath, Ritu Raj Awasthi, Aravind Kumar and Prashant Kumar Mishra for elevation as CJ of the high courts of Meghalaya, Telangana, Calcutta, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh respectively. In another statement, uploaded on the website, the apex court provided the list of five Chief Justices who have been transferred to other high courts. A A Kureshi, CJ of Tripura High Court, has been recommended to become CJ of the Rajsathan High Court, while Justice Indrajit Mahanty, the CJ of Rajasthan High Court would go to Tripura HC as the CJ, it said. Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq of Madhya Pradesh High Court has been recommended to head the Himachal Pradesh HC as the CJ, it said, adding that Chief Justice Biswanath Somadder of Meghalaya High Court would be transferred in the same capacity to the Sikkim High Court. Chief Justice A K Goswami of the Andhra Pradesh High Court has been recommended to become the CJ of the Chhattisgarh High Court, the statement said. Justice Bindal of Calcutta High Court has been in news recently due to his administrative and judicial decisions in matters related to political stand-off between the BJP and the Trinamool Congress in West Bengal. Justice Kureshi, one of the senior-most high court judges in the country, was originally elevated as a judge in the Gujarat High Court and has been in news due to his non-elevation as a judge of the apex court. As per the third statement uploaded on the apex court's website, the collegium in its meeting held on September 16, has recommended transfer/re-transfer 17 high court judges. They are Justices Jaswant Singh, Sabina, T S Sivagnanam, Sanjaya Kumar Mishra, M M Shrivastava, Soumen Sen, Ahsanuddin Amanullah, Ujjal Bhuyan, Paresh R Upadhyay, M S S Ramachandra Rao, Arindam Sinha, A M Badar, Yashwant Varma, Vivek Agarwal, Chandra Dhari Singh, Anoop Chitkara and Ravi Nath Tilhari. The collegium headed by CJI Ramana has been taking steps by recommending names to fill up a large number of vacancies in higher judiciary in the country. After assuming charge as the CJI in April this year, Justice Ramana has recommended nearly 100 names for appointment to different high courts, besides filling up nine vacancies of judges in the Supreme Court in one go. The 25 high courts in the country have a combined sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges and on May 1, 2021, they were functioning with 420 judges only. The series of recommendations has been made close on the heels of a historic decision to recommend 68 names in one go for a judgeship in 12 high courts across the country. Prior to that, in a historic decision on August 17, the Collegium headed by the CJI had recommended nine names, including three women, for elevation as judges of the Supreme Court. The names were cleared with significant pace by the Centre leading to the swearing-in ceremony on August 31 when the new judges were administered oath of office as apex court judges. The fresh recommendations assume significance in view of the statement made by the CJI in a recent function of the Bar Council of India that it has been his endeavour to address the issue of vacancies in the higher judiciary on an "urgent basis". The CJI had said during the function that in another month, he expected that 90 per cent of vacancies will be filled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Raj Kundra walks out of Mumbai jail after bail in pornographic films case||Businessman Raj Kundra on Tuesday walked out of a Mumbai jail, a day after a magistrate court here granted bail to the key accused in a pornographic films case in which he was arrested two months ago. Kundra was released from the Arthur Road jail shortly after 11.30 am, a jail official said. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate SB Bhajipale on Monday allowed Kundra's bail application on furnishing a bond of Rs 50,000. Kundra's associate and co-accused Ryan Thorpe, who was arrested along with him on July 19, was also granted bail by the court in the case pertaining to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. The 46-year-old businessman was lodged in Arthur Road Jail in central Mumbai under judicial custody. Kundra, the husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested by the Mumbai police's crime branch after being booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Information Technology Act and the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act. Kundra moved a bail plea before the metropolitan magistrate court on Saturday, days after the police filed a supplementary charge-sheet in the case. In the plea, filed through advocate Prashant Patil, Kundra claimed there was not even an iota of evidence till date with the prosecution that would connect the app 'Hotshots', used in the alleged porn films racket, with an offence under law. As per the probe agency, the 'Hotshots' app was being used by accused persons for uploading and streaming obscene content. The businessman claimed there was no evidence of him being "actively" involved in creation of alleged questionable porn content. Kundra alleged he was falsely implicated, was not even named in the FIR and was dragged by the respondent (police) in the case. The businessman claimed in the plea that he is being made a "scapegoat" for reasons best known to investigators. There is not a single allegation in the entire supplementary charge-sheet against Kundra, Patil submitted before the court. Contents of the complaint in the case do not disclose any prima facie offence against Kundra, he said. The public prosecutor opposed Kundra's application, saying just because the charge-sheet has been filed, it does not imply bail is to be granted to the accused. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Bhajipale, after hearing both sides, allowed Kundra's application on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 50,000. The police, in their supplementary charge sheet, had claimed Kundra was the "main facilitator" in the case and he along with other accused exploited young women struggling in the movie industry by filming them in obscene ways. The nearly 1,500-page charge-sheet against Kundra and Thorpe was filed in the court on September 15 by the crime branch. Besides Kundra and Thorpe, Yash Thakur, a resident of Singapore, and London-based Pardeep Bakshi have been shown as wanted accused in the charge-sheet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||J&K: Infiltration bid in Uri, Army search operation enters third day||A combing operation launched by the Army after it detected suspicious movement in Uri along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir entered the third day on Tuesday, officials said. All telecommunication facilities including the internet in the border town remained suspended. The Army said it had detected the suspicious movement along the LoC in Uri sector on the night intervening September 18 and 19 following which an operation was launched in the area. The date coincided with the fifth anniversary of the Uri attack in which 19 soldiers were killed after two suicide attackers stormed a military installation on September 18, 2016. The area where the suspicious movement was observed falls near Gohalan, the same place where the attack took place five years ago. A defence spokesman here said the search operation was going on in the area but did not elaborate if the forces had found anything to lend credence to the reports of major infiltration bid in the sector. Officials said one soldier had sustained injuries in the "initial contact" with the adversary near the fence along the LoC, which had prompted the massive search operation to ensure that the infiltrators, if any, do not get to the hinterland. According to government sources in Delhi, a group of around six infiltrators managed to sneak in from Pakistan, NDTV.com reported. The army said the operation to track down the infiltrators is underway and the exact situation on the ground is still unclear. The army said this was the second such bid this year following a ceasefire agreement between the armies of India and Pakistan in February. The army said since then, no ceasefire violation had been reported and there has been no instigation from Pakistan. "No ceasefire violation this year. We are prepared for any ceasefire violation. But frankly, there has been no instigation from across the border," NDTV.com quoted Lt General DP Panday, General Officer Commanding of 15 Corps. He said, unlike the past, there have been a few infiltration attempts this year and they are looking for the infiltrators in the Uri sector. "There is an operation which is ongoing for last 24 hours in Uri, in which we felt that there is an infiltration attempt which has been made. We are looking for them. Are they on this side or have they gone back after making attempt, that issue is not been clarified or verified on the ground," said Gen Panday. This is for the first time when phone services and the internet was suspended in the wake of a cross-border infiltration attempt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Active Covid caseload lowest in 184 days||India added 26,115 new cases of coronavirus infection in a single day taking the total tally to 3,35,04,534, while the active cases declined to 3,09,575, the lowest in 184 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll climbed to 4,45,385 with 252 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.92 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said, adding the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.75 per cent. A reduction of 8,606 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 14,13,951 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,50,35,717. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.85 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 22 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.08 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 88 days, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,27,49,574, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 81.85 crore with 96.46 lakh doses being given on Monday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 252 fresh fatalities include 92 from Kerala, 31 from Punjab and 28 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,45,385 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,546 from Maharashtra, 37,627 From Karnataka, 35,360 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 23,683 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,664 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Jaishankar raises Covid quarantine issue during his meeting with UK counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar urged for an "early resolution" of the COVID-19 quarantine issue and discussed the situation in Afghanistan and the developments in the Indo-Pacific during his meeting with the newly appointed British Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss. Jaishankar arrived here on Monday to participate in the high-level 76th session of the UN General Assembly. Shortly after his arrival in the city, he held bilateral meetings with Norwegian Foreign Minister Ine Eriksen Soreide, Iraqi Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein and the UK's new Foreign Secretary. Pleased to meet new UK Foreign Secretary @trussliz. Discussed the progress of Roadmap 2030. Appreciated her contribution on the trade side. Exchanged views on developments in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific. Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interest, Jaishankar tweeted. The meeting in New York between Jaishankar and Truss came the same day as the UK announced new COVID-related travel restrictions that sparked sharp criticism and concerns in India. According to new rules, Indian travellers who have received both doses of the Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) will be considered unvaccinated and will have to undergo self-isolation for 10 days. From October 4, the current "traffic light system" of red, amber, green countries based on levels of COVID-19 risk will be replaced by one red list of countries. The scrapping of the amber list, which is what India is currently on, means a reduced PCR test cost burden only for some travellers. The expanded list of countries whose vaccines are recognised in the UK does not include India. It means Indians vaccinated with Covishield, the SII-produced Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, would be required to undergo compulsory PCR tests as well as self-isolation. After his meeting with Hussein, Jaishankar tweeted that he had a cordial meeting with FM Fuad Hussein of Iraq. Discussed our historical ties, economic, energy and development cooperation linkages. Exchanged views on regional and global issues. Earlier, Jaishankar said he began his UNGA meetings with Soreide. Appreciated our working together in the Security Council. A comprehensive discussion on Afghanistan. Important for the international community to take a unified approach he said. The UK has said it is engaging with India to explore how it could expand the recognition of the COVID-19 vaccine certification issued by Indian authorities amid criticism of the new British travel rules. Asked about the concerns in India over the new rules that will come into effect next month, a British High Commission spokesperson in New Delhi has said the UK is engaged with India on the issue and is committed to opening up international travel again "as soon as is practicable". "The UK is committed to opening up international travel again as soon as is practicable and this announcement is a further step to enable people to travel more freely again, in a safe and sustainable way, while protecting public health," the spokesperson said. "We are engaging with the Government of India to explore how we could expand the UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India," the official added. Jaishankar and senior Indian officials arrived in New York starting Monday for the annual high-level UNGA session which returned to a more hybrid and in-person format this year after going virtual last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the week, Jaishankar will meet his counterparts from several member states and participate in the G-20 meeting that will focus on Afghanistan and the G-4 Foreign Ministers meeting with focus on Security Council reforms. The BRICS meeting, which also traditionally takes place on the sidelines of the UNGA session, is not taking place since not all BRICS Foreign Ministers will be present during the high-level week, India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti had told PTI. India will participate in three high-level meetings organised by UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Climate, Energy and Food Systems. The 76th UNGA session commenced from September 14 under the Presidency of Abdulla Shahid. The high-level week - the General Debate - will commence September 21, with US President Joe Biden addressing world leaders on Tuesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the General Debate on September 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Modi-Biden bilateral meet will strengthen India-US relation, says White House official||The maiden bilateral meet between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden on September 24 will allow taking the relationship between the two countries from strength to strength while helping in reinforcing and giving momentum to the Quad grouping, a White House official has said. Biden will host Modi at the White House for their first bilateral meeting on September 24. Later on that day, Biden will host the first-ever in-person Quad Leaders' Summit at the White House with Modi, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. Both Biden and PM Modi have spoken virtually on multiple occasions after the former, a Democrat, became US president in January. The last telephone conversation between Prime Minister Modi and President Biden took place on April 26. "The leaders will be focused on strengthening the deep ties between their people and shared democratic values that have underpinned the special bond between the United States and India for more than seven decades," a White House official told PTI. "The Biden-Harris administration has enhanced our partnership with India by working together to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, leading efforts to end the COVID-19 pandemic, and taking concerted action to address the climate crisis," the official said. Addressing a press conference earlier, a senior official of the administration said the Biden-Modi meeting would be an opportunity to go from strength to strength, from the point of view of the partnership with India. This can be done by working together to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, by taking steps to contribute to a global solution to the COVID-19 pandemic and by taking concerted action to address the climate crisis, the official said. "So, the bilateral discussion between the US and India will help reinforce and give momentum to the Quad discussion because many of the topics are very much interrelated," the official said. "Additionally, in the bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Modi, the two leaders will have the opportunity to talk about counter-terrorism, the Afghanistan situation and how we can work together to fight terrorism, our common enemy, as well as about a range of regional issues and developments where we'll have the opportunity to compare notes," said the senior administration official. The official noted that the relationship between the United States and India goes so much deeper than just a government-to-government relationship. "It is a relationship between the two peoples. I think Prime Minister Modi and President Biden want to talk about the ways of pulling our countries even closer together at basically every level of interaction between our societies," added the official. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||US Vice-President Kamala Harris to meet PM Narendra Modi on September 23||US Vice-President Kamala Harris will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi here on September 23, a day ahead of the maiden bilateral meet between him and President Joe Biden and the Quad Summit at the White House, officials have said. Biden will host Modi for their first in-person bilateral meeting at the White House on September 24. Later on that day, Biden will host the first-ever in-person Quad Leaders' Summit at the White House with Modi, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. "The Vice President will meet with His Excellency Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic of India," a White House official told PTI. This will be the first meeting between the two leaders. Harris had earlier spoken with Modi over the phone during the COVID-19 crisis. Harris is the first-ever person of Indian origin to be elected as the vice-president of the United States. During this week, when world leaders will gather in New York to attend the annual session of the UN General Assembly, Harris, according to the White House, is scheduled to hold meetings with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday, Zambian President Hakainde Hichilema on Wednesday and President of Ghana Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo on Thursday. On Wednesday, she will also lead a session at the President's virtual COVID Summit on building back better and preparing and preventing future pandemics, according to a senior White House official. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||India to resume exports of Covid-19 vaccines from next quarter||India on Monday signalled plans to resume exports of Covid-19 vaccines, citing rising domestic production, although it has fully vaccinated less than half its population of those aged 45 or older and considered most vulnerable to severe disease. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced that India would in the fourth quarter of this year start providing Covid-19 vaccines to the world and to Covax, an international initiative to deliver vaccines to the poorest countries. The minister did not specify if he meant the calendar year or the financial year but officials later clarified that the exports would resume from the October-December quarter. “Our vaccination pace is increasing, vaccine production is rising…. Taking this into consideration and after meeting our requirements, we will proceed with vaccine maitri (friendship),” Mandaviya said. “In the coming fourth quarter, we will help the world and meet our responsibility towards Covax.” Health rights advocates concerned about the skewed distribution worldwide hailed the announcement. But sections of public health experts said India should ideally resume its exports only after all adults in the country have received at least one dose. “We’re happy to hear India will resume exports — without India’s help, Africa will not be able to beat Covid-19,” said Leena Menghaney, a lawyer campaigning for equitable access to drugs and vaccines. “In many African countries, just 3 to 10 per cent people have received doses.” Mandaviya said India had had access to around 260 million doses of domestically produced Covid-19 vaccines during September and expected over 300 million doses during October. He said the rising production had helped India increase the campaign’s pace steadily. Some experts, however, are concerned about the timing of the proposed exports because under its limited supplies, India has been able to fully vaccinate only 34 per cent of its people aged 45-59 and only 38 per cent of those aged 60 or older. Vaccination data from the Union health ministry up to Monday also suggests that while India has administered over 808 million doses, only about 151 million (73 per cent) of the estimated 207 million people aged 45-59 have received at least one dose. In people aged 60 or older, around 97 million (69 per cent) have received at least one dose. “We must ensure at least a single dose reaches all adults before we start exporting,” Rijo John, a health economist and adjunct professor at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kochi, tweeted. “If we maintain the current 7-day average speed, it’ll be 60 days more before all adults are covered with at least a single dose and which takes us to the second half of November.” Large vaccine producers such as India and the US are under pressure to export to African and other poor countries. But lack of planning and advance investments by the Indian government has meant India has had limited supplies of vaccines in relation to its population in contrast to other countries. In the US, more than 64 per cent of people aged 40-49, 72 per cent aged 50-64, and over 80 per cent aged 65 or older have been fully vaccinated. Under the vaccine maitri initiative, India had supplied around 66 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to 95 countries between January and April this year before the Centre announced a ban on exports amid concerns that limited supplies would slow down India’s domestic vaccination campaign. Those exports — commercial or routed through Covax — included 10 million doses to Bangladesh, 550,000 to Bhutan, 1.2 million to Sri Lanka, 7 million to Morocco, 4 million each to Brazil and Nigeria, and 828,000 to Sudan. Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India, made up most of the exports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Vaccine export decision timed to US Covid virtual summit||The Centre’s decision to resume vaccine exports from October appears timed to the Covid virtual summit being convened by US President Joe Biden on Wednesday on the margins of the UN General Assembly and the Prime Minister’s visit to Washington and New York later this week. “This meeting is about expanding and enhancing our shared efforts to defeat Covid-19,’’ White House press secretary Jen Psaki had said on September 17 while announcing the summit. Increasing vaccine access is top on the agenda, and there is an expectation that India will live up to its reputation of being the “pharmacy of the world”. Psaki had said: “We will be asking participants to commit to a higher level of ambition across four themes’’, first of which is to “vaccinate the world by enhancing equitable access to vaccines and getting shots in arms’’. Last week, the Virginia-based American news website Axios had reported that “the Biden administration is quietly pressuring India to restart vaccine exports with plans to offer a higher-profile role for Prime Minister Narendra Modi at an upcoming Covid-19 global summit in New York if he agrees to release vaccines soon.…’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Jordan Alexander King is the new epitome of success||Jordan Alexander King is a successful entrepreneur and is considered a business tycoon in several industries especially real estate. He is the founder and CEO of AK Enterprises, a Holdings company that acts as a parent to many others. One of the main initiatives under AK Enterprises is TUK Developments, an 8-figure real estate holding company. It is based in the greater Toronto area and has properties all over Ontario, Canada such as in the Niagara region, Hamilton, Brantford, Oakville and many others. TUK Developments is actually a sister company to TUK Capital which is a Consulting firm dealing in financing and turnkey development in creative projects. They also offer venture capital private funding as well as private funding for all your real estate needs.  “I started investing in real estate based companies as a private lender and then as an equity partner. After gaining substantial knowledge in the industry, I co-founded TUK Developments.” King said. Another of AK Enterprises’ notable Investments is Choice Renovations Canada which offers home renovations and new constructions as well as funding solutions for homeowners. Truly they are living up to their motto of “Building trust through quality work”. In just 3 years, King has brought himself to great heights. “I find off-market dilapidated properties that most people can't close on with traditional banks because they are not in the liveable condition as well as renovate old apartment buildings and convert them to luxury apartments. I also convert single-family homes into multi-family properties (duplexes, triplex, 4plex etc). I use a few different methods of investing but my favourite is the BRRR method (Buy, Rehab, Rent, Refinance, Repeat). I also do flips for profit as well as invest in new builds. My portfolio consists of luxury and affordable housing properties. I purchase these properties with a hard money lender which typically have higher rates but because the properties have so much margin it only ends up being a fraction of the total cost.”, Jordan King says, when asked about what his secret to such success is. As you can understand King is quite a prominent figure in the real estate industry. He is planning to expand his services not only for greater benefits to his own account but also for those who deserve quality work at affordable rates. Jordan Alexander King is also working as a philanthropist and believes in giving back to the community as much as possible, especially if one is in the position to do so. His kind-hearted and charming personality have made him a global favourite and many hope to avail of Jordan Alexander King and AK Enterprises' services soon. In case you wish to know more about Jordan Alexander King, visit the links given below: https://jordanalexanderking.com// https://tukcapital.com/ https://choicerenos.com/ https://ca.linkedin.com/in/jordan-king-01475598||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-190
21-09-2021||India||Punjab: Congress seeks to scotch Channi stopgap theory||The Congress on Monday intervened forcefully to reject speculation that Charanjit Singh Channi’s elevation was a stopgap arrangement and that Navjot Singh Sidhu would be projected as the next chief minister of Punjab in the coming election. Congress communications chief Randeep Singh Surjewala said: “Parties like the BJP, Akali Dal, AAP and BSP should stop attacking the poor and the Dalits of the country. They are having heartburn because the Congress has created history in Punjab by giving a Dalit chief minister. Sidhu is the head of the party and Channi is the head of the government. Both will together lead the party to victory. These two leaders and all the workers will be the face of the party in the election.” The controversy erupted when Harish Rawat, the general secretary in charge of Punjab, was quoted as saying Sidhu would be the party’s face in the elections, due in February. What amplified this statement was the prompt reaction from senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar. “On the swearing-in day of Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister, Mr Rawat’s statement that ‘elections will be fought under Sidhu’ is baffling. It’s likely to undermine the chief minister’s authority but also negate the very raison d’être of his selection for this position,” tweeted Jakhar, who had initially been seen as a frontrunner for the chief minister’s post. The party high command also got rattled as this speculation could bulldoze the Dalit narrative that Channi’s appointment has built in favour of the Congress. Surjewala said he had spoken to Rawat who said his comments had been misinterpreted and that he had clearly stated that both the state president and the chief minister would lead the party in the election. “A false impression is being created. All the rival parties are having a stomach ache because the Congress has chosen a man from humble roots to head the government. Channi is now the only Dalit chief minister in the entire country. Why did the BJP not induct a Dalit chief minister? They have more than 12 chief ministers.” While the AAP, BJP and BSP lapped up Jakhar’s response, accusing the Congress of deceptively deploying Dalit symbolism for four months to win the election, Rahul Gandhi removed any doubts about Channi’s leadership by attending his swearing-in. Party sources insist that Channi will be given the freedom and authority to prove his worth and there should be no misgivings about the leadership’s intentions. There is no denying that several names were on the table but Channi was chosen because of the political significance of empowering a Dalit. Jakhar, who is also bitter about certain leaders opposing him on the basis of his religion, responded to the Akal Takht jathedar’s statement that the religion of the chief minister was secondary and not critical to the choice. “Sagacious words of Jathedar of Shri Akal Takht Sahib couldn’t have come at a better time when petty minded small people occupying high positions are trying to divide Punjab on basis of race/ caste/ identities, forgetting eternal message of Guru — manas ki jaat sabe ekai pahchanbo (the whole human race is one),” he tweeted. The jathedar is the head of the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of the Sikh community. Apart from some Punjab ministers, party veteran Ambika Soni, who has been an integral part of the high command structure for decades, had openly said she believed only a Sikh should lead the government in Punjab. Many senior leaders were aghast at the statement, which went against the party’s secular ethos. Hindus make up about 40 per cent of Punjab’s population. The Congress has been trying to get the Hindu votes, which largely went to the BJP and the AAP. The party tried to do fine balancing by appointing a Jat Sikh, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, and a Hindu, O.P. Soni, as deputy chief ministers. The first thing the new chief minister did after taking the oath of office was to send out an unambiguous message to the agitating farmers. “If farmers sink, the country will sink. Farming is the backbone of the economy. My government will stand with the farmers and not allow their interests to be damaged, come what may. I appeal to the central government to scrap the (new) farm laws,” Channi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Kanhaiya Kumar, Jignesh Mevani likely to join Congress||Amid suspicion within the CPI about his exit and confidence in the Congress about his entry, former JNU students’ union leader Kanhaiya Kumar has maintained complete silence over his next move even as a change appears inevitable. Sources in the Congress confirm that Kanhaiya has been in touch with Rahul Gandhi and is likely to join the party along with Gujarat Dalit activist Jignesh Mevani. Although Mevani, who became an MLA with the Congress’s support in the last election, is said to be keen on entering the Congress soon as Gujarat will go to the polls next year, Kanhaiya is still in two minds about the timing of his decision. A leader from Gujarat said: “We don’t have first-hand information because both Kanhaiya and Mevani deal with Rahul Gandhi directly but we hear Hardik Patel is working to bring both of them into the party.” The Congress had left a safe seat for Mevani in the last election and worked hard to ensure his victory even as he remained an independent MLA. Now he is willing to join the party to fight the BJP more effectively. Mevani dropped hints of softness towards the Congress in a tweet on Monday: “The decision of appointing Charanjit Singh ji as the Chief Minister of Punjab is a message that Rahul Gandhi and Congress have given. It will have tremendous impact amongst not just Dalits but all the subaltern masses. For Dalits, the move is not just brilliant but soothing too.” Activists usually tend to dismiss such decisions as symbolism but Mevani’s assessment suggests political pragmatism and a soft attitude towards the Congress. If Mevani eventually moves to the Congress, it will be a personal choice. Kanhaiya’s case is complex because of his position in the CPI, his ideological commitments and the Congress’s pitiable situation in Bihar. Although Kanhaiya is said to be disenchanted with the CPI because of its organisational limitations and India’s current political realities, he will still have ideological qualms over joining the Congress. The Congress’s reliance on the RJD may also be a concern as there is a perception that Kanhaiya doesn’t get along with Tejashwi Yadav. The dynamic young leader will also want greater freedom to rebuild the Congress in Bihar, and this means charting a course independent of the RJD at some point. The Congress has no misgivings about Kanhaiya’s entry as the party is aware that his appeal cuts across barriers of caste, religion and region. The Congress has been ridiculed for the exit of young leaders like Jyotiraditya Scindia, Jitin Prasada and Sushmita Dev, and Kanhaiya will be a big catch under these circumstances. Rahul will be eager to give Kanhaiya a key role in the organisation, providing a fillip to the restructuring process that he is silently executing in the party. While he has brought in most of the G23 leaders over the past few weeks, engaging them in party work at different levels, Rahul has consciously adopted a tough stance on a few leaders who are seen to be vocal against his leadership. “No reconciliation effort so far,” said a G23 leader. Rahul is indeed focused on creating a new face for the Congress. Replacing the deeply entrenched and powerful chief minister Amarinder Singh was never going to be an easy decision but he pushed it with exceptional determination. Rahul has already installed new leaders like Nana Patole, Revanth Reddy, D.K. Shiv Kumar and Navjot Singh Sidhu as state unit chiefs and more such decisions are in the pipeline. Kanhaiya’s entry into the party at this stage will bolster the perception of change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||SC bins plea to resume in-person classes across India||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to entertain a plea that sought a resumption of in-person classes across the country’s schools, saying no “judicial diktat” could be issued on a matter involving the safety of children who are not even vaccinated. “They (the states) are also conscious of the need for children to gradually go back to school. We cannot by judicial diktat say that you shall send your children back to school, oblivious of the danger which may be there,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who headed a two-judge bench that included Justice V. Nagarathna, said. “We have just come out of the second wave.... You still have the danger of a possible spike.… Fortunately, we have reports which say it may not be of such nature. Vaccinations are still taking place. I don’t think these are the kinds of relief where the court should issue general directions that you should send all children to school.” Justice Chandrachud added: “Let us leave something for the democratic way of life that the country has adopted. Let us leave it to the state governments. Surely they want their children to go back to school.... Let the states find out where the spike is taking place.” Addressing advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra, who was representing the petitioner, a Class XII student from Delhi, the bench said: “Mr Mehrotra, you ask the child to focus on studies and not seek these reliefs....” Petitioner Amar Prem Prakash had argued that the long closure of schools and prolonged online education were causing “severe psychological and medical issues” among children. Schools had closed across the country from late March last year because of the pandemic. But between late July this year and now, most states have resumed physical teaching in the higher classes (X to XII) while a handful have resumed the lower classes too. There appears little possibility of children getting vaccinated anytime soon, though. The petition said: “However, a large number of states and Union Territories including central schools… are yet to take a decision.” The bench said these decisions were better left to the states. It noted that the Covid situation was still alarming in states such as Kerala and Maharashtra, and that a writ petition had been filed in Karnataka challenging the state government’s decision to restart in-person classrooms. Also, much depends on the Union government’s vaccination policy for children, the apex court said. “The issue is fraught with grave complexities. We cannot give a judicial mandate on a petition where we don’t have data,” it said. It added that the government had to tread with extreme care on a question of exposing children to Covid, “so the court must be equally or even more careful because there is absence of data before us”. The court later allowed the petitioner to withdraw the petition. The petitioner had argued that the long school closure was causing “depression, social reclusiveness” among children. Also, children from poor families were being forced to work to buttress the household income. Underprivileged children were being left out of the online classes. Also, in the absence of regular school, children were being forced to take private tuition. The petition invoked Articles 14 (equality), 21 (life and personal liberty) and 21A (free and compulsory education for all children).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Tikait blames PM of selling national assets and destroying farmers||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday said the Narendra Modi government had “imprisoned the BJP and its leaders”, and that the Prime Minister was bent on selling every asset of the nation and destroying its farmers. “The Narendra Modi government has imprisoned the BJP and its leaders. The BJP had not said in its election manifesto that it would dispose of public properties,” Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson, told a kisan mahapanchayat in Sitapur town on Monday. “It’s proof that this is not a BJP government, this is Modi rule. Many BJP leaders are against the activities of the Modi government but they are afraid.” The mahapanchayat (rally) was convened by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of farmers that has been spearheading the nationwide movement against the three controversial farm laws enacted last year. “Modi has started privatising airports, a part of the Indian Railways and some public-sector enterprises. He has sold the country’s Parliament to industrialists,” Tikait alleged. The agitating farmers say the new farm laws, railroaded through Parliament without discussion, would leave them to be exploited by big companies. Before the rally, Tikait had told reporters: “We will soon start a Mukti Abhiyan (Freedom Movement) to set India free from the clutches of Modi, who is anti-people and anti-India.” Addressing the rally, he said: “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath should be given a gold medal for lying. He says he has improved law and order but he is running a government of goondas. We have to remove Yogi Baba from power in the 2022 Assembly polls.” The agitating farmers have vowed to defeat the BJP in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, due next March. Social worker Medha Patkar too addressed the farmers and promised support to them in their battle against Modi and Adityanath. About 30,000 people attended the rally in Sitapur, 85km from Lucknow. Talking to reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri on his way to Sitapur, Tikait had accused the Adityanath government of deploying police at the doors of many BKU leaders at places across central Uttar Pradesh, including Shahjahanpur, Bareilly, Hardoi, Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri, to prevent them from reaching the rally site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Top naga sadhu, Narendra Giri, found dead in Allahabad||Narendra Giri, the country’s top naga sadhu who had always been close to power, was found hanging from the ceiling of his room at the Baghambari Mutt in Allahabad on Monday evening. The police claimed the chairman of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad — an umbrella body of the country’s 15 major akharas or sects of naga sadhus — wrote a suicide note naming people he had differences with. Officers said three of those named had been detained. Among them was Narendra’s estranged disciple Anand Giri who had in May accused the guru of selling off the mutt’s properties and passing off the proceeds to his family and a few politicians. Anand Giri told reporters Narendra was murdered and that a fake suicide note had been prepared to frame him. Narendra, who was in his late 60s, had had a meeting on Sunday with deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at the Bade Hanuman Temple in Allahabad where he was head priest. Maurya said it was a chance meeting. Narendra is said to have been close to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, as well as to Akhilesh Yadav and Mulayam Singh Yadav when they were in power. He loved the trappings of power, and the state government had obliged him with Y-plus security. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted in Hindi that Narendra Giri had “united many streams of the saint communities” and that “God will give him a place at His feet”. Narendra Giri headed the mutt as well as the Niranjani Akhara, to which the mutt belongs. Inspector-general of police (Allahabad zone) K.P. Singh said a disciple of Narendra had called the police after bringing the body down. “We have found an eight-page suicide note in which he says it had become impossible for him to live without dignity (samman),” he said. Singh said a forensic team would examine the note. “The suicide note is more like a will, in which he has named two-three disciples and said the saints of the mutt should look after them. He has described in detail which property of the mutt should be given to whom,” he said. The heads of mutts in Uttar Pradesh are custodians but not owners of their properties. Asked whether the note named those with whom Narendra had developed differences over the mutt’s properties, Singh said: “Yes, he has mentioned four-five names.” Asked whether Anand Giri was among them, the officer said he was. Singh said sadhus of the Niranjani Akhara would be arriving on Tuesday morning from across the country. The post-mortem would be done after taking their consent. A disciple of Narendra said: “He had his lunch around noon and went to his room. He usually came out at 3.30pm and worshipped at the Bade Hanuman temple. “When he failed to come out even at 4pm, we called him on his phone but there was no response. We then knocked and eventually broke the door down around 5.20pm. He was hanging from the ceiling.” The police have detained Adhya Tiwari — a priest at the Bade Hanuman temple — and his son Sandeep Tiwari, who has a sweets shop near the temple. Uttarakhand police have detained Anand Giri in Haridwar, where he had relocated after Narendra suspended him following his allegations. He will be brought to Allahabad. Anand Giri told reporters: “I believe some people killed Guruji and then hanged him. He was being pressured for money. I believe some police officers and mutt members are involved.” He added: “My name being in the note is a conspiracy. He never wrote that note.” Maurya told reporters: “I had gone to the Bade Hanuman temple on Sunday simply to worship. He (Narendra) conducted the prayers in my presence. I was in a hurry and returned to Lucknow thereafter.” He added: “He was not happy after Anand Giri levelled allegations against him. But he was a sadhu of indomitable spirit.” Kailashanand, the mahamandaleshwar (an official) of the Niranjani Akhara, said he found it difficult to believe Narendra would commit suicide. Champat Rai, VHP international vice-president and general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, expressed sorrow at Narendra’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Jammu top business body calls for shutdown against central policies||Jammu’s top business body, whose office-bearers are known for their close links with the BJP, has called a shutdown to protest against the Narendra Modi government’s alleged anti-Jammu policies. Jammu traders have a long list of complaints against the Centre but the trigger for the fresh outrage is the purported government move to allow Reliance to open 100 stores in Jammu, which they say, will put 20,000 local outlets out of business. The Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has also accused the government of killing the brotherhood between the Jammu and Kashmir regions. The JCCI, whose office-bearers had cheered the scrapping of the state’s special status, have called for a shutdown on September 22, the first such call since the dilution of Article 370 in August 2019. “There is a need to understand that their (Centre’s) only intention, whichever way they can do it, is to disturb everything that belongs to Jammu,” JCCI president Arun Gupta told reporters. “Today, you have a position where people in Leh (Ladakh) have put their issues before the government and the government has agreed. Locals alone will get jobs and trade there. But here (in Jammu), you have all the traders coming from outside and settling here. They (Centre) were much concerned that they will settle people (outsiders) in Kashmir, but in two years two persons have purchased property there.” Gupta said the government was pursuing pro-Kashmir and anti-Jammu policies. “They (Reliance) are opening not one or two but hundreds of outlets in Jammu which will function 24/7. There will be just three outlets in Srinagar…. What kind of justice is this?” he said. “You will give jobs to 1,000 youths, but snatch the livelihood of 20,000 people. The way Jammu trade is being disrupted, we will not accept it.” The JCCI president hit out at the government for stopping the Darbar move practice, a bi-annual shifting of offices between summer capital Srinagar and winter capital Jammu. Gupta said when the Muslim community from Kashmir came to Jammu in winters and Jammu people went to the Valley in summers, it not only helped business but also bound the regions together. “Why do they (government) want to kill this brotherhood?” Gupta asked. BJP’s J&K general secretary Ashok Koul said everybody has a right to protest, but Jammu is and will remain the stronghold of the BJP. “The BJP’s graph will not go down,” Koul told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||SSB alerts Centre on ‘anti-India’ propaganda by China in Nepal||The Sashastra Seema Bal has alerted the Centre about growing anti-India propaganda by China in Nepal’s districts that border India, triggering a security threat, sources in the paramilitary force have told The Telegraph. This propaganda comes amid an India-China border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year, and at a time Beijing’s influence has been growing in Nepal and Bhutan, said sources in the SSB, which guards India’s 1,751km border with Nepal and 699km border with Bhutan. Reports from the SSB’s intelligence wing suggest that China has opened “Chinese study centres” on the Nepalese side of the open border with India, and that these are engaged in fear-mongering about New Delhi’s allegedly sinister plans for Nepal, the sources said. Such propaganda can pose a security threat by turning the local population hostile to India and therefore hospitable to terrorist activity directed against India, they said. It can also provoke clashes between India’s and Nepal’s border populations, testing bilateral relations at a time New Delhi and Kathmandu are locked in an ownership dispute over a Himalayan area called Kalapani, and China’s presence in Nepal is growing. “India was already wary of China’s growing influence in Bhutan and Nepal, where Beijing is said to have invested in hospitals, roads, hydropower projects and airports,” an SSB official said. “Now, we are witnessing China’s growing anti-India propaganda along the India-Nepal border where it has opened study centres. These centres also impart knowledge of Chinese culture and language as part of pro-China propaganda in Nepal.” To counter this, the SSB is setting up “India cultural centres” on the Indian side of the Nepal border, a frontier across which Indians and Nepalis travel freely, the sources said. Doklam worry Intelligence reports have also suggested heightened activities and deployment by the Chinese army near Doklam, a plateau at the tri-junction of the India, Bhutan and China borders where the Indian and Chinese armies were locked in a 10-week standoff in 2017. Sources said the heightened Chinese activity came despite an understanding in 2017 on disengagement and the avoidance of a repeat of the circumstances that had triggered the standoff — Chinese road-building at Doklam and Indian troops stopping them on foreign soil. Bhutan had at the time claimed that Doklam was a disputed territory between Thimpu and Beijing. China insisted the territory belonged to it while India said its troops had entered at Bhutan’s request. “We have increased our outposts and deployment on the India-Bhutan border along Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Bengal and Assam and also along the India-Nepal border that runs across Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bengal, Bihar and Sikkim,” an SSB official said. With China showing no intention of ceding the India-claimed territories it has occupied since May 2020 in Ladakh, fear is growing within India’s security establishment that Chinese dominance in the region would change the dynamics of India’s relations with Bhutan and Nepal. The Chinese are estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. The SSB, which reports to the home ministry, was formed in March 1963 after the 1962 war with China, and was earlier known as the Special Service Bureau. It has nearly 70 battalions (around 70,000 personnel).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Kerala: Govt missing, Cong plays peacemaker in 'narcotic jihad' row||The lack of initiative from Kerala’s Left Democratic Front government to engage leaders of two minority communities to find lasting peace to the communal tension triggered by a Catholic bishop’s “jihad” allegations against Muslims has brought the Congress to the forefront as the lead troubleshooter. Twelve days after Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt of Pala Diocese made controversial claims of “love jihad” and “narcotic jihad”, literally placing the entire Muslim community in a shadow of suspicion, it is the Congress that took the initiative to meet leaders from the two communities. Muslim leaders have categorically stated that they would settle for nothing less than Bishop Kallarangatt withdrawing his statement. State Congress president K. Sudhakaran and leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan have been meeting Christian bishops and Muslim leaders in an effort to bring them to the table. Former minister and CPM state committee member A.K. Balan on Monday lashed out against Congress leaders. “This is a closed chapter. They are keeping this alive with a larger political agenda,” Balan told reporters. He added: “These are people who usually fish in troubled waters. Now they are trying to be doves of peace.” CPM state secretary A. Vijayaraghavan accused the Congress leaders of adopting “BJP’s style of communal polarisation. What Sudhakaran and Satheesan are doing now is that kind of work”. Congress leaders slammed the Left government for not doing anything to find a solution. “Whose responsibility is it to organise such a meeting? The government has a larger responsibility to organise a conciliatory meeting than the Opposition Congress,” the party’s state president, K. Sudhakaran, told reporters on Monday. “The chief minister instead sent a minister (cooperation minister V.N. Vasavan) to meet the Pala bishop (on September 17) a day after we met him. Vasavan later said everything was sorted out. Who told him it’s over? Did he even talk to the Muslim community?” Sudhakaran said. Satheesan, who has been urging the government to summon a meeting of all sides, slammed the CPM. “The CPM doesn’t even have any stand on this. Doesn’t the party secretary live here (in Kerala)? Can’t he see what is happening?” Even a neutral observer like retired academic and social thinker M.N. Karassery found fault with the Left government in failing to talk to all sides. “It is twelve days since the Pala bishop made those remarks and the government did nothing apart from sending Vasavan to meet the bishop, and not the Muslim community, giving the impression that they were not concerned about the feelings of Muslims,” Karassery told The Telegraph. He flayed the CPM for treating it as a “closed chapter”. “Who closed the chapter? Did they even make half an attempt to close it? It is the government’s duty to step in and douse the fire,” he said, adding that, “the response of the chief minister and CPM have been extremely irresponsible”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Covid: SC issues notice to Centre on jabs at doorstep for disabled||The Supreme Court on Monday issued a notice to the Union government on a PIL seeking door-to-door vaccination facilities for those with physical and mental disabilities and their caregivers. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and V. Nagarathna sought the Centre’s response on the petition filed by NGO Evara Foundation and posted the matter for further hearing. The NGO has also referred to an earlier media release issued by the Indian Medical Association wherein it had said that vaccination on the doorstep should happen for the vulnerable sections of the population. It was also pointed out that some of the states such as Kerala and Jharkhand had already adopted such measures. Besides door-to-door vaccination, the NGO sought a dedicated helpline facility on the CoWIN portal for persons with disabilities and their caregivers to register and book slots. The court agreed with the NGO that the issue raised substantial questions of law dealing with the rights of the disabled that needed to be addressed. The bench, however, disagreed with the plea of the counsel for the NGO that notices be issued to the states too. Justice Chandrachud, heading the bench, said issuing notices to the states would lead to unnecessary delay in the whole process by another two months. “If we issue notice to states, it will take two months. The Union of India frames the policy. Let us see what steps it takes,” Justice Chandrachud said. The bench also issued a separate notice to the Centre on a petition filed by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) for giving priority in vaccination to pregnant and lactating mothers under “high risk”. Advocate Vrinda Grover appearing for DCPCR also told the court that there was a need to conduct scientific research to understand the effect of the Covid-19 virus on pregnant and lactating women and a dedicated registry for ensuring their continuous monitoring. The bench in its order recorded Grover’s submission that although certain operational guidelines had been issued for pregnant and lactating mothers by the Union government, there were some issues raised by the petitioner that needed to be addressed by the court. “Issue notice to the Union of India. Learned solicitor-general is required to assist the court on the policy, which has been formulated and applicable guidelines that are to be framed,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||Students to get a chance to pursue engineering courses in Odia||Students in Odisha will get a chance to pursue engineering courses in their mother tongue Odia from the next academic year 2022-23, official sources have said. In order to create a blueprint for this plan, the Odisha government and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) had already met and also held a meeting last week. However, those students who want to pursue engineering courses in English will be allowed to do so. Educationist Prof. Pritish Chandra Acharya told The Telegraph: “Though we welcome the decision, there are a number of issues attached to teaching engineering courses through Indian languages. But we need to brood over the issue of whether we are ready at this point to do it. All the study materials, including syllabuses and subjects outside the curriculum, should be available in Odia language in plenty.” The educationist further said: “Those who are going to teach engineering subjects in regional languages, we need to know whether they are proficient in their mother tongue. If these issues are not addressed, the students who pass out from engineering colleges studying in their mother tongue would not be able to compete at the all-India level and get a job in a private company.” Like Acharya, many educationists and parents point out that in order to teach engineering courses in Odia, a systematic and pragmatic approach should be made from Class X onwards. “The courses at Plus Two level should also be taught in Odia so that a student can pursue the engineering courses in Odia without finding any difficulties,” said another educationist Akshay Pradhan. The Odisha Private Engineering College Association has welcomed the move. “Mostly 70 per cent students enrolled in engineering colleges are from state-run Odia medium schools. The students find it difficult to pursue the engineering courses in English. Once the medium of education turns out to be the mother tongue, they can excel,” association secretary Binod Das told this newspaper. The association is also hopeful that all the engineering seats will be filled up. “Now the state has 34,000 engineering seats both at government and private level. Only 20,000 seats are getting filled up. Once the engineering courses are being taught in Odia, all the seats would be filled up,” Das said. It has also scotched criticism that the students will not be able to compete at the all-India level. “Countries like Germany, France and Korea are imparting engineering courses in their mother tongue and they are the world leaders, Similarly, a majority of the south Indian states and Maharashtra are imparting the courses in engineering through English.” Das said. Sources said the government would rope in the Institute of Odia Studies and Research and the Odisha Bhasa Pratisthan, an institution for preservation, development and extension of Odia language, to carry out the translation of various engineering courses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-191
21-09-2021||India||KIIT names two of its stadiums after Pramod Bhagat, Dutee Chand||The Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT) has decided to name two of its stadiums after Pramod Bhagat, the para-shuttler who won the first gold medal for India in the Tokyo Paralympics, and Olympian sprinter Dutee Chand. The announcement was made by Achyuta Samanta, founder, KIIT and KISS (Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences), while felicitating the two Olympians on Monday. Two stadiums of the KIIT will be named after these two Olympians in December 2021, said Samanta. With this, the KIIT has become the first university in India to name stadiums after Olympians. In recognition of Bhagat’s achievements, Samanta felicitated him and honoured him with a cash prize of Rs 5 lakh. The indoor stadium at Campus-12 (where Bhagat practised his game) will be named as “Pramod Bhagat Indoor Stadium”. Besides, Bhagat will be honoured with an honorary doctor of letters (DLitt) degree from the KIIT or KISS Deemed to be University, the KIIT said in a media release. Dutee, a student of KIIT School of Law, has been on the Olympic tracks for two successive terms, including the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics. She has also bagged two silver medals in the Asiad, and become the first woman in the country to win the gold medal in the World University Games representing this university. In appreciation of her contribution to Indian sports, KIIT has decided to name its Synthetic Athletic Stadium as “Dutee Chand Stadium”. Dutee’s name is also considered for an honorary doctor of letters (DLitt) from KIIT or KISS next year. Another para-athlete, world champion Rakhal Sethy was presented a cheque of Rs 2.7 lakh for a wheelchair to participate in the Fencing Para World Cup in November. Prof. Sasmita Samanta, pro vice-chancellor, KIIT, Jnyana Ranjan Mohanty, registrar, and Gaganendu Dash, director, sports, among others, were present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-192
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Even Messi didn't want to exit Barcelona: Babul Supriyo ||Former Union Minister Babul Supriyo, who moved from the BJP to the Trinamul Congress in the past few days, today reiterated that he wants to be part of a team that embraces him warmly and makes him part of the playing 11. Once again deploying sports metaphors, the Bollywood singer-turned-politician's move has reportedly created a buzz on West Bengal political circles -- days after his move, West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh was replaced with Sukanta Majumdar. This has been perceived as a move to stem any haemorrhaging in the state party unit. Mr Supriyo, however, refused to be drawn into the matter. "Now that I am with the Trinamul, I consider this the BJP's internal matter. Speaking as a political analyst or a commoner, I can say that Dilip Ghosh has done good work for Bengal. But his language, his commentary...that has not been taken well by the people of Bengal," the Asansol MP said during an exclusive interview with NDTV. "I have not created history...I'm not the first to leave a party and join another one." Referring to the new West Bengal BJP chief's reported comment that the state was facing "Talibanisation", Mr Supriyo said the term ought not to be used lightly. He said he had opposed it, too, when the opposition and critics like lyricist Javed Akhtar had said similar things about the BJP. "Taliban is the name of a very wrong and cheap mindset. The term should not be used casually," he said. Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP chief JP Nadda, and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Trinamul Congress member said he has worked with them for seven years and learnt a lot from the BJP. He emphasised that his own 2014 electoral victory from Asansol may have been based on his image as a Bollywood singer, but it was his public worked that ensured his 2019 re-election. "Whenever I play for whichever team, I'd want to give my sweat and blood in the playing field itself. It is not in my DNA to take the salary and perks from the public and then warm the benches," Mr Supriyo said. "I will play for that team which puts me in the playing level and, to use a football terminology, in the various formations in the field." Mr Supriyo was seen to be upset after he was made to quit as Union Minister ahead of cabinet reshuffle in July. Will he not be now accused of shifting the goalpost? "I was the lone person opposing when the BJP had opened its doors completely in Bengal and people from all parties were shifting to it," he pointed out. "If the BJP feels it was wrong on my part to join the Trinamul, if it feels it was Mir Jafar-esque, it should garland all those who joined it and send them back to their older parties." He rubbished the allegation that he had joined the Trinamul to stay in power. "If that is so, what power have I got in Trinamul? I have already sought an appointment with the Honourable (Lok Sabha) Speaker. I want to stay on this moral ground. I am immediately resigning as MP of Asansol," he said. "I have left the CRPF and all those perks that I was getting as a minister or as a central leader...He quoted Shashi Tharoor saying, 'an MoS (minister of state) is like a person standing in a graveyard. There are thousands of people below him, but no one is listening'." Returning to sports metaphors and citing the example of footballer Lionel Messi, he said: "Did he want to leave Barcelona? The situation was such that he cried during the press conference. Then he went to PSG. And now you are saying that 'while playing for PSG, is he expected to core against Barcelona? Or is he going to stand still in front of the goal post because he needs to be loyal to his ex-team…which transformed him'." He ended the interview on a musical note. Talking about his meeting with Mamata, during which she reportedly asked him to work and sing with all his heart, he refused to divulge the details. He, however, broke into an old and popular Bollywood number: Yeh duniya wale poochhenge, Mulakat hui, kya baat hui, yeh baat kisi se na kehna." This roughly translates as "People will ask, 'You met up. What did you talk about?' But don't reveal this to anyone."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal DGP submits report on chitfud cases to Calcutta HC||The director general of Bengal Police, Manoj Malviya, on Tuesday appeared before the Calcutta High Court to submit a report on the progress of investigation in cases related to two chitfunds. A division bench presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had on September 2 directed the DGP to appear before it personally to inform it about the status of the probe. Malviya, while submitting his report, told the court that the police were taking all necessary steps. The court suggested that the DGP appoint a nodal officer to keep track of its proceedings and orders. The division bench directed that the matter would be taken up for hearing again on December 21. The lawyer representing the West Bengal government assured the bench that the state advocates will appear before the court as per schedule. Taking up the hearing on cases related to Real Sunrise Chemtech Ltd and Sunplant Agro Ltd, the two chitfund companies which are alleged to have duped depositors of their funds, the bench had on September 2 found that the state was not represented by any lawyer and expressed its displeasure over the absence. The petitioners have prayed for return of their invested money in the two companies and their matters are pending since 2015-2016, lawyer for the depositors in the Sunplant Agro case, Arindam Das, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul awaits a churn: Babul, Shrreya and BJP's Ashok Lahiri||A churning within the ruling Trinamul is on the anvil as aspirations and promises come to clash over the next few months. Seemingly unrelated events unfolding over the past few months are now falling into place, as the party dithers over the fate of two ministers, one ailing and the other unwilling. The ailing minister is Sadhan Pande. And finance minister Amit Mitra is reluctant to continue. Little over a month ago, Pande, currently under treatment in Mumbai, was retained as minister without portfolio, and his departments (consumer affairs, self help group and self-employment) handed over to Subrata Mukherjee. Mitra, on the other hand, has been reluctant to make any public appearances, and did not contest the elections. From November 5 he will cease to continue as Bengal's  finance minister. Urban development minister Chandrima Bhattacharya’s presence at the GST council meeting held last Friday has led  to speculation that she could be Mitra’s replacement. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s choice to replace Mitra however is not anyone from her own party but the BJP’s economist-legislator, Ashok Kumar Lahiri, former chief economic adviser to the Narendra Modi government. Trinamul is actively wooing the first-time legislator who had raised eyebrows by placing Mitra above his predecessor Asim Dasgupta as finance minister during the debate in the state Assembly on the 2021-22 budget. Sources said the BJP’s current unofficial top leader in the state, Suvendu Adhikary, also the leader of the Opposition, is aware of Trinamul’s plans for Lahiri. "Suvendu is determined not to let it happen under his watch,” said a source. The few legislators of the BJP who have flipped to the Trinamul were turncoats. Lahiri, if decides to switchover, would be the first sitting MLA from the BJP to make a move, like Babul Supriyo, the Asansol MP, did on Saturday. During her first meeting with Supriyo on Monday, sources said, the chief minister apparently promised him the urban development department, currently headed by Chandrima Bhattacharya. Supriyo has already declared that he would resign from the Lok Sabha soon. He could then be made a minister and then get elected to the Assembly in six months. The possible choice of seat for Supriyo could be Maniktala, the current MLA of which is the ailing Sadhan Pande. While Maniktala appears to be the solution, it could also be the source of trouble for Mamata in the coming days. At this moment Maniktala is a pie that has too many eyes on it. The biggest claimant to the Maniktala seat is Shrreya Pande, daughter of the ailing minister. Since July Shrreya has been a regular at her father’s constituency offices in Goabagan and Kakurgachhi. Shrreya who had once dabbled in acting, calls herself a social worker on her Facebook page. She has been attending Trinamul party events, blood donation camps, football matches, religious festivals held in her father’s constituency, making clear her aspirations to take the next step in politics. “Sadhan da has been a nine-time legislator. In case the party decides to replace him mid-term, bringing an outsider like Babul won’t be easy. The Pande family has a following in the area,” said a Trinamul insider. Also eyeing the seat is Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, a former Rajya Sabha MP, whose rehabilitation in the party since his fallout with Mamata after he was once arrested in connection with the Saradha scam is still incomplete. Also looking for his share is the party’s Bidhannagar councillor Shanti Ranjan Kundu, also head of the youth wing in North Calcutta. “It is difficult to say how the scenario will unfold but it is not going to be easy. The party will have to placate Shrreya too,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Rainfall to continue till Wednesday in South Bengal, predicts IMD ||The Met department on Tuesday predicted more rainfall in south Bengal even as several low-lying localities and streets in the metropolis and its adjoining areas lay submerged on the account of the previous day's record downpour. The weatherman noted that thunderstorms with lightning, along with heavy rain, may lash all districts of south Bengal till Wednesday morning, with coastal South 24 Parganas, Purba Medinipur and its neighbouring Paschim Medinipur likely to receive heavier downpour. The low-pressure area that has formed over the southern parts of Gangetic West Bengal and adjoining Odisha with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 5.8 km above mean sea level still persists, tilting south-westwards, the IMD stated. "Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated very heavy falls are likely over Gangetic West Bengal & Odisha on 21st; isolated heavy falls on 22nd September, 2021 and decrease in rainfall activity thereafter (sic)," the IMD tweeted. Kolkata had logged 142 mm rainfall in 24 hours till 8.30 am on Monday, the highest in a day in September since 2007, according to the Met department. Waterlogging caused by torrential rain for several hours since early Monday in the metropolis and surrounding localities, including Salt Lake and New Town, threw life out of gear, as people remained stuck at home and those outside experienced a hard time to reach their destinations. Similar scenes were witnessed in Sonarpur, Baruipur, Medinipur and Haldia. Sagar Island on the Bay of Bengal coast recorded West Bengal's maximum rainfall in 24 hours till Tuesday morning at 212.8 mm, while Kolkata, which received light to moderate showers, registered 60.6 mm. Dum Dum, on the northern outskirts of the city, recorded 134 mm rainfall, while Salt Lake received 118.2 mm rain, the Met department data stated. Other places which received heavy rain are Canning at 115 mm, Diamond Harbour at 105 mm and Barrackpore at 102 mm, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP to fight against 'Talibanisation' of Bengal, says new state chief||Newly appointed West Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar on Tuesday vowed to fight against the "Talibanisation of the state" and asserted that the party would rectify its mistakes and emerge victorious in days to come. Refusing to attach much importance to the series of defections plaguing the saffron camp in the last few months, Majumdar said those committed to the ideology and cause can never leave the party. "With the cooperation of my predecessors and party leadership, I would continue my fight against the Talibanisation of the state. For us, BJP workers are our real assets. If we have committed any mistake, we would rectify it," Majumdar said while addressing the felicitation ceremony at the party's state headquarters. "Those who are thinking that they can harm the party by deserting it are wrong. The BJP would emerge victorious in days to come. Those who are committed to the ideology and cause can never leave the party," he said. The BJP on Monday replaced Dilip Ghosh as its West Bengal unit president with Majumdar, the Lok Sabha MP from Balurghat, amid infighting and a string of defections from the party to the state's ruling Trinamool Congress. In a statement, the party had announced that Ghosh, also a Lower House MP, has been made a national vice president of the saffron camp. The change of guard happened 15 months ahead of the expiry of Ghosh's term as state BJP chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Revamp on radar for wholesale market in Siliguri||The state agriculture marketing department has decided to revamp the regulated market at Mallaguri in the northern end of Siliguri. This was decided at a recent meeting held by Biplab Mitra, Bengal minister for agriculture marketing, at the state guest house here with officials of his department, Darjeeling district officials and chairperson of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation Gautam Deb. “A private consultancy agency will prepare the detailed project report,  and after necessary formalities, work will commence in the market area,” said an official of the department. Spread over some 50 acres, it is the largest wholesale hub of fruits, vegetables, fish and other perishables in north Bengal. Set up in the early 1990s, it needs immediate revamp. Every day, hundreds of trucks from all over the country bring various items to the market that has around 800 stalls. Goods worth Rs 5 crore to Rs 6 crore are transacted here every day. “It is also the main hub from where vegetables, fish and fruits are supplied to the hills, and also from where the famed Darjeeling oranges are sent across the country and also to Bangladesh,” said a wholesale fruit merchant. According to him, the market hardly has any space for vehicles which leads to traffic snarls. Water logging, bad roads, dirt, improper disposal of garbage, and dilapidated stalls are some obvious problems the market faces. Officials of the state agricultural marketing department said it had been decided for now that once goods are unloaded, trucks would go to Paribahan Nagar in Matigara, 3km away, for parking. “A boundary wall will come up, CCTVs will be put up Styrofoam boxes will be banned in the market,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress starts fresh bid to woo tea workers in Dooars ||The Trinamul Congress has started fresh initiatives to woo people living in the tea gardens of the Dooars as panchayats polls are round the corner. The ruling party had performed miserably in the Dooars in the general election of 2019 and the Assembly polls of 2021. Trinamul, along with its labour wing INTTUC, has drawn up a new plan to reach out to tea plantation workers and their families in each garden and apprise them of the Mamata Banerjee government’s initiatives for their socio-economic development since 2011. “There is no reason why tea estate workers shouldn’t stand by us..... Mamata Banerjee has done a lot for them and even launched the first-of-its-kind housing scheme for the workers. But what we have found is that most of these people do not have any inkling of these initiatives. Even if they are getting benefits of the state-run social welfare schemes, they have no idea who has mooted the schemes for them,” said Prakash Chik Baraik, the Alipurduar district Trinamul president. In Alipurduar, which is one of the tea-producing districts of the state, the BJP has managed to march ahead of Trinamul — much like in Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri (two other tea-producing districts of Bengal) in the elections. In 2019, the BJP had won all these three Lok Sabha seats and in 2021 also, most of the Assembly seats went to the party. In Alipurduar and Darjeeling, Trinamul could not win a single Assembly seat despite its overwhelming performance in other parts of the state. Such contrasting performance in the tea belt had left state Trinamul leaders peeved with their colleagues in the districts. Recently, a number of office-bearers were changed and new faces, including youths from tea estates, have been brought to the forefront of the party. “There is a specific instruction from the state leaders that no stone should be left unturned to boost our support base in tea estates. As a part of the plan, we are conducting block-level workshops where four-five youths from each tea garden are invited,” Baraik said. On Sunday and Monday, a two-day workshop of Kumargram block was held at a private resort in Rajabhatkhawa, located on the outskirts of Alipurduar town. Representatives from all 12 tea estates of the block were present at the workshop. “We are explaining to them the social welfare schemes run by the state, especially for the tea workers. They are being told about details of the schemes and how these are benefiting thousands of people. The participants, in turn, will reach out to the people in their areas. The initiative, we believe, can help the residents understand the schemes better,” said a senior Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal University applications hit a record||North Bengal University (NBU) has received over 28,000 applications for its 1,900 postgraduate seats for 35 subjects, a record in the varsity’s history. Usually, the varsity receives anywhere between 5,000 and 7,000 applications a yea for its PG courses. Senior faculty members,  when asked about the probable reason for such a huge number of applications, said the varsity’s decision to waive the application fee this year amid the pandemic may be one of the reasons. For the current academic year, the varsity had sought online applications from students from September 1. The applications were received till September 15, which was stipulated as the last date. On Sunday, as the authorities published the list of applicants on the official website of NBU, it was found that the varsity has received 28,000 applications in total. “Among them, 17,000 applicants are from colleges affiliated under NBU while the rest are students of other universities of the state. We also have some applicants from other states,” said a source. Usually, the varsity charges Rs 100 as application fee for all PG courses other than MBA. For MBA, the application fee is Rs 500. “Though the application fee is not very high, it seems that as it was waived, many students who wouldn’t have applied otherwise thought of giving it a try. Also, there are many who have made multiple applications for PG courses in different subjects. That is why the number of applications has been so high this year,” said a senior faculty member. Manas Esh, secretary of the faculty council for postgraduate studies in arts, commerce and law, said the varsity, based on merit, will admit students of NBU’s affiliated colleges in 80 per cent  of the seats while students of other universities will be admitted in remaining 20 per cent seats of each course. Sources said 20 PG courses are available in these three broad streams and 15 more subjects in the science stream. “From this year, women’s studies and bioinformatics have been included as new PG subjects,” said Joydeep Biswas, secretary of the faculty council for PG studies in science. Oxygen plant The trial run for one pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant with a capacity of 1,000 LPL was done at North Bengal Medical College & Hospital (NBMCH) on the outskirts of Siliguri on Monday. S. Ponnambalam, the Darjeeling district magistrate, said another trial run of the plant would be done soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Clamour for panchayat elections in Darjeeling grows||The demand to hold panchayat elections in the hills is getting louder as all the major political parties, including the BJP and Trinamul, are voicing support for the rural polls last held in 2000. Hill leaders such as Anit Thapa, the president of the newly floated Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM), Binay Tamang and Ajoy Edwards have been vocal on panchayat polls. With new political equations emerging amid some prominent faces seeking to chart their own course, the demand is resonating from all corners. Thapa, at a public meeting at Bijanbari on Monday, reiterated the demand. The Telegraph on Monday reached out to Bimal Gurung’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), the BJP and Trinamul for their view on panchayat elections. Leaders of all these parties told this newspaper that they want panchayat elections. Roshan Giri, general secretary, Morcha said they had recently pursued the issue with state panchayat and rural development minister Subrata Mukherjee. Giri admitted that the final call lay with chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Even the BJP is not averse to rural polls in the hills. “I have been advocating for panchayat elections. In the absence of an elected rural body, massive corruption is taking place in the hills,” said Kalyan Dewan, president of BJP Darjeeling district (hill) committee. Unlike other parts of the state, the Panchayat issue is a bit complex in the hills. In 1993, the Constitution was amended to put in place a two-tier panchayat system in the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) areas, unlike the three-tier system in the rest of Bengal.  The three tiers are gram panchayat, panchayat samitis and zilla parishad. However, in 2000, the elections were held only to gram panchayats and many believe then GNLF chief Subash Ghisingh did not want polls to panchayat samitis as he believed that its powers would overlap with the then existing DGHC. Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling MLA and secretary-general of GNLF, said his party has no objection if the two-tier panchayat elections are held now. “Since the amendment (brought about in 1993) gives special status to Darjeeling hills, we are against three-tier panchayat elections, but have no problems if panchayats to two tiers are held,” he said. For a three-tier panchayat to be held, the Constitution has to be amended. To complicate matters, a Siliguri Mahukama Parishad was formed in 1993 for the Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling district. The SMP functions like the zilla parishad or the highest tier of the rural administrative system. The Constitution has provisions for one zilla parishad in one district. “We will welcome if panchayat elections are held as it is an issue of decentralisation of power. There are some constitutional lacunae but we will accept whatever the state decides,” said N.B. Khawash, Trinamul coordinator for Darjeeling assembly segment. Most parties which earlier were keen on a three-tier system, like Bimal Gurung’s Morcha, however, seem to have tweaked their stand. Many in the hills believe that the softening of stand from three tier to two tier elections is probably because of the hill parties’ eagerness for a share of power. “Bimal Gurung discarded the GTA in 2017 and he cannot tell the public that he wants to be in that chair now. Anit Thapa, too, recently said he would go to the GTA only through elections. The GNLF has filed a case in the high court against the GTA. Given this scenario, the panchayat could be their path to power for these hill parties at this moment,” said an observer from the hills. The TMC, which won the Mirik municipality in 2017, might also be wanting to test their strength after the new alignment in hill politics, the observer said adding the same logic could hold true for the BJP, which won both the Darjeeling and Kurseong Assembly seats in May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Eight college students arrested with drugs, gecko in Alipurduar||Police arrested eight college students from a locality here on Sunday evening for allegedly consuming narcotics and also seized a tokay gecko, a rare lizard species, during the raid. Amlan Ghosh, the additional superintendent of police of Alipurduar, said a section of residents dwelling on Maya Talkies Road in ward 18 of the town had complained that some local youths often consume cannabis in the open. “The youths, aged between 19 to 21 years, have been arrested. Also, a tokay gecko has been recovered from the house of one of these students,” Ghosh added. In north Bengal, the state forest department and other agencies have time and again recovered tokay gecko, a small animal that has huge demand in the grey market as it is used in making traditional Chinese medicine. According to police sources, among the eight, seven have been alerted to abstain from drug abuse and released on personal bond. The youth from whose house the animal was recovered, has been charged under Wildlife Protection Act. He was produced at a local court on Monday and sent to police custody for 10 days. “We need to find out whether he is involved with any smuggling racket,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Angry mob lynch suspected cattle rustler in North Dinajpur district||A suspected cattle rustler was lynched by a group of irate villagers in North Dinajpur district on Sunday night after he allegedly fired gunshots at them while trying to escape the area. A gang of three-four miscreants had entered Kajigach village, under Chopra police station, to allegedly steal cattle on Sunday night. “Soon some villagers got alert about their movement and they gave the gang members a chase. While escaping, one of the miscreants fell into a ditch. As the villagers tried to catch him, he fired at them. This left the villagers irate and they beat him to death,” said a source. Sachin Makkar, chief of Islampur police district, said: “The body has been recovered. An improvised firearm and one round of live cartridge were recovered from the spot. Searches are on to nab his associates.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt to set up four helipads in Sunderbans, South 24-Parganas||The state government will set up four permanent helipads in remote and strategic locations of the Sunderbans and coastal South 24-Parganas in a bid to reach out to these pockets during cyclones or floods when vast swathes are inaccessible to road or waterways. Sources said the transport department last week approved four helipads in Gosaba, Patharpratima, Kakdwip and Diamond Harbour II, following a proposal sent by the district administration after Cyclone Yaas earlier this year. “South 24-Parganas is a unique district, with vast areas of the Sundarbans, and nearly a hundred riverine islands. During disasters, evacuating people to relief centres and transporting pregnant women and aged people with health emergencies get very difficult. Helipads will help us respond immediately to people in distress with choppers,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24-Parganas district magistrate. Sources in the transport department said the district would be the only one in Bengal with four permanent helipads for mitigating natural disasters. In other districts, temporary helipads are made during visits of dignitaries, such as the chief minister or the Prime Minister. District officials said in the wake of three cyclones, Fani, Amphan and Yaas, it was seen that evacuation from isolated islands was a challenge with damaged roads. Journey by waterways was time-consuming. Even central teams or VIPs can’t access the worst flood-hit areas because of lack of communication. These helipads will help minimise that problem too, said sources. After Yaas hit the coastal pockets and islands of the Sundarbans, district officials did a survey to find locations where helipads could be set up. A special committee was formed, which earmarked four government plots in Gosaba, Patharpratima, Kakdwip and Diamond Harbour. “All the helipads would be set up in four islands, from where other islands can be covered easily. The plots we chose are on elevated land so that helipads won’t be submerged during crises,” said a senior official. The public works department will construct those helipads with its own funds, he added. A senior official in South 24-Parganas recounted that they had to send a boat during one such disaster to bring a pregnant woman to a local hospital in Gosaba. “It took around four hours. If we had a helicopter, we could have done it a lot sooner. We receive alerts from several people in crisis, but can’t reach them with proper service. The choppers will help us do so,” the official added. Sagar Island earlier had a helipad, which got damaged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Tornado-like strong  wind column strikes South 24-Parganas||A state government-run tourist cottage and a few shops were severely damaged and several electric poles and trees uprooted when a tornado-like strong column of wind lashed a 500-metre radius on Temple Road at Sagar Island in South 24-Parganas on Monday morning. The spiralling tornado-like storm, which originated in the Bay of Bengal, rose to around 10 feet before sweeping the area for about two minutes at 10.45am, unleashing panic among traders and tourists. It was accompanied by low pressure-induced rain. Monday’s downpour left several areas in South 24-Parganas waterlogged and damaged at least 419 houses, prompting the district administration to evacuate 9,825 persons to safer places. Sources in the Indian Meteorological Department said on Monday evening that South 24-Parganas had experienced 75mm of rain in past 24 hours. However, the talking point in Sagar was the column of wind. Its impact was so strong that corrugated sheets on the roofs of all 20 rooms of the tourist cottage “Sagar” flew off in seconds and many parts of the building collapsed. The tourist cottage is run by the local panchayat samity. Block development officer Sudipto Mondal said: “A heavy column of spiral wind that stayed barely for 2 minutes unsettled everything on a stretch of road close to the Kapil Muni temple at a time when we are preparing for the upcoming Ganga Sagar Mela. The Sagar tourist cottage has been severely damaged as at least 37 full-length corrugated sheets of the cottage and its ancillary units have been blown to almost a kilometre away.” “Twenty rooms of the tourist cottage have been damaged as some of the walls have collapsed or cracked. Air-conditioning machines have been damaged and require immediate repair since the building becomes a control room during the Ganga Sagar Mela,” the BDO said, adding the Kapil Muni temple was spared. South 24-Parganas district magistrate P. Ulaganathan added: “The tornado-like circulation of wind damaged the Sagar cottage but luckily claimed no human life.” However, the torrential rain caused inundation in low-lying Gosaba, Canning-I and II, Kakdwip, Diamond Harbour-I & Diamond Harbour-II, Budge Budge-II, Thakurpukur-Maheshtala block as well as Maheshtala, Baruipur, Rajpur-Sonarpur, Joynagar-Majilpur municipalities, Ulaganathan said in a press release. Heavy downpour also hampered train services in the district on Monday because of waterlogged railway tracks. Fearing more floods in low-lying areas, especially the coast amid the spring tide scheduled on Monday night, the district administration has deployed 350 volunteers and 15 boats for rescue services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 524 new infections and 12 deaths||Bengal on Monday recorded 92 straight days of a fall in its total of active Covid-19 cases, with 524 new infections, 608 recoveries and 12 deaths. The total of active Covid-19 cases fell by 96 to 7,810. Calcutta logged 105 new infections and North 24-Parganas 103, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday. Calcutta reported two and North 24-Parganas three. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, its highest  this pandemic, ahead of the national rate of 97.7 per cent. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which had risen up to nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.99 per cent on Monday. Bengal now has 15.62 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.35 lakh recoveries and 18,664 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo meets chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna||Former junior Union minister Babul Supriyo met chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna on Monday. After a half-an-hour interaction, the former BJP leader who defected to Bengal’s ruling party on Saturday, said he and Mamata talked about everything from muri to music, but revealed nothing about Trinamul’s offer or his role in his new party. He said Mamata gifted a book for his father, and him an uttoriyo, which he wore. The Asansol MP said he was likely to go to Delhi on Wednesday to submit his resignation to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. Mamata, who remained silent on the issue, went into a huddle with her nephew and party’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee, instrumental in Supriyo’s induction, and poll strategist Prashant Kishor at Nabanna. Later, along with Abhishek, Trinamul state chief Subrata Bakshi and others, she went to a Sitala temple in Bhowanipore where she is a bypoll candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Pneumonia jabs await children aged between 6 weeks and 9 months||The Bengal government is set to start its maiden immunisation programme against pneumonia in the second week of October for children aged between six weeks and nine months. The initiative has been planned in the backdrop of a large number of children falling ill with fever in a few districts. Health department sources said they had already received one lakh doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) from the Centre and sought another three lakh doses to kick-start the immunisation soon. “We are ready to administer PCV to infants from the second week of October. Children in the age group of six weeks and nine months will be vaccinated with three jabs,” said Jayanta Sukul, additional director of health services looking after expanded immunisation programme (EIP). Health department sources have said infants would get their first jab when they are six-weeks old, second at 14 weeks and the final booster dose at nine months. “Hundreds of fever cases are being reported among children from various places in the state and some among them are suffering from pneumonia. We are in a hurry to start the vaccination to protect children from fever-related diseases they are suffering from,” Sukul said. Sources in the health department said PCV was launched in 2017 in the country and several states, including Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, had already enlisted the vaccine under their Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP). Bengal and Gujarat are among the two states that have decided to launch the vaccination drive now. Health department data state around 36,00,000 children across the country are affected by pneumonia every year and approximately 70,000 succumb to the disease. In Bengal, over a lakh children suffer from the disease annually and around 3,000 die every year. The vaccination is expected to curb the count of kids getting affected with pneumonia. The Centre has sent one lakh PCV jabs, which go by the brand name Pneumocil and is manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, to the state and are being preserved at the central vaccine store in Calcutta. “We need at least three lakh more jabs to start the drive in all districts and we hope we will receive them soon,” said a senior health official. As it is a new vaccine and the jab needs to be administered on the right leg of infants, the state health department has started the process of training ground-level health workers. “We have already completed training of district nodal officers for the immunisation programme. Now, the districts are holding trainings for block and ground-level nurses and health workers,” said an official. Asked about administering the vaccine to children aged over six weeks, the official said such kids would be given the jabs at an interval of two months each till the age of 13 months. He added the vaccination was expected to help address problems of fever among children in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. “If the vaccination for pneumonia starts, we think the number of children reporting with fever issues and pneumonia will drop,” said a health department official said. Paediatric Covid care The state government has assigned two medical colleges — Bankura Sammilani Medical College and Hospital in south Bengal and Malda Medical College and Hospital in north Bengal — as Centre of Excellence for paediatric Covid care in addition to three other existing facilities. “The aim is to treat paediatric patient suffering from Covid at these medical colleges,” a health official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Fresh floods sweep  East and West Midnapore districts||A depression over the Bay of Bengal triggered heavy downpour across coastal Bengal since early Monday, including East and West Midnapore districts, and inundated new areas in a region already battling damage from floods last week. East Midnapore saw rain throughout Monday, which caused rivers Keleghai and Kansabati to overflow. Keleghai floods proceeded as far as 25km inland after breaching dykes, bringing the number of displaced people in the district to 6.87 lakh in the last two weeks. “East Midnapore received much less rain on Monday than Calcutta, but enough to exacerbate damages from previous week,” said district disaster management official Mrityunjay Haldar. “Patashpur, Bhagabanpur and Bhupatinagar are the worst hit.” On Monday, many roads in East Midnapore were lined with homeless families seeking shelter under tarpaulins. Subhas Paria, 65, a farmer from Nilkanthapur village, said he lost all his belongings on Monday. “We had thought the worst was behind us (last week’s floods),” he said. On Monday evening, the Kansabati seemed to have abated somewhat, but the Keleghai kept swelling. District officials on Monday were operating 250 relief and shelter camps. In West Midnapore, two weather-related fatalities were reported on Monday. The toll in both districts in over two weeks is now 14. “In West Midnapore, 6.27 lakh persons became homeless since last Monday (one week),” said disaster management official Sandip Biswas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Security cover for Trinamul turncoats irk Bengal BJP leaders||A section of top BJP office-bearers in Bengal is upset with the central leadership that many Trinamul Congress turncoats who have distanced themselves from the saffron camp after the Assembly poll continue to enjoy the security cover provided by the Union government. “Our state unit was recently asked by the leadership in Delhi to assess the need for central security for 60-odd leaders, a majority of whom began disassociating themselves from the party after the Assembly election results. The state unit informed the central leadership that more than 50 per cent of these people do not need central security, but no action has been taken as yet,” said a BJP insider. The fact that most of these leaders who are either on their way to Trinamul or have already switched sides are still enjoying central security has become a talking point at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, the state headquarters of the BJP. A BJP source has said more than a dozen central force personnel provide security to former minister Rajeeb Banerjee, who is apparently making all possible attempts to reach out to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Trinamul all India general secretary Abhishek Banerjee to return to the party. Similarly, Bishnupur MLA Tanmoy Ghosh, who had joined Trinamul last month, also has a couple of central force guards for his security, the source said. “The list is long.… Almost everyone, who joined the BJP with Suvendu Adhikari was given central security ahead of the polls. After the elections, another set of people, including new BJP MLAs and some of their associates, got central security. The total number was not less than 180,” said another BJP source. According to the source, while some BJP leaders do face a threat perception, continuing to give central security to so many people even three months after the polls defies any logic. First, it is a waste of tax-payers’ money, said the source referring to the need for central security to leaders like Raiganj BJP MLA Krishna Kalyani or Karam Hossain Khan, a party leader in Suri in Birbhum, controversial leader of the port area Rakesh Singh or Shanku Deb Panda, the party’s Calcutta zone co-convenor. “I know that a Minority Morcha vice-president, who claims to be close to Adhikari, in North Calcutta, visits the gym everyday with his security guards, who help him in his workout. Is this proper utilisation of the force?” asked the source. Speaking to this correspondent, Rajeeb claimed he had written to the CRPF authorities to withdraw his security detail, but that didn’t happen. Ghosh wasn’t available to explain why he was still enjoying central security. A senior state BJP leader admitted that there was no point in continuing with central security for so many leaders. “But there is a process to withdraw.… The Centre has recently written to the state government to accord security to 61 state BJP leaders and may be that is the first step towards withdrawal of the forces,” said the leader. Dilip Ghosh, who was removed from the post of state president on Monday evening, said: “We had sent our views about the threat perception of the leaders when we were asked by our central leaders.… We did mention that many of these leaders didn’t need security. The final decision, however, lies with the Union home ministry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
21-09-2021||West Bengal||Sukanta Majumdar replaces Dilip Ghosh as Bengal BJP president||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh has been removed from his post and replaced with Sukanta Majumdar, MP from Balurghat in South Dinajpur. Ghosh, 57, has been appointed a national vice-president of the BJP. He had been made the party’s state president in 2015, a year after the RSS had loaned him to the party. The sudden change of guard coincides with a slew of defections from the state BJP after its crushing defeat in the Assembly elections. Multiple sources said the removal of Ghosh, whose term was scheduled to end in November, was primarily triggered by the departure of former Union minister Babul Supriyo, who joined Trinamul on Saturday. “Dilipda’s term was to end this November and the broad consensus was that he would be allowed to complete his second term.… The series of defections in Bengal after the polls, and especially Babul’s exit, have hastened the change at the top,” a source said. The BJP had won 77 seats in the Assembly polls but the number has now fallen to 71, besides the loss of Supriyo, an MP. The news of the change of guard came around 8.30pm. Around three hours before the announcement, Ghosh had attended a news conference at his home in Calcutta and sources close to him said he had appeared unaware of the imminent change. “At Babul’s multiple meetings with the party’s central leadership after he had been dropped as a central minister, he had blamed Ghosh for the inner-party strife in Bengal. Several other leaders from the state, including some MPs, had also complained against Dilipda’s style of functioning, and especially his style of communication,” the source added. Unlike Ghosh, Majumdar, 42, measures his words and is known to maintain a low profile. The appointment of Majumdar, a PhD in botany, is significant as this is the first time the state BJP is getting a president from north Bengal, a region where the party performed much better than in other parts of Bengal. A state BJP leader said the appointment of Majumdar, who cut his teeth in the RSS before joining the party in 2019, was aimed at addressing the problem of inner-party differences. “Dilipda and Suvendu Adhikari were having regular tiffs as both are high-profile leaders.… Now the party has taken a decision that will allow all the focus to be on Suvendu while Sukanta will be doing the organisational work,” a source said. Some BJP insiders wondered whether Majumdar, not known to too many party workers beyond north Bengal, would be able to discharge the responsibilities of party president at a crucial time like the present. “This is shocking. After all, Dilipda led our journey from being a zero to becoming the most crucial Opposition party in the state. The most important question is, how many people know Sukanta?” a state BJP functionary said. Majumdar, a cousin of former Union minister and MP Debashree Chaudhuri, told reporters in Balurghat that his priority would be strengthening the party in the state. “I shall work towards further strengthening the sturdy foundation of our party created by Dilipda. We need to strengthen the BJP for the betterment of Bengal and Bengalis,” the MP said. Ghosh welcomed the change of guard. “It is only natural that a change would come. I had met Naddaji in July where I was told that there would be a parivartan, a change of guard…. It’s all right. I’ve been given a new task. The new president will need time to prepare since the panchayat polls are due in a year and a half. We are all with him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
21-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Prickly queries||A party is entitled to shower gifts on its prime minister on his birthday. But can public welfare be parcelled as a gift for such an occasion? The question arises on account of the impressive — but orchestrated — rise in India’s vaccination score on Narendra Modi’s birthday. Predictably, the states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party took the lead in the pageantry. Dissection of data shows that Assam, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat experienced feverish activity in vaccination, accounting for 67 per cent of the 22.6 million doses that were administered on the chosen day. The historic feat was achieved with meticulous planning. This is evident from the fact that vaccination in some of these states — Gujarat, Bihar and Karnataka are examples — had fallen well below their seven-day averages, indicating that stocks had been kept ready to ‘create’ a surge on Mr Modi’s birthday. Expediting inoculation against a pandemic is welcome in a country that has, according to some estimates, managed to vaccinate around 20 per cent of the eligible adults so far. But the administering of record doses on a single day will not be enough to address other concerns. For instance, does India have the ability to sustain this pace of vaccination on a daily basis? That would have brought the country closer to meeting its stiff target of vaccinating all eligible citizens by the end of this year. An ethical query cannot be brushed away either. Should vaccination — a ‘merit good’ — be tailor-made to reap political dividends? The BJP — it had promised free vaccination as an electoral sop to Bihar — seldom hesitates to indulge in unabashed populism. Finally, there is also the broader question of India’s medical resources, personnel and citizens being herded to observe the prime minister’s birthday as a spectacle. This kind of reverence is perhaps indicative of the rise of charismatic leadership that often turns out to be inimical to the democratic ethos. Has the transition of Indian democracy to electoral autocracy then truly come to pass?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
21-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Prince Charles accused of favours for donations||Palace intrigue Sir — The British royal family and controversy go hand in hand. Recently, Prince Charles was accused of meeting intermediaries who arranged for special favours from the royal family in exchange for donations to the prince’s charities. Although the palace has denied having knowledge of any such transactions, there are claims to the contrary. From allegations of racism to involvement with a convicted sex offender, the charges against the royal family are too grave. This antiquated institution could soon lose the veneer of respectability that it still commands. Narayani Sengupta,Calcutta Worrying trend Sir — A study published by Sage’s International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions found that India produced the largest amount of misinformation regarding Covid-19 between January 1, 2020 and March 1, 2021 (“Unscientific”, Sep 17). The researcher analyzed 9,657 pieces of misinformation from 138 countries and found that 18.07 per cent of these originated in India. This high number has been attributed to the rate of internet penetration in the country, its increasing social media consumption combined with a lack of internet literacy. The current dispensation at the Centre — its leaders are prone to making unscientific comments themselves — must take this finding seriously. The World Health Organization has warned that the spread of false information on Covid-19 has further endangered people; at times even culminating in death. We all must do our part to discourage the spread of misinformation and help cultivate a scientific mindset. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — It was shocking to learn that a study found India to be the source of the most amount of misinformation on Covid-19. The study evaluated over 9,000 pieces of data — including non-English information — in 138 countries and concluded that one out of six pieces of misinformation originated in India. Many of us simply cannot fathom how India, with its abundance of scientists and medical professionals, could be guilty of generating such a massive amount of misinformation. But it is also true that over the last year and a half, Indians have touted everything from camphor to cow urine as possible cures for Covid-19. In fact, many people deferred proper treatment by putting their faith in such ‘miracle cures’ and eventually succumbed to the illness for lack of timely and proper medical help. The Bharatiya Janata Party government is largely responsible for this rapid decline in India’s scientific temper. The situation must be rectified before it gets any worse. Brij B. Goyal,Ludhiana||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
21-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Debt to dust||The so-called ‘bad bank’ is ready to get off the ground. Last week, the Centre said it would provide guarantees worth Rs 30.6 billion that will buttress the security receipts that the National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd intends to float after it acquires about Rs 900 billion worth of bad loan assets in the first phase. The guarantee from the government provides a measure of comfort to investors who can work up the courage to acquire these risk-laden security receipts. When the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, had announced in her budget speech this year that the Centre intended to establish the NARCL, it raised the hope that banks would finally be able to clean up their books by parcelling out their legacy bad loans to an institution that will work in tandem with another entity — the India Debt Resolution Company — to sort out the mess arising from the toxic assets in the banking sector. In theory, the mechanism looks good and has been tried and tested in other countries. Scheduled commercial banks carried non-performing loans worth Rs 8.34 trillion on their balance sheets at the end of March 2020. Only a small portion of this is classified as toxic assets where there are grave questions about recovery. The scale of non-performing loans in the banking industry has shrunk by Rs 611 billion in the year ended March 31, according to a finance ministry statement in July. But there remains a lurking worry that the non-performing assets could rise next year. The Reserve Bank of India’s Financial Stability Report released in July said that stress tests had shown that the gross NPA ratio of the scheduled commercial banks could rise from 7.48 per cent in March 2021 to 9.8 per cent by March 2022 under the baseline scenario and, possibly, to 11.22 per cent under a severe stress scenario. If this happens, it would severely undermine efforts to tackle the twin balance sheet problem represented by mounting unpaid loans on the books of companies and the banks. India needs to draw lessons from other countries where the bad bank concept has worked reasonably well. A study by the Bank for International Settlements reveals that asset segregation without recapitalization of banks has a statistically insignificant impact on loan growth and future non-performing loans. Paradoxically, the study revealed banks that transfer a smaller fraction of their assets exhibit stronger credit growth and lower future non-performing loans. One comforting fact is that banks in India have sufficient capital to withstand a severe stress-case scenario. But the success of the bad bank will hinge on the efficiency of India’s legal system in ensuring debt resolution after the banks segregate their impaired assets. Unfortunately, the experience with the insolvency resolution mechanism does not inspire a great deal of hope.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
21-09-2021||Opinion||A city in danger||The climate negotiation has come full circle. Twelve years back, during the United Nations’s climate summit in Copenhagen, mayors of several important cities were shown the door midway through the conference to reduce the number of non-government participants. Mayors were not part of official delegations, in the name of security concerns of global leaders who joined late in the summit. In contrast, the latest climate impact report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change — the UN body for assessing the science related to climate change and reporting to policymakers — has highlighted the regional and urban climate concerns separately for the first time in its nearly 4,000-page-long report. Although the emphasis on city climate started some time back — city leaders have argued since 2010 that they take climate disasters head-on and hence should be given due importance — and even the game changing Paris Agreement in 2015 acknowledged that ‘cities and regions have a unique capacity to address climate change compared with national governments’ — never before have regional climate issues received so much scientific attention. The IPCC report categorically says that urban areas of the world are going to be severely affected by a series of climate-related events. The risk is bigger for South Asian cities located on or close to the coastline, including Calcutta. The report predicts that such cities will have to increasingly grapple with high heat periods often catapulting into heat waves, and intense cyclones coupled with high rainfall as well as flooding triggered by a rise in the sea level. Inadequate infrastructure to handle such extreme weather events will add to the woes. The memories of Calcutta being paralyzed after Cyclone Aila in 2009 and Cyclone Amphan in 2020 are still fresh. The IPCC report shows that Calcutta has experienced the highest warming among several cities across the world during the last few decades, owing mainly to the heat generated within the city itself. The sea level rise near the Sunderbans, hardly 100 kilometres away from Calcutta, is highest in the country and has been consistently adding height to the surging high tides in the already-choked Adi Ganga canal. Extremely high-intensity cyclones are on the rise in the Sunderbans area which affect, and will continue to affect, the city’s weather. As these climatic impacts piggyback on the traditional weaknesses of the “chance directed, chance erected” city — the largely-silted British-built drainage system, a saucer-shaped location which bars the natural drain-out of water, canals that are choked and often encroached upon, water bodies and wetlands being filled over the years — the challenge will be catastrophic in nature. However, the greater challenge is to integrate these climatic concerns into city planning, as the politicians and administrators who run the civic bodies seem unaware, much less bothered, about the IPCC report that has been called a ‘code red for humanity’. Broadly, the business-as-usual, carbon-centred planning and implementation continues. There has been virtually no effort to implement a climate change-integrated holistic plan of development. It is difficult to understand what stops cities like Calcutta, which experience acute urban heat island phenomena, from clutching at low-hanging solutions like asking promoters to stop constructing buildings with massive glass exteriors — these significantly add to the heat quotient — or to facilitate the construction of large-scale solar rooftops. Cities must increase their green cover instead of letting it all be destroyed. However, nothing will happen unless the city and state authorities move away from the traditional governance pattern which hardly recognizes, let alone prioritizes, the environment and climate change. The mismanagement of Covid-19 across major Indian cities has shown us the disastrous effects of a dearth of planning and ad hoc execution. Climate change will land a much bigger punch unless leaders act quickly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
21-09-2021||Opinion||The Assam Rifles lesson for Manipur||It should not surprise anyone that prolonged insurgencies leave behind scars, some barely visible but, nonetheless, excruciating. The case of the civil militia, Village Defence Force, in Manipur, raised in 2008 after an assault on a village by an insurgent group, is particularly poignant. That was a period marked by uncertainty and chaos in the state when insurgency was at one of its peaks. Every morning, newspaper headlines screamed of gory gun violence, unrest over alleged fake encounters, or else the continuation of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act. The fateful incident took place during the Yaoshang (Holi) festival celebrated for five days and marked by sporting events and revelries of the Thabal Chongba (moonlight dance) late into the night. On March 24, at a Thabal Chongba at Heirok village about 35 kilometres from Imphal, an insurgent organization, which later confessed that it was out to eliminate a party offender in the crowd, opened fire, killing three and injuring several more. Enraged villagers went on a warpath and decided to ban all insurgent activists and sympathizers from their village. They also pleaded with the government to arm them. After some hesitation, the government decided to take advantage of the situation and give the idea of a civil militia a try. The VDF took birth at Heirok with 300 recruits initially. But the initiative soon spread to villages across the state with youth lining up to join it, not always out of vengeful anger against insurgents but in the hope that this would ultimately land them a respectable job, a consequence predictable in a state with high youth unemployment and where only government jobs are considered noteworthy. Today, there are 10,050 of these men although, officially, only 1,500 are listed. These young men were recruited not under established recruitment rules or with service guarantees: they were village volunteers armed by the government and paid Rs 1,500 initially. The sum was later raised to Rs 3,000. The stipend now stands at Rs 8,500. At the time when the VDF came into being, in Chhattisgarh, a similar initiative, the Salwa Judum, was drawing flak: in 2011, it was declared illegal and unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. But the VDF prevailed in Manipur, probably because nobody challenged its legality but also because the government benefited from its service. The VDF soon became a handy force, put to service as any police constabulary but paid much less. Its assignments range from static guard duties at vital installations, road-opening duties during public unrest, sentry duties for lesser VIPs and so on with no holidays. The service contract is for a year at a time, but is extended almost as a norm. This was expected because insurgency in Manipur, although now in a lull, is far from resolved. Moreover, after 13 years of employment, it would be difficult to let go of the personnel who have passed the age to seek fresh employment. Trapped in a job that has no certainty of lasting throughout their careers or offers scope for promotion, signs of unrest are becoming evident. Some members have allegedly begun leaning on such petty crimes as serving as conduits for drug-traffickers or on bootlegging. Perhaps the Northeast’s colonial history has a lesson here. After the British established their administration in Assam in 1826, they began withdrawing their army from the region since it was no longer cost effective. But by 1835, they realized there was a need for greater security than the police could provide. The civil officer, E.R. Grange, came up with the idea of raising the Cachar Levy, a civil militia officered by the police in the beginning but, later, by the military. This militia ultimately became India’s first paramilitary force — the Assam Rifles. In History of the Assam Rifles, L.W. Shakespear describes the Cachar Levy as a force “less paid than the military, but better armed than the police”. To motivate the personnel, each of the five original units of this force was attached to a Gurkha Rifles formation and the promise was that those who performed well would be absorbed into the army formation they were affiliated to. Indeed, this militia, which became the Assam Military Police, came to be a fertile nursery for the Gurkha Rifles; so much so that during the First World War, it was drained of experienced personnel who were supplied as troopers to the Gurkha Rifles to fight in Europe at the rate of 200 a month till the end of 1917. This, Shakespear notes, was one of the reasons why the force took longer than expected in putting down the Kuki Rebellion. In recognition, immediately after the War, this militia was officially recognized as a paramilitary force and christened Assam Rifles. Could this history of the Cachar Levy have a lesson for the Manipur government in resolving its VDF dilemma? Could there be a mechanism to have them gradually absorbed into related government services according to performance and calibre? Pradip Phanjoubam is editor, Imphal Review of Arts and Politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
21-09-2021||Opinion||Common malaise||The dictionary defines schadenfreude quite simply as the ‘satisfaction or pleasure felt at someone else’s misfortune’. This is so typical a desi emotion that it always comes as a shock that other people in other cultures also feel this; one is sure that the first human being to feel vicious satisfaction at someone else’s bad luck must have been from this soil; that we birthed the feeling but the Germans managed to name it first is, to say the least, a bit galling. Be that as it may, the other day I found myself bathing in schadenfreude. The reason was a recent article by Nick Cohen in The Guardian in which the well-known leftist commentator describes the wretched situation in Hungary. From all reports, it is not an exaggeration to say that Hungary’s current prime minister, Viktor Orbán, is actually a de facto dictator. It seems Orbán began by posing as a liberal back in the 1990s when liberalism seemed to be a good ticket to power. Perhaps he had some banal slogan which, translated from Hungarian, might have read ‘Together with everybody, Progress for everybody’, perhaps he had some other formulaic lies that he peddled loudly, but in the end they got him elected as prime minister. As soon as he won the elections, Orbán seems to have assiduously set about dismantling the very democracy that brought him to power. Sitting as we do in a truly robust democracy in a Republic in good health, one can only feel pity for this erstwhile ‘second world’ nation. Tingeing our pity towards this country (which is now a part of the elite and privileged European Union) might be sniggers of superiority, but we must rein these in. The Hungarians have been undergoing things we just cannot begin to imagine. “As soon as Fidesz [Orbán’s party] won... it began rigging the system,” writes Cohen. For instance, it introduced the “novel concept of ‘winner compensation’ that awarded the victorious party with extra votes.” Reading this, the Indian mind boggles. What next in the spectrum of brazen corruption? Bringing into law some sort of absurd electoral funding system which allows the ruling party to receive unlimited anonymous funds from anywhere in the world? Cohen continues to enumerate the horrors that to us might seem foreign and exotic: “State capture has followed. Bureaucrats and police and military officers know their position depends on not crossing the ruling party.” One must avoid any smugness while reading this in a country where democracy is protected by a finely calibrated system of checks and balances. Difficult though it might be, just try and imagine a pretend-democracy where the investigative agencies have become hunting dogs for their political masters, where the equivalents of our CBI, NIA, ED and NCB shove aside the work they should actually be doing and concentrate solely on concocting laughably false cases against opponents of the regime, where raids are launched in revenge for criticism or perfectly legal democratic activism that challenges the ruling cabal, where innocent people are put away in jail with the enthusiastic co-operation of a debased lower judiciary. Moving on to another crucial prong of Orbán’s dictatorial control, Cohen points out that “the Hungarian media are the most prostituted in Europe.” Besides controlling the broadcasting services, the State “relies on a network of Orbán-supporting oligarchs, who put 500 media outlets under the editorial control of a state foundation.” Furthermore, “[t]he simple but effective tactic of rewarding servile journalism with taxpayer-funded advertising revenue mops up most of the rest.” The idea of a largely sold-out media jumping up and down at the government’s bidding, TV channels and other outlets being mostly controlled by the regime’s favourite billionaires, might be hard for us to grasp here in India but we must try and find some sympathy for the victims of this relentless tsunami of manipulation — the people of Hungary. Adding to this array of despotic instruments and measures is the business of Orbán-ji promoting various racist and ethnic conspiracy theories, raising the fear of immigrants entering the country and destroying its white, Christian character, perhaps a bit like termites destroying a house. There is, of course, opposition to Orbán-ji’s dictatorial manoeuvres from all sorts of quarters but it is hard going at the moment. For example, the regime has attacked the Central European University based in Budapest. As Cohen writes: “Its academics and students are nowhere to be seen because Orbán drove them into exile in Vienna rather than permit the existence of a centre for independent thought.” Seen from our vantage point, with a certain distance in both chronology and geography, we can conclude that the eleven-odd years of Orbán’s rule have been disastrous for Hungary, a country which even managed to navigate the decades of its membership of the Warsaw Pact to achieve a degree of social freedom and intellectual vibrancy that set it apart from the other vassal states of the Soviet Union. Looking back, we can now see the deployment of the contemporary dictatorial playbook, also executed with variations in other countries across the globe, whether in nearby Turkey or the faraway Philippines, whether in Putin’s Russia or Donald Trump’s US. The graph is, by now, as familiar as a classic: the winning of power through more-or-less democratic elections, the immediate single-minded subverting of democratic institutions and checks and balances, the constant loading of dice, the cold-blooded hollowing out of law enforcement, security agencies and the military, the choreographed trolling and the relentless unlawful attacks on all Opposition, the uprooting of independent media and educational institutions that can challenge the despotic powers, the typical fascist programme of keeping a public fearful and uneasy through the spectre of manufactured outsiders and enemies — all of it. Depending on which country you live in, you can either fight any schadenfreude that rises or try and coin a new word that describes the feeling you have when another’s misfortune is great but not quite as dire and deep as your own.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant to re-launch dhoti/sari scheme for BPL families in Dumka||Chief minister Hemant Soren will re-launch an old government scheme to provide dhotis and saris to BPL families at Rs 10 each in Dumka on Wednesday. Titled "Sona Sobran Dhoti Sari Scheme", all BPL families will be provided benefits under this scheme twice a year from PDS shops across the state. The scheme was launched in 2014 during Hemant Soren’s first stint as chief minister. However, after the BJP government came to power, it was discontinued. After the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance government returned to power in 2019, state government announced it would resume it for about 57 lakh BPL families listed under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) to provide subsidised clothing along with ration. Sources in the state food, civil supplies and public distribution department said that  Rs 200 crore had been allocated for the scheme in the current fiscal year.. “Due to covid-19, it failed to kick off before,” said an official. State food and civil supplies department minister Rameshwar Oraon, who is also the finance minister, said that the state government is set to fulfill yet another poll promise following the launch of this scheme. Oraon will also be present at the launch in Dumka. “It was one of the poll promises which the alliance government made. We are set to make it a reality now,” he said. While Hemant will preside over the programme in Dumka other districts are scheduled to hold similar functions too. In Ranchi, the district administration will hold a function at Palash auditorium in Doranda. On Tuesday, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan inspected the venue to ensure that all Covid norms were adhered to.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||XLRI to host flagship e-commerce conclave eVartan on Sept 25||XLRI's Executive Post- Graduate Diploma in Management (ExPGDM) batch of 2021-22 will host e-Vartan, the flagship e-commerce conclave of the B-school on September 25. The theme for the conclave, which will be conducted virtually because of the pandemic is Decoding e-Commerce. The inaugural address of the event will be by Ranaveer Sinha, president of XLRI Alumni Association and member- XLRI Board of Governors. This will be followed by a welcome address by Arpita Srivastava, assistant professor (Marketing), XLRI. After the welcome address, the chief guest Ayyappan Rajagopal, chief business officer, Myntra, will be sharing his insights on e-commerce ecosystem in India. This will be followed by the keynote address of the guest of honour, Prithvi Chandrasekhar, president – Consumer Finance, InCred Financial Services on the topic ‘The Impact of Fintech on Today’s E-commerce Sector’. The conclave will also see a panel discussion to be participated by Anurag Jain, co-founder, Milkbasket, Mohnish Jaiswal, vice-president (Supply Chain & Digital Transformation), Byju’s, Sumit Taneja of Alibaba Group and Veneet Vishal, director (Product Operation and Business Excellence), OLX Autos. The post-lunch session will have a panel discussion on "The Future of Payments - Has Covid Accelerated the Inclination to a Cashless Society." Some of the panelists include Pawan Vats, associate director, Freecharge, Prabhakhar Tiwari, chief growth officer, Angel One (Formerly Angel Broking), Manoj Jindal, head asset procurement - Amazon (UK and Europe) and Parth Sharma, associate general manager, JioMart An exciting panel discussion on customer experience in the post-Amazon world has also been scheduled for the event, which will conclude with a batch profile presentation and vote of thanks by the placement committee of ExPGDM. The day-long virtual event will see an eclectic mix of professionals and students across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dead body of wanted gangster found floating in river||Dead body of a wanted criminal, Kamal Sahu, was found floating in Khudia river of Nirsa block, Dhandbad on Tuesday morning. An alleged clash between the gang members over booty share following a robbery that took place at Maa Kali temple of Bhaljoria area of Nirsa, is being held responsible for the death, by the police. Local residents of Bhaljoria who spotted the floating dead body in the river adjoining the temple this morning informed police, following which a team of Nirsa Police led by Subhash Singh, officer in charge of Nirsa police station reached the site and fished out the dead body. The deceased body bore injury marks suggesting that the he been attacked with a boulder which led to his death. His blood stained clothes have also been recovered from an under construction temple in the adjoining area. According to local residents Sahu and other members of his gang used to consume liqour in the under construction temple on a regular basis. His gang had broken six locks of Goddess Kali temple to loot the gold ornaments adorning the deity. Following which they fled with the gold. A member of the Maa Kali Temple management committee, said “When we reached the temple this morning we found around six locks broken and several articles strewn around.” “The thieves have taken away the earring and other ornaments offered by the devotees during the robbery,” said the temple committee member. Contacted, Subhash Singh said, “The deceased criminal had been jailed four -five times in several cases of robbery and theft. Local residents had informed us that he died due to a clash between the members of gang last night. They were fighting over the booty share for the robbery conducted last night in temple” “We are investigating the case. His dead body has been sent for post mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital. The autopsy report may provide some clues regarding his unnatural death,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||District athletics meet in steel city on September 25 and 26||Athletes can look forward to showing their prowess at the two-day East Singhbhum District Athletics Championship to be held at the landmark JRD Tata Sports Complex on September 25 and 26. The event, which is being organised by East Singhbhum District Athletics Association, will be conducted in the under-20,18,16 and 14 (boys and girls) age categories. The pandemic had kept athletes out of action and the district meet is an opportunity for them to slip into competition fold. The association was able to organise a cross-country event earlier this year which saw thin participation. “We will be abe to judge our athletes once again. Two athletics competitions will be held next month and in December. Our athletes have won a number of medals in state and national championships. The district event will give the athletes an opportunity to try and gain slots for competitions ahead,” a district association official said. According to association secretary Rabindra Nath Murmu, the participating athletes have to report at the venue at 9 am and register. "Participants will have to bring their Aadhaar card, attested age-related documents and passport size photo. An athlete can participate in maximum if two individual events," he said. Murmu said participants will have to strictly follow Covid-10 guidelines by wearing masks (when not competing) and maintaining social distancing. Interested athletes can contact Rajkumar Banra (9234000871), Sidhu Kisku (9473530631) and Chetan Majhi (7979755431) for further details. The district meet will be the yardstick for getting selected in the Jharkhand squad for the upcoming state and national inter-district championship. The state (under-14) athletics championship is scheduled in Madhupur next month while the national inter-district event will be conducted in December.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Viral fever patients throng Ranchi hospitals||Patients suffering from viral infection have flooded hospitals in Ranchi that has seen heavy rains and temperature fluctuations in the last few days with most people displaying symptoms like fever, cough and cold and body ache, doctors from leading hospitals said on Tuesday. As per records available the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), a majority of patients admitted in the medicine ward were suffering from viral infection. Besides, of the 261 patients admitted at Ranchi Sadar Hospital, over 100 were suffering from viral fever, doctors from the hospital said. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr. Vinod Kumar admitted that hospitals were experiencing a sudden rush of patients suffering from viral fever. He said that the change in weather and a prolonged monsoon were contributing to the rise in such diseases. “There has been a rise in cases of viral fever among children as well as adults. This, however, has no connection with Covid-19 and most patients are suffering from viral infections caused during monsoon,” said Dr. Kumar. No patients suffering from dengue or malaria were undergoing treatment at Sadar Hospital on Tuesday, while four patients admitted for treatment of typhoid were discharged recently, doctors said. The rise in cases of viral fever among children was a growing concern amid the fear of a possible third wave of Covid-19. Dr. Abhishek Ranjan of the paediatric surgery department at RIMS said that the number of children suffering from influenza was much higher this year than earlier. The reason for this rise in cases of fever among children, he said, could be the fact that most children stayed indoors during the Covid-19 pandemic and did not get exposed to the outer world, which may have weakened their immune systems. “Cases of fever among children have certainly increased this year when compared to the number of patients we had during monsoon in the past couple of years,” said Dr. Ranjan, adding that more than 100 children were undergoing treatment at the paediatric ward at RIMS on Tuesday. The Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) and Community Healthcare Centres (CHCs), which are mostly located in rural areas of Ranchi, have also reported a spike in cases of viral fever. A multipurpose worker at Silli PHC said that there were no cases of malaria or dengue at the hospital, but patients of viral fever were visiting the healthcare facility every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.80 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated more than 1.80 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of the disease dropped to 55 as Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 1,16,831 residents, while the booster dose was administered to at least 64,681 beneficiaries. East Singhbhum inoculated the highest number of beneficiaries among the 24 districts in Jharkhand for the third day in a row. As per NHM data, at least 20,000 residents were vaccinated in East Singhbhum, where 150 session sites remained in operation. In Ranchi, about 15,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated on the day, while Dhanbad vaccinated more than 16,000 residents. According to a bulletin released by the NHM, at least nine persons were found infected by coronavirus in Jharkhand on Monday, while as many as 10 Covid patients recovered from the infection. Ranchi alone reported five of the nine cases, while East Singhbhum reported three, the NHM bulletin further stated. The active Covid caseload in Ranchi remained 27 as the district also reported five Covid recoveries on Monday. However, the count of active cases rose to four in East SInghbhum as the district reported only one Covid recovery against the three fresh cases. Jharkhand on Monday tested swab samples of at least 40,527 residents and 0.02 per cent of them were found infected by coronavirus. As per government data, more than 3.48 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. According to a press communique from the health department, more than 1.25 crore residents have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and at least 34 lakh of them have also got the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Minor gangraped in village orchestra program||Hazaribagh: A 16-year-old girl who went to see an orchestra program in Gopalo village of Ramdev Kharika panchayat under Daru police station, 22km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter, was gang-raped by six youths. Sources said orchestra was organised on night of September 17 to celebrate Karma festival. Sources said girl was present in the program with other village girls, relatives and local residents. BJP's Anusuchit Jati Morcha's leader Vishal Balmiki said they had brought the girl to town and admitted to hospital after getting information about it. “We will not sit quietly till arrest of the culprits,” he added.  (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Jamshedpur: Steel city teacher Shyam Kumar Sharma has been bestowed with the Best Teacher of the Year 2021 award for his contribution to the sector. Indian Glory Awards honours teachers and professionals working towards a better education system and their contribution to society. Sharma, a geography teacher at Samajik Uchh Vidyalaya in Barigora, received the honour during a virtual programme organised by Indian Glory Award on September 11. Sharma received the award by post on September 18. He gave credit for receiving the award to his parents, family and fellow educators. (Jayesh Thaker) Dhanbad: The Dhanbad police arrested 13 youths of Andhra Pradesh on Monday during an early morning raid conducted at a flat of a multistoried building situated in the heart of town at Bekar Bandh locality for their suspected involvement in cyber crime. The nabbed persons claimed that they used to work at a call center for an insurance consultancy firm being operated from the flat for the last six months. Police is also conducting raids to arrest the operator of the call center, who fled the site before the arrival of team. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Dhanbad based subsidiary of Coal India Limited, Bharat Coking Coal Limited, signed an agreement with Prabha Engineering private Limited (PEPL) for the maiden project of CIL for Coal Bed Methane/Coal Mine Methane exploration and extraction. The first phase shall comprise of exploration, second phase shall include pilot assessment and market survey for production phase and third phase shall comprise of development and production for maximum 30 years from the submission of FDP or till economic life of the field as per submitted development plan. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Bharat Coking Coal signs pact for coal bed methane exploration||The Bharat Coking Coal Limited, a Coal India Limited subsidiary, signed a memorandum of understanding with Prabha Energy Private Ltd at its Dhanbad headquarters on Monday for exploration of coal bed methane from its underground mines. This is the maiden project of Coal India for exploration of coal bed methane for which the Ranchi-headquartered Coal Mines Planning and Design Institute will be the project implementing agency. The Jharia CBM (coal bed methane)/CMM (coal mine methane) block under the BCCL “has been delineated with an objective of exploring CBM in a total area of 26.5sqkm,” said a BCCL release, adding that the blocks are located in Kapuria, Moonidih and Sigma collieries that have a net coal reserve of 1,961.85MMT (million metric tonnes) and an estimated gas deposit of 25.22BCM (billion cubic metres). The project, aimed at reducing methane emission in coal mines for ensuring safety of the miners, will be implemented in three phases. While exploration work will be done in the first phase, pilot assessment and market survey for the production stage will be taken up in the second phase, BCCL sources said, adding that the third phase comprises development and production work lasting for a maximum duration of 30 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||Non-NDA parties to support SKM's Bharat Bandh on September 27||Supporters of all non-NDA parties will come out on the streets across Jharkhand to enforce the Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on September 27 to protest against the Centre’s three farm laws. The farmers’ agitation in Jharkhand had so far seen only Left parties joining hands with the Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samity (an outfit formed last year to coordinate the agitation against farm laws in the state) for enforcing bandhs and staging protests. “We have decided to come out on the streets to enforce the bandh. The decision was taken at a meeting of all the non-NDA parties, including the JMM, Trinamul Congress, RJD, CPM and the CPI at the Congress state headquarters on Monday. In fact, it had been decided during the meeting of all Opposition parties on August 20 chaired by Sonia Gandhi to join forces against the central government’s oppressive policies,” said state Congress president Rajesh Thakur. “The farmers’ movement will go beyond 2024 if the (Narendra) Modi government does not repeal the new farm laws. The Jharkhand farmers have decided to extend full support to the bandh call given by farmer outfits in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The bandh would be historic. We welcome the decision of other non-NDA parties to come out in support of the bandh, especially the Congress and JMM as they are the ruling parties in the state,” said Sufal Mahato, state coordinator of the Samity. State Congress spokesperson Rakesh Sinha said that it was unanimously decided in the meeting to organise a jan jagran (public awareness) campaign against the central government’s “destruction” of the economy. “All the Opposition (non-NDA) parties will take out a torch rally on September 26 evening as part of a campaign to spread awareness among the masses about the destruction of the country’s economy through wrong policies of the BJP-led central government. This apart we will create awareness against increased attacks on Dalits, Adivasis, minorities and women during the BJP regime. We will also create awareness about the insensitivity of the government towards the farmers’ agitation which has been going on for nine months,” said Sinha. On September 29, non-NDA parties will stage a dharna against the central government’s policies at all the district headquarters. A dharna will also be staged in front of the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi on the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
21-09-2021||Jharkhand||State govt's timely preparations curbs dengue cases||Timely preparations by the Jharkhand government has helped it to battle the menace of vector-borne diseases in a better way at a time when cases of fatal Serotype-2 dengue are pouring in from some neighbouring states. “The Union health ministry has been taking regular updates from us and fortunately there has not been a single death due to dengue in our state. The only death in the state was of a patient who tested positive in Uttar Pradesh and returned to Jamshedpur in a critical condition and succumbed earlier this month. The reason is our advanced preparation in terms of entomological survey beginning from early June across the state in coordination of local urban bodies,” said Dr S.N. Jha, state malaria officer and deputy director of health. The Union health ministry had on Saturday highlighted the “emerging challenge” of Serotype-2 dengue in 11 states — Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. There have been deaths reported also in Bihar from dengue. The Centre had asked the states to undertake steps like early detection of cases, operationalisation of fever helplines and adequate stocking of testing kits, larvicides and medicines. “We had started focussing on such preparation as soon as the Covid cases dipped in the state and started the entomological survey in June with larval surveillance for vector-borne diseases. Following the directive from additional chief secretary (health), Arun Kumar Singh, the door-to-door surveillance work for containing vector-borne diseases started on a war footing from June 15 and this would continue till November 15,” added Dr Jha. This time, the health department had also coordinated well in advance with the state urban development department for taking up measures to control vector-borne diseases like dengue, chikungunya and malaria. “Apart from entomological survey, all the district-level health officials coordinated with local urban bodies following a letter from the additional chief secretary (health) to the secretary, urban development, in May itself. Anti-larval activities, larval density survey and fogging began by mid-June by both the departments and the result is evident with lesser cases reported from even dengue-endemic zones of the state,” said state entomology officer Sagya Singh. Larval surveillance and control is a critical component of any effective integrated mosquito management programme when mosquito larvae are eliminated prior to becoming adults and in the process cannot pose disease problems. Trained field technicians inspected known sources of standing water and newly discovered standing water in the house-to-house survey and used standard dipping techniques to sample the water for immature mosquitoes and undertook physical control (destruction or removal of water accumulation points) and chemical control (through spraying of larvicides). According to data from the ongoing entomological survey, so far 229,224 houses have been covered and out of which dengue larvae was found and destroyed in 14,457 houses and 26,010 containers with dengue larvae were destroyed. There have been zero casualties and a total of 107 dengue cases across Jharkhand so far, the bulk of which (57) were in state capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
