22-09-2021||Business||FDI equity inflows up 112% to $20.42 billion in Apr-July period: Govt data||Foreign direct investments into the country more than doubled to $20.42 billion during the April-July period of the current fiscal, the commerce and industry ministry said on Wednesday. Total Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) inflow rose to $27.37 billion during the first four months of 2021-22. In the year-ago period, the same was at $16.92 billion. Total FDI comprises equity inflows, reinvested earnings and other capital. "FDI equity inflows grew by 112 per cent in the first four months of 2021-22 ($20.42 billion) compared to the year ago period ($9.61 billion)," the ministry said in a release. Automobile industry has emerged as the top sector during the period under review, accounting for 23 per cent share of the total FDI equity inflows followed by computer software & hardware (18 per cent) and services sector (10 per cent), respectively. Karnataka is the top recipient state with 45 per cent share of the total FDI equity inflows followed by Maharashtra (23 per cent) and Delhi (12 per cent). "Measures taken by the government on the fronts of FDI policy reforms, investment facilitation and ease of doing business have resulted in increased FDI inflows into the country," the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
22-09-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea to approach board for fundraising after govt issues guidelines on reform measures: CEO||Vodafone Idea will seek board approval afresh to raise funds after the government issues detailed guidelines on telecom reform measures, and its promoters will get a chance to participate in the fundraising round, a top company official said on Wednesday. Vodafone Idea MD and CEO Ravinder Takkar told PTI that the company is gearing up to invest in the business and compete in the market. He said when the actual guidelines are issued by the government, then the company will update its business plans accordingly. "We expect those to come out in the next few days. On that basis, how much funding is needed, what amounts are needed, what type of funding is needed will emerge. "Obviously we will have to then take it to our board to get the approvals. I see all those steps happening in coming days and weeks starting with the clarity from the government on the details and guidelines of the package," he said. Vi board had earlier approved a fundraise of up to Rs 25,000 crore but it has been unable to finalise any investor as of now. Its promoters -- Aditya Birla Group and Vodafone -- had earlier declined to invest further in the company. They have not clarified their stance post announcement of telecom reforms by the government. Asked if the company had been approached by investors, Takkar said they will have a chance to invest in the fundraise after the board approves it but the government reforms have answered all questions that investors had raised. "We have been engaged for several months now... engaged in the fund raising process. As we have gone through this process, few things have been very clear to us. There is a lot of interest from these investors in investing in India. There is interest in our sector," Takkar said. The Union Cabinet last week approved a big-bang relief package for the stressed telecom sector that includes a four-year break for companies from paying statutory dues, permission to share scarce airwaves, change in the definition of revenue on which levies are paid and 100 per cent foreign investment through the automatic route. The measures, aimed at providing relief to companies such as Vodafone Idea that have to pay thousands of crores in unprovisioned past statutory dues, also include the scrapping of Spectrum Usage Charge (SUC) for airwaves acquired in future spectrum auctions. "We will survive and we will always be present. There have always been sceptics and there have been people who have been saying this is not possible. There is no doubt we are going to be in the market, there is no doubt that we will be competing. "There is no doubt that this is going to be a three player market with Vodafone Idea continuing to survive and compete in the market," Takkar asserted. He further said the government reform measures have given industry confidence that tariffs can increase. "Without any intervention from the government, the industry can manage price increases which I think it will. I certainly see it happening in a short period of time. I think it will be gradual but it will start to take place," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
22-09-2021||Business||RBI Governor pitches for investment in healthcare, infrastructure for sustained growth||Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday pitched for higher investment in infrastructure and reforms in labour and product markets to achieve sustainable growth post-pandemic. Addressing AIMA National Management Convention, Das underlined the need for increased investment in healthcare education, digital and physical infrastructure to ensure sustainable growth and generate employment opportunities. Noting that the pandemic has affected the poor and the vulnerable more in emerging and developing countries, Das said, "Our endeavour should be to ensure livable and sustainable growth in the post-pandemic future. Restoring the durability of private consumption, which has remained historically the mainstay of aggregate demand will be very crucial going forward". More importantly, sustainable growth should entail meeting on macro fundamentals via medium-term investments, sound financial systems and structural reforms, he said. "Towards this objective, a big push to investment in healthcare, education, innovation, physical and digital infrastructure will be required. We should also continue with further reforms in labour and product markets to encourage competition and dynamism, and to benefit from the pandemic induced opportunities," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
22-09-2021||Business||Sensex declines 78 points to close below 59,000||Equity benchmark Sensex ended 78 points lower after a choppy session on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank as investors turned cautious ahead of the US Fed's policy decision. The 30-share BSE index slipped 77.94 points or 0.13 per cent to close at 58,927.33. The NSE Nifty declined 15.35 points or 0.09 per cent to 17,546.65. HDFC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Nestle India, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, M&M, HCL Tech and Bajaj Auto were among the gainers. Domestic benchmark indices traded in a range ahead of crucial FOMC meeting outcome tonight. Global markets also traded mixed with European markets witnessing sharp rebound, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Auto, IT, metal and realty stocks witnessed sharp rebound, while Nifty media index surged over 15 per cent mainly led by the over 30 per cent rally in Zee Entertainment following its merger deal with Sony Pictures, which is seen as quite positive for the company, he noted. Further, he added that real estate stocks witnessed sharp uptick with Nifty realty index surging over 8 per cent led by expectations of strong quarterly earnings due to healthy sales volume and sustained low interest rate scenario. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Hong Kong and Seoul markets were closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.12 per cent to USD 75.19 per barrel. PT ANS ABM RCJ||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
22-09-2021||Business||Zee Entertainment, Sony Pictures announce merger after days of high drama||India's largest publicly-traded television network Zee Entertainment Enterprises will merge with Sony Pictures Network India (SPNI), capping days of high drama during which the firm's shareholders sought removal of key officials. Sony, which will invest USD 1.575 billion, will hold 52.93 per cent stake in the merged entity and Zee the remaining 47.07, Zee Entertainment Enterprises (ZEEL) said in a statement. In recent days, Zee has seen its top investor seek a management reshuffle, including the exit of chief executive Punit Goenka. A majority of the merged company's board would be nominated by Sony, while Goenka would lead it, according to the terms of the deal. Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC, which together hold about 17.9 per cent stake in Zee, had sought an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders last week to oust Goenka along with two board members. The move was seen as an attempt to end the sway of founder Subhash Chandra's family over the company founded in 1992. While the deal may take some pressure off Zee, it will help expand Sony's media business in India. In an exchange filing, Zee said it has entered into a non-binding term sheet with SPNI to bring together their linear networks, digital assets, production operations and programme libraries. The combined entity will own over 70 TV channels, 2 video streaming services (ZEE5 and Sony LIV) and two film studios (Zee Studios and Sony Pictures Films India) making it the largest entertainment network in India. Its nearest rival would be now Star and Disney in the Indian market. "The merger of ZEEL and SPNI would bring together two leading Indian media network businesses, benefitting consumers throughout India across content genres, from film to sports. The combined company is expected to benefit all stakeholders given strong synergies between ZEEL and SPNI," said SPNI in a statement. While in a separate statement ZEEL said, its board in a meeting held on Tuesday unanimously provided an in-principle approval for the merger between SPNI and the company. "The board concluded that the merger will be in the best interest of all the shareholders and stakeholders. The merger is in line with ZEEL's strategy of achieving higher growth and profitability as a leading media and entertainment company across South Asia," it said. According to ZEEL, "With this corporate development, the merged entity will result into an accelerated growth and a significant opportunity to create tremendous value for all its stakeholders." "The term sheet provides an exclusive period of 90 days during which ZEEL and SPNI will conduct mutual diligence and finalise definitive agreement(s)," said SPNI. The non-binding term sheet provides an exclusive negotiation period of 90 days during which ZEEL and SPNI will conduct mutual diligence and negotiate definitive, binding agreements. "The combined company would be a publicly listed company in India and be better positioned to lead the consumer transition from traditional pay TV into the digital future," said SPNI. According to ZEEL, the final transaction would be subject to completion of customary due diligence, negotiation, and execution of definitive binding agreements, and required corporate, regulatory and third-party approvals, including approval from its shareholder. Moreover, as per the deal, the promoter Subhash Chandra family is free to increase its shareholding from the current 4 per cent to up to 20 per cent. Chandra, a rice trader-turned-media mogul, and his family had brought down their stake in Zee to help pare debt at their broader Essel Group. "According to the term sheet, the promoter family is free to increase its shareholding from the current 4 per cent to up to 20 per cent, in a manner that is in accordance with applicable law. Majority of the board of directors of the merged entity will be nominated by Sony Group," said ZEEL. Moreover, Sony Pictures Entertainment, the parent company of SPNI, would invest growth capital of USD 1.575 billion. This is "to enhance the combined company's digital platforms across technology and content, ability to bid for broadcasting rights in the fast-growing sports landscape and pursue other growth opportunities," said SPNI. "Basis the existing estimated equity values of ZEEL and SPNI, the indicative merger ratio would have been 61.25 per cent in favour of ZEEL. "However, with the proposed infusion of growth capital into SPNI, the resultant merger ratio is expected to result in 47.07 per cent of the merged entity to be held by ZEEL shareholders and the balance 52.93 per cent of the merged entity to be held by SPNI shareholders," the ZEEL statement said. SPNI is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Sony Group Corporation, Japan. ZEEL Chairman R Gopalan said: "The value of the merged entity and the immense synergies drawn between both the conglomerates will not only boost business growth but will also enable shareholders to benefit from its future successes. As per legal and regulatory guidelines, at the required stage, the proposal will be presented to the shareholders of ZEEL for their approval. Zee shares zoomed 25 per cent to Rs 319.50 their 52-week high of on BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
22-09-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 points in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rose over 100 points in opening trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in IT stocks amid sustained foreign fund inflow. The 30-share Sensex, however, turned choppy to trade 36.75 points or 0.06 per cent lower at 58,968.52. Similarly, Nifty slipped 10.45 points or 0.06 per cent to 17,551.55 in initial deals. HDFC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Tata Steel, Nestle India, HDFC Bank and HUL. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, NTPC, M&M, Titan and HCL Tech were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 514.34 points or 0.88 per cent higher at 59,005.27, while Nifty surged 165.10 points or 0.95 per cent to 17,562. Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,041.92 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be soft as of now. Notably, yesterday's recovery in equities and strong inflow from DIIs and FIIs shows that markets have discounted possible fallout from likely default of Chinese real estate giant Evergrande, while Thursday would be crucial as USD 83 million interest payment is due for Evergrande on the day," Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, said. However, considering increasing possibility of earnings downgrade in the USA markets following a sharp rise in coronavirus daily caseload and continued reform measures undertaken by the government in India appear to have revived FIIs' interest in the domestic market, he noted. US equities finished mixed in overnight session with Dow and S&P 500 extending losses for the fourth consecutive day as investors remained wary ahead of Fed meeting outcome and possible fallout from Evergrande's defaults. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with losses. Hong Kong and Seoul markets remained closed. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.98 per cent to USD 75.09 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||NPS entry age raised to 70 years||The pension regulator — PFRDA — has raised the upper age limit for entry into the National Pension System (NPS) from 65 years to 70 years — a move designed to give older people a chance to plug into the system that offers a better return on investment than the banking industry. Addressing a CII seminar, PFRDA chairman Supratim Bandyopadhyay said close to 400 people above 65 years have applied and joined the NPS following the change in the regulations in August. The move comes amid high life expectancy of pensioners. According to government data, the life expectancy at 60 is 18.2 years. “Looking at the longevity, we increased the (maximum) joining age from 65 to 70, thinking sceptically, how many people would join. In 15 days, close to 400 people have applied and joined. This shows between 65-70 years there is also a demand,” he said. A subscriber joining the NPS after 65 can exercise the choice of  asset allocation with a maximum exposure to equity between 15 per cent and 50 per cent under automatic and active choice respectively. The asset allocation can be changed twice a year. Bandyopadhyay said that NPS has been able to garner interest among subscribers on account of its presence across asset classes ranging from equity, corporate bonds, government securities, Reits and Invits with the investment being made in a calibrated manner so that the returns are not affected. The regulator is also exploring startups as an investment category in future. “Our equity funds over the last 12 year period have given a return of 13.6 per cent (CAGR) as on date. Even in our corporate bond fund, despite all the credit events, the return in the same 12 year period is 9.97 per cent. In case of central government securities, even with hardening of interest rates, we have seen the return is more than 9.5 per cent,” Bandyopadhyay said. A blended return with a third of each of these categories will work out to be between 10.5 per cent to 11 per cent. In contrast the weighted average term deposit rates for scheduled commercial banks as of July 2021 was 5.14 per cent according to RBI data. “So to a great extent what is happening today, we see a clear shift with people looking at pension, maybe first as an investment option,” he added. PFRDA has seen around 55 big central public sector undertakings shifting their superannuation funds to NPS in the last 2-3 years, marking an interest among corporates as well, Bandyopadhyay said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Case for tax cut on deposit interest||A State Bank research report has suggested  major changes in the tax treatment of interest rate on bank deposits as the real interest rate on deposits have turned negative amid the lure of returns of the stock markets. The report by the SBI research division said it was  time the government reconsiders taxation on bank deposits or at least raises the threshold of exemption for the senior citizens. Banks at present deduct tax at source (TDS) of 10 per cent if the interest income of a depositor  is over Rs 40,000. For senior citizens, TDS applies on interest income of over Rs 50,000 in a year. Its observations come at a time depositors continue to see negative real return (after accounting for inflation) on their bank deposits. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) should also take a relook at a regulation that does not allow bank interest rate to be determined “as per age-wise demographics”. Moreover, the RBI has kept liquidity in the banking system in a surplus mode and deposit rates are likely to remain soft as priority is given to growth. The report said amid such a trend, the credit risk may not be getting adequately reflected in the pricing of loans. The core funding cost of the banking system, which includes the cost of deposits, negative carry on statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) and cash reserve ratio (CRR) is 6 per cent, while the reverse repo rate is at 3.35 per cent. If the cost of provisions is added to the core funding cost, the total cost comes to around 12 per cent. The report said the risk premia over and above the core funding cost are not reflecting  the inherent credit risk. A 15 year loan, for example,  is priced even lower than 6 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Sebi disposes of adjudication proceedings on Reliance Industries||Markets watchdog Sebi has disposed of adjudication proceedings without imposing any penalty on Reliance Industries in a matter related to alleged incorrect disclosure of diluted earnings per share in its financial results more than 13 years ago. Sebi decided not to impose any penalty for the alleged violations mainly on two grounds — the amendment to the relevant law that made incorrect disclosure of information by a listed company punishable came into force prospectively from March 2019. The regulator also mentioned about its pending appeal before the Supreme Court against a Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) order. The quarterly financial statements submitted by Reliance Industries to the NSE for six consecutive quarters beginning June 2007 to September 2008 contained the same figures for basic as well as diluted earnings per share (EPS) despite the existence of share warrants. RIL had issued 12 crore warrants to its promoters on April 12, 2007 which were convertible within 18 months with an exercise price of Rs 1,402 per warrant entitling its holders to subscribe to equivalent number of equity shares. On October 3, 2008, the company’s board of directors allotted 12 crore equity shares of Rs 10 each to the allottees, upon exercise of warrants. SCRA refers to Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act. The SAT order, passed in May this year, had ruled that failure to comply with the listing agreement under clause 36 attracts penalty under Section 23A(a) of SCRA and not under Section 23E of the Act. Sebi has filed an appeal in the matter before the Supreme Court but no stay has been granted by the court. Sebi’s adjudicating officer Biju said “no penalty is warranted in terms of the said provisions in the present adjudication proceedings.” Hence, the present adjudication proceedings are disposed of without imposition of penalty”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki to launch hybrids to maximise fuel efficiency of cars||Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) will soon be launching hybrids to maximise fuel efficiency of its cars. At present, it offers mild and medium hybrids in some of its vehicles. Hybrids offer a path to complete electrification even as the country prepares to build the electric vehicle (EV) ecosystem, including charging infrastructure and battery system development. Talking to The Telegraph  Shashank Srivastava, executive director MSIL, said: “As the cost of the powertrain of an electric vehicle, which includes the cost of the battery, falls and the stringent norms for internal combustion engines (ICE) make their prices go up, there will come an inflection point when EVs will become a viable option. “That inflection point will happen between 2028 and 2030 when seven to 10 per cent of the vehicles sold will be EVs.  Till that happens in 2030, India will sell 70 million cars. These 70 million cars will need to be fuel efficient even as fuel prices continue to rise. Alternatives to pure ICEs such as hybrids and CNG vehicles will be the order of the day.” While the company already offers mild and medium hybrids in six of its vehicles, including Baleno, Ciaz, SCross, Ertiga, XL6 and Vitara Brezza, it is yet to have strong hybrids. There are different forms of hybrids, including start-stop hybrids, plug-in hybrids and others. “We will be launching strong hybrids soon, the powertrain components of EVs and strong hybrids are similar,” said Srivastava. And so hybrids are a necessary stepping stone to complete electrificatioh. “Currently EVs have a high acquisition cost, no charging infrastructure and range anxiety among consumers,” said Srivastava. In response to an internal report which said rising fuel cost is an important criteria that consumers consider while deciding on which car to buy, MSIL is running a campaign to highlight the fuel efficiency of its vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Piramal group moves towards completing DHFL acquisition||The financial creditors of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) will reportedly get paid over the next few days as the Piramal group moves towards completing the acquisition of the mortgage lender. A report in BloombergQuint, quoting sources said that the creditors led by State Bank of India (SBI) signed a debenture transfer agreement. This agreement will allow the lenders to take over debentures issued by Piramal Group against DHFL’s loans. Following this, the Ajay Piramal-led entity will pay the Rs 12,700-crore upfront cash consideration out of its over Rs 37,000 crore bid for DHFL. After this transaction is completed, the group can fully take over the assets and businesses of DHFL under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC). In January this year, the Piramal group had won the bid for DHFL after a majority of the creditors voted for its bid over competitor Oaktree Capital. Its resolution plan for DHFL received approval from the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in June. Last month, the top officials of Piramal Enterprises had said that the group was on track to complete the transaction within 90 days of NCLT approval. The group expects the acquisition will not only bring a huge growth in its loan book but also create a large India-wide platform that will enable it to deliver sustained growth and profitability in the years to come. The Rs 37,250 crore resolution plan of Piramal Capital & Housing Finance includes Rs 12,700 crore in upfront cash, Rs 3,000 crore from interest income on the books of DHFL and Rs 19,500 crore in the form of NCDs which are due after 10 years. The Piramal group has arranged funds from Standard Chartered Bank and Barclays Bank to finance the acquisition. Carlyle-SBI Cards US private equity fund CA Rover Holdings, part of Carlyle Group, on Tuesday sold a 3.4 per cent stake in SBI Cards and Payment Services Ltd for Rs 3,267 crore through open market transactions. According to bulk deal data available with the National Stock Exchange, the private equity firm sold a total of 3.2 crore shares. The shares were sold at an average price of Rs 1,021.05.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Centre divided over e-commerce rules||India’s plan to tighten rules on its fast-growing e-commerce market has run into internal government dissent, memos reviewed by Reuters show, with the ministry of finance describing some proposals as “excessive” and “without economic rationale”. The memos offer a rare glimpse of high-stakes policy-making governing a market already featuring global retail heavyweights from Amazon  to Walmart, plus domestic players like Reliance Industries and Tata Group. The sector is forecast by Grant Thornton to be worth $188 billion by 2025. It’s not clear how the objections from the finance ministry — a dozen in total — will ultimately be reflected in the proposed rule changes, first floated in June. But watchers of the influential government arm say its complaints won’t fall on deaf ears in the upper echelons of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration. “The ministry of finance raising such concerns would likely spur a rethink of the policy,” said Suhaan Mukerji, managing partner at India’s PLR Chambers, a law firm that specialises in public policy issues. India in June shocked the e-commerce world with proposals from its consumer affairs ministry that sought to limit ‘flash sales’, rein in a push to promote private-label brands and raise scrutiny of relationships between online marketplace operators and their vendors. There is not yet a formal implementation timeline for the new rules. Though the rules were announced after complaints from brick-and-mortar retailers about alleged unfair practices of foreign companies, they also drew protest from Tata Group, with more than $100 billion in revenue, which is planning an e-commerce expansion. But the finance ministry, the ministry of corporate affairs and the federal think-tank NITI Aayog — an active player in policy-making — have all raised objections in memos reviewed by Reuters, saying the proposals go far beyond their stated aim of protecting consumers and also lack regulatory clarity. An August 31 memo from the finance ministry’s department of economic affairs said the rules appeared “excessive” and would hit a sector that could boost job creation as well as tax revenue. “The proposed amendments are likely to have significant implications/restrictions on a sunrise sector and ease of doing business,” said the three-page memo. “Care needs to be taken to ensure that the proposed measures remain ‘light-touch regulations’.” The finance ministry did not respond to Reuters’ requests for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Ordinance plan for telecom reforms||The Centre is expected to promulgate an Ordinance to implement some of the reforms announced in the telecom package last week. The four-year moratorium on the repayment of dues on account of adjusted gross revenues (AGR) cannot come into effect without the Ordinance in the light of the Supreme Court verdict that mandated their payment in 10 instalments ending 2031. Officials of the department of telecommunications (DoT) said the spirit of the apex court order had been the guiding principle behind the Cabinet reliefs last week. The officials said the reliefs would not affect revenue collections. They pointed out the interest that needed to be paid if an operator opts for the moratorium will be such that the net present value of the dues would be unchanged. The legislative route is being considered as it would address not only the moratorium but also the new definition of AGR to be considered prospectively for calculation. The officials said the discussions were at an early stage and nothing has been finalised. There were some prospective elements in the package: delayed payments of licence fee and spectrum usage charge will attract an interest to be levied at 2 per cent above the State Bank of India’s marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) which is currently pegged at 7 per cent. Earlier, the interest used to be levied at 4 per cent above the MCLR rate. Besides, there will be complete waiver of penalties and interest on penalties — the two charges that led to the ballooning of the dues of the telecom companies. Since these are going to be implemented prospectively, there might not be a need for an Ordinance on them just yet as they do not violate the terms of the Supreme Court  verdict. But the government may choose to include these elements in the Ordinance as well and then hope to pass the appropriate legislative amendments in the Budget session. The cabinet had given the option to the operators to convert the interest on account of the moratorium into equity. Besides, the government will have the option to convert the dues on account of the moratorium into equity. The guidelines on these counts will be finalised by the finance ministry. However, analysts said there is no clarity on whether the government would have the option to convert only principal or even the interest into equity at the end of the moratorium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Torrent Power acquires 156 MW wind power projects from Surya Vidyut||Torrent Power on Tuesday announced that it has inked a share purchase pact to acquire 156 MW wind power projects for about Rs 790 crore from Surya Vidyut, an arm of CESC Ltd. Surya Vidyut operates 156 MW wind power plants spread across the states of Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, a statement said. The projects have long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs) with their respective state discoms for a period of 25 years, with weighted average PPA tariff of Rs 4.68 per cent kWh. Torrent Power has entered into an agreement with CESC Limited, Haldia Energy and other nominal shareholders for the acquisition of 100 per cent of the share capital of Surya Vidyut, the statement said. The enterprise value estimated for this acquisition is about Rs 790 crore, subject to closing price adjustments. The acquisition is further subject to customary conditions for transaction closure. Torrent Power, the integrated power utility of the diversified Torrent Group, is one of the largest companies in India’s power sector with a presence across the entire power value chain of generation, transmission and distribution. Torrent Power has an aggregate installed generation capacity of 3,879 MW comprising 2,730 MW gas-based capacity, 787 MW renewable capacity and 362 MW coal-based capacity. Further, renewable power projects of 815 MW are under development, of which LOAs have been received and PPA has been executed for projects of 515 MW. With the acquisition of 156 MW wind power plants, Torrent Power's total generation capacity will reach to 4.9 GW.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||Business||Ambani-Adani war set to erupt in green energy sector||An Ambani-Adani war is set to erupt in the verdant fields of green energy. Gautam Adani on Tuesday said the Adani group would invest $20 billion (over Rs 1.47 lakh crore) over the next 10 years. Adani said his investments would spawn renewable energy generation, component manufacturing and transmission & distribution. He was speaking at the JP Morgan India Investor Summit. Mukesh Ambani in June at the Reliance AGM had announced that Reliance Industries will invest Rs 75,000 crore in renewable energy over the next three years. However, this number could rise later as India’s richest man chases his dream of making new energy a “global business’’. Speaking at the summit, Adani disclosed that over 75 per cent of the group’s planned capital expenditure until 2025 is in green technology. He pointed out that the conglomerate will triple its renewable power generation capacity over the next four years to 63 per cent from 21 per cent. “No other company in the world is building on this scale. By 2030, Adani will be the first Indian company to power all its data centres with renewable energy. To be sustainable when it comes to green energy, a structure should be developed keeping in mind the state and scale of a developing nation and their contribution towards this global movement,’’ he said. Adani, who has interests ranging from port and energy to airports, clearly wants to tap the opportunities to combat climate change at a global level, which he said will equate to trillions of dollars over the next two decades. The Adani group had earlier aimed to become the top solar company in the world by 2025 and a leader in renewable energy globally in a decade. “Adani’s integrated value chain, scale, and experience will put the country on the path to be the producer of the least expensive green electron anywhere in the world...We will be the first port business that is ahead of its target to get to net zero (carbon emission) by 2025,’’ he said. The group’s initiatives in renewable energy are led by listed entity Adani Green Energy, which has a market cap of Rs 1.75 lakh crore. Adani Green is targeting a generation capacity of 25GW by 2025. It has a renewable energy portfolio of 15.4GW and is setting up additional capacity of 8.1GW in solar energy, 1.2GW in wind and 2.2GW in hybrid power. Last month, the company raised $750 million as equity funding for the renewable projects under construction. Apart from such renewable energy projects, the group is also looking to manufacture lithium ion battery in the country. RIL also has ambitious plans in the green energy segment. At the shareholders meeting, Ambani had disclosed that it has started work on developing the Dhirubhai Ambani Green Energy Giga Complex on 5,000 acres at Jamnagar. This will be amongst the largest such integrated renewable energy manufacturing facilities in the world. Reliance will have four “giga factories” that will manufacture and fully integrate all the critical components of the new energy ecosystem. In solar energy, RIL will build an integrated factory to make solar photovoltaic modules or solar panels. It will also build an advanced energy storage battery unit. The company is planning to set up an electrolyser factory to manufacture green hydrogen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
22-09-2021||India||Drug haul at Mundra Port: DRI seizes over 37 kg of suspected heroin, cocaine in Delhi and Noida||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has so far arrested eight persons including five foreign nationals in connection with the seizure of a staggering 2,988 kg of heroin at Mundra Port in Gujarat, an official release said here on Wednesday.  Those arrested included an Indian couple who allegedly ran the firm which had imported the consignment claiming it to be of `semi-processed talc stones'.  The drug haul is considered to be one of the biggest in the world with the value of the seized heroin estimated to be Rs 21,000 crore in the international markets. One kg of the drug sells at Rs 5 to 7 crore.  "A total of eight persons including four Afghan nationals, one Uzbek and three Indians have been arrested so far. The arrested Indian nationals include the holder of the Import Export Code (IEC) which was used to import the consignment. He was arrested from Chennai. Investigations are in progress," said the statement issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) of the Indian government.  Following the seizure of an astounding quantity of heroin from two containers which had arrived at Mundra Port in Kutch district a few days back, the DRI conducted raids across the country and seized another 16.1 kg of heroin from a godown in Delhi, it said.  It took the total heroin seizure in the case to 3,004 kg, said the release.  The agency also recovered 10.2 kg of suspected cocaine and 11 kg of another substance suspected to be heroin from "a residential place in Noida", it added.  On September 13, the DRI detained two containers that had arrived at Mundra Port from Kandahar in Afghanistan via Bandar Abbas port of Iran. The declaration accompanying the containers claimed that they contained "semi-processed talc stones".  On September 17 and 19 it established that the two containers in fact contained heroin which was concealed in "the lower layers" of "jumbo bags" topped with talc stones, the release said. The drug had to be "painstakingly separated from the talc stones," it added.  The DRI then arrested -- from Chennai -- M Sudhakar and his wife Durga Vaishali who allegedly ran Vijayawada-registered M/S Aashi Trading Company which had imported the consignment of `talc stones'.  On Monday, a special court for cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act in Bhuj remanded the couple in 10-day custody of the DRI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
22-09-2021||India||Anil Vij directs officials to open alternative routes to Delhi||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday directed officials to immediately open alternative routes in Sonipat and Jhajjar districts towards Delhi as the Singhu and Tikri borders remain closed due to the farmers' protest. He asked them to start repairs on these roads so that people do not face any kind of problem commuting to Delhi on these routes from Haryana, an official statement said. Keeping in mind the inconvenience faced by the people due to the closure of the main roads on the highway by the agitating farmers, all alternative routes will have to be opened and repaired at the earliest, and work in this regard will start soon, the minister said. He said that repairs and filling of potholes on the roads being used by the people going to Delhi should be started from Thursday. Haryana BKU (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni, addressing a farmers'' gathering in Kurukshetra district on Wednesday, said the farmers sitting at Delhi''s borders will not budge till the three contentious farm laws are repealed. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and elsewhere have been sitting at Delhi''s borders for nearly 10 months demanding the repeal of the laws. At the meeting with officials, Vij said Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation roads are the main alternative routes from Sonipat to Delhi, and they should be repaired at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
22-09-2021||India||Rahul & Priyanka Gandhi inexperienced, will field strong candidate against Sidhu: Amarinder||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday called Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra "inexperienced", and said he will pit a strong candidate against state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu in the upcoming Assembly polls. Amarinder Singh had resigned as the Punjab CM recently amid infighting in the state Congress. In a series of interviews, he said, "Priyanka and Rahul are like my children. This should not have ended like this. I am hurt." "I would not have taken MLAs on a flight to Goa or some place. That is not how I operate. I don't do gimmicks and the Gandhi siblings know that is not my way," he said in a statement. The "Gandhi children" were quite "inexperienced" and their advisers were clearly "misguiding" them, the Congress leader asserted. Singh said he will fight Sidhu's elevation to the Punjab chief ministership "tooth and nail", adding that he was ready to make any sacrifice to save the country from such a "dangerous man". He will pit a strong candidate against the PPCC president in the 2022 Assembly polls to ensure his defeat, Amarinder Singh said. Singh said he had even told Congress president Sonia Gandhi that he was ready to hang his boots and allow someone else to take over as the CM after leading the Congress to another sweeping win in Punjab. "But that did not happen, so I will fight," he asserted taking strong exception to his "humiliation" by calling a Congress Legislative Party in a secretive manner. The former CM said he is still keeping his political options open and talking to his friends before deciding on his future course of action. "You can be old at 40 and young at 80," he said, making it clear that he did not see his age as a hurdle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
22-09-2021||India||Vaccine certification real issue, not Covishield, say UK officials||Indian travellers vaccinated with two doses of Covishield will still have to undergo 10 days of quarantine in the UK even as the vaccine has been approved under the revised British guidelines for travel, according to UK officials. They said the main issue is vaccine certification and not the Covishield vaccine and that both India and the UK are holding talks to mutually resolve the matter. Referring to the latest guidelines issued by the UK government that will come into effect on October 4, the officials said on Wednesday that London does not have any problem with the Covishield vaccine but there are certain issues related to vaccine certification in India. They said the UK is engaging with the government of India to explore how it could expand its recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India. Quoting new guidelines, the officials said Indian travellers to the UK must follow the "non-vaccinated rules" set out by the authorities. India had on Tuesday warned of "reciprocal measures" if the UK does not address its concerns over the new travel rules relating to COVID-19 vaccine certification with Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla describing these norms as "discriminatory". External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also took up the issue of Covishield-vaccinated travellers being required to quarantine in the UK with newly-appointed British Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss at a meeting in New York on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the UK government added Covishield, the Indian-manufactured Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, to an updated international travel advisory. "The UK is committed to opening up international travel again as soon as is practicable and this announcement is a further step to enable people to travel more freely again, in a safe and sustainable way, while protecting public health," a spokesperson in the British High Commission said. "We are engaging with the Government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India," the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
22-09-2021||India||States to provide Rs 50,000 ex-gratia to kin of Covid victims: Centre to SC||The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has recommended that Rs 50,000 be given to the kin of those who died of Covid-19, the Centre informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday. It said that ex-gratia assistance will also be given to the kin of those who died of the virus due to involvement in Covid-19 relief operations or activities associated with the preparedness for dealing with the pandemic. The ex-gratia assistance will be given subject to the cause of death being certified as Covid-19 as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and ICMR, the government said. It added that the ex-gratia assistance will be provided by states from State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). On September 3, the top court had expressed displeasure over the delay in the framing of guidelines for issuance of death certificates to the families of those who died of Covid-19. The apex court had in its June 30 verdict directed the NDMA to recommend within six weeks the guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons who died due to Covid-19. India’s Covid-19 deaths may be four to 11 times higher than officially reported, researchers said after pooling estimates from multiple studies. The researchers at the University of Michigan and the Delhi School of Economics have surveyed existing studies that suggest that India had lost 1.7 million to 4.9 million people to Covid-19 till July 1, 2021, when the Centre’s count was a little over 400,000. Their calculations are the latest among a series of independent efforts to estimate excess deaths from Covid-19 across the country using an array of research methodologies amid concerns in health circles that authorities might have vastly undercounted infections and deaths. The Centre had earlier told the Supreme Court that the health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have come out with guidelines for issuing "official document" for Covid-related deaths. In an affidavit filed before the top court, the Centre also submitted that the Office of the Registrar General of India on September 3 had issued a circular to provide a Medical Certificate of Cause of Death to the next of kin of the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
22-09-2021||India||Sit together and frame steps to regulate bail pleas of convicts, SC tells UP & Allahabad HC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked both the Uttar Pradesh government and officials of Allahabad High Court to sit together and jointly submit the suggestions for regulating the matters of bail applications during the pendency of the appeals of the convicted persons. The top court said that if the suggestions are not given, then it may formulate some guidelines on its own. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai said that Allahabad High Court registry has 20-25 page suggestions which are like counter-suggestions to those already given by Uttar Pradesh government. The top court was informed that Allahabad High Court had filed the suggestions last evening. State government has said something and now you (Allahabad High Court) have said something. They have given suggestions and now you have given counter-suggestions of 20-25 pages. How are we supposed to zero in on the most suitable ones? If you are unable to give suggestions then we will formulate some guidelines on our own, the bench said. Additional Advocate General Garima Prashad, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, said that sometime be given to them as now they have come to know about the thinking of the High Court and they will sit together and compile the most suitable suggestions. The bench said that the High Court may itself issue some directions which may meet its expectation and both the UP government and registry staff of the High Court can sit together and sort out the problem. It posted the matter for further hearing on October 5. The top court is hearing 18 criminal appeals of the convicts in heinous offences seeking bail on the ground that they have spent seven or more years in jail and be granted bail as their appeals against the convictions are yet to be listed for regular hearing in the high court due to the long pendency. The High Court has given a slew of suggestions to the top court like in cases of serious and grave offences, rights of the victim and his family should be considered before granting bail to an accused. It suggested to the top court that a victim impact assessment' report should be obtained after consulting the victim and the report should clearly state all concerns along with vital information on physical, mental and social impact of the crime and impact the bail may have on the victim. The high court's registry has given its suggestions to the top court in pursuance of an earlier order asking it to help in laying down broad parameters for regulating the matters of bail applications during the pendency of the appeals of the convicted persons. That when a person is convicted, the presumption of innocence vanishes and a heavy presumption of guilt supplants it. However, a person accused of crime shall not, until he has been finally adjudged guilty in the court of last resort, be absolutely compelled to undergo imprisonment or punishment, but may be admitted to bail also after conviction and pending the appeal , it has said. The high court further said that priority should be given to hearing those criminal appeals where the accused has undergone more than half sentence in view of provisions of CrPC. A different yardstick will have to be evolved for grant of bail to more serious crimes like white collar and organised crimes against the State and its citizens since the criminals involved here are habitual and hardened criminals who commit crimes in a planned and sophisticated manner, it said. To address the huge pendency of cases, the High Court suggested that dedicated benches should be constituted for hearing long pending criminal appeals. "If a person is released after spending - years in jail, the very object of imposing a life sentence would be defeated. If an accused of heinous crimes is released on bail after spending - years in jail, he will never make any effort to decide his appeal early, it said. On August 25, the top court had said that before the court gives its "imprimatur" or authoritative approval to any suggestions/proposals given by the UP government it would be appropriate that the high court itself examines it and makes its own suggestions. On August 23, the UP government had suggested to the top court that bail pleas of life convicts, if they have undergone 10 years of jail term, and in other cases where half of the period of the maximum sentence awarded have been spent, can be considered by the High Court. It has said that to ensure public peace and the well-being of the society, life convicts who are hardened criminals, repeat offenders, kidnappers, in crimes related to massacre (three or more than three murders), habitual criminals, and fall in prohibited categories as per the U.P Jail Standing Policy - no bail should be granted . As of August 2021, there are approximately 1,83,000 Criminal Appeals pending both at Lucknow Bench and Allahabad High Court, it said. As of August 2021, there are 7,214 convicts in various jails across Uttar Pradesh who have already undergone more than 10 years of their conviction and their Criminal appeals are pending before the High Court, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Supporting Taliban means supporting anti-India act, says Yogi Adityanath||Supporting the Taliban means supporting anti-India, anti-humanity, anti-women and anti-children acts, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday, cautioning people to be wary of sympathisers of the Islamic extremist group. He made the remarks while addressing a public event in Dholana assembly area of western UP's Hapur district, where he inaugurated and laid foundation stones for projects worth around Rs 340 crore. "You must have seen that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is leading the country towards a new India in Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat. Following suit, UP is also transforming and becoming a new model for development, good governance and security. "But still, there are some elements who do not like India's development. Somewhere, they try to create hurdles in the country's development path. We need to identify such people who support the cruelty of Taliban," the chief minister told the crowd. The Taliban had taken over power in Afghanistan a month ago in a dramatic turn of events even before the US could completely pull out its troops from the two-decade-old war theatre. Supporting the Taliban means supporting anti-India, anti-humanity, anti-women and anti-children acts. You would be knowing the kind of atrocities and acts that are being committed today and there are some shameless people who keep supporting the militant group, Adityanath said. "This cannot be accepted. We have to be cautious of such people who support the wrong acts of Taliban," he said. The CM shared the stage with Union Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh, BJP MP Anil Agarwal, local BJP leaders and others. Hitting out at previous non-BJP governments in the state, the priest-turned politician said administrations would deny permission for celebrations and Kanwar Yatra processions prior to 2017, but it has changed under his regime in the last four-and-a-half years. He said people of every faith and community are now free to celebrate their festivals as long as they are within the laws of the land, adding that aastha (devotion) is the biggest strength of the country. "We have asked devotees of all faiths and communities to celebrate their festivals peacefully and abide by the law. There is no problem and it is the responsibility of the government to ensure their security and facilities to them. The BJP government has provided this atmosphere in the state," he said. Adityanath, however, said personal faith should not become an impediment to national security and sovereignty. "Every person should keep this in mind that our identities cannot be our individual identity alone. Our identity cannot be bigger than our nation's identity. Our individual faith cannot be bigger than the nation. "We should have a sense of dedication and devotion towards the nation and when that is done, no power in the world can harm us. The India of today is rapidly marching forward on this path," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir government sacks six employees for terror links||Six employees of the Jammu and Kashmir government, including two police constables, were sacked on Wednesday for alleged links with terrorists, officials said. These sackings were cleared by a designated committee of the Jammu and Kashmir administration constituted for recommending cases under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution. The six employees were dismissed from government service for having terror links and working as Over Ground Workers (OGW). They included Abdul Hamid Wani, a resident of Bijbehara in Anantnag, who was working as a teacher. The officials alleged that before being in government service, he was a district commander of the now-defunct terrorist outfit, Allah Tigers. It is alleged that he secured the employment without any selection process, by leveraging influence of the banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) and that he was among the key speakers and organisers during the 2016 agitations following the death of Burhan Wani, the poster boy of banned terror group Hizbul Mujahideen. It is also alleged that he propagated secessionist ideology. Police constable Jaffer Hussain Butt, a resident of Kishtwar in Jammu region, was arrested by the police and chargesheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a case on gun-running, the officials said. At present on bail, Butt is alleged to have provided his car to Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists and facilitated their safe movement, a fact which is explained in the NIA chargesheet. Junior assistant Mohd Rafi Butt, also a resident of Kishtwar and posted in the Road and Building Department, was sacked for providing logistical support to Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists in Kishtwar and for providing them a safe environment to execute terror plans, they said. His name also figures in an FIR registered by the NIA. He was arrested and is at present on bail. Liyaqat Ali Kakroo, a resident of Baramulla in North Kashmir and a teacher by profession since 1983, was arrested in 2001 which "revealed that he was a locally trained terrorist", they said. An explosive substance was recovered from his possession and he was booked under the Public Safety Act (PSA) for two years in 2002. He was subsequently acquitted by the court in both cases. Tariq Mehmood Kohli, a resident of Poonch and posted as a range officer in the Forest Department, was also sacked for allegedly being involved in smuggling of illegal arms, ammunition, explosives, including hard drugs and Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) from Pakistan, the officials said. He is alleged to have remained in touch with active militants and is recorded as an OGW in police records. Another police constable, Showkat Ahmad Khan, a resident of Budgam in Central Kashmir, is alleged to have been involved in looting of weapons from an MLC's house. He was posted as a PSO with the member of the Legislative Council. He was detained under the PSA in 2019, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Covishield approved by UK, but confusion over travel remains||There is confusion over the UK government's vaccine recognition process for Indian travellers as even though Oxford/AstraZeneca Covishield, the India-manufactured Oxford/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, is on an updated international travel advisory, India is not yet on a list of 17 approved countries. The UK's Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) has said on Wednesday that they are unable to confirm this and will require further clarifications even though the advisory states: Formulations of the 4 listed vaccines, such as AstraZeneca Covishield, AstraZeneca Vaxzevria and Moderna Takeda, qualify as approved vaccines. There has been widespread condemnation of the Serum Institute of India manufactured vaccines not being included in a list of eligible COVID-19 vaccines recognised under Britain's reviewed international travel norms, effective from October 4. From October 4, England's current traffic light system of red, amber and green countries based on levels of COVID-19 risk will be scrapped and replaced with one red list only. However, there is a lack of clarity over whether Indians vaccinated with any vaccines in India including Covishield fall within the UK's eligibility criteria or not. "We have to see how it goes. But if we do not get satisfaction we would be within our rights to impose reciprocal measures," Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said in response to a question on the issue in New Delhi on Tuesday. "The basic issue is that here is a vaccine, Covishield, which is a licensed product of the UK company, manufactured in India of which we have supplied five million doses to the UK at the request of the government of the UK. We understand that this is being used under the national health system, and, therefore, non-recognition of Covishield is a discriminatory policy and does impact those of our citizens travelling to the UK," he said. Covishield and other Indian vaccines being covered as eligible would mean that a pre-departure PCR test is no longer required as long as vaccinated travellers pre-book a day two test post-arrival in England and complete the compulsory passenger locator form in advance. From October 4, travellers from 17 additional countries with eligible vaccines, including Australia, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia, will fall under the UK's list of recognised jabs of Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna or Janssen vaccines. The DHSC has said this list is reviewed fortnightly. So far it means, under the new rules from October 4, travellers from India must take a COVID test three days before departure and book in advance for two COVID tests to be taken upon arrival in England. On arrival in England, the passengers must self-isolate in the place they have confirmed on their passenger locator form for 10 days. A privately paid-for "Test to Release" option does exist at day five, which allows an early end to the 10-day quarantine with a negative PCR test. The Indian government has said it is working with several countries to recognise India's vaccine certification on a mutual reciprocal basis. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Kerala Covid cases finally declining, experts say 'worrying phase is over' ||Kerala was the one-time star pupil in the Covid-19 class that’s now become the laggard accounting for more than half the country’s daily new cases. But it’s hoping to move back toward the head of the class thanks to a state-wide vaccination blitzkrieg and case numbers that are finally coming down. Kerala’s high up on the vaccination scoreboard with more than 90 per cent of the state’s 26.75 million eligible people having received their first jab compared to 65 per cent nationally. Equally impressively, around 35 per cent have now had their second doses too compared to 26 per cent across the country. The state’s target is to deliver all the first doses in another two weeks and have everyone fully vaccinated around 82 days from now – that’s the time lag required between the two doses. In terms of the number of cases too, while Kerala accounts for more than 50 per cent of the country’s active Covid-19 cases, the number of patients falling sick with the virus each day has been declining. The R-value, or reproductive number that reflects how swiftly the virus is spreading, has also fallen to below 1 in Kerala. Below one is the ideal number in a pandemic as the number of new infections is below the level needed to sustain the outbreak. “In Kerala, the worrying phase is over. The numbers should only be going down from here on in,” says Health Economist and WHO consultant Rijo M. John. From a peak of 32,762 new infections on September 5, numbers were at 15,768 on Tuesday. What’s more, the numbers have been steadying at lower levels in the last few days. The figures had started seriously spiking higher around 10 days after Onam, Kerala’s most important festival, when many people left their homes on shopping excursions and to visit family. "It’s definitely a more comfortable situation now,” said Arun Nair, a Kerala health economist who works closely with the state government. “With vaccination, we’re not having as many severe cases,” he added. Looking at the outlook nationally, John is equally reassuring. “The cases are genuinely lower in most of the country. “I don’t expect to see any major surge or anything happening at the national level,” he said. “I’m pretty sure that even by the end of May, when the serosurvey took place, sero-prevalence was close to 70 per cent. Now, (national) sero-prevalence must have easily hit 80-to-85 per cent with the vaccinations and everything,” John said. The Kerala government’s particularly proud of the fact that the mammoth task of vaccinating everyone over 18 has almost entirely been done by the government with very few people using the private sector. The state’s been moving in other ways to ensure that the disease is eliminated in every district. It’s been accused of depending too heavily on the less accurate rapid antigen tests. In the last few weeks, it has moved to phase out rapid antigen testing and switch to using only the more reliable RT-PCR tests, except in emergencies such as if an emergency operation has to be performed. However, there are defenders of the rapid antigen tests both in government and outside. Rapid antigen tests have two huge advantages. Firstly, results are delivered in 20 minutes. By comparison, it take a minimum of a day and more often two, to get RT-PCR results back from the lab. Secondly, rapid antigen tests are priced at about one-fifth the cost of the more expensive RT-PCR tests. Says John: “If you are testing in a population which is already traced and tracked well, and you have a reasonable expectation that the person is going to be positive, then it’s better to do antigen testing.” The state government says it’s been a major struggle to get the vaccinations up and case figures down. The greatest difficulties with the vaccination programme were caused by the erratic supplies coming to the state that made planning impossible. “You had 4 lakh vaccinations coming one day and 2 lakh the next. In the beginning, it was impossible to get the workflow algorithms right. How do you plan?” says a senior government official who did not wish to be named. He adds: “The local self-government people and the Asha workers make sure people turn up for vaccinations. What can you do if you plan and bring people to the centre and you have reduced supply? The vaccine supply situation began to fall into place after a Central government team visited the state and “in July it was perfectly fine,” he says. Then the government focused on how to get priority individuals vaccinated. These included people over 60, people with health conditions that made them vulnerable, tribals living in remote hamlets and pregnant women. Once these segments were done then the focus turned to getting the 18-plus sector vaccinated. For this, more centres were opened and even one 24x7 one in Thiruvanthapuram, where people could book and get vaccinated. Kerala’s strong take-up of the vaccine suggests that “vaccine hesitancy” may not be a major concern for India, unlike for the developed world, John noted. The government is conducting a serosurvey of the population that will also include children.aged five to 17. Epidemiologists have suggested that the state’s successful track-and-trace containment of the virus during the first wave may have meant that a higher share of its population was without Covid-19 antibodies and vulnerable to the far more virulent Delta variant. In a national seropositivity survey in July, Kerala had the lowest seropositivity rate among the states at 44.4 per cent while Madhya Pradesh had the highest at 79 per cent. “The serosurvey is being done currently by the health department. The last national survey was 44 per cent but with the vaccination having picked up, the results will be different. They’re also looking what’s happening amongst children,” the government official said. Experts say they believe the government should have the situation well under control in Kerala in around two months at the latest. With this in mind, the government has said that schools will reopen on November 1. A government committee has also drawn up guidelines to be followed if schools reopen. This includes the number of pupils in a class, how many to a bench and also that no food should be served in schools. Besides that, schools would have to be sanitised daily and have medical equipment for checking temperatures. Consultations will now be held with teachers’ groups on these proposals All decisions are likely to be reviewed around October 15 when officials will look at the data. Both parents and teachers have voiced alarm about restarting face-to-face classes too early. (Figures released Tuesday showed that in England where schools have reopened, over half of confirmed cases were in the mainly unvaccinated under-20 age group with close to 40 per cent clustered in the 10-to-19-year age bracket).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Centre did politics over O2 crisis in Delhi, alleges Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday accused the Centre of doing politics over the issue of oxygen crisis here during the second wave of the Covid pandemic, and also trying to stop the formation of a city government's panel to probe deaths allegedly due to its shortage. His remarks in response to a question during a press conference came a day after the Delhi High Court said that it saw no difficulty in the constitution of a high-powered committee (HPC) by the AAP government to probe the deaths caused by the alleged medical oxygen shortage. The court, which was dealing with a plea to operationalise the HPC, noted the Delhi government's stand that the committee would not attribute any fault to any hospital and any compensation will be paid and absorbed by the government alone. Jain said the Delhi government had set up a four-member panel comprising medical experts in June and the files were sent to the Delhi Lt governor for approval. However, the Centre tried to stop it via the LG office, he alleged. "The Centre also did politics over the issue of oxygen crisis and even said in Parliament that no deaths due to oxygen shortage was reported," Jain further alleged. They did a "wrong thing" by "trying to hide deaths" that may have occurred due to shortage of the life-saving gas, Jain charged, and added that the court had now cleared the way for the formation of the panel. The high court on Tuesday had also recorded that as per the Delhi government, the criteria for determining compensation will be open to scrutiny and its task would not overlap with that of a sub-group constituted by the Supreme Court on allocation and utilisation of oxygen. "The job of this committee is to probe any death that any person claims has taken due to oxygen shortage, whether at home or a hospital. The panel will investigate and recommend a compensation of up to Rs 5 lakh accordingly. It will not probe any medical negligence, that is the job of the medical council," Jain told reporters. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had on July 21 charged the Centre with trying to "hide its fault" and alleged that its "mismanagement" and change in oxygen distribution policy after April 13 had caused shortage of oxygen in hospitals across the country, leading to a "disaster". Jain said several media channels were reporting live on the oxygen crisis issue during the second wave of the pandemic in Delhi. Was it all wrong, he asked. The number of COVID-19 cumulative cases on Tuesday stood at 14,38,556. Over 14.13 lakh patients have recovered from the virus, while the death toll stands at 25,085. On the UK rules related to Covishield vaccine, the Delhi minister said the MEA will respond on this, but, "I feel there is no question of not recognising it," as it is the same vaccine used in the UK but with a different name of AstraZeneca. The UK government on Wednesday added Covishield to an updated international travel advisory. The move follows widespread condemnation of the Serum Institute of India manufactured vaccines not being included in a list of eligible COVID-19 vaccines recognised under Britain's reviewed international travel norms, effective from October 4. The updated advisory means that Indians fully vaccinated with Covishield will no longer be required to undergo compulsory 10-day self-isolation at home or declared location on entry to England.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||UK adds Covishield to updated list of approved vaccine after India warning||The UK government on Wednesday added Covishield, the Indian-manufactured Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, to an updated international travel advisory. The move follows widespread condemnation of the Serum Institute of India manufactured vaccines not being included in a list of eligible Covid-19 vaccines recognised under Britain's reviewed international travel norms, effective from October 4. The updated advisory means that Indians fully vaccinated with Covishield will no longer be required to undergo compulsory 10-day self-isolation at home or declared location on entry to England. "Formulations of the 4 listed vaccines, such as AstraZeneca Covishield, AstraZeneca Vaxzevria and Moderna Takeda, qualify as approved vaccines," reads the advisory from the UK's Department for Transport (DfT) and Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC). "You must have had a complete course of an approved vaccine at least 14 days before you arrive in England," it adds. The move will also mean that a pre-departure PCR test is no longer required as long as vaccinated travellers pre-book a day two test post-arrival in England and complete the compulsory passenger locator form in advance. The move comes a day after foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said India will be well within its rights to initiate reciprocal measures if the UK does not address New Delhi’s concerns regarding London’s refusal to recognise Indian Covid vaccination certificates. Shringla dwelt at length on London’s refusal to even accept those vaccinated with Covishield “which is a licensed product of a UK company, manufactured in India, of which we have given five million doses to the UK at the request of the UK government”. Stating that it is India’s understanding that the Indian-manufactured Covishield vaccine is being used in the UK’s National Health Service, Shringla said: “Therefore, non-recognition of Covishield is a discriminatory policy.” He added that “I am told certain assurances have been given that this issue would be resolved”. He pointed out that India had offered some partner countries the option of a mutual recognition of vaccine certification. “These are reciprocal measures... if we don’t get satisfaction, we would be within our rights to impose reciprocal measures.” From October 4, the current traffic light system of red, amber and green countries based on levels of Covid-19 risk will be scrapped and replaced with one red list only. However, until this latest update, Indians vaccinated with any vaccines in India including Covishield were not recognised as vaccinated under the UK's eligibility criteria. The National Indian Students and Alumni Union (NISAU) UK, whose patron Congress Party MP Shashi Tharoor cancelled his planned UK visit in retaliation of the "offensive" rules, was among the many organisations in the UK rallying against the policy that would impact thousands of Indian students. Delighted that Covishield has now been recognised by the UK government, and that all the lobbying has worked, said NISAU chair Sanam Arora. "Though the vaccine is now approved, India is not yet in the list of approved countries making it apparent that the 10-day quarantine and all associated rules still apply for other Indian vaccines. We will continue to urge authorities to take this to its natural conclusion," she said. From October 4, travellers from 17 additional countries with eligible vaccines, including Australia, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia, will fall under the UK's list of recognised jabs of Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna or Janssen vaccines. The DHSC has said this list is reviewed fortnightly. Under the new rules from October 4, unvaccinated Indian travellers or those not vaccinated with Covishield must take a COVID test three days before departure and book in advance for two COVID tests to be taken upon arrival in England. On arrival in England, the passengers must self-isolate in the place they have confirmed on their passenger locator form for 10 days. A privately paid-for "Test to Release" option does exist at day five, which allows an early end to the 10-day quarantine with a negative PCR test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Mahant Giri's autopsy concludes, report submitted to officials||A panel of five doctors on Wednesday conducted the post-mortem examination of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri and submitted the report to officials. After the post-mortem, the body was taken to the Baghambri Gaddi Muth where preparations were being made to bathe the body in the Ganges and the last rites will be held later in the day. The examination lasted for about two-and-a-half hours and the report was handed over to senior police officials in a sealed cover. There was heavy deployment of security personnel at the site where the autopsy was conducted. The Uttar Pradesh Police had on Tuesday constituted an 18-member SIT to probe the death of the seer and detained a disciple of his in Haridwar while Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said all aspects related to the death are being investigated and the guilty will not be spared. The seer, who was the president of the largest organisation of sadhus in India, was found hanging by his disciples at Baghambari Muth in Allahabad on Monday. A purported suicide note was also found, in which the seer had written that he was mentally disturbed and upset with one of his disciples, police had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||SC pushes Centre to allow women cadets to join NDA from this year||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to accept the Centre's request to allow women candidates to appear for the entrance exam to the NDA from next year, saying it doesn't want women to be denied their right. The induction of women cannot be posted by one year, it said. "We gave hope to the girls. We cannot deny them that hope now," said the judges. The Centre had told the top court that a notification allowing women candidates to appear for the entrance exam to the National Defence Academy will be out by May next year. A bench headed by Justice S K Kaul said the armed forces are the best response team to deal with emergency situations and it is hopeful that necessary arrangements will be put in place to pave the way for the induction of women in NDA without delay. It said the needful should be done by the defence department in collaboration with the UPSC. The top court noted the submissions made by senior advocate Chinmoy Pradip Sharma, appearing on behalf of the petitioner Kush Kalra, and said that it cannot postpone the induction of women by one year. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati submitted that a study group has been formed to facilitate the entry of women, and the necessary mechanism to facilitate that can be put in place by May 2022. The ASG sought to skip the next NDA entrance examination, scheduled to be held on November 14. "We appreciate your problems. I'm sure you people are capable of finding solutions. Let us see the results. The planning can go on...It is difficult for us to accept this submission from the Centre in view of the aspirations of the candidates willing to take the exam. "Armed services have dealt with very difficult situations. To deal with emergencies is a part of their training. We are sure that they will be able to come at par with this "emergency too". We would thus not like to vacate the order effectively passed by us," the bench also comprising Justice B R Gavai said. The "no exam today, exam tomorrow" approach would go against the aspirations of young women, the court said, directing a notification for exams on November 14. The Centre yesterday had told the court that while the educational standards would be the same for both male and female candidates, a separate module is being worked out for women aspirants to ensure minimum physical fitness so as not to compromise on the operational safety of the defence forces. “While the education curriculum is well set, all the rest of aspects of the training are required to be formulated separately for the women candidates like outdoor training involving drill, equitation, swimming, games, sports, etc, shall have to be formulated." Shantanu Sharma, director, department of military affairs, stated in an affidavit. “Hence the issue needs detailed analysis, including expert inputs to maintain operational readiness. It is needless to add that any dilution of physical training and service subject like parameters of firing, endurance training, field craft and living off the land kind of aspects, for the defence services’ women cadets/officers, would invariably impact the battle worthiness of the Armed Forces adversely,” the affidavit stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||Pregnant Kyrgyz woman, son found murdered at friend's house in Delhi||A pregnant woman from Kyrgyzstan and her one-year-old son were found murdered at a friend's house in southeast Delhi's Kalkaji area on Tuesday morning, police said. Myskal Zhumabaeva (28) and her son Manas were found lying dead on the bed with stab wounds to the chest and other body parts, they said. The woman was five months pregnant. She was a housewife and lived with her husband Vinay Chauhan at Greater Kailash, police said. The couple have been married for more than two years and had a 13-month-old son, who was also found dead along with her, a senior police officer said, adding Chauhan used to run guest houses. When the incident took place, the woman and her son were at her friends place in Kalkaji. Her husband Chauhan made the PCR call after he was informed about the deaths by her friends over the phone, the officer said. A case of murder has been registered in connection with the incident, police said, adding further investigation is underway to nab the culprit and ascertain the motive behind the killing. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) R P Meena said, "We received a call about a murder of a woman and her child at Kalkaji. On reaching the spot, we found bodies of the Kyrgyzstan woman and her son lying on the bed with stab injuries." The spot was also visited by crime and forensic teams, he said. Preliminary inquiry has found that Myskal had an argument with her husband on Monday night over going to hospital. She complained of stomach ache due to pregnancy and wanted to visit a hospital. After the argument, Chauhan left her at home in Greater Kailash and went to meet his friend Wahid, the police officer said. The same night Myskal called her friend Matluba Madusmonova, who then took her to the hospital with her friend Avinish, the DCP said. Police said Matluba is an Uzbek national and stays in Kalkaji. After visiting the hospital, Matluba took Myskal and the child to her residence in Kalkaji where the two were found dead on Tuesday morning, the officer said. The inquiry so far has revealed that the victim along with her son and Matluba and Avinish reached the Kalkaji house after visiting the hospital late Monday night. Her flatmate was also at home and later two other common friends visited them for sometime and left the place, the senior police officer said. The victim did have conversations over the phone with her husband the same night about her subsequent hospital visit and other whereabouts of her stay, he said. There is no CCTV camera inside the house, and even those installed outside the building have not shows entry of any other outsider into the flat so far, police said. Police does not suspect any outsider's role so far but said they are investigating the case from all possible angles. "We have registered a case of murder and further investigation is going on," Meena said. The knife used in the crime was recovered from the spot, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-186
22-09-2021||India||WHO thanks Health Minister Mandaviya for announcing resumption of Covid jab shipments||World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday thanked Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya for announcing resumption of COVID-19 vaccine shipments to the COVAX global pool in October. COVAX is an initiative for equitable global access to COVID-19 vaccines. "Thank you Health Minister @mansukhmandviya for announcing #India will resume crucial #COVID19 vaccine shipments to #COVAX in October. This is an important development in support of reaching the 40% vaccination target in all countries by the end of the year. #VaccinEquity," Ghebreyesus said in a tweet. Mandaviya on Monday announced that India will resume export of surplus COVID-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool, but vaccinating its own citizens remains the topmost priority of the government. Talking about the expected production and supply trends in the coming months, the minister said the government will receive over 30 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines in October and over 100 crore doses in the coming quarter from October-December. The cumulative doses administered so far across the country has crossed 82.65 crore. Asserting that vaccination of its citizens remains the government's topmost priority, Mandaviya had said, "India will be resuming export of COVID-19 vaccines under Vaccine Maitri in order to fulfil the commitment of India towards COVAX in line with our motto of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam'." The surplus supply of vaccines will be used to fulfil India's commitment towards the world for the collective fight against COVID-19, he said. COVAX is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and the WHO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Modi leaves for US, says visit occasion to strengthen strategic ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said his visit to the United States would be an occasion to strengthen the Indo-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership and consolidate ties with Japan and Australia. In a statement just before leaving for the US, Modi said he will conclude his visit with an address at the United Nations General Assembly focusing on the pressing global challenges including the COVID-19 pandemic, the need to combat terrorism, climate change and other important issues. Modi emplaned for the United States this morning with his office tweeting a picture of him just before boarding the plane for the US where he will take part in a wide range of programmes. "I will be visiting the USA from 22-25 September, 2021 at the invitation of His Excellency President Joe Biden of the United States of America. During my visit, I will review the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with President Biden and exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest," the prime minister said. "I am also looking forward to meeting Vice President Kamala Harris to explore opportunities for cooperation between our two nations particularly in the area of science and technology," he said. Modi said he will participate in the first in-person Quad Leaders' Summit along with President Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Premier Yoshihide Suga. The Summit provides an opportunity to take stock of the outcomes of the Quad leaders' Virtual Summit in March this year and identify priorities for future engagements based on our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific region, he said. "I will also meet Prime Minister Morrison of Australia and Prime Minister Suga of Japan to take stock of the strong bilateral relations with their respective countries and continue our useful exchanges on regional and global issues," Modi said. "My visit to the US would be an occasion to strengthen the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with the USA, consolidate relations with our strategic partners -- Japan and Australia -- and to take forward our collaboration on important global issues," he said in his departure statement. The Afghan crisis and its implications, China's growing assertiveness, ways to stem radicalism and cross-border terrorism and further expansion of India-US global partnership are expected to be the central focus of the first in-person meeting between Prime Minister Modi and President Biden in Washington on September 24. At a media briefing on the prime minister's visit to the US, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Tuesday said the developments in Afghanistan will be extensively discussed in the bilateral talks between Modi and Biden and the Indian side will convey that Washington needs to continue focus on that country. Shringla said Modi will also participate in the COVID-19 global summit being hosted by President Biden. After concluding his engagements in Washington, Modi will travel to New York on the evening of September 24 and address the 76th session of the UN General Assembly the next day. The prime minister is also scheduled to meet a number of top executives of major American companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||India's active Covid caseload lowest in 184 days||India logged 26,964 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,35,31,498, while the active cases declined to 3,01,989, the lowest in 186 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,27,83,741 and the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent as the death toll climbed to 4,45,768 with 383 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.90 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.77 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A reduction of 7,586 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,92,395 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,67,54,282. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.69 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 23 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.08 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 89 days, according to the ministry. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 82.65 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 383 new fatalities include 214 from Kerala and 70 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,45,768 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,616 from Maharashtra, 37,648 From Karnataka, 35,379 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 23,897 from Kerala, 22,887 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,678 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Modi congratulates Trudeau on election win||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau on his election win, and said he looked forward to continue working with him to further strengthen India-Canada relations. Trudeau secured victory in parliamentary elections but failed to get the majority he wanted. He, however, leads a strong minority government that won't be toppled by the opposition anytime soon. Modi tweeted, "Congratulations Prime Minister @JustinTrudeau on your victory in the elections! I look forward to continue working with you to further strengthen India-Canada relations, as well as our cooperation on global and multilateral issues."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India|| Women cadets expected to enter NDA in May 2022||The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court there would not be any compromise on the minimum physical fitness and other endurance standards for women cadets expected to enter the National Defence Academy (NDA) for the first time when the UPSC rolls out the notification in May 2022. In an affidavit filed before the top court, Shantanu Sharma, director, department of military affairs, stated that while the educational standards would be the same for both male and female candidates, a separate module is being worked out for women aspirants to ensure minimum physical fitness so as not to compromise on the operational safety of the defence forces. This would be the first time that women candidates would be entering the NDA, hitherto a male bastion. The Centre had agreed to induct women candidates following two separate PILs alleging discrimination by not allowing them to join the defence forces through the NDA. “While the education curriculum is well set, all the rest of aspects of the training are required to be formulated separately for the women candidates like outdoor training involving drill, equitation, swimming, games, sports, etc, shall have to be formulated. “Hence the issue needs detailed analysis, including expert inputs to maintain operational readiness. It is needless to add that any dilution of physical training and service subject like parameters of firing, endurance training, field craft and living off the land kind of aspects, for the defence services’ women cadets/officers, would invariably impact the battle worthiness of the Armed Forces adversely,” the affidavit stated. According to the government, a study group has been constituted by the defence services comprising experts to expeditiously formulate the comprehensive curriculum for women cadets at the NDA. “A board of officers has been convened to give a holistic and futuristic proposal for training of women cadets at the NDA incorporating all relevant aspects,” it added. The Government of India in line with its commitment hereby, places on record its clear and categorical stand that the women candidates shall be considered for entry in the three defence services, in the existing streams through National Defence Academy. “To open the entry of women candidates for entry in all the three Defence services in the existing streams through National Defence Academy and in furtherance, publication of notification in May 2022 for entrance examination permitting women candidates…” is being undertaken, the Centre said. The entrance exams for entry into the NDA are held twice a year and the government proposes to have the necessary mechanism in place by May 22, the time by which the Union Public Service Commission is required to publish the first notification of the year 2022. Cadets aged from 16-and-a-half to 19-and-a-half years, after passing Class XII, join the academy for training after a rigorous selection process. Only medically fit candidates meeting the selection criteria are allowed to join the academy. They are also required to meet laid down medical standards. While medical standards for male cadets are in place, appropriate medical standards for women candidates are in the process of formulation. The Directorate General Armed Forces Medical Services and the body of experts from the three defence services will determine and formulate the medical standards taking into account various aspects like their young age, nature of training to be undergone, as also functional/operational requirements of the Indian Army, navy and air force, etc, the government said. On September 8, the Centre had admitted that “nudged” by the Supreme Court it had agreed to induct women into the NDA for the posts of permanent commissioned officers from next year. Appearing before a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M.M. Sundresh, additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati had admitted that the decision taken to induct women cadets in the NDA was propelled by the apex court’s nudge on the issue. The apex court during the earlier round of hearing had questioned the logic of not allowing women officers the status of permanent commission and entry into the NDA, since it amounted to gender discrimination. However, it did not pass any order since it related to the country’s defence forces. On March 10, the apex court had issued notice to the Centre on two separate petitions seeking equal opportunities for female candidates to enter the prestigious NDA for recruitment into the armed forces on par with men. The top court had sought the response on the two separate pleas filed by petitioners Kush Kalra and Anita alleging that the present system of confining the eligibility criteria only to male candidates is unconstitutional and discriminatory under Articles 14 (equality) 15 (non-discrimination), 16 (equal opportunities in government jobs) and 19 (right to practice one’s profession or livelihood). According to the petitioners, eligible and willing female candidates are being denied opportunity of entry to the NDA on the basis of their sex, thereby categorically denying them opportunity to train at the premier training institute of Indian armed forces. Anita contended that due to the discrimination she could not join the NDA but had to pursue a post-graduate course in law. It was submitted that under the present rule the Centre allows only unmarried male candidates having adequate qualification to take the NDA and Naval Academy examination. However, eligible and willing female candidates are not allowed to take the examination on the sole ground of their sex and without any reasonable or justifiable explanations. After the judgment passed by the Supreme Court in the matter of secretary, ministry of defence vs Babita Puniya and others in 2013, “Permanent Commission” has been extended to the women officers of the army, who had put in a minimum of 14 years service. However, as of now, female candidates do not have any mode of entry into the armed forces as permanent commissioned officers. Female candidates have to apply through the appropriate mode of entry into the armed forces as a Short Service Commission officer and after serving for not less than 14 years, have the option to opt for permanent commission. However, there is no such Short Service Commission status for male officers in the defence forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Gujarat: 3,000kg of Afghan heroin seized from Adani-operated port||Nearly 3,000kg of heroin originating from Afghanistan was seized from the Adani-operated Mundra port in Gujarat on September 16, officials announced on Tuesday. The drug haul drew attention for multiple reasons. ⚫ Valued at Rs 15,000 crore, the 3 tonnes of contraband are said to be the single largest such consignment netted anywhere in the world in recent memory. ⚫ The consignment found its way to India during the chaos that followed the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban. With an eye on the Uttar Pradesh elections, the Right-wing ecosystem has been dog-whistling and whipping up fears about drugs from Afghanistan swamping India with the help of “anti-national” criminals. But the seizures underscore the fact that drugs have been flowing to India even before the Taliban found their feet in Afghanistan, and the doomsayers will now be hard put to explain how such a big consignment entered India through Gujarat where the BJP is entrenched in power for years. ⚫ The huge haul has thrown up another question: why has Gujarat become the most preferred gateway to India for drug smugglers. The Congress cited several instances and pointed out that the post of a full-time Narcotics Control Bureau chief had been lying vacant for 18 months. The Enforcement Directorate has now launched a money-laundering probe into the Gujarat haul. ⚫ The seizure coincides with a raging controversy in Kerala about “narcotics jihad” — cited by a bishop to suggest that Muslims are luring Christian youths with drugs — that has driven a communal wedge in the southern state. Those arrested so far in connection with the Gujarat haul are a couple whose names — M. Sudhakar and his wife Durga Vaishali — suggest crimes are not confined to any particular religion. Some Afghans are also involved, PTI quoted official sources as saying. ⚫ The lukewarm reaction of the government-friendly media also caught the attention of many. Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi tweeted: “59 grams of marijuana found in a WhatsApp chat conversation had led to near heart seizures of TV newstainment anchors. Surprised to note that 3000kg of heroin found has not had the same result. Clearly these newstainment channels outrage also depends on their Sarkar ki seva.” In a statement, the Adanis congratulated the investigators for seizing the drugs and said no port operator in the country can examine a container. “We sincerely hope that this statement will put to rest the motivated, malicious and false propaganda being run on social media against the Adani Group…. We have no policing authority over the containers….” The 2,988.21kg of heroin was seized by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) from two containers at the Mundra port in Kutch district. The narcotics were headed to Delhi and the two arrested persons had sought an import-export licence based on a house address in Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh. The containers had been declared as containing semi-processed talc stones from Afghanistan and had been shipped from the Bandar Abbas port in Iran to the Mundra port. The couple, who were arrested in Chennai and brought to Bhuj in Kutch, run an importing firm called Aashi Trading Company. The Congress said the responsibility lay with the central government. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a news conference: “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is from Gujarat, home minister Amit Shah is from Gujarat. How come the Gujarat coast has become the most preferred route to smuggle in drugs? This consignment was meant for Andhra Pradesh, which also has ports. India has a huge coastline. Why was this sent to Gujarat?” Khera added: “The matter of concern is that the seizure wasn’t done through a coordinated plan of agencies, it was just a routine inspection by the DRI. Is this the tip of an iceberg? Is it that 10 such consignments passed before this was caught? Why was the surveillance network not strengthened after regular seizures in Gujarat?” “The consignment of 3,000kg of heroin is perhaps the largest such batch seized anywhere in the world. In fact, over the last few years, the Gujarat coast has become the favourite route for smuggling drugs into India from Pakistan, Iran and Afghanistan. In July 2017, an Indian Coast Guard vessel had seized approximately 1,500kg of heroin valued at about Rs 3,500 crore from a merchant vessel off the coast of Gujarat,” Khera said. The Congress spokesperson added: “In January 2020, five Pakistani nationals on a fishing boat were apprehended mid-sea off the coast of Gujarat while they were attempting to smuggle in drugs worth Rs 175 crore. In April 2021, eight Pakistani nationals onboard a boat were apprehended with heroin worth Rs 150 crore off the coast of Gujarat. On September 17, 3 tonnes of heroin were seized by the DRI at the Mundra port — a privately owned port of the Adani group in Gujarat’s Bhuj. “On September 18, again, the Indian Coast Guard and the anti-terrorism squad of Gujarat police in a joint operation on an Iranian boat found 30kg heroin worth more than Rs 150 crore off the coast of Gujarat.” Asking what steps the government and the Narcotics Control Bureau had taken after the alleged spurt in drug smuggling through Gujarat, Khera said: “How is such a drug syndicate operating in India under the nose of the Government of India, government of Gujarat and the Narcotics Control Bureau? Who are these operators, importers and individuals/syndicate running the procurement and distribution network of drugs in this country? Why is the NCB misused for retail politics when the international mafia have established a network for drug distribution in the country?” Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Bihar: Cop found with Rs 10cr assets||The economic offences unit of Bihar police on Tuesday raided premises belonging to a 57-year-old constable on charges of amassing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. According to officials, Narendra Kumar Dheeraj had allegedly amassed ill-gotten wealth running into several crores of rupees. “He is president of the Bihar Police Men’s Association. We registered an FIR against him on Monday and requested the court for permission to conduct search on his premises,” EOU additional director-general Nayyar Hasnain Khan told The Telegraph. The raids have yielded assets worth Rs 10 crore so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||NEET coaching turn students into 'marks-scoring machines': Study||Private coaching centres for the medical entrance exam NEET have turned students into “marks-scoring machines” who have no exposure to all-round skill development and are “poor” candidates for the healthcare profession, a study in Tamil Nadu has found. The Tamil Nadu government-appointed nine-member panel headed by retired judge A.K. Rajen studied the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for aspiring medical undergraduates on various social strata of the society. The study found that over 71 per cent of the respondents had cracked the NEET in a repeat attempt. In 2016-17, only 12.47 per cent of the successful candidates had been repeaters. The panel did not reveal the number of respondents but said the study had been conducted only in Tamil Nadu, a state famous for its quality healthcare. Many students do not enrol for graduation after passing Class XII and instead get admitted to private coaching centres in the hope of clearing the NEET, the study found. According to the panel, 99 per cent of the students who had cracked the NEET and entered the MBBS and BDS (dental) courses had studied at private preparatory coaching centres. “The coaching centres make the students ‘marks-scoring machines’ as learning is discouraged in favour of coaching. The prospective medical aspirants do not get the opportunity to acquire all-round skills… including cognitive, reasoning, creative, social and behavioural skills that are very much essential prior to enter medical studies,” the report said. Based on the findings, the Tamil Nadu government last week passed a bill seeking to exempt the state from the NEET under the National Medical Commission Act. The bill, now with the governor, will be sent to the President, whose assent is needed to override a central act through a state law. In Tamil Nadu alone, more than 400 coaching centres have come up, a business worth around Rs 5,750 crore annually, the study found. The report said coaching centres had mushroomed since the advent of the NEET as the national eligibility test in 2016. It was enforced on all states as the solitary medical entrance exam the next year. The medical entrance coaching centres offer short-term, long-term and crash courses based on when a student enrols. Enrolment begins in Class IX. For a crash course, the fees are between Rs 10,000 and Rs 38,000, while they are in the range of Rs 30,000 to Rs 1.5 lakh for a one-year course and from Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 4.5 lakh for four-year training. The cost goes up to as high as Rs 10 lakh in case students do not make it in the NEET exam in the first attempt and once again seek the help of the coaching centres. “Both educational institutions and parents are now inclined more towards coaching the kids to prepare them for successfully appearing in the NEET rather than grooming them all round as educated human beings with all relevant knowledge, skills and attitudes,” the report said. “This trend confirms that coaching has replaced learning and paved the way for the entry of poorly skilled candidates (who are financially and socially strong) belonging to the affluent segment of the society into medical education,” it added. The panel feared that the medical profession could become even more commercialised and dominated by inept players. Average scorers Studying the profiles of students who had studied at coaching centres, the panel found that the majority of those who make it to the medical colleges had cleared the NEET with average grades. Many had secured seats after barely clearing the NEET, whose pass marks is 20 per cent. Toll on poor The annual income of about 97 per cent of the families of government school students is less than Rs 1 lakh in Tamil Nadu and they cannot afford coaching centre fees, the panel found. Private medical colleges charge steep fees of around Rs 30 lakh per year. The committee felt that the hope that a common entrance exam would help get around problems such as capitation fees and ensure good quality students had not materialised. In both government and private colleges, the share of students who had studied in Tamil-medium schools has declined after the NEET was made mandatory in 2017, the panel found. In 2011 when there was no NEET and medical students were selected on the basis of Class XII marks, 19.79 per cent of MBBS seats had been filled up by students from Tamil-medium schools. Post-NEET, that figure had declined to 1.99 per cent in 2020, with English-medium students reaping the benefits. In both government and private colleges, students from families of first-generation graduates had taken up 24.61 per cent of the medical seats in 2011, which fell to 14.46 in 2020. Low predictability Predictability is a key feature of a common entrance test and it should be able to determine more precisely the ability of a student to perform well in higher studies, the panel observed. The committee examined the performance of MBBS students pre-NEET and post-NEET and found no improvement. Had the NEET helped pick the best students as envisaged, performance in the MBBS would have improved, but that had not happened, the study found. Therefore, the NEET cannot be considered the best predictor, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Gauri Lankesh murder: SC reserves orders on sister's plea ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday observed that Karnataka High Court had erroneously quashed the charges under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act against one of the suspects in the murder of journalist Gauri Lankesh. “You can argue lack of evidence but the high court has quashed the chargesheet itself. This is incorrect and this is in excess of the jurisdiction. It cannot be quashed like this. The high court has not analysed the chargesheet. We have to say the high court has not dealt with the chargesheet correctly,” the apex court told senior advocate Basvaraju Prabhu appearing for the accused. The bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Ravi Kumar made the oral observations while reserving its orders on an appeal by filmmaker Kavita Lankesh challenging the high court’s judgment which quashed charges under the KCOCA against suspect Mohan Nayak in the murder of her sister. Prabhu argued that there was no evidence to prove that Nayak was part of any organised syndicate as required under the KCOCA for being prosecuted. However, senior advocate Huzefi Ahmadi appearing for Kavitha told the bench that even a person harbouring those accused under the act can be named as an accused under the KCOCA. The apex court had earlier issued notices to the accused and the Karnataka government on the special leave petition filed by Kavitha challenging withdrawal of the charges under the KCOCA, 2000, against Nayak, a key accused in the murder of Gauri on September 5, 2017, outside her residence in Bangalore. The murder was seen as an attempt to silence voices critical of the fundamentalist elements in the state. In her petition filed through advocate Aparna Bhat, Kavita had submitted she was constrained to move the plea on her own as she was “greatly aggrieved by the impugned order and is therefore, approaching this Hon’ble Court since the State of Karnataka which is the prosecuting agency has not challenged the same”. Her contention was that the BJP government in Karnataka should have ideally challenged the high court order which it had not done.’ According to the petitioner, the high court had erroneously quashed the order dated August 14, 2018, passed by respondent no. 3 (commissioner of police, Bangalore) granting sanction for Nayak and also quashed the supplementary chargesheet filed by respondent no. 4 (Special Investigation Team) against respondent no. 6 (Nayak) for the offences under Sections 3(1)(i), 3(2), 3(3) and 3(4) of the KCOCA. Under the said offences, the accused faced a minimum punishment of life imprisonment and the maximum of death penalty. After the nationwide outrage over Gauri’s killing, the Karnataka government had entrusted the investigation inot the murder to the SIT. The investigation by the SIT indicated clearly that the accused persons were involved in organised crime as a syndicate and this attracted the provisions of Section 3 of the KCOCA, the petition said. It was submitted that the investigation found that Nayak has been actively involved in providing shelter to the killers prior to and after committing the offence and has participated in a series of conspiracies, abetting, planning, providing logistics. “Therefore, he is involved in ‘continuous unlawful activity’. With regard to Respondent No. 6’s involvement in the murder of Gauri Lankesh, the investigating agency has collected sufficient material to connect him with the case and establish his intimate nexus with the master mind behind the entire event, that is, Accused No.1 Amol Kale and master arms trainer Accused No. 8 Rajesh D. Bangera who are part and parcel of an ‘organised crime syndicate’ from its inception,” the petition stated. According to the petition, the investigation undertaken so far has revealed that Nayak is part of the syndicate led by Kale which has committed multiple organised crimes apart from the murder of Gauri. It was alleged that chargesheets against the members of syndicate have also been filed with respect to the murders of Narendra Dabolkar in 2013, Govinda Pansare in 2015, M.M. Kalburgi in 2015 and conspiracy to murder Prof. Bhagavan in 2018. Yet the high court chose to quash the charges against Nayak, the petitioner said. According to the petitioner, the alleged syndicate is involved in the following cases: 2013: Narendra Dabolkar was murdered in Pune, Maharashtra. The same syndicate is involved. 2015: Govinda Pansare was murdered at Kolhapur, Maharashtra. In connection with this case (Crime No. 39/2015), an FIR and chargesheet has been filed against Kale (leader of the syndicate), Amith Degvekar, Vasudev Suryavanshi alias Mechanic, Bharath Kurne and Sharad Kalaskar under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 3 and 25 of the Arms Act. August 30, 2015: M.M. Kalburgi was shot dead. A case (Crime No. 142/2015) under Section 302 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act has been registered at Vidyagiri police station, Dharwad. A chargesheet (CC No. 2736/2019) has been filed against Kale, Ganesh Miskin, Praveen Prakash Chatur, Suryavanshi, Kalaskar and Amith Baddi for the offence punishable under Sections 120(b), 109, 449, 302, 201 and 35 of the IPC and Sections 25(1A), 25(1B) and 27(1) of the Arms Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Uddhav takes on governor on women safety and growing attacks||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has said governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari should request Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to convene a Parliament session to discuss the safety of women and growing attacks on them, hitting back after Koshyari asked him to convene a special session of the Assembly against the backdrop of the rape and murder of a young woman in Mumbai. In his letter to the governor on Monday, the chief minister said such “instructions” by the governor could stoke a “new controversy” and were “damaging” democratic parliamentary procedures. A governor is expected to go by the advice of the cabinet on convening the Assembly. Uddhav gave figures of crimes against women in BJP-ruled states, including Uttarakhand that is the home state of RSS veteran Koshyari. “I can understand your feelings for calling a special session of the Maharashtra Assembly against the backdrop of the Saki Naka incident in Mumbai. Your soul is of a political worker. However, the instructions given by you could stoke a new controversy,” the chief minister wrote. A 34-year-old woman was allegedly raped inside a stationary tempo in Saki Naka area earlier this month. She died in hospital. Uddhav said women’s safety was a nationwide issue and the governor should ask Modi and Shah to convene a four-day special session of Parliament, at which the Saki Naka incident too could be discussed. “It is damaging to parliamentary democratic procedures that the governor also makes the same demand being made by those who are opposing the state government. The state is taking firm steps to curb such incidents,” Uddhav stated. “Uttarakhand, your home state, is also known as Devbhoomi. Government data show that attacks on women have increased by 150 per cent. Can a special session be called there?” he asked. He pointed out that 14,229 women had been reported missing in Gujarat in the last two years. “A Gujarat police report says that at least 14 women daily face rape or sexual assault. Going by such high numbers, Gujarat would need at least a month-long session. “Despite many attacks on women in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP has not made any demand for a special session,” Thackeray added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-187
22-09-2021||India||Delay in release of ‘Despotism’ book raises concerns||The authors of a book titled To Kill A Democracy: India’s Passage to Despotism have gone public with their concerns over the delay on the part of Oxford University Press (OUP), India, in releasing the Indian edition. The book and one of its authors have been criticised in an article in the Organiser magazine that usually echoes the views of the Sangh. Authored by Hong Kong-based Indian journalist Debasish Roy Chowdhury and Sydney University political science professor John Keane, the book had been scheduled for release in India in the first week of July but there is no sign of it two months later. OUP India said a second review was being done because the sales team in India had found the contents to be “provocative” and attributed the delay to the pandemic, among other reasons. The company denied “any pressure” to stall the release of the edition. The book, among other things, deals with the “growing alarm” about India’s “democratic health”. Roy Chowdhury, along with the book, had been blasted in the Organiser magazine for articles he wrote in the Time magazine criticising the Narendra Modi government’s handling of the pandemic. On May 30, almost a month before the global release of the book, the Organiser had carried the article alleging a “deep-rooted conspiracy” against the BJP and Modi. Last week, upset with the delay, Keane took to social media to allege possible censorship. He tweeted on September 15: “3 months after its global publication, the promised Indian edition of To Kill A Democracy @OxUniPress is still unavailable to readers there…. Is this censorship, the cowardly art of killing a book?” Keane posted a video clip from a discussion hosted by a Hyderabad-based forum for public discourse, Manthan, earlier this month where he had said: “This is a tragi-comic remark but Debasish and I are beginning to worry that a book with the title To Kill A Democracy is actually killed in a democracy. This would be an outcome that we never anticipated. It makes us very sad to ponder that possibility.” Contacted by The Telegraph, Roy Chowdhury said that in April, the authors had been told by OUP that a cheaper Indian edition would be out in the first week of July after the global launch in the last week of June. “But before the global launch, OUP (Oxford) said (OUP) India wanted to do a second review, which will not affect the UK launch,” he said. This took the authors by surprise as the book had already been reviewed favourably in the UK by OUP Oxford. Although they had not been intimated earlier about a second review, the authors went along, expecting little more than a short delay. Alarm bells started ringing for them when there was no sign of the book even a month later and there was no communication from OUP India. The book began showing up on Amazon India at a price equivalent to the rupee value (around Rs 2,000) of the global edition. Both authors said OUP India had not given them a satisfactory reply on what necessitated a second review. Why was the second review initiated as late as May-June when OUP India itself had scheduled the book for release for early July, they asked. Neither has OUP India shared a copy of the second review with the two authors, they said. An OUP India spokesperson told this newspaper that the delay was on account of the second wave of the pandemic in India and warehouse shifting, adding that the book would be released this week. As for the second review, the spokesperson said this was standard policy, adding that the “sales team felt the content is provocative”. The spokesperson categorically denied that the article in the Organiser had anything to do with the delay. “There was no pressure from anywhere to delay or stop publishing the book,” the spokesperson said. This newspaper reached out to Organiser editor Prafulla Ketkar on Monday for his response on whether the magazine team had read the book before writing such an indictment or if the criticism was based on Roy Chowdhury’s articles. There was no response till Tuesday evening. The description of the book on the OUP website suggests it has not confined itself to the Modi regime. The description says the book “rejects the belief that India was once a beacon of democracy but is now being ruined by the destructive forces of Modi-style populism. The book details the much deeper historical roots of the present-day assaults on civil liberties and democratic institutions.” The book’s authors said they had no way of knowing if OUP India had acted under pressure. “We cannot claim to have any knowledge about the reasons for the delay. We do not want to make conjectures about political pressure, etc. We really have no proof of that. But the delay is mystifying, the mystery deepened by OUP India’s complete lack of communication on just what it is that’s holding up the book,” Roy Chowdhury said. “We were not told about any ‘concern’ of their sales team.” Keane said: “The unexplained confusion and delay comes as a total surprise after the way OUP had encouraged us throughout our book journey. Our book wouldn’t have been possible without the unwavering and very professional support of the OUP team members at Oxford who’ve tirelessly supported and promoted the book. But the experience with the India leg of OUP worries us deeply.” Another sore point is OUP India’s apparent decision to increase the price. “We now understand the book is priced at Rs 995 by OUP India, which is far higher than the Rs 695 that it had originally set for the locally published edition. The local price was meant to be affordable so that more people can read it. We do not think this is a mass-market price, and are deeply unhappy that OUP India did not even bother to inform the authors of a nearly 50 per cent price increase, let alone explain the reasons for it,” Roy Chowdhury said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
22-09-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Helicopter crash kills two majors at Patnitop||Two major-rank pilots were killed after an army helicopter crash-landed in a dense forest at the Patnitop area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur district on Tuesday. “During an operational area clearance sortie at Patnitop, Major Rohit Kumar and Major Anuj Rajput met with an accident while manoeuvring the helicopter they were flying. During the crash-landing of the helicopter, both pilots suffered grave injuries,” defence spokesman Lt Colonel Devinder Anand said. “They were immediately evacuated to Command Hospital, Udhampur. However, the officers succumbed to their injuries,” he added. Major Kumar was 35 and Major Rajput 28. Bad weather is believed to have contributed to the crash. Officials said the Cheetah helicopter belonged to the Army Aviation Corps. On August 3, the army’s advanced light helicopter Dhruv had crashed into the Ranjit Sagar dam lake in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua district, leaving the two pilots missing for days. The body of Lt Colonel A.S. Batth was recovered on August 15 evening but Captain Jayant Joshi remains untraced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
22-09-2021||India||India warns UK on vaccination terms for visitors||India will be well within its rights to initiate reciprocal measures if the UK does not address New Delhi’s concerns regarding London’s refusal to recognise Indian Covid vaccination certificates, foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla said on Tuesday. He billed as discriminatory the UK’s insistence that all those fully vaccinated in India take pre-departure tests and home quarantine for 10 days on arrival, besides two tests during that period. Shringla dwelt at length on London’s refusal to even accept those vaccinated with Covishield “which is a licensed product of a UK company, manufactured in India, of which we have given five million doses to the UK at the request of the UK government”. Stating that it is India’s understanding that the Indian-manufactured Covishield vaccine is being used in the UK’s National Health Service, Shringla said: “Therefore, non-recognition of Covishield is a discriminatory policy.” The issue was raised by external affairs minister S. Jaishankar with his British counterpart Elizabeth Truss when the two met in New York on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly on Tuesday. “Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interest,” he tweeted. Shringla added that “I am told certain assurances have been given that this issue would be resolved”. He pointed out that India had offered some partner countries the option of a mutual recognition of vaccine certification. “These are reciprocal measures... if we don’t get satisfaction, we would be within our rights to impose reciprocal measures.” Last week, the UK government had announced new rules for travellers entering the country from October 4. The list of authorised vaccines recognises only the full course of the Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna or Janssen vaccines from a relevant public health body in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan. A mix of two-dose vaccines — Oxford/AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech and Moderna — is acceptable but not any of the vaccines from India. Apparently, the main concern is about the authenticity of India’s certification as there is a fear that vaccine certificates may be forged. As a result, those administered Covaxin or even Covishield in India will have to take a pre-departure Covid-19 test in the three days before travelling to England; book and pay for two tests to be taken in the UK (two and eight days after arrival); and home quarantine for 10 days. Congress MP Jairam Ramesh said the UK decision smacked of racism. “Absolutely bizarre considering Covishield was originally developed in the UK and The Serum Institute, Pune, has supplied to that country too! This smacks of racism.” His party colleague in the Lok Sabha, Shashi Tharoor, pulled out of a debate at The Cambridge Union in protest. “Because of this I have pulled out of a debate at the @cambridgeunion & out of launch events for the UK edition of my book #TheBattleOfBelonging (published there as #TheStruggleForIndiasSoul). It is offensive to ask fully vaccinated Indians to quarantine. The Brits are reviewing!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
22-09-2021||India||Scientists suggest full vaccination for travel and social gatherings||Scientists with India’s health research agency have proposed that states adopt full vaccination among prerequisites for tourist travel and social gatherings to reduce the risk of fresh localised Covid-19 surges amid growing travel and the upcoming festive season. The prerequisites are primarily intended for holiday travel and tourist sites awaiting guests but are also relevant to cultural, religious, or social gatherings that might cause large increases in the population density, the researchers with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. The ICMR researchers have said states may consider seeking proof of completed vaccination status or a Covid-19 negative test result from people seeking to stay at hotels within the state. Local health authorities would need to maintain high levels of infection surveillance through vigilance and testing at tourist sites or other places of congregation even in periods of low infection activity, the researchers said. “The possibility of a severe third wave in India (is) still looming, it remains critical to recognise and mitigate the risks involved,” the researchers said in a report. An increase in population density due to tourists or mass congregations due to social, political or religious reasons “can worsen the third wave scenario”. An earlier ICMR study based on computer simulations of likely surges had suggested that a third wave — if at all one occurs — was likely to be less severe than the second wave that rose to a peak of around 400,000 daily infections. The latest simulations have, however, also suggested that the peak of a possible third wave at a typical tourist site that experiences a 40 per cent increase in its population density would increase by up to 47 per cent. India on Tuesday recorded 26,115 new Covid-19 infections, the lowest daily count in 184 days, but 32 districts across the country, including 13 in Kerala,  have test positivity rates of 10 per cent or higher, implying large epidemics. An additional 25 districts across the country, including Calcutta, have test positivity rates between 5 and 10 per cent. Health officials view an epidemic under relative control when test positivity rates are below 5 per cent. Health experts say India’s epidemic, while near-continuously shrinking since early May, retains the potential to trigger localised surges wherever large proportions of the population are susceptible and wherever the virus can spread. “The greater the population density, the more conducive the environment for the virus to spread — and population density can rise significantly both at tourist sites and sites of large congregations,” said Samiran Panda, the chief of epidemiology at the ICMR and a member of the simulations team. The ICMR researchers have said the national government cannot always issue mandates at a federal level and states may adopt guidelines according to their own circumstances and needs. However, hospitality industry executives have said the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the tourism sector so hard that hotels are unlikely to turn away unvaccinated or partially vaccinated guests. An executive with the Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India had told this newspaper last week that most hotels and restaurants would be hesitant to decline services to potential guests who are unvaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
22-09-2021||India||Youth jumps into river  to escape arrest by excise department, dies ||A 20-year-old suspected bootlegger, who had jumped into a river to evade arrest by excise department officials on Monday, was found dead on Tuesday. The body of Sapan Majhi was fished out from the Kantiachara river in Balasore district. Following a tip-off that four youths were moving towards Balasore town with 600 litres of illicit liquor, the special anti-liquor squad of the excise department laid a trap to catch them. The mobile squad intercepted the youths who were on motorcycles. However, while the excise officials managed to arrest three of the bootleggers, Sapan jumped into the river while being chased and was swept away by the strong currents. Locals along with fire brigade officials conducted a search operation and retrieved his body. Following the recovery of Sapan’s body, local residents protested against what they called “excessive” action of the excise department and even blocked the Old Balasore road for sometime by burning tyres. However, officials said that the situation was now under control. Deputy commissioner, excise (Balasore), Ashok Satpathy told The Telegraph: “It is our duty to curb the illicit liquor trade. If we won’t act, there is a chance that a hooch tragedy may occur. No one can guarantee the quality of the liquor being produced illegally and sold in the market.” “In this particular incident, Sapan, who did not know swimming, jumped into the river out of desperation to evade arrest. But before we could act and rescue him, he was swept away by the currents. His body was recovered today morning.” He said there was a group of bootleggers active in Balasore town and its periphery areas. “Because of our initiative, the smuggling of liquor has been curtailed. We want to bring an end to it,” Satpathy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-188
22-09-2021||West Bengal||If you want to see me as CM, vote for me, says anxious Mamata ||The aura of invincibility that surrounded Mamata Banerjee for more than three decades appears to have faded as the Bengal chief minister, known for her street-fighting prowess, made an impassioned plea to voters in Bhowanipore to elect her in the September 30 bypolls. “If you don’t vote for me, I will not remain the chief minister. If you want to see me as chief minister, vote for me. Every vote is important for me,” Mamata said at two public meetings held at Ekbalpore and Chetla localities, both part of the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency. Trinamul insiders admit that the recent Nandigram defeat may be playing on her mind. Yet, she is "Didi", they say. Overcoming adversity is what she thrives on. Since her stunning debut in parliamentary politics in 1984 when a rookie Mamata defeated the former CPM stalwart, the late Lok Sabha Speaker Somnath Chatterjee, she had lost only once in any election: 1989. Mamata’s 1984 victory came riding on the sympathy wave in favour of the Congress led by Rajiv Gandhi after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Five years later, as the ghost of Bofors chased Rajiv, Mamata felt the brunt and lost to the CPM’s Malini Bhattacharya by 30,900 votes. From 1991 till the last Assembly elections held this summer, Mamata had an undefeated streak which came to an end in Nandigram, where she lost to her once close aide Suvendu Adhikary, who had defected to the BJP, last December. Even in 2004, Mamata was the sole MP to win her seat for the Trinamul Congress, as the party faced a rout across Bengal. This time, while the Congress has refrained from putting up a nominee against her, the BJP and the CPM both are in the fray. Although it should be a cakewalk for her on her home turf, Mamata seems anxious. Once bitten, twice shy. “Many are thinking that Didi will win easily. But every vote is important. Even loss of one vote could prove costly. Come rain or storm, whatever happens step out of your homes and vote for me,” Mamata told voters. Trinamul insiders said they have never seen Mamata sound jittery in any poll campaign. “It is quite evident that the Nandigram defeat is playing on her minds. She is well aware the BJP can go to any length to see her removed as the Bengal chief minister,” said a Trinamul MP. “There is no doubt in Bengal there is no other leader who can stop the BJP.” Mamata’s bete noire Suvendu Adhikary who campaigned for party nominee Priyanka Tibrewal in Bhowanipore on the same day urged voters to consider the "ills of the state government" and not go by persona. “This is not about any one individual, rather the vote should be on the performance of the government. Only to ensure that she remains in the chief minister’s seat even the chief secretary of the state is pleading,” said Adhikary. While announcing the bypolls, the Election Commission had said it had given the green signal for the polls to be held despite the Covid threat following a special appeal from the Bengal government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
22-09-2021||West Bengal||IMD predicts low pressure area in Bay of Bengal, more rains in store for Bengal||The Met Department on Wednesday forecast the likely formation of a low pressure area over northeast Bay of Bengal on September 24, even as several low-lying areas in and around the metropolis remain submerged following torrential rainfall earlier in the week. The weatherman warned of downpour at one or two places in South 24 Parganas, Purba Medinipur and Paschim Medinipur districts on September 26-27, and rain or thundershowers across most districts of South Bengal, including Calcutta. A cyclonic circulation lies over the Myanmar coast, which is likely to move to northeast Bay of Bengal and intensify into a low pressure on September 24, it said. Calcutta recorded the heaviest one-day rainfall for September in 13 years - 142mm in 24 hours - on Monday, Met office data showed. Mukundapur, where numerous hospitals are located and Rahara, where three members of a family were electrocuted in a waterlogged room on Tuesday, are among the places still submerged, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
22-09-2021||West Bengal|| Hardeep Singh Puri on door-to-door campaign in Bhawanipur for Priyanka Tibrewal||Union minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday went on a door-to-door campaign in Bhawanipur assembly constituency in support of BJP's candidate Priyanka Tibrewal and said he saw clear support for the saffron party in the area. Puri, the Narendra Modi cabinet's Sikh face, also prayed at a local Gurudwara. "In my conversations with residents of Ram Mohan Dutta Road in the Ray Street area of Bhabanipur, shared their issues & concerns," Puri said on Twitter. "But there is clear support for the BJP candidate Smt. Priyanka Tibrewal," he said. Tibrewal, who accompanied Puri, is challenging Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in her home constituency Bhabanipur, a seat which the TMC had won in elections held to the state assembly earlier this year. The seat was vacated by winning MLA Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay to make way for his party leader. Banerjee had lost elections in Nandigram by a narrow margin to her former aide Suvendu Adhikari who is now BJP's leader in the West Bengal assembly. The Nandigram election is however subject to an ongoing court challenge. Puri, a former Indian Ambassador to the United Nations, also visited Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's and Jan Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee houses, both located in the Bhabanipur area, to pay homage to the two leaders. "Visited the ancestral home of staunch nationalist & firm believer in India's unity & development, Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Ji & joined @BJP4Bengal karyakartas in paying homage to the memory of one of the founders of Bhartiya Jan Sangh. His vision & ideals continue to inspire us," he tweeted. Puri later said there is disillusionment among people about the ruling Trinamool Congress in the constituency and predicted this will be reflected in the results, if people vote freely .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
22-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP stopped from campaigning near Mamata's house ahead of Bhowanipore bypolls||The BJP on Wednesday said it was not allowed by the police to campaign for the Bhowanipore by-election in the area near Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's residence. State BJP president Sukanta Majumdar claimed that they were prevented from campaigning on Harish Chatterjee Street that leads to the residence of Mamata, who is also a candidate in the bypoll. He alleged that the police stopped the BJP's campaign as the TMC was in fear of losing the September 30 election. Rubbishing the allegation, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Akash Magharia said, "They did not have vaccination certificates and they were trying to breach the high-security zone which is why they were diverted from that road." BJP MP Jyotirmay Singh Mahato and Magharia were involved in a spat at the spot. Mahato claimed that they were in compliance with the number of people specified by the Election Commission for the door-to-door campaign, but the police said that there were more people in the entourage. "The TMC has got afraid and is not allowing the BJP to campaign, but the people will break the barricades," Majumdar, who then campaigned on another end of the street, told reporters. He accused the Kolkata police of bias against the opposition political parties. "Professionalism of West Bengal Police and Kolkata Police has been destroyed," he said. Majumdar said that steps will be taken over the matter after discussion within the party. BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, who is pitted against Banerjee in Bhowanipore , claimed that she was prevented from campaigning on the street on Tuesday as well despite having requisite permission. "There are voters on that street and despite having permission, why cannot I or our party go there to campaign?" she questioned, claiming that ruling TMC leaders were freely campaigning in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||In a first, Bengal to count big herbivores during tiger census this year||Bengal for the first time will count big herbivores such as deer and elephants while undertaking the tiger census this year, a senior forest official said on Wednesday. Earlier, the tiger census was done solely focussing on the big cats but from this year, the population of big herbivores will be included in the count as stipulated by the All India Coordinated Tiger Census, Chief Wildlife Warden Debal Roy told PTI. "Herbivores are important to the ecosystem inhabited by tigers. Thus, it is imperative to know how many herbivores are co-existing with tigers in a forest area," he explained. Deer, antelopes, gaurs, rhinoceroses and elephants will be counted depending on the region, Roy said. While the 2019-2020 census put the number of tigers in Sunderbans at 95, the Forest Department is hopeful the upcoming census that will begin in December and continue till January will throw up higher figures. "Apart from camera trapping technique, other statistical models will be used to arrive at the most probable figure and minimum probable figure," Roy said. "The Wildlife Institute of India (WII) will analyse the data, following the census," he said. Sundarbans National Park, Buxa Tiger Reserve, Gorumara National Park, Jaldapara National Park and Chapramari National Park will be covered during the exercise, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar starts with divisive message ||Sukanta Majumdar took charge as the Bengal BJP president in Calcutta on Tuesday with a clear hint of the party’s continuance with divisive politics even as a section of leaders expressed doubts over the Balurghat MP’s ability to steer the organisation by addressing the challenges facing it. “The Trinamul Congress is using the people of a certain community to attack Hindus in Bengal,” Majumdar said in his first address as the state BJP president. Majumdar, a PhD in botany, had replaced Dilip Ghosh as the state BJP chief on Monday. “Our new president is an educated man. But it is doubtful whether he will be able to solve the problems,” a state BJP functionary said. According to several BJP insiders, Majumdar’s biggest handicap is his little or no connection with the party’s organisation as the MP had mostly concentrated on his own parliamentary constituency in the past two years and hence, had little exposure beyond Balurghat. “The only organisational experience he has had since his election as an MP was after November last year when he was appointed as the in-charge for the party’s Sikkim unit. Apart from that, he used to look after our national president J.P. Nadda’s Bengal itinerary ahead of the Assembly polls. Lately, he was appointed as the party’s co-in charge for the upcoming polls in the Jangipur and Samsherganj Assembly segments,” a source said. Getting acquainted with the party and its functionaries will take time for Majumdar and some insiders asked whether the BJP could afford much time as large-scale defections had begun at all levels in the Bengal BJP. While comparing the challenges facing Majumdar with those which Ghosh had to handle after coming from the RSS, a source said the Midnapore MP had got a year or so as a general secretary before he was made the party chief in November 2015. “As a result, Dilip-da had regular interactions with workers and hence, already had a first-hand experience of the organisation before he was made the president. Besides, Dilip-da, with his rustic comments, had become a crowd-puller,” said the source. Majumdar himself admitted the BJP was suffering because of differences in opinion among leaders, but he hoped it would not come in the way of the party’s functioning. “Our party has democracy and hence, people have their own views which they share. There are differences in opinion, but there is no difference in our hearts,” he said. The BJP insiders remained divided on whether the attempt to pursue the divisive agenda would work for the party in the coming days. “Our attempts at polarising the electorate didn’t work in the Assembly polls.... It remains to be seen whether it will work in the future,” said a source. Trinamul didn’t miss an opportunity to take a jibe at Majumdar’s appointment. The party’s spokesperson and MP Saugata Roy said the new BJP chief would take a year to know and understand the demography of Bengal. On the other hand, Trinamul MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the BJP had made a scapegoat out of Dilip Ghosh by removing him. “Leaders like Amit Shah had made huge claims before the polls. Why didn’t they step down? Why should Ghosh alone take all the responsibility?” Roy asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||GNLF leader Mahendra Chhetri quits over ‘ideological surrender’||Veteran leader of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) on Tuesday formally announced his decision to quit the party floated by Subash Ghisingh. Mahendra Chhetri, who joined GNLF in 2011 and was its general-secretary and spokesperson since, in an official press release stated he was severing ties with the party. “My journey with the GNLF ends today,” reads the first line of the release. Recently, Chhetri had expressed disappointment with the leadership, including present party chief and Ghisingh’s son Mann Ghisingh, for “surrendering the party’s ideology and principles to the BJP and for functioning solely at the directive of some leaders of the saffron camp”. On September 15, The Telegraph had reported on Chhetri’s stand where he had also hinted he would part ways with the GNLF. On Tuesday, he confirmed his decision. He said in the release that “realisation has hit many of us in the party” that the GNLF is “more committed towards the BJP and its leaders in Calcutta and Delhi, than its hard-working party cadres and leaders”. He was critical of Mann, too. “Ever since the electoral alliance that was stitched with the party in power in Delhi, our president has completely surrendered the entire organisation, neglecting the ethos and the aspirations of the Gorkhas. The president- seems rudderless. His actions and decisions, which are only taken keeping his coterie in mind, have been more detrimental to the cause of the Gorkhas than anything else,” Chhetri said. This is the second major blow for the GNLF, after Ajoy Edwards, another prominent face, walked out of the party. On his future plans, Chhetri was brief. “I will let you know in due time if I join any other political organisation,” he said. None of the prominent GNLF leaders could be contacted. Calls made to them went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Brown sugar haul, 1 held in Alipurduar||A person with brown sugar worth Rs 30 lakh was arrested from here on Monday night. Kuntal Banerjee, the additional police chief of Jaigaon, said a car was intercepted on Asian Highway 48 at Pasakha More near Jaigaon, located on the India-Bhutan border. Milan Mian, a resident of Jharnabusty in Jaigaon, was held with 300 grams of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin. Sources said the cost of the seized narcotics is around Rs 30 lakh. Mian, booked under NDPS Act, was sent to a special court in Jalpaiguri on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Two CPM ex-councillors join Trinamul Congress in Siliguri||Two senior former councillors of the CPM, who are popular faces of the party in Siliguri, on Tuesday went to the district Trinamul office and joined the party. Sharmila Das, former councillor of ward 28 in Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), and Tapas Chatterjee, the immediate past councillor of ward 32, were welcomed in Mamata Banerjee’s party by Darjeeling (plains) district president Papiya Ghosh and veteran leader and chairperson of the SMC board of administrators Gautam Deb. Since May this year, five former Left councillors have joined Trinamul, sources said. “Many leaders and workers from other political parties and some apolitical faces have approached us and intend to join Trinamul. We are, however, inducting them only after consent from the state leadership,” said Deb. Trinamul insiders said the party wants to consolidate its base by getting Left leaders and supporters on board. In Bengal, Siliguri subdivision has been one of the last bastions of the Left. Till last year, the Left were in power in both SMC and the Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad (SMP). Till Assembly polls this summer, veteran CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya was the MLA. Time and again, Trinamul leaders had expressed surprise as to why, despite a series of development work done across the subdivision by the Mamata Banerjee government since 2011, the party has failed to secure a majority in the SMC and SMP. “During past couple of years, BJP managed to develop its base in and around the city. Also, the Left still has some supporters. That is why on one hand, our leaders working in the board of administrators are focusing on development at the civic body, and on the other hand, we are exploring options to get more and more people from other parties, including the Left, on our side,” said a party leader. The presence of former councillors, who know their wards and localities of the city, would help Trinamul, he pointed out. These former councillors apart, Dipak Seal, a former district general secretary of Trinamul in Siliguri who had defected to BJP ahead of the Assembly elections, re-joined the party on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Help for students who lost breadwinners to Covid-19||Darjeeling based Vik-Run Foundation along with GTA Headmasters’ Association and various educational institutions from the hills have come forward to provide assistance to 14 students from the region who lost their breadwinners to Covid-19. “In June this year, we decided to come up with a Covid crisis scholarship scheme, Siksha Sahara, to help students who have lost breadwinners during the pandemic,” said Vikram Rai, lecturer at St. Joseph’s College (North Point) and founder of the foundation. After scrutinising applications and cross-checking them with various institiutions, the foundation along with GTA Headmasters’ Association short-listed 14 students, three of whom are college-goers, for the scholarship. “We made an appeal to various schools to waive tuition fees,” said Rai. Loreto Convent, St Robert’s High School, West Point and St Teresa Girls Higher Secondary School from Darjeeling along with Pokhriabong High School and Pankhabari High School were some schools that have decided to waive their annual tuition fees for these students. The group is also sponsoring their uniforms and textbooks for the next academic session in the hills that starts in March. “These are difficult times for students who have lost their breadwinners. We also collected Rs 1.4 lakh from our well-wishers and it was distributed to students today (Tuesday),” said Rai. The event was held at Ramakrishna Siksha Parisad (RKSP) school in Darjeeling on Tuesday. The group plans to continue the scholarship in the days to come. “We hope the third wave of the pandemic does not occur but if the situation arises, we will come forward to help,” said Rai. “We are facing difficult times and this has come as a big help for me,” said a student. Vik-Run Foundation, which formed a legal cell, had also taken up a case of a private hospital in Siliguri “overcharging” a Covid patient from Darjeeling, who ultimately lost the battle.The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission directed the hospital to refund Rs 2.3 lakh as compensation to the deceased’s family. In the course of the 20-day treatment, the hospital had handed the family a bill of Rs 8.34 lakh. The foundation, which has a bank of 40 oxygen cylinders and nine oxygen concentrators, is providing free services to the poor all through the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Purulia: Death awarded to child-killer duo||A young mother and her elderly paramour were sentenced to death by a Purulia court on Tuesday, after they were found guilty of killing her three-year-old daughter by pushing seven needles into her in 2017. The additional district and sessions judge of the Purulia court Ramesh Kumar Pradhan deemed the crime was “rarest among the rare”. Mangala Goswami, 28, and Sanatan Goswami, 60, were found guilty under IPC Sections 302 (murder), 34 (acts committed by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) by judge Pradhan on Tuesday afternoon. “The court considered the case as rarest of the rare, as a mother, who is the safest shelter of a child had played a key role in killing her own daughter. We welcome such a punishment as the people would see how cruel a mother can be,” said Anwar Ali Ansari, the special public prosecutor. “The police investigation revealed they played the radio at a high volume while pushing the needles into the  little girl,” Ansari added. Police and court sources said Mangala had an extramarital affair with Sanatan, and they started living together in Nadiara village of Purulia with her daughter in 2017. After a few months, villagers heard the girl cry continuously but neither her mother nor Sanatan took her to a doctor. In July 2017, villagers requested a patrolling police van to take the girl to a hospital. Doctors found metal needles inside her body, including in lungs and abdomen. She was shifted to Bankura Sammilani Medical College and then SSKM in Calcutta, where doctors took out seven needles, but the child died later. The Purulia unit of Childline lodged a police complaint against Mangala and Sanatan, which turned into a murder case. Mangala was immediately arrested, but Sanatan had fled to Uttar Pradesh. After a 13-day search, Sanatan was finally arrested from the Sonbhadra area of Uttar Pradesh. “Police submitted the chargesheet within 52 days and the trial continued keeping Mangala and Sanatan in judicial custody,” said a police officer. After the judgment was delivered, both claimed they were not guilty. A large number of people came to the court compound of Purulia to witness the verdict. The duo were found guilty on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Wire kills 2 flood-relief workers at East Midnapore village||Two persons engaged in relief work in a flooded East Midnapore village of Itaberia panchayat died after coming in contact with a live wire on Monday night. Seven volunteers had gone by boat to distribute relief materials to flood-hit residents of Kotmukha village when the incident took place. Local sources said the volunteers, including team leader and pradhan of Itaberia gram panchayat Sumita Jana, had been using a bamboo pole to row the boat. When the wet bamboo pole came in contact with an overhead electric cable, all occupants of the boat were electrocuted and injured, a panchayat official said. “One person, Sourabh Mondal, 26, fell off the boat owing to the impact of the bamboo pole coming in contact with the overhead cable and went missing. We took the six others to Itaberia block hospital where Pradip Maity, 31, was declared brought dead,” said the panchayat official.On Tuesday morning, Sourabh’s body was was spotted floating. Three other injured volunteers who were admitted to the Itaberia hospital turned critical on Tuesday and had to be shifted to the Tamluk hospital, the official added. “It is a very unfortunate incident. Those who are involved in relief distribution work in our area are all villagers who volunteered to help flood victims,” Gouranga Mondal, a member of the Itaberia panchayat said. “We are providing relief materials for the last two days,” Mondal added. Totrrential rain pounded East Midnapore on Tuesday as well, along with other parts of coastal Bengal. Incessant rain aggravated floods in East and West Midnapore districts. The river Keleghai flooded newer areas. East Midnapore’s district disaster management officer Mrityunjoy Halder said: “Fresh rain on successive days for a stretch now has worsened the situation in areas adjacent to the Keleghai river. These areas include Patashpur and its adjacent places that have already been devastated by floods.” In West Midnapore’s Burisole, Tiyasha Bhuniya, 3, died when her thatched house, where she lived with her parents, caved in on Tuesday morning on account of the impact of the rain and floods. Her mother Soma Bhuniya, who is in an advanced stage of pregnancy, has been seriously injured and is admitted to the hospital. The weather office has forecast light to moderate rainfall, along with thunderstorms in major parts of Murshidabad, Birbhum and South Dinajpur districts from Tuesday afternoon. The weather forecast on Tuesday has unleashed a fresh possibility of more inundation in south Bengal on a day continued rain aggravated the floods in East Midnapore’s Patashpur and Bhagabanpur and West Midnapore’s Sabang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 537 new cases, 592 recoveries and 14 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday recorded 93 straight days of a fall in its overall number of active Covid-19 cases, with 537 new infections, 592 recoveries and 14 deaths. Covid-19 active cases in the state fell by 69 to 7,741. Calcutta logged 108 new infections, the only one among the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta reported three deaths while 15 Bengal districts logged zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, its highest this pandemic and ahead of the national rate of 97.72 per cent. Its mortality rate is 1.2 per cent and that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Its daily Covid-19 positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave earlier this year, was 1.62 per cent on Tuesday. Bengal now has nearly 15.63 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.36 lakh recoveries and 18,678 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Robbers raid gold loan firm in Hooghly’s Chandernagore||Police arrested two armed robbers of a four-member gang after they raided the office of a gold finance agency in Hooghly’s Chandernagore on Tuesday afternoon. The gang fled by firing a few rounds in the air. The police, who had rushed to the spot after getting information about the raid, also fired in the air. An employee of the agency was injured when a gang member hit him on the head with the butt of a firearm. The police, however, could not confirm whether the gang had taken away cash and gold ornaments. Sources said the robbers raided the office of the agency at Laxmiganj market around 2.30pm. Local people, including a few traders, were alerted by the sound of firing coming from inside the office. They immediately alerted the police, who rushed to the spot and cordoned off the office. Traders said the robbers had opened fire first inside the office and then while fleeing. “We had never witnessed such a situation in Chandernagore before,” said Sujit Palit, a local resident. He added the arrival of the police had panicked the robbers and they tried to escape. The police said they could catch two robbers, while the rest managed to flee by climbing onto the roof of the building. “At Laxmigunj bazar under Chandannagore police station, an incident of robbery took place at 14.44 hours onwards….Immediately upon information NAKA was erected all along Chandannagar Police Commissionerate exist points and police has been able to arrest two criminals, rest two criminals ran away by negotiating with terrace and roof,” reads a press-note issued by a senior police officer in a WhatsAap group of local media persons. However, the police are yet to disclose whether the robbers have been able to burgle the firm. Sources said a search was on for the gang members. Chandernagore police commissioner Arnab Ghosh and deputy commissioner Vidit Raj Bhundesh did not take calls from this correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
22-09-2021||West Bengal||Driven by dream, artisan builds ‘bus-house’ near Santiniketan||A 42-year-old artisan near Santiniketan had a childhood dream that he would one day own and drive a bus. After years of living hand to mouth as an adolescent and adult, Uday Das of Dhanai village found out that buying a bus would not be a cakewalk. So, Das, now a father of three children, has fulfilled his childhood dream in a different way by constructing a “bus-house”. The home has become an attraction for people around Santiniketan, many of whom make weekend trips to the site. “In my childhood, the only vehicles that we witnessed were a few buses of the Bolpur-Suri route plying on our village road. As I can’t buy a bus, I thought about it differently. I am happy as many people are coming to see my home and are taking photographs within a fortnight of its completion,” said Das. Das’s house is 22-feet long, 7.6-feet wide and around 8-feet high —with bus owners confirming it was exactly like a medium-sized bus. “Our bus has no engine or steering. I made the driver’s cabin our kitchen. There are slabs where at least 20 people can easily sit” the artisan’s wife Chandana Das said. Villagers said they knew Das as having a knack to create something new, including cement idols for local Pujas. “He is a different kind of person who is always busy in making something new. But we had no idea that he would be able to construct such a bus-house,” said Radharani Mondal, a villager. Now, his village became a place of attraction for many from Santiniketan, who board the stationary concrete bus and return with memories and photographs. “I heard about the bus-house two days ago and came to witness it. I took a few pictures of the house and plan to bring my family members here,” said Ataul Hoque, an English teacher of a local high school and a resident of Santiniketan. Das said he would apply for a government identity card which could help him get a government allowance of Rs 1,000 per month as an artisan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
22-09-2021||North East||Amit Shah authorises Himanta Sarma to hold Ulfa-I peace talks||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has been authorised by Union home minister Amit Shah to engage with the proscribed United Liberation Front of Asom (Independent) to prepare the ground for peace talks with the armed outfit. Sarma himself revealed Shah’s go-ahead hours before flying to Dimapur to hold talks with the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (I-M) for an early resolution to the Naga political issue to end one of the longest running insurgencies in Asia. The hour-long meeting on Tuesday afternoon with the NSCN (I-M) leadership was Sarma’s first. The Ulfa (I) was formed in 1979 to secure sovereignty for Assam. Sarma, who is also convener of the North East Democratic Alliance (Neda), a forum of non-Congress parties, said ongoing peace initiatives in the region, among others, figured in his meeting with Shah in Delhi on Monday. “I raised the issue of talks with the Ulfa (I)… whether I can talk to the group if the Ulfa (I) wants. I was then told to hold preliminary talks. Now I can talk to the Ulfa (I) directly. Once we reach a certain stage and if everything goes to plan, the Centre will step in as is usually the case and take the process forward. But it will take some time for something concrete to emerge,” Sarma said, adding that unofficial parleys through a “third party” was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
22-09-2021||North East||Tripura HC blow to  TMC rally ||The Trinamul Congress’s plan to hold a road show in Agartala on Wednesday received a jolt on Tuesday when Tripura High Court “declined to interfere” with the state government’s decision to impose a prohibitory order across West Tripura district till November 4. Agartala is located in the West Tripura district. The high court order was in response to Trinamul leader Subal Bhowmik’s plea for a directive to police to allow the party’s road show which was supposed to be led by MP Abhishek Banerjee on Wednesday. The BJP government imposed the prohibitory order under Section 144 of the CRPC, fearing a surge in Covid-19 cases and political violence. The order comes days after Trinamul’s plans to hold the road show — first on September 15 and then the following day — had to be shelved because the police didn’t give permission. “The BJP government fears Trinamul and Abhishek Banerjee, the royal Bengal tiger.… People of Tripura are with Trinamul despite the BJP government’s conspiracies against our party,” Trinamul MP Santanu Sen said. The court verdict and the prohibitory order, however, will not derail Abhishek’s proposed visit to Tripura, said Trinamul sources. “We will receive him at the airport tomorrow (Wednesday) morning, but we can’t carry flags and banners. He will be attending an induction programme and addressing a press meet,” a Trinamul leader said. Tripura advocate-general S.S Dey told The Telegraph that Justice Arindam Lodh had “declined to interfere” with the government order that imposed Section 144 and “closed the case without grant of prayers made in the petition”. Trinamul sources said although the prohibitory order would make political programmes difficult till November, the party would keep highlighting “the fear in the BJP” about Abhishek.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
22-09-2021||North East||Study reveals 22% workforce lost their jobs in Assam during Covid ||A study by an autonomous college in Assam has found that an estimated 22 per cent of the workforce may have lost their jobs in the state due to the Covid pandemic. The study conducted by Nowgong College (Autonomous) at Nagaon in central Assam from May to August in 14 of the 34 districts also found that over 20 per cent of the workforce took up new jobs to survive. “An estimated 2,300 employed people out of one lakh lost their jobs. Going by that estimate, an estimated 862,500 people may have lost their jobs in both the waves. The broad objective of the study was to analyse, among others, the impact of the current pandemic on life and livelihood, assess awareness level and understand the challenges posed by it as part of our college’s social responsibility,” a college faculty associated with the study told The Telegraph. Unemployment is a major issue in the state with political parties flagging it as an important poll plank in the Assembly elections held in March-April. There are over 16 lakh registered educated unemployed in Assam. Those who lost their jobs or changed jobs were mostly associated with the travel, construction, transport, textile and the hospitality sectors besides small-scale units. Others affected included daily wagers, those running small grocery shops and fruit and vegetable sellers. The study also confirmed that more than 40 per cent small-time businessmen faced acute problems due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. Closure of small-scale industrial units saw most of their employees turn into daily wagers. The voluntary exercise was conducted both offline and online jointly by the Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) and National Service Scheme (NSS) unit of the college. Altogether 100 members from both cells of the college, led by principal Sarat Borkataki and IQAC coordinator Bhuban Ch. Chutia, initiated the study jointly through a structured online form, covering a population of 3,500 in 700 households in 14 districts.  The districts included Nagaon, Morigaon, Karbi Anglong, Sonitpur, Udalguri, Biswanath, Lakhimpur, Tinsukia, Dibrugarh, Charaideo, Sivasagar, Jorhat, Golaghat and Bongaigaon. The state government imposed long curfew hours and barred inter-district travel as cases soared in April and May, affecting lives and livelihoods. Economic activities have started picking up as the government began to ease curbs by August-end. Government and private schools resumed classes for Class X students from Monday after a gap of four months by adhering to Covid protocols. Till Sunday, Assam had 3,709 active cases with a positivity rate of 0.92 per cent. Altogether 597,968 people have tested positive for the coronavirus and 5,797 have died since the first wave that started in March 2020 in the state. The study also revealed that 20 per cent of the people are not aware of Covid-19 while 22 per cent were unaware of coronavirus testing centres, something which is reflected in people without masks in public places despite the standard operating procedures being issued by the administration. The survey also found that 63 per cent of the rural people faced Internet issues due to poor connectivity and 59.3 percent of the urban people preferred online transactions due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
22-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Pinced hard||The rate of increase in the prices of goods and services is usually measured in terms of statistically-refined measures, with different weights attached to different goods according to their relative importance. Monthly statistics on inflation sometimes register increases; sometimes they soften. However, to the common person, these can be of little use in coping with the monster of rising prices that affect everyday purchases of necessities. In recent times, prices of many common goods have skyrocketed at an astonishing pace. Take, for instance, the doubling of the price of cooking gas cylinders. It now stands at Rs 911. Mustard oil prices had crossed Rs 200 per litre. Petrol and diesel prices have galloped north on account of a surge in oil prices and what appears to be an incessant rise in taxes imposed on petroleum products. Vegetables have become very expensive too. Milk, chicken, fish and egg prices have also risen. Education as such has not become costlier, but online classes have meant families have had to purchase more smartphones to ensure everyone who needs them has one. Obviously, the costs incurred in purchasing greater internet data packs have risen under the circumstances. Another area of concern has been the rapid rise in the price of medicines. These are not costly or rarely-used medicines. These are commonly used, such as antacids, paracetamols and even vitamins. Aggregate data do not reveal fully everyday price rises; definitely not to the extent that they pinch the pockets of households. These facts need to be seen in the light of the fact that during the last one year, a substantial number of citizens have slid back into poverty while many have slipped down from the middle-class income-bracket. Several reasons are cited for rising inflation. Supply chains have not been fully repaired and some shrewd traders are squeezing buyers to make up for the business lost last year. It is also being suggested that vagaries of the climate are taking their toll on the availability of food. At a time when constituencies with fixed incomes are being inconvenienced, it can be deduced that the impact of inflation-induced price rise is even harsher on the poor. There is news that mid-day meals are becoming less nutritious in terms of choice of food available. Malnutrition and undernourishment are likely to rise. India stands to lose much of the gains in food security made over the last two or three decades. The Centre, like in other instances of national problems, has been singularly silent. The public at large also seems unusually quiet. These, as they say, are interesting times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
22-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Channi appointed as Punjab CM||Tricky move Sir — The Punjab potboiler is far from over. From the rumblings of discontent over the political developments in the state, it is evident that the swearing-in of Charanjit Singh Channi as the new chief minister, following the resignation of Amarinder Singh, scripted by the Congress high command was not the dénouement of the political drama (“First Dalit CM of Punjab”, Sep 20). It seems that this saga will continue till the state assembly elections in early 2022. A Dalit Sikh being made the chief minister is at best a symbolically significant gesture. It does not, in itself, assure a better life for Dalits. It is not difficult to tell whether the choice was made with an eye on the Dalit vote since the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Bahujan Samaj Party has formed an alliance or out of commitment to Dalit empowerment and welfare. Dalits make up close to 32 per cent of the population in Punjab. The Congress, like most other parties, looks at Dalits as a vote bank. Even though it may not be as stridently anti-Dalit as the saffron party, it has done little over the decades to uplift Dalits. Clearly, it lacks the political will. It thus remains to be seen how effectively the Congress will be able to play the Dalit card. Channi is widely perceived as a ‘stopgap chief minister’ and as a proxy for Navjot Singh Sidhu. This is made clear by the statement of the Congress state in-charge, Harish Rawat, that the assembly election will be fought under the aegis of Sidhu. The Bharatiya Janata Party and the BSP, of course, lost no time to denounce the use of a Dalit face to harvest votes. The ongoing farm protests have put the BJP out of the reckoning. The Congress is a divided house; but the fact that there is no alternative may help it romp home. The internecine fights within the Congress are not over any policy, issue or ideology. The Congress would do well to get its act together and work to grow stronger in states where it is not in power than upset the apple cart and trigger internal crises in states where it is in power for the sake of secularism and pluralism, if nothing else. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The recent induction of Charanjit Singh Channi — a rather low-profile Dalit leader who had not been at the forefront of the race for power so far — as chief minister in Punjab is a well-thought-out decision by the Congress leadership. The intent as well as the modus operandi of the recent chief ministers in both Gujarat and Punjab appear to be similar. In Punjab, the Dalit card has been played out desperately as a last resort to woo the community that had so far been sidelined before the polls. It is no doubt a risky ploy. Channi does not share a very strong allegiance to either Amarinder Singh or Navjot Singh Sidhu — the two are at daggers drawn. This could quell the bickering for the time being. But other challenges — past infirmities and underperformances — will continue to haunt this rejigged government. In fact, such stupendous course correction within a short span of time is most likely untenable. Further, the Dalit card had been played out by other contenders long before the Congress’s foray; this will possibly nullify the appeasement tactics of the incumbent. Apart from the perennial drug abuse problem in Punjab, the state will also have to tackle the aggravated threats of cross-border terrorism and influx of arms and ammunition, given the change of guard in its geopolitical neighbourhood. With his indubitable nationalist credentials and experience in the field, one believes that Amarinder Singh could have managed this threat efficiently. It is unlikely that his unceremonious exit will be taken lightly by the people of Punjab. The simmering unrest between the two contending blocs within the Congress might grow more pronounced with the election drawing closer. Such intra-party resentment, squabbling and foul play pose a grave threat to the Congress’s electoral prospects, leading to a neck-and-neck fight. Chances of a hung assembly and surprising post-poll alliances cannot be ruled out either. Chanchal Nandy,West Burdwan  Size matters Sir — The immersion of idols may mark the end of a festival, but this can also be the beginning of deep environmental problems. It is common knowledge that there is a high risk of the heavy metals used on the idols entering the food chain. But experts have now come up with a new observation — the smaller the idol, the greater the chances of water pollution because it is difficult for the authorities to keep track of smaller pujas and fish the immersed structures out of the water. There is an urgent need for a programme where people can register their pujas to help the authorities check pollution. Bijoyinee Das,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
22-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Script change||Charanjit Singh Channi’s anointment as chief minister of Punjab has come amidst heartburn that is characteristic of the Congress. Indeed, the party was left with egg on its face when a senior leader proclaimed that the assembly elections — they are only months away — would be fought under the leadership of Navjot Singh Sidhu, whose fractious ties with Amarinder Singh led to the change of guard in the first place. The factionalism notwithstanding, Mr Channi’s appointment seems politically prudent. Dalits are an important electoral constituency in poll-bound Punjab: they make up over 30 per cent of the population in 54 assembly seats and between 20-30 per cent in another 45. By appointing Punjab’s first ever Dalit chief minister, the Congress is hoping to send the correct signals to the under-represented community. But a favourable response from Dalit voters may not be enough to secure Mr Channi’s — and the Congress’s — political futures. The new chief minister may have begun his innings by announcing sops for the poor and farmers but he is confronted with steep challenges, foremost among which would be the Congress’s ability to mobilize and balance the interests of other castes along with those of Dalit Sikhs and Hindus. It remains to be seen how the non-Dalit Hindu and Sikh voters respond to Mr Channi’s elevation. The change of guard in Punjab may have ramifications in the power hierarchy in the handful of other states where the Congress is in power. If this were to come to pass, the Congress high command would have to embark on a fine balancing act, given the presence of entrenched and conflicting interest groups in the party rank and file. One more inference can be drawn in this context. It seems that the high command has suddenly rediscovered the will to confront charismatic regional leaders among whom Mr Singh was the most prominent. Mr Channi’s change in fortune could be seen as one more chapter in the fat tome of tussle between the high command and regional satraps of the Congress. The irony, though, operates at two levels. First, political parties continue to believe that marginalized constituencies — be they Dalits, Muslims or adivasis — vote as homogeneous blocs. That explains these periodic, largely symbolic, overtures. But the truth is that social and economic transformations have led to fragmentation in the Dalit vote in many states. The political preferences of Jatavs and non-Jatavs in Uttar Pradesh or, again, those of Malas and Madigas in Andhra Pradesh need not overlap. Second — this is the greater tragedy — the cumulative political patronage has not led to substantial empowerment of Dalits thus far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
22-09-2021||Opinion||Caught in the cross-currents||Submarines are devices of deception. They’re meant to hide their true positions and quietly torpedo the enemy’s vessels. In the ongoing diplomatic stand-off between the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Australia on the one hand and France on the other over nuclear submarines, they’ve lived up to that reputation of stealth. But there’s one big twist that India must note. The submarine subterfuge that has left France fuming didn’t target the enemies of the new troika of America, Britain and Australia, dubbed Aukus. It has, instead, struck at historic alliances: Nato and the US-France partnership that has stood the test of time since the American War of Independence. To be sure, there are elements of the Aukus deal that suit India’s strategic interests well. As a part of the new alliance, the US and the UK will sell Australia nuclear-powered submarines. That represents a definite and deeper commitment from both Washington and London to the security of the Indo-Pacific region, where they — and other countries, including Australia — share India’s worries about China’s increasingly expansionist inclinations. India isn’t part of any security alliance but has significantly ramped up its multilateral partnerships in a part of the world that New Delhi considers its extended neighbourhood. It has trilaterals with the US and Japan, and separately with Japan and Australia. And then there’s the so-called Quad — a grouping of India, the US, Japan and Australia. Leaders of the four Quad countries will meet at a physical summit for the first time later this week on September 24 in Washington. New Delhi’s active participation in the Quad has riled Beijing in recent years. China sees the initiative — and other such multilateral platforms — as efforts aimed at containing its rise. The new Aukus alliance could take away some of the heat from the Quad, a scenario that India wouldn’t mind. So what’s the problem? India has long seen itself as a central pillar of any security architecture in the region. The Quad reinforced that conviction in South Block. But while India was informed in advance about the formation of the new Aukus alliance, senior officials have confirmed to this writer that New Delhi was not told about the plan to supply Canberra with nuclear submarines. And frankly, New Delhi can hardly expect any better if the US kept its oldest ally, France, in the dark. The nuclear submarine deal with Australia torpedoed a 2016 deal under which Paris was to supply Canberra with submarines. A seething France has withdrawn its ambassadors from Washington and Canberra and is keeping the US president, Joe Biden, waiting for a phone call from its president, Emmanuel Macron. The message is clear: to the US game plan in the Indo-Pacific, even close friends like India and old allies like France matter only so much. They’re merely cogs in the wheel of a grand strategy, each serving a purpose, but not worthy of being treated as an equal, trusted partner. There are other reasons to worry too. The deal with Australia — and the strike against the Paris-Canberra submarine pact — comes at a time when Macron and a few other leaders in the European Union have been arguing for greater strategic freedom from the US. Some experts have suggested that Washington’s move is a response to those voices in Europe. If that’s the case, what does this mean for India — a country that since independence in 1947 has fiercely guarded its strategic autonomy, refusing to get drawn into the orbit of any major power? That’s an approach that all Indian governments have followed. Is the Biden administration sending a subtle message to India too — that the search for autonomy could carry costs? Then there’s the confusion that too many cooks breed. When India, Japan, the US and Australia work together in the Quad, what do they additionally gain through sub-groupings like the one between India, the US and Japan, and between India, Japan and Australia? After all, Japan and Australia are treaty partners of the US. India needs to be careful that it ends up with more than just a soup of overlapping trilaterals that could work more effectively if they were consolidated. And finally, New Delhi must stay cautious so that it doesn’t get caught up in the crossfire emanating from tiffs involving its friends. France is India’s oldest strategic partner, a country that has stood by New Delhi when America, Australia and others wouldn’t. Even more importantly, France has the largest security presence in the Indo-Pacific region of all European nations, with bases in Djibouti and in overseas territories like Mayotte, Reunion and the French Southern and Antarctic Lands. It makes sense for India to partner closely with France for security in the region. Indeed, it has a trilateral with France and... oops, Australia. What happens to that partnership now? Will France agree to continue with it? Will India need to play peacemaker between France and Australia? We’ll know soon. Yes, submarines are devices of deception. But perhaps this time, they’ve also helped bring to the surface some of the troubling realities of the crowded rush of global powers into the Indian Ocean. India needs to make sure it isn’t the target of any torpedoes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
22-09-2021||Opinion||A course correction||It is difficult to read a newspaper or watch sport on television nowadays without encountering an advertisement for an online higher educational course. Although these courses often vary from one other, there is a fundamental similarity in their sales pitch — an online certification is a low-cost manner to increase one’s professional prospects. So while one ad states that nearly 100 per cent of those who have taken their course report a career benefit, including a promotion, another claims that taking their courses led to a more than 400 per cent salary hike. It is insightful to note that the highlights of their advertisements are, typically, the number of companies who hire from them, the salaries offered and the pay rise their students received. Not a word about the content of the courses, the teaching methods used or the cohort with whom one is enrolled. That’s hidden away — often a matter of mere detail. This, in a snapshot, captures the state of large swathes of the contemporary higher education sector in India. Education is conflated with certification, the need for learning replaced by the need for a job, insight and self-discovery forsaken at the altar of higher pay and promotion. Online education has blown the lid off this reality by providing such instrumental education more effectively, conspicuously and at scale, to more numbers of people. But the medium is not the malaise — it would be easy to hold ‘online’ responsible for this new educational zeitgeist. But that would be a mistake. Online classes have only put in sharp relief what we knew all along — that we have a widespread practice of commercial certification that masquerades as higher education in India. This was recognized by the Supreme Court in 2005 when it found that the Thamath University functioned from Room No. 201 of the 2nd floor of the Raipur Commercial Complex, “a single small room”. Other ‘universities’ were actually shops in a congested market area in Raipur city. Some more spacious ones were in middle income group flats. It struck down as unconstitutional the relevant sections of the Chhattisgarh Private Universities (Establishment and Operation) Act that had recognized such shops as universities. While these may literally have been commercial shops, some of their counterparts are often more sophisticated. Offering business management diplomas and like degrees at impressive campuses, they promise a year of networking and often 100 per cent placement, including in jobs abroad. They may be significantly different in the form of their offering, but in substance, they too view education solely as an instrument for career progression. In this factual context of rapid commodification of education, the National Education Policy 2020 signals a green shoot of recovery. The NEP gets its theories exactly right — that education from pre-primary to university needs to be multi-disciplinary, integrated, focusing on the intellectual, moral, physical and spiritual awakening of the student. It does not have to be Indic in terms of repudiating Western pedagogical concepts but must be practical in ensuring that Indian youth are equipped to lead lives as good citizens of the world. In its conceptualization, it appears to draw heavily both from Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo. Swami Vivekananda conveyed his understanding of education eloquently — “education is the manifestation of the perfection already in man.” Such perfection would not manifest through accumulation of facts. It was about realizing oneself. Sri Aurobindo put it succinctly — “The first principle of true teaching is that nothing can be taught.” Castigating the European teaching method popular in India at the time for trying to “hammer the child into shape”, he pointed to the futility of rote learning or cramming to clear a test. True education came from within; teachers only supplied the spark. These views are well-known to most education planners. But such a transformed educational system cannot be created overnight. This is where the NEP falters. Beyond stating what several NEPs in the past have stated, that India must spend six per cent of its GDP on education (it currently spends 4.43 per cent), it does not walk its talk. Despite recognizing the reality of commodification of the higher education sector in India, it stops short of providing a workable roadmap on how such a state of affairs will change. Maybe that comes next. But till then, Vivekananda and Aurobindo remain like gods who are to be worshipped rather than wise men whose words are to be heeded. So before the NEP can actually be implemented, all kinds of shops will continue to function as higher educational institutions. This is because theories of good education matter little in India’s intensely profitable higher education sector. It is the demand of India’s aspirational classes that ultimately determines its future. Education has embraced this race to the market whole-heartedly, if somewhat coyly. Public universities are not privatized, at least not yet. But the growth of private universities has outstripped public ones significantly in order to satisfy this demand. According to the All India Survey of Higher Education 2020, state private universities have gone from 197 in 2015-16 to 327 in 2019-20. During the same time, state public universities have grown at less than 50 per cent. Equally, there are 31,390 private colleges in India where 1.8 crore students are enrolled in comparison with 8,565 government colleges with 90 lakh students. Private institutions are slowly becoming the norm-setters in this space. Many of them offer flexible payment terms, don’t always insist on class participation, make no promises about learning quality. All of them offer a degree that another market — the job market — considers the calling card of the educated. The sign of an educated recruit for large sections of the formal job market is a graduation or post-graduation degree; hands-on knowledge is secondary to command over English, and real-life skills are often too difficult to assess in the chosen method of assessment — a short interview — and, so, are often given a go-by. Needless to say, not all private universities and employers fall in this category. Neither are all public universities exemplars of quality education. But despite exceptions, commodification of higher education is a widespread reality.  There is no time for Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo in this competitive market; they are silently trampled upon. In this context, tech companies are simply doing what they do best — helping existing educational courses and institutions reach scale. By connecting them to students who had no access to them before, they are actually being egalitarian in distributing the fruits of India’s contemporary higher education sector amongst a larger group. We must be careful to not shoot the messenger. But we must equally introspect about the message. India’s lot will not rise if its students only earn quicker promotions and marginally higher salaries. At best, we will become a second-hand United States of America. Unless that is the pinnacle of achievement in our collective imagination, Indian higher education needs a course correction.  Arghya Sengupta is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city records highest rainfall in 24 hours||A low-pressure area over south-east Jharkhand coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation triggered heavy rain in Kolhan in the past 24-hours. Jamshedpur recorded the highest rainfall of 94.5 mm followed by Chaibasa in West Singhbhum which experienced 89.6 mm of rain. Rainfall over 64.5 mm is considered heavy in Met parlance. Nimdih in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district recorded 78.2 mm while Kharsawan recorded 75.2 mm. Chandil near Jamshedpur recorded 70 mm of rain while Arki in Khunti recorded 60 mm of rain. Ghatshila in Kolhan's East Singhbhum district recorded 39.6 mm of rain while Bokaro recorded 30 mm of rain. Capital Ranchi witnessed 26 mm of rain while Lohardaga and Ramgarh recorded over 20 mm of rain. Several other places in Kolhan neighbouring Simdega recorded moderate rain. Jamtara, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Chatra, Hazaribagh, Jamtara, Daltonganj and Dumka also received a good spell of rain during the past 24- hours. Satellite pictures suggested that the low-pressure and the associated cyclonic circulation was extending up to 5.8 km above mean sea level. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Wednesday passing through southeast Jharkhand and Balasore in neighbouring Odisha. Weathermen hinted at formation of another cyclonic circulation and a low pressure area over east central Bay of Bengal around September 24, Friday. The system is expected to result in widespread rainfall activity in Jharkhand and neighbouring Odisha. Meanwhile, the heavy rain in Jamshedpur during the past 24 hours resulted in opening of three radial gates of the Dimna lake dam on Wednesday due to rising water level at the Dimna Lake, an artificial reservoir. The Dimna Lake sources drinking water to the entire steel city. Officials of Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited ( formerly Jusco ), a Tata Steel subsidiary which  looks after the maintenance and upkeep of Dimna lake said  the radial gates of the dam were opened after six years. The shower show during the last 24 hours brought down the rain deficit by two per cent Monsoon rain statistics revealed that so far the state has received 962.1 mm of rain against a normal of 999.3 mm, a deficit of four per cent. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre this afternoon issued the forecast of light to moderate rain accompanied by lightning and thunder over various districts of Jharkhand during the next 48 hours. An alert of heavy rain was also issued in isolated places during the next 24-hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC fan club protests jersey design on social media||The official fan club of Jamshedpur FC, Red Miners, is demanding a change of the team jersey design and members have launched protests on social media for the same. Members have pleaded to change the design of the jersey, especially of the white and blue one for away matches. Jamshedpur made their ISL debut in season 2017-18 but is yet to make it to the play-offs. The club, which finished 6th last year, has been making desperate attempts to try and qualify for the play-offs. Jamshedpur FC has failed to make a new kit, be it home or away, in the last four years. The fans have taken to social media to raise their concerns, and have started using the hashtags #JFCJerseyChangeKaro and #ChangeTheJersey. The fans have started commenting on the hashtag as a form of protest on the social media platform of Jamshedpur FC and Tata Steel. ISL clubs like Kerala Blasters, Bengaluru FC, Mumbai City FC and more, launch new kits every year with a different concept, and approach. There are around 2,000 members on the Red Miners rolls while as many are from Bangalore, Bhubaneswar and Calcutta. Jamshedpur FC will assemble in Goa for the pre-seasons by October 2. The cash-rich ISL begins on November 19. The Tata Steel-owned club since its inception has had the same jersey. The home kit is red with dark blue sleeves and features tribal art and symbols as a tribute to the rich tribal history of Jharkhand, the state to which the club belongs. The away colors have been white with sky blue sleeves, and the same tribal symbols. Sunil Mishra, a member of Red Miners, said a jersey represents the club, the people, the fans and the city. ""Most fans of every club look forward to having a new jersey before every season but JFC have so far done the opposite. We wish our demand is fulfilled," he added. "We have been asking the club for a new jersey since the last two seasons. We started the protest a few days back when we realised our request had no takers," said Sheikh Imran, another member. Utsab Ghosh, a die-hard fan of the club, said they were united when it came to request for a new jersey. ""Digital protest is an apt idea to show our unity. A jersey might change the fortunes of the club and provide a fresh look to it," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||Ederline: Dedicated helpline for senior citizens in Ranchi soon||Ranchi district administration will soon launch a dedicated helpline number for senior citizens to call and seek help from the government in legal matters, during natural disasters and also submit requests for facilities under government-run welfare schemes, officials said on Wednesday. The toll-free helpline number, named "Elderline", will be run jointly by the district administration, Samarth Life Management Private Limited, an NGO based out of Gurugram,  and a Ranchi-based company, Baba Computers, a press communique from the district administration stated. Senior citizens in need of help will have to dial 14567 and executives of a dedicated call centre will guide them further. District officials and other stakeholders involved in this initiative have already started undergoing training for the programme. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan recently chaired a meeting via video conferencing with other district officials and reviewed the status of the Elderline initiative in Ranchi. “The idea is to provide help to elderly people in distress as they face greater challenges during any crisis situation due to age related ailments,” said Ranjan. An official actively involved in the initiative said that elderly people staying alone were not only more likely to face problems in getting legal aide or help during crisis, but also susceptible to frauds. “There are so many elderly people living in this city who do not have anyone to support them during any crisis. The helpline number will make them feel more confident and give then a sense of self-reliance,” the official said. Even during the first and the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, elderly people staying alone faced a lot of challenges in getting groceries, edibles and even medicines. While the Jharkhand government did come up with home delivery facility for essentials during the pandemic, there was no dedicated helpline for senior citizens. In order to address the problems of elders in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Social Justice started call centres in major states under the Elderline project a year ago. The facility is already operational in five States – Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. In Jharkhand, such call centres will come up in all the 24 districts and Ranchi will be the first to launch the helpline number, government sources said. This helpline will also offer emotional support to the callers during and after the pandemic. Senior citizens facing pension related problems may also get help by contacting this number.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||At launch of dhoti/sari scheme, Hemant unveils sops of Rs 36cr for Dumka  ||Chief minister Hemant Soren re-launched an old government scheme to provide dhoti/sari to those living below the poverty line (BPL) in Jharkhand, maintaining that it was a testimony to his government’s commitment towards the poor by providing clothing along with food. During a state-level ceremony organised in Dumka on Wednesday, Hemant also inaugurated two COBAS machines set up in Ranchi and Dumka for high-end Covid-19 testing and rolled out other development schemes for the region worth about Rs 36 crore. Hemant said that improving school education, which suffered a major setback in the last two years due to Covid-19, was one of the priority areas for his government. He revealed that the state  government was working on a plan to start English medium schools in every district. JMM patriarch and the chief minister's father Shibu Soren, state finance and food and civil supplies minister Rameshwar Oraon, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, officials of the Dumka administration were present at the ceremony to unveil the dhoti/sari scheme. Other districts too held their own function and were connected virtually to the Dumka programme. Titled "Sona Sobran Dhoti Sari Scheme", all BPL families will be able to get dhotis or saris at Rs 10 each twice a year from PDS outlets. Speaking on the occasion, Hemant lashed out at the previous BJP government for suspending thes scheme,  originally launched by him during his first stint as chief minister in 2014. “Anaj ke saath, garib ko kapda humara sankalp tha jab maine yeh yojna shuru kiya tha pichli baar. (Along with food grains, access to proper clothing to poor was our resolution when I started this scheme last year). We lost power later and BJP government then stopped this. But now, poor in this state don’t have to worry about the two basic requirements—food and clothing,” Hemant said, adding that the government has allocated Rs 500 crore per annum for the  scheme to serve around  58 lakh ration card holders. The chief minister also presented dhotis and saris to a handful of beneficiaries in Dumka. Reiterating his government’s commitment to  provide jobs, he said that although the government had declared 2021 as employment year, the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic had delayed plans. “Despite battling challenges in upgrading the health sector for effective management of the pandemic, we are working round- the-clock to fulfill our promises. As far as employment is concerned, things have started moving in the right direction,” he said, highlighting how the recently launched local employment policy would help. “The past government’s job policy was such that mostly outsiders were given jobs. It (the BJP government) was never serious about creation of jobs. In five years, the BJP government couldn’t conduct state public service commission exams, but just a few days ago, we held exams for all four pending years,” he said. “My government is working with an agenda to develop villages, strengthen farmers at the grassroots. These initiatives will lay a solid foundation for overall development of the state," Hemant said. Finance minister Rameshwara Oraon, in his address, stressed on the frail economic health of the state due to lavish spending by the previous government. “You must know that we are still not in a good position in terms of our fiscal health. But through prudent spending, we are able to fund schemes and polices for the people of Jharkhand," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad doctor faces flak for sharing satirical video on PM   ||A government doctor in Dhanbad is at the centre of a controversy for sharing a satirical video on the Prime Minister on his birthday on a whatsapp group with local BJP leaders criticising his actions and the district administration asking the civil surgeon to look into the matter. The doctor, Rakesh Kumar, who is posted at the district hospital, has gone on two days' leave. He refused to comment on the media's queries on his social media post. Kumar is understood to have shared a video by Rajeev Dhyani, a Lucknow-based satirist and political activist with over  20.7 K followers, on Twitter on September 17, the Prime Minister's birthday, on a whatsapp group of doctors belonging to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College, Dhanbad, where he used to work before. In the video titled "Modiyabind ki Bimari", originally shared on Twitter on September 12, Dhyani plays on the Hindi word, "motiaband (cataract)", to explain blurred vision because of which, he says, many people can't see what's going on around them, but have a clear vision of events unfolding far away places like Afghanistan and Syria. In the event, he adds, such people remain far away from the light of knowledge. Dhanbad civil surgeon Shyamkishore Kant said he had sought an explanation from the doctor for sharing the video. "He has gone on leave. We are now waiting for his response,” he said, adding that the doctor had apologised to the members of the whatsapp group and also the local BJP MLA, Raj Sinha. BJP leaders of Dhanbad district have demanded action against the doctor, saying his post was "objectionable", while several civil society mebers have criticised the leaders for unnecessarily raking up a controversy. Dhanbad MLA Sinha termed the doctor's action "objectionable", alleging that the video he shared contained "abhadra tippani (objectionable comments)" about the Prime Minister. Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh also joined the fray and demanded a probe into the issue. While interacting with the media on Tuesday, Singh blamed the Hemant Soren government too. "When the state government is itself behaving irresponsibily, then what can we expect from its officers. I will also raise the issue during the upcoming District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee meeting,” he said. Bijay Jha, a politician-turned social activist, termed the statements of MLA Sinha and MP Singh as unnecesary. "Will they ask for a similar probe on similar satirical comments made by many others against former Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and even Jawaharlal Nehru?" said Jha, also a former chairman of Bokaro Industrial Area Development Authority. Shiv Balak Paswan, secretary of Jharia Coalfield Bachao Samiti, also took a dig at the MLA and MP. “It is an attempt to distract the people’s attention from core issues... Why didn't the MP and MLA come to Jharia when the people were suffering due to an acute drinking water crisis for over a week ahead of Vishwarkarma Puja?" he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid caseload rises again in Jharkhand ||The active caseload witnessed a rise in Jharkhand on Tuesday after the trajectory of active Covid-19 cases saw a downward trend for several days in a row, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The active caseload jumped to 65 as the state reported at least 14 fresh cases of coronavirus infection against only four Covid recoveries on Tuesday, a bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum reported four cases each and the active caseload increased in all the three districts. Bokaro and Latehar, on the other hand, reported one case each. Four Covid cases against two recoveries took the active caseload in Ranchi to 29, while the count of active cases in East Singhbhum rose to seven as the district reported only one Covid recovery against the four fresh cases of infection on the day. West Singhbhum reported zero Covid recoveries and the active caseload there rose to four from zero. Jharkhand on Tuesday vaccinated nearly 1.80 lakh residents against Covid-19, taking the total count of people who have received at least one dose of the vaccine over 1.28 crore. As per provisional figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 1,14,058 residents, while the booster dose of the vaccine was administered to at least 63,858 beneficiaries. More than 1.25 lakh Jharkhand residents vaccinated on the day fell in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. Almost 25,000 beneficiaries were administered vaccine doses in Ranchi on the day, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. More than 20,000 residents were vaccinated in East Singhbhum, the second highest among the districts, while nearly 20,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Dhanbad. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of as many as 38,767 residents and 0.03 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus. As per government data, over 3.48 lakh residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||Caste: PMO asks Hemant to meet Shah instead||Prime minister Narendra Modi has not given an appointment to Hemant Soren to discuss the need for a caste based census in the upcoming national population survey, but has suggested that the chief minister rather meet Union home minister Amit Shah whose ministry is dealing with the issue, the JMM said on Tuesday. Insiders in the JMM, that is heading a coalition government in the state, pointed out how the PM had agreed to meet Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, who is leading an NDA government, and  accused the PM of  "step brotherly treatment  to Jharkhand". The JMM said it was now hoping to get Shah's audience either this week or next week. Addressing the media, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, "On September 8, the  CM had written to the PM asking for his time to lead a nine-member delegation of parties to discuss  the need for a  caste based census in the nationwide population survey. Also, we want to press for implementation of a Sarna code, a seperate religion column for the Adivasis. However, we received an email from the PM's residential office the next day with an advice to meet Home minister as survey comes under the jurisdiction of this ministry. We hope to get an appointment with Amit Shahji either this week or next week. "May be next time he will spare time if he is really concerned about Jharkhand and its needs." Opposition BJP has refused to be a part of a Hemant delegation. State unit  president Deepak Prakash claimed the JMM never extended a formal invite, but that even it did, the BJP would not be a part of it. "The Hemant Soren government is doing cheap politics over caste based census and OBC reservation. We will not be a part of any such trick. BJP will rather tend to meet PM or others at the Centre on its own to raise state's issues as and when needed," he said. Bhattacharjee criticised the BJP for its stand. "We wanted the delegation to be an  all- party one. But with the BJP announcing that it would not  be a part of it, it has exposed itself on the issue," he retorted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
22-09-2021||Jharkhand||State to fund six tribal students for higher studies in the UK||Six tribal students from Jharkhand have been selected for higher studies in the UK under a overseas scholarship scheme funded by the state government. “This (scheme) is aimed as a step towards bridging inequalities in higher education and will pave the way forward for future tribal students to apply and also seek support to study abroad. The scheme is a tribute to the visionary tribal leader Jaipal Singh Munda,” said Champai Soren, minister for Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes, minorities and backward classes. Munda was the first tribal student to study overseas, when he joined the BA in PPE (politics, philosophy and economics) course at St John’s College, Oxford University, in 1922. Nearly 100 years later, six students have been chosen to study under a scholarship scheme named after Munda. The selected students will study across five universities. “Jharkhand is the only state to provide scholarship support to students from indigenous/marginal communities for studies in institutions of excellence in higher education. The Union government has an overseas programme for SC/ST students (20 scholarships),” said an aide in the chief minister’s office. Chief minister Hemant Soren and Champai will felicitate the students selected under the Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Overseas Scholarship Scheme and their parents at a programme in Ranchi on Thursday. The scholarship awardees are entitled to complete coverage of tuition fees along with living and other miscellaneous expenses. Under this scheme, every year a maximum of 10 students will be selected from the ST category residing in Jharkhand. For the first batch of the scholarship, six students have been selected, who are going to begin their study programmes in five different universities in the UK in September. The overseas scholarship scheme, announced by the chief minister on December 29 last year, has a provision to provide all financial support to 10 tribal students of Jharkhand intending to do a one-year masters or a two-year MPhil in select 15 top universities of the UK across 22 courses. The state government notified the scheme on March 7, 2021. Among the selected students, Hercules Singh Munda is going to pursue an MA at the University of London’s School of Oriental and African Studies, while Ajitesh Murmu is going to study for an MA in architecture at the University College London. Akanksha Mary Balmuchu has been selected for an MSc in climate change science and management at the Loughborough University, while Dinesh Bhagat will pursue an MSc in climate change, development and policy at the University of Sussex. Apart from this, Anjana Pratima Dungdung has been selected for an MSc at the University of Warwick and Priya Murmu will pursue an MA in creative writing and the writing industries at the Loughborough University. “I am glad to be a part of the first cohort of Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Scholarship Scheme. I believe that it is a very important step by the government to help tribal students pursue higher education through this scholarship. This will not only allow tribal students to showcase their talent on the global stage, but also pave the way for progress of others,” said Anjana, a resident of Gumla district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
