23-09-2021||Business||Narendra Modi meets leading US CEOs from key sectors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi began his engagements in the US on Thursday by meeting with leading American CEOs from five different key sectors and highlighted the economic opportunities in India. Modi, who arrived here on Wednesday on an official visit to the US during which he will hold the first face-to-face meeting with President Joe Biden and his deputy Kamala Harris, held one-on-one meetings with CEOs of Qualcomm, Adobe, First Solar, General Atomics and Blackstone here. Two of them are Indian-Americans - Shantanu Narayen from Adobe and Vivek Lall from General Atomics. Three others are Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Mark Widmar from First Solar, and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone. Ahead of his meeting with the business leaders, Modi had said he would interact with leading CEOs to highlight economic opportunities in India. While Narayen reflects the IT and digital priority that the Indian government is pushing for, Modi's meeting with Lall is significant as General Atomics is not only the pioneer in military drone technologies but also the world's top manufacturer of state-of-the-art military drones, which the US shares only with its key allies and partners. India is in the process of procuring a significant number of drones for the three branches of its armed forces. It has also leased a few drones from General Atomics. Jakarta-born Lall, now based out of California, for over a decade has been instrumental in major bilateral defence deals worth around USD18 billion, as India and the US take steps to forge a new relationship in which defence trade is a key pillar. The meeting with chip giant Cristiano Amon assumes significance, given India's push for the 5G technology to be safe and secure. The San Diego-based company creates semiconductors, software, and services related to wireless technology. A world leader in 3G, 4G, and next-generation wireless technology innovations for more than 30 years, Qualcomm is now pioneering its way to 5G with a new era of intelligent products that are revolutionising industries, including automotive, computing, and Internet of Things (IoT). India is looking for a major investment from Qualcomm. As India is taking gigantic steps in the use of solar power to meet its energy needs, the meeting with Mark Widmar is important as First Solar is a leading global provider of comprehensive photovoltaic ( PV ) solar solutions, which use its advanced module and system technology. Early this summer, the Arizona-based company announced to add 3.3 GW of capacity in a new facility in India at an estimated cost of USD 684 million. Stephen A. Schwarzman is Chairman, CEO and Co-Founder of Blackstone, one of the world's leading investment firms investing capital on behalf of pension funds, large institutions and individuals. In March this year, Blackstone announced that funds managed by Blackstone Real Estate have acquired Embassy Industrial Parks from Warburg Pincus and Embassy Group, in one of India's largest logistics transactions. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||Market at fresh peak: Sensex skyrockets 958 points||Equity benchmark Sensex zoomed 958 points to end at a fresh lifetime high on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty soared 276.30 points or 1.57 per cent to its new closing peak of 17,822.95. It touched an intra-day record of 17,843.90. After scaling a new peak of 59,957.25 during the day, the 30-share Sensex settled 958.03 points or 1.63 per cent up at an all-time high of 59,885.36. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by L&T, HDFC, Axis Bank, SBI, Reliance Industries and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, ITC, Nestle and HUL were the laggards. Domestic equities witnessed sharp recovery with benchmarks Nifty and Sensex both recording fresh all-time highs, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Favourable FOMC meeting outcome and ease of concerns from possible default of Evergrande aided market rally. Financials and Reliance Industries have dominated market rally, followed by metals, IT and auto, he added. US Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said the Fed plans to announce as early as November that it will start to taper its monthly bond purchases, should the job market maintain its steady improvement. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Seoul was in the red. Japanese market was closed for holidays. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.12 per cent to USD 76.10 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||OYO to file for up to $1.2 IPO next week, say sources||Hospitality firm OYO is planning to raise up to USD 1.2 billion (around Rs 8,000 crore) through an initial public offering and is expected to file the draft red herring prospectus with Sebi next week, sources told PTI on Thursday. OYO has appointed investment banks like JPMorgan, Citi and Kotak Mahindra Capital to manage its public issue, they added. Comments from OYO could not be obtained at the time of filing the story. The proposed initial public offer (IPO) plan of the hospitality firm follows the spectacular success of Zomato's IPO that ended with a bumper oversubscription on July 16, and was biggest since March 2020. Last week, shareholders of Oravel Stays, the parent company of hospitality firm OYO, had approved the conversion of the company from a private limited company to a public limited company, according to a regulatory filing. Earlier, the board of Oravel Stays had approved an increase in the authorised share capital of the company from Rs 1.17 crore to Rs 901 crore. OYO in August, in a Registrar of Companies (RoC) filing, had said that Microsoft Corporation has invested nearly USD 5 million (about Rs 37 crore) in OYO through the issuance of equity shares and compulsory convertible cumulative preference shares on a private placement basis. Earlier in July, the company had raised USD 660 million through term B loan route from global institutional investors, including Fidelity Investments to refinance and simplify its existing borrowings. In March this year, OYO founder and Group CEO Ritesh Agarwal had said that, "OYO is on a steady path of resurgence in 2021 and is seeing signs of recovery across India, Europe, and Southeast Asia. OYO's survival through the COVID crisis and our resurgence show that we are a company with strong fundamentals and high value potential."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 450 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 450 points in opening trade on Thursday amid a positive trend in global markets after the US Federal Reserve hinted that it may begin easing its extraordinary support measures for the economy later this year. The 30-share Sensex was trading 487.42 points or 0.83 per cent higher at 59,414.75. Similarly, Nifty surged 142.50 points or 0.81 per cent to 17,689.15 in initial deals. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Titan and Tech Mahindra were the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index slipped 77.94 points or 0.13 per cent to close at 58,927.33, and Nifty declined 15.35 points or 0.09 per cent to 17,546.65. Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,943.26 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. US stocks finished sharply higher in the overnight session after the Federal Reserve's decision to keep its massive USD 120 billion monthly asset purchase programme intact to support the economy, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. The Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said the Fed plans to announce as early as November that it will start to taper its monthly bond purchases, should the job market maintain its steady improvement. "Powell indicated that the Central Bank may announce a pullback of its asset purchase programme in the November policy meeting and could start to raise interest rates in 2022, which was largely expected by markets. "In our view, investors may continue to take comfort out of the FOMC meeting in the context that there is no final time frame yet to cut or stop asset purchase programmes," he noted. Domestic equities look to be good as of now, he said, adding that favourable outcome from FOMC meeting and visible ease of rising concerns from possible defaults from Evergrande should essentially offer comfort to global markets. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. The Japanese market remained closed. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.25 per cent to USD 76.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||Global crude oil price rise hits aviation||The spike in global crude prices could impact the nascent demand recovery in the aviation sector even as the civil aviation ministry pitches for duty cuts by both the Centre and states. The benchmark Brent has spiked over $7 in the past month and was trading around $75.56 per barrel. This could pose pressure on the oil marketing companies to increase the prices of aviation turbine fuel. Analysts said the oil market had become bullish because of the optimism about global economic growth despite the Covid-19 pandemic along a fall in US crude oil inventories. The global demand is expected to outpace supply during the year due to which international oil prices will likely remain firm in the near-to mid-term, they said. The latest data from Indian Oil Corporation showed the price of jet fuel has risen sharply to Rs 68,609.22 per kilolitre from about Rs 42,000 per kilolitre last year at New Delhi. “The rising ATF price is a huge hindrance to the revival of the sector. Airlines will have no options but to pass the costs to the passengers,” airline officials said. Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has written to state chief ministers on the need to rationalise VAT rates as it would increase the number of flights and bring in more revenue. He has asked the states to reduce VAT to 1-to-4 per cent. The aviation minister has also urged the finance ministry to reduced the excise duty on jet fuel for larger aircraft to 8 per cent from 11 per cent and 5 per cent for the smaller planes. Aviation fuel constitutes about 40 per cent of the operating cost of an airline, and the fuel prices in the country are higher by about 35 per cent than global peers. Data for 2018-19 published by the ministry of petroleum show that oil companies collectively paid Rs 4,561 crore as VAT on jet fuel that year, which was 32 per cent more compared with the previous year. Analysts said the rising prices of jet fuel would impact the financials of the airlines which are limping back to normality with the easing of restrictions. Kinjal Shah, vice-president and co-group head, Icra said “elevated ATF prices and fare caps continue to pose a challenge for the profitability of the airlines”. “The Indian aviation industry is expected to report a net loss of Rs 2,500-2,600 crore in 2021-22,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||Ajay Banga to retire from Mastercard at the end of the year||Ajay Banga, one of the topmost Indian-American corporate leaders, and a strong advocate of the India-US relationship, will retire from Mastercard at the end of the year, the global credit card company has said. Announcing the retirement on Tuesday of its executive chairman, Banga, effective on December 31, the Mastercard board unanimously elected Merit Janow, currently lead independent director, to serve as non-executive independent chair of the board of directors, effective January 1, 2022. “With Merit as chair and the strong foundation Michael Miebach has established as CEO, Mastercard is in incredible hands for the next phase of growth and innovation,” said Banga. “I am grateful for the role I have been able to play in Mastercard’s evolution and I look forward to where Merit and Michael will lead it next,” he said in a statement. Following a successful decade as CEO, Banga transitioned to the executive chairman role at the beginning of this year. Among his responsibilities during the transition were serving as a counsellor to the CEO and facilitating a smooth transition of key external relationships — including customers and regulators — to Miebach. In a statement, Mastercard said this milestone completes a thoughtful and intentional executive transition announced in February 2020. When Miebach was announced as CEO-elect, the board created a pathway for him to deepen his engagement with clients and partners and across every aspect of the business. Banga, 61, remained as executive chairman to support the transition, alongside Janow as lead independent director. “For the two decades I’ve known Ajay, he’s been a tremendous inspiration, mentor and friend,” said Miebach.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||ADB lowers India growth forecast from 11 to 10 per cent||The Asian Development Bank has revised downwards its growth forecast for India for the current fiscal to 10 per cent from 11 per cent predicted earlier, citing the adverse impact of the second wave of the pandemic. However, it has revised upwards its estimate to 7.5 per cent from 7 per cent for the next fiscal (ending March 2023). On Tuesday, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) cut its projection of India’s economic growth by 0.2 percentage points to 9.7 per cent for the current financial year. This along with ADB’s forecast is a tad better than the RBI’s estimate of 9.5 per cent. The multilateral agency expects GDP growth to moderate to 7.5 per cent next fiscal. Further, it said that the forecast assumes a relatively limited economic impact from the pandemic going forward, thanks to an accelerated vaccination campaign and better preparedness among businesses, households and the healthcare sector. “The Indian economy is showing signs of recovery as the effects of the second wave dissipate,” said Takeo Konishi, ADB country director for India. He listed the vaccination drive, new stimulus package and initiatives to free more resources for infrastructure as measures to boost recovery. The economy is projected to rebound in the last three quarters as reflected in the improvements in electronic waybills and the purchasing managers’ index. First-quarter GDP rebounded 20.1 per cent from a year earlier even as the second wave of the pandemic curbed economic activity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||Govt extends Uday Kotak's term as non-executive chairman of IL&FS||The government has extended the term of Uday Kotak as non-executive chairman of IL&FS group by another six months. The extension was done through a gazette notification and it will see Kotak remaining at the helm of the group till April 2, 2022. Kotak is also the managing director and chief executive officer of Kotak Mahindra Bank. The notification was issued by the department of financial services of the ministry of finance dated September 21, 2021. Last year, the government had extended his term by 12 months till October 2, 2021. The extended six-month term will begin from October 3, 2021. Under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, a bank cannot be managed by any person who is a director of any other company. The individual can be given a temporary exception for three or nine months. However, the statute will “not apply to Kotak Bank in so far as it relates to its MD and CEO Uday Kotak being on the board of IL&FS as its non-executive director for a further period up to the April 2, April, 2022”, the notification said. Kotak was appointed by the Narendra Modi government as the head of the lender’s board in 2018 to help the troubled company come out of difficulties after the state took over the board. The IL&FS board has discovered that there was a complex web of over 250 companies which were part of the group that has an outstanding of over Rs 94,000 crore to lenders. The board is trying to keep the company as a going concern by focusing on asset sales. “The IL&FS is privileged to enjoy the continued leadership of Uday Kotak for another six months. I am confident that under his guidance, IL&FS would accomplish the resolution targets set’’, C.S. Rajan, MD, IL&FS, said while commenting on the extension given to Kotak as a non-executive chairman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
23-09-2021||Business||RBI governor underlines need for push to infrastructure investment, education and digital economy||Reserve Bank governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday underlined the need for a big push to infrastructure investment, education and digital economy to achieve sustainable growth and generate jobs in smaller cities. “As we recover (from the pandemic), we must deal with the legacies of the crisis and create conditions for strong, inclusive and sustainable growth. Limiting the damage that the crisis inflicted was just the first step; our endeavour should be to ensure durable and sustainable growth in the post-pandemic future,” Das said. The governor made these comments while speaking at the 48th AIMA National Management Convention through video conferencing. Sustainable growth, Das said, should entail building on macro fundamentals via medium-term investments, sound financial systems and structural reforms. “Towards this objective, a big push to investment in healthcare, education, innovation, physical and digital infrastructure will be required. We should also continue with further reforms in labour and product markets to encourage competition and dynamism, and to benefit from the pandemic induced opportunities,” he said. In addition, the warehouse and supply-chain infrastructure will be critical to bolster value addition and productivity in the agriculture and horticulture sector, Das said, adding this will create employment opportunities in semi-urban and rural areas and promote inclusive growth. The production-linked incentive scheme announced recently by the government for certain sectors was an important initiative to boost manufacturing, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
23-09-2021||Business||DICGC to give up to Rs 5 lakh as deposit insurance to PMC Bank depositors ||Depositors of PMC Bank and 20 other stressed lenders will get up to Rs 5 lakh in the form of deposit insurance from the DICGC. This comes after Parliament passed the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 which would ensure that account holders get up to Rs 5 lakh of their deposits outstanding. In September 2019, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had superseded the board of PMC Bank and imposed various regulatory restrictions after financial irregularities came to light. Later, in June this year, the banking regulator granted an in-principle approval to Centrum Financial Services and Resilient Innovations Pvt Ltd (which operates fintech startup BharatPe) to acquire the co-operative bank through a merger with a proposed small finance bank. At present, depositors of PMC Bank continue to face restrictions and they can withdraw up to Rs 1 lakh, though this can be higher for certain medical expenses. Last year, the government had raised the insurance cover on deposits by five times to Rs 5 lakh. This enhanced deposit insurance cover came into effect from February 4, 2020. DICGC on Wednesday said it will pay the depositors of the insured banks placed under RBI directions (with restrictions on withdrawal of deposits), “an amount equivalent to the deposits outstanding (up to a maximum of Rs five lakh only) within a period not exceeding 90 days’’. The RBI subsidiary added that necessary instructions have been issued to these banks to submit the claims within 45 days after obtaining the willingness of depositors to claim deposit insurance. The verification and settlement of the claims on submission by the banks will be done within November 29, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
23-09-2021||Business||Vinod Rai voted out of IDFC board||Shareholders of IDFC Ltd have rejected the re-appointment of Vinod Rai as a non-independent and non-executive director on its board. Rai, the former Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), was the non-executive chairman of IDFC. The company had moved a resolution at its annual general meeting (AGM) held on Wednesday for his re-appointment up to May 22, 2023. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges, IDFC said that 62.289 per cent of its shareholders voted against the proposal, while only 37.71 per cent voted in its favour. IDFC had moved five other resolutions and they were passed by the shareholders. Among them, the appointment of Jaimini Bhagwati as an independent director saw 63.08 per cent of the shareholders voting in favour. The other resolutions which were passed by overwhelming majority included the appointment of Anil Singhvi as independent director, payment of commission to non-executive director, appointment of statutory auditors and adoption of the financial statements of the company for the  last fiscal. Shares of IDFC on Wednesday closed with gains of 2.02 per cent over the previous close at Rs 55.65. In July, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had allowed IDFC to exit as the promoter of the IDFC First Bank, paving way for the reverse merger. The company had reportedly told investors that it is facing challenges in this regard. Meanwhile, shareholders of RBL Bank have given their nod for the re-appointment of Vishawir Ahuja as managing director & CEO of the bank. The resolution secured the approval of 99.94 per cent of the shareholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
23-09-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea confident of reaching fund-raising deal||Vodafone Idea is confident it can reach a fund-raising deal with potential investors, bolstered by a federal government package that provides the much-needed relief to the debt-ridden mobile carrier, its chief executive officer said on Wednesday. Vodafone Idea, a combination of the India unit of Britain’s Vodafone Group and domestic telecom company Idea Cellular, has a net debt of Rs 1.91 lakh crore ($25.86 billion), including government dues of Rs 1.68 lakh crore. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government last week approved a relief package for the country’s cash-strapped telecom sector, including a four-year moratorium on airwaves fees due to the state. CEO of Vodafone Idea Ravinder Takkar said investors had been waiting to see whether New Delhi would ensure that at least three players exist in the telecom sector and also wanted the funding to be used for business rather than paying government dues. “With this package all of those fears to some extent have been put aside,” Takkar said in a video interview, without specifying the names of investors the company was in talks with or a timeline for the fundraising. Reports earlier this year suggested that Vodafone Idea was in talks with investment manager Apollo Global Management to raise up to $3 billion. On Wednesday, Takkar declined to confirm the talks, saying it was “just speculation”. “With this tremendous change (govt package) our business plans will have to be updated, which means our funding requirements will also have to be updated,” he said. India’s telecom sector ran into trouble in late 2016 with the entry of tycoon billionaire Mukesh Ambani's Reliance Jio, which sparked a price war that forced some rivals out of the market and turned profits into losses. A Supreme Court ruling in late 2019 also added to the sector’s pain, saddling telecom companies with dues of roughly $13 billion. The government’s latest measures are expected to ease some of that pain, boost the growth of telecom firms in the world’s second-biggest wireless market by number of users, and give a fresh lease of life to Vodafone Idea. “There should be no doubt that... Vodafone Idea will exist, we will compete, we will survive, we will thrive,” said Takkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
23-09-2021||Business||Zee and Sony to merge businesses, create $2 billion media powerhouse||Zee and Sony — two of the biggest television networks in the country — have agreed to merge their businesses to create a $2 billion media powerhouse. The sudden announcement, which was made before the stock markets opened for trading, will enable beleaguered Zee founder Subhash Chandra to fight off an attempt by Invesco, an institutional shareholder, to force his son Punit Goenka out of the company — and retain a 4 per cent stake in the merged entity. There will be a two-step process to the merger. First, the promoters of Sony Pictures Networks India Private Ltd (Sony India, for short)  will pump capital into the  entity to ensure that it has a cash balance of $ 1.575 billion (roughly Rs 12,000 crore). The merger of Zee and Sony India — which is expected to close in six to eight months after it receives all regulatory approvals — will give the promoters of Sony India a 52.93 per cent stake in the merged entity and the right to appoint a majority of directors on the board. The shareholders of Zee Entertainment, which is a listed company, will end up with 47.07 per cent in the new entity. Punit Goenka will continue as the “initial managing director and chief executive officer” of the merged entity for a period of five years on terms and conditions that haven’t been fully disclosed. But Sony is preparing for Goenka’s eventual exit because it has also offered a non-compete agreement to the Zee camp which involves the transfer of an undisclosed number of shares which will ensure that they hold 3.99 per cent in the merged entity, mirroring their current stake in Zee Entertainment. However, the other shareholders of Zee will see a diminution in their holdings in the new entity — an issue that could turn controversial when Zee shareholders vote on the merger. Since this is a merger, it will be concluded under company law — which means Sony India will not have to come out with an open offer for minority shareholders of Zee. Company law does not bar the payment of a non-compete fee. However, 75 per cent of the shareholders will have to pass a merger resolution. The two sides have agreed to a binding exclusivity period of 90 days during which Sony India will carry out a due diligence exercise and an independent valuation of Zee’s business. The deal will be closed subject to a fairness opinion to be provided by a merchant banker to Zee and subsequent negotiations and finalisation of definitive agreements. There is an interesting twist in the deal: the Zee founders will have the option to scale up their holding to 20 per cent if they can overcome their current cash crunch and wish to stay on. Shares of ZEEL zoomed by almost 32 per cent, or Rs 81.45, to close at Rs 337.10 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. Invesco challenge The merger is being announced at a time when Punit Goenka is locked in battle with Invesco, one of the longest institutional investors which has a formidable 17.8 per cent stake in Zee through two funds: Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund. Invesco had sought an extraordinary general meeting of Zee shareholders to vote on resolutions to remove Punit Goenka and two other independent directors, Manish Chokhani and Ashok Kurien. Chokhani and Kurien resigned from the Zee board ahead of the annual general meeting of the company on September 14. Invesco has also proposed to appoint  six new independent directors to the board of Zee Entertainment. The Invesco resolutions, which were moved on September 11, must be placed before the shareholders within three months. It wasn’t immediately clear whether the shareholders would get to choose between the merger and the Invesco proposal when they next meet. At an analyst conference call in the evening, top executives of Zee parried all questions in this regard. The company had earlier said that it would take necessary action under the applicable law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
23-09-2021||India||Seer Narendra Giri shot video on phone hour before alleged suicide ||Narendra Giri, the religious leader who allegedly died by suicide on Monday, had recorded a video on his mobile phone just one hour before his death, the police say. His allegations in the video reportedly match what he wrote in a 13-page suicide note found near his body. Narendra Giri, the head of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad and an influential seer photographed with many top politicians of the country, was found dead in his ashram in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj on Monday afternoon. The 4 minute 30 second mobile phone video, say police sources, points at premeditation. Narendra Giri, according to sources, did not know how to record videos on the selfie mode. On Sunday, the day before his death, he reportedly called a trusted disciple, Sarvesh Dwivedi, and took a quick lesson. Mobile phone data shows the seer recorded a couple of test videos before the final one. "After checking the quality of the test videos, he recorded the final video," said sources. In the video, Narendra Giri reportedly says he was afraid that his disciple Anand Giri wanted to make a morphed photo of him with a woman viral and he would be shamed. He says, according to sources, that he was so distraught that he didn't see any purpose in living. Like in his suicide note, the seer blames Anand Giri - the virtual number two in the ashram - Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep Tiwari for his suicide, according to sources who have seen the video. He accuses the three of blackmailing him. All three were arrested on Tuesday. The mobile phone was found from Narendra Giri's room after his death. The police have also seized the mobile phones of the three accused. According to officers, Sandeep Tiwari had a phone worth over ₹ 1 lakh despite working at a temple for ₹ 9,000 a month. Anand Giri, the seer's top disciple, used an iPhone, say the police. He was expelled by Narendra Giri earlier this year over allegations of financial fraud and irregularities but apparently returned. A video showed him at the feet of his mentor, seeking forgiveness. But the patch-up was short-lived, and Anand Giri was accused of harassing Narendra Giri along with the Tiwaris. Soon after the seer was found dead, Anand Giri had alleged a conspiracy "by people who used to extort money from Narendra Giri". "It is a huge conspiracy by people who used to extort money from Guruji and wrote my name in the letter. It needs to be investigated as guru Ji has not written a letter in his life and could not do suicide. His handwriting needs to be probed," he had said. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked for a CBI probe into the death. "I want to thank the Chief Minister for handing over the case to the CBI. I want to request the Home Minister to order the CBI to immediately take over the case," Kailashanand Brahmachari, head of the Niranjani Akhada, one of the constituents of the Akhada Parishad, told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||Punjab CM Channi leaves for Delhi, likely to discuss Cabinet expansion with Congress leadership||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday left for Delhi, where he is likely to discuss the expansion of the state Cabinet with the party's central leadership, sources said. Channi flew from the Amritsar airport. His visit to Delhi assumes significance as Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had returned to the national capital from Shimla on Wednesday. Former state party chief Sunil Jakhar had also accompanied Rahul and Priyanka on a flight to Delhi. Channi, his two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday had gone to the national capital to discuss the expansion of the new Cabinet with the party leadership. The team had met AICC general secretary K C Venugopal and general secretary Harish Rawat. The cabinet is likely to see some fresh faces, said the sources. Names of Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Surjit Dhiman, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Kuljit Singh Nagra are doing the rounds. Pargat Singh, considered close to Sidhu, is at present the Punjab Congress general secretary and Gilzian is a working president of the party's state unit. There is a speculation that Amarinder Singh's staunch loyalists--Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who was the sports minister and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, who was the social justice empowerment minister--may be dropped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||Defence ministry order 118 battle tanks at a cost of Rs 7,523 crore||The defence ministry on Thursday placed an order for 118 Arjun main battle tanks for the army at a cost of Rs 7,523 crore. The ministry placed the order for the Arjun Mk-1A tanks with the Heavy Vehicles Factory (HVF) at Avadi in Chennai. The MBT Mk-1A is a new variant of the Arjun tank designed to enhance firepower, mobility and survivability, infused with 72 new features and more indigenous content compared with the Mk-1 variant. The ministry said the tanks would ensure effortless mobility in all terrains, besides precise target engagement during day and night. The tank has been designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation by incorporating numerous upgrades on Arjun MBT, the in-service main battle tank with the Indian Army. “The MK-1A is equipped with accurate and superior firepower, all-terrain mobility and an invincible multi-layered protection provided by an array of advanced technology systems. It can take on the enemy during day and night conditions and in both static and dynamic modes,” the ministry said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||Pegasus: Cong welcomes SC’s directive to set up of tech expert committee||The Congress Thursday said the Supreme Court's oral directive to set up a technical expert committee to inquire into the Pegasus snooping row is a step in the right direction, but asserted a "full investigation" monitored by the apex court is the "simple solution". "The Pegasus Spy scandal is not an issue to protect national security but an assault on national security and privacy by the Modi government," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. "The solution is simple -- A SC-monitored full investigation. SC observation of setting up a "technical committee" is a right step in this direction," he said on Twitter. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate also said that based on media reports, a probe into the matter will ensure that national security is not compromised. She said one should also understand that the people allegedly snooped upon were not just political opponents of the ruling party, but also those in constitutional positions. "The reality is that snooping was done on people who were in elected positions of power, which also compromises the Official Secrets Act and there was never a bigger compromise on national security than Pegasus," she said. "We will only say that there has to be a full-fledged probe by the Supreme Court of India under its supervision because anything less than that is not going to be satisfactory as far as national security is concerned," Shrinate said. The Congress leader said the party welcomes the setting up of the technical expert, "but it has to be a part of a larger probe. And I hope it will be". In a significant development, the Supreme Court Thursday observed orally that it will set up a technical expert committee to inquire into the Pegasus snooping matter and pass an interim order next week on a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the entire issue. The apex court's observations on constituting the committee assume significance in view of the Centre's statement that it would set up an expert panel on its own to look into the grievances of the alleged surveillance of certain eminent Indians by hacking their phones using Israeli firm NSO's spyware, Pegasus. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, which was to hear some other matter, addressed senior lawyer C U Singh, one of the counsels in the pleas, that the order will be pronounced next week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||India, UK hold talks on jab certification process: British envoy||British High Commissioner Alex Ellis on Thursday said India and the UK held "excellent" technical discussion on the issue of vaccine certification. Referring to new British travel rules, Ellis had on Wednesday said there was no problem with Covishield vaccine and that the main issue is COVID-19 vaccine certification done through the CoWIN app. “Excellent technical discussions with @rssharma3 @AyushmanNHA. Neither side raised technical concerns with each other's certification process. An important step forward in our joint aim to facilitate travel and fully protect public health of UK and India,” he tweeted on Thursday. Following India's strong criticism over the UK's refusal to recognise Covishield, London on Wednesday amended its new guidelines to include the Indian-made version of the AstraZeneca vaccine in its updated international travel advisory. However, Indian travellers vaccinated with two doses of Covishield will still have to undergo 10 days of quarantine in the UK notwithstanding the amendment, UK officials clarified on Wednesday saying the inclusion of the vaccine will not make much of a difference. "We're clear Covishield is not a problem. The UK is open to travel and we're already seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, business people or students," Ellis said in a statement on Wednesday. "We have been having detailed technical discussions regarding certification, with the builders of the CoWIN app and the NHS app, about both apps. They're happening at a rapid pace, to ensure that both countries mutually recognise the vaccine certificates issued by each other," he said. According to new rules, Indian travellers who received both doses of the Covishield vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India will be considered unvaccinated and will have to undergo self-isolation for 10 days. In a strong reaction, India had on Tuesday warned of "reciprocal measures" if the UK does not address its concerns over the new travel rules relating to COVID-19 vaccine certification with Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla describing these norms as "discriminatory". Referring to the latest guidelines issued by the UK government that will come into effect on October 4, another UK officials had said that London does not have any problem with the Covishield vaccine but there are certain issues related to vaccine certification in India. The new British rules have triggered massive criticism in India. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also took up the issue of Covishield-vaccinated travellers being required to quarantine in the UK with newly-appointed British Foreign Secretary Elizabeth Truss at a meeting in New York on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||Vaccine at home for differently-abled and people with restricted mobility, says Centre||The government Thursday announced that differently-abled people and those with restricted mobility will be given Covid vaccine doses at their homes. Addressing a press conference here, Union Health Ministry officials also said the country is still in the midst of the second wave of Covid-19 even though the number of daily new cases are declining. However, they added, 62.73% of total infections reported last week were from Kerala alone, which is also the only state with over 1 lakh active Covid cases. Thirty-three districts in the country are now reporting over 10 per cent weekly positivity rate, while 23 are recording between 5-10 per cent, the officials said. Under Covid guidelines for the upcoming festival season, mass gatherings has to be avoided in containment zones and in districts with over 5 per cent positivity rate, they said. On the ongoing vaccination drive, they said that 66 per cent of the country's adult population has been given at least one jab while 23 per cent is fully vaccinated. They also said that 63.7 per cent doses of COVID-19 vaccine has been administered at centres in rural areas and 35.4 per cent in urban areas. A total of 68.2 lakh doses (approximately 0.95 per cent) has been administered at Covid vaccination centres not tagged as rural or urban, they said. On the UK rule of 10-day quarantine for those vaccinated in India, the ministry officials said it was a discriminatory practice. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said both the countries are in dialogue on the matter. "We believe that the dispensation that is proposed to be implemented from October 4 is a discriminatory practice. Both the sides are in dialogue and we believe a resolution will be found. We do reserve the right to reciprocate in a similar manner," Bhushan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||Thane: 33 booked, 24 arrested and two detained for gangrape of minor||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped multiple times at different places in Thane district of Maharashtra over the last eight months, and police have arrested 24 persons and detained two minors in this connection so far, a senior official said on Thursday. Based on the girl's complaint, the Manpada police at Dombivli in Kalyan have registered a case on Wednesday night against 33 accused under IPC sections 376 (rape), 376 (n) (repeated rape), 376 (d) (gang-rape), 376 (3) (rape on a woman under sixteen years of age) and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said. Talking to reporters, Additional Commissioner of Police (East region), Dattatray Karale, said the offences were committed between January 29 this year and September 22. "It all started when the lover of the girl raped her in January and made a video of the incident. He started blackmailing her on the basis of that video. Later on, his friends and acquaintances gang-raped her at least on four to five occasions at different places, including Dombivili, Badlapur, Murbad and Rabale in the district," he said. A special investigation team (SIT) has been formed under ACP Sonali Dhole to probe the case, he added. "The victim has named 33 persons. Out of them, 24 persons have been arrested and two minors detained in this connection. The girl's condition is said to be stable," Karale said. Search is on to nab the other accused involved in the crime, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||NCW asks Delhi Police to probe restaurant denying entry to saree-clad woman||The National Commission for Women on Thursday asked the Delhi Police commissioner to probe the incident wherein a woman was allegedly denied entry in a city restaurant for wearing a saree, and take necessary action in the matter. The National Commission for Women (NCW), in a statement, said it has also written to the marketing and public relations director of the restaurant to appear before the Commission on September 28 along with supporting documents and explanation. It said it came across a social media post wherein the restaurant allegedly denied entry to the woman because she was wearing saree. Reportedly, the restaurant's dress code policy for guests allows only smart casuals and according to the eatery, saree does not fall under smart casuals. “Saree is a part of Indian culture and women in India majorly wear saree, therefore denying any woman entry to a restaurant on the basis of her attire is a violation of her right to live with dignity,” the statement said. “The Commission condemns the arbitrary and bizarre behaviour of the restaurant staff and its policies,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-182
23-09-2021||India||Army foils infiltration bid near LoC in JK's Baramulla||The Army on Thursday foiled an infiltration bid near the Line of Control (LoC) in Uri in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district, killing three terrorists and recovering a cache of arms and ammunition, officials said. "We noticed some suspicious movement in the Hathlanga area near the LoC. The infiltrators were challenged and three of them were killed," an Army officer said. He said a large cache of arms and ammunition, including five assault rifles, seven pistols and grenades, were recovered. Briefing the media at the Army's Chinar Corps headquarters here, General Officer Commanding Lt General D P Pandey said there has been increased activity at the launch pads on the other side of the LoC recently. "While there was no infiltration since the beginning of the year, there has been a little activity at the launch pads which cannot happen without the knowledge of Pakistan army commanders, he said. Lt Gen Pandey said this was evident from the infiltration bid that was foiled on Thursday as well as the one in the Uri sector on September 18-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||There's no Hindu-Muslim divide when it comes to population||Will Hindus end up as a minority in their own country? That’s the Project Fear story that pro-Hindutva political parties sell to their followers. It has always been just a scare story and that’s borne out by the latest report by the Pew Research Center tracking the trajectories of India's religious communities. In fact, there have been only modest changes in the overall religious makeup of the population since 1951 when India conducted its first census as an independent nation. The report says that Muslims are expected to continue to grow slowly as a share of the Indian population in the coming decades, while Hindus will remain an overwhelmingly large majority. Even though India's population is still growing way too fast, India’s fertility rates have dropped sharply over the last 71 years and this is true among the major communities -- Hindus, Muslims and Christians – and also the smaller ones like Buddhism, Jainism and Sikhism. The Pew Research Center study looks at the religious makeup of India’s population and how it has altered between 1951 and 2011 when the last census took place.  The 2021 census has not taken place this year because of Covid-19. "Over the decades, population growth rates have slowed considerably – overall and among Muslims in particular. Before its steep fertility declines, India was on a trajectory that would have resulted in a much larger total population, as well as a greater change in the distribution of religious population," the report notes. Indian women are still having more children than their counterparts in the West. The National Family Health Survey (NFHS) in 2015 estimated it was 2.2 compared to 1.6 in the United States. But that’s a steep drop from 3.4 in 1992 and a huge 5.9 in 1950. The fertility rate among Muslim women is still slightly higher than other communities but has dropped sharply from 4.4 children in 1992 to 2.6 just six years ago in 2015, according to NFHS figures. The National Family Health Survey actually offers a more accurate take on fertility rates as it is a “household survey with more extensive information about childbearing than the census,” says the Pew report. Fertility rate differences “India’s Muslim population has grown somewhat faster than other religious groups because of fertility differences. But….there have been only modest changes in the overall religious makeup of the population since 1951, when India conducted its first census as an independent nation,” the report says. According to the survey, in percentage terms, the Muslim population grew by 4.4 per cent between 1951 and 2011, to 14.2 per cent and the Hindu population declined by 4.3 per cent to 79.8 per cent. But in absolute numbers, and these are the figures to focus on when looking at India's religious composition, in the most recent decade between censuses, Hindus added 138 million people, while Muslims grew by 34 million. India’s total population increased by nearly 200 million in that time, from about 1 billion in 2001 to 1.2 billion in 2011. Around 94 per cent of the world's Hindus live in India. The 3 per cent of Indians who identify with religions other than Hinduism, Islam or Christianity have grown to represent tens of millions of people in the decades since independence. Sikhs, India’s fourth-largest religious group, have increased from seven million adherents in 1951 to nearly 21 million in 2011, while remaining a consistent share of India’s population at just under 2 per cent. Buddhists and Jains show a similar pattern – their numbers have doubled or tripled over the decades, while their shares have held steady, both under 1 per cent. Roughly eight million people said in the 2011 census that they did not belong to any of the six largest religious groups. Nearly all of these people volunteered some other religious affiliation. Only about 30,000 Indians described themselves as atheists. General pattern the same The report says: “The general (fertility) pattern is largely the same as it was in 1992, when Muslims had the highest fertility rate at 4.4, followed by Hindus at 3.3. But the gaps in childbearing between India’s religious groups are generally much smaller than they used to be. For example, while Muslim women were expected to have an average of 1.1 more children than Hindu women in 1992, the gap had shrunk to 0.5 by 2015.” In geographical terms in 2011, the women of the Central Indian states – Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Haryana– along with Assam and the Northeastern states excluding Tripura and Sikkim, have more children than other parts of the country. Women in Bihar have an average of 3.4 children followed by Uttar Pradesh with an average of 2.7 children. These states are followed by Jharkhand with 2.5 children and Rajasthan with 2.4 children. At the other end of the spectrum, Kerala has the lowest number of births with 1.6 children per woman and Tamil Nadu and Goa at 1.7. West Bengal, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have an average of 1.8 children. The high birth rates in Uttar Pradesh mean there has been high population growth both in the Hindu and Muslim communities between 2001 and 2011. In absolute numbers, the number of Hindus grew by 25 million to 159 million during the first decade of the new century. Similarly, the number of Muslims rose by 8 million to 38 million during the same period. In Bihar, Hindus rose by 17 million to 86 million. The report notes: "Both Uttar Pradesh and Bihar have higher than average rates of poverty and, relatedly, exceptionally high fertility rates.” Education a primary factor In India and elsewhere, education is a primary factor in how many children women tend to have. Other prosperity indicators – such as life expectancy and average levels of wealth – also frequently correlate with fertility measures. It's a well-established fact that women who have better access to schooling, jobs and health care tend to have fewer children, the report notes. In West Bengal, too, between 2001-2011, the percentage of Hindus decreased by 2 per cent to 71 per cent and the percentage of Muslims climbed by 2 per cent. In Assam, the Muslim population during this time rose by over 3 per cent. Sikhs form 2 per cent of the population and that has stayed steady since 1951. In actual numbers, they have multiplied from 7 million to 21 million in 2011. Christians have formed 2 per cent to 3 per cent of the population since 1951 and this is unchanged.  Some Christians don’t declare their religion publicly so that they can continue to claim caste-based reservation benefits available to Hindus and others, so the number of Christians may be undercounted, the report says. Parsis are the only group whose numbers have declined from 110,000 in 1951. Currently, they total about half that number. There are thought to be about 4,000-to-5,000 Jews and 4,000-to-5,000 Baha’is each. Migration as a mechanism Migration is one of three main mechanisms, along with fertility and conversion, that cause religious groups to shrink or expand. But since the 1950s, migration has had only a modest impact on India’s religious composition. More than 99 per cent of people who live in India were also born in India. Migrants leaving India outnumber immigrants three-to-one, and religious minorities are more likely than Hindus to leave. Religious switching, or conversion – when an individual leaves one religion for another or stops affiliating with any religion – also appears to have had a relatively small impact on India’s overall composition, with 98 per cent of Indian adults still identifying with the religion in which they were raised. notes. Growing much too fast India’s population is still growing much too fast. The report says: India’s population has more than tripled in the six decades following Partition, from 361 million people in the 1951 census to more than 1.2 billion in 2011.” Even more seriously, the report adds:  “As of 2020, India gains roughly 1 million inhabitants each month, putting it on course to surpass China as the world’s most populous country by 2030, according to the United Nations Population Division.” The Pew Research Center estimates that India is now home to about 1.4 billion people. As of 2020, the report estimates that about 15 per cent of Indians are Muslim compared with 14.2 per cent in the 2011 census, 79 per cent are Hindus versus 79.8 per cent in 2011 and  2 per cent are Christians in line with 2011. Looking at population projections, Muslims will make up 311 million people which would be an increase of 76 per cent by 2050. But Hindus would comprise a massive 1.3 billion people. The number of Christians would increase by 18 per cent to 37 million. In percentage terms, though, Hindus are projected to represent 77 per cent of the population, Muslims 18 per cent and Christians still 2 per cent. Buddhists, Sikhs and Jains all have fertility rates well below the national average and are therefore projected to shrink as a share of the population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||SC lauds Centre's move to provide ex-gratia to kin of Covid victims||The Supreme Court Thursday appreciated the Centre's step to grant ex-gratia assistance to the kin of those who died due to COVID-19 saying it has to take judicial notice of the fact that what India has done, no other country has been able to do. "We are happy that something has been done to wipe the tears of many families,: apex court said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre said, "We cannot repair the loss of life but whatever the country could do for the families who have suffered, is being done." A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna, which took on record two affidavits filed by the Centre, said it will pass orders on October 4 with some directions, authorising the grievance redressal committees at district level to call for hospital records of the deceased, in case of any dispute over the issuance of death certificates. "We are happy that there will be some solace to the persons who have suffered. It will wipe the tears of many families. We must take judicial notice of the fact despite so many problems of population and overpopulation, something has been done. What India has done, no other country has been able to do," the bench said. The top court was hearing a batch of pleas filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal and some intervenors who lost their family members to COVID-19. Represented by advocate Sumeer Sodhi, they were seeking ex-gratia assistance to kin of those who lost their lives to the deadly virus. At the outset, the top court raised some concern as to what will happen if hospitals do not mention the cause of death as COVID-19, despite the person losing his life due to post COVID complications. Mehta said the next of kin can approach the district level committee, to be constituted under the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) guidelines, for redressal of grievances over the issuance of death certificate. The bench said, "Sometimes hospitals behave like a monarch and don't give medical records to the family members or hand over the dead bodies to them. We have to take care of those people also." "Such family members of the COVID-19 victims can also approach the committee which can call for the hospital records," Mehta said. The bench said it will pass orders authorising such committees to call for hospital records of patients, if needed. Mehta said the next of the kin of the deceased can show to the committee some evidence like RT-PCR test report to show that the patient was COVID positive before his death in case the hospital does not mention the cause of death. The NDMA has recommended that Rs 50,000 be given to the kin of those who died of COVID-19, the Centre had informed the top court on Wednesday. It had said that ex-gratia assistance will also be given to the kin of those who died of the virus due to involvement in COVID-19 relief operations or activities associated with the preparedness for dealing with the pandemic. The government had said that NDMA has issued the guidelines on September 11 in compliance with the directions of the apex court given on June 30 wherein it had directed the authority to recommend guidelines for ex-gratia assistance. The authority recommends an amount of Rs. 50,000 per deceased person including those involved in relief operations or associated in preparedness activities, subject to cause of death being certified as COVID-19, as per the NDMA guidelines. The assistance will not be limited to families affected by COVID-19 deaths in the first and second wave of pandemic but will continue in future phases of the pandemic as well, the authority had said. The family will get ex-gratia assistance subject to cause of death of their kin being certified as COVID-19 as per the guidelines issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), it had said. The ex-gratia assistance will be provided by states from State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and all claims will be settled within 30 days of submission of required documents, and disbursed through Aadhaar linked Direct Benefit Transfer procedures, it had added. Detailing the methodology, the guidelines have stated that the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA)/district administration would disburse the ex-gratia assistance to the next of kin of the deceased persons. The concerned families will submit their claims through a form issued by the State Authority along with specified documents including the death certificate that certifies the cause of death to be COVID-19 , it had said. The affidavit had said that the DDMA will ensure that the process of claim, verification, sanction, and the final disbursement of ex-gratia payment will be through a robust yet simple and people friendly procedure. The NDMA guidelines further state that in case of any grievances with regards to certification of the death, a committee at the district level -- consisting of Additional District Collector, Chief Medical Officer of Health, principal of Head of Department of a Medical College (if existing in the district) and a subject expert -- will propose remedial measures, including issuance of amended official documents for COVID-19 death after verifying facts. The apex court had in its June 30 verdict directed the NDMA to recommend within six weeks the guidelines for ex-gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of persons who died due to COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||Three killed, four injured in blast in Bengaluru||An explosion rocked a locality in Bengaluru on Thursday afternoon killing at least three people and leaving four others injured, a police official said. "The blast took place in a transport godown next to a puncture shop. Three people were killed including two in the puncture shop while four were injured," the Bengaluru South Deputy Commissioner of Police Harish Pandey told reporters here. He also said the victims of the blast in Tharagupet locality have been identified. The official also clarified that the explosion took place due to some 'unstable chemical', which was an industrial consignment. "The origin of the blast is being investigated. It was neither a cylinder blast nor cracker blast or a blast caused by a short circuit. There were no pieces of compressors also," Pandey added. Forensic experts will give their opinion on the cause of the blast, he said. He further said there were 60 boxes of the 'unstable explosive' still inside the godown. The source and owner of the consignment is also being investigated. According to eyewitnesses, the blast was so powerful that people up to 2 km away heard the sound while the locals felt that there was an earthquake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||BJP MP slams Harish Rawat for calling Pakistan army chief 'brother'||BJP Rajya Sabha MP Anil Baluni on Thursday slammed former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat for calling the Pakistan army chief "brother", drawing a sharp reaction from the Congress leader who said he doesn't need a lecture on nationalism from him. Rawat recently in a tweet justified his party's Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu's act of hugging Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa at the swearing-in of Imran Khan in Islamabad, asking how could one Punjabi "bhra" (brother) hugging another be an act of sedition. "If there was nothing wrong in Narendra Modi going uninvited to Nawaz Sharif's birthday and hugging him, how could Sidhu hugging Bajwa be an act of sedition," he had said. Objecting to it, Baluni said it was "unfortunate and hurting" that Rawat had used the word for someone "whose hands are steeped in the blood of India's brave soldiers". "What sort of politics of appeasement is this," he asked. "It is more shocking as it comes from a man who belongs to Devbhoomi where every family has someone in the armed forces," Baluni said. The BJP MP also lashed out at Rawat for praising Sidhu. "How could he praise Sidhu who has been described by his own senior party colleague and former chief minister Amarinder Singh as a threat to national security," Baluni asked referring to a comment by the ex-Punjab CM, who resigned from the post recently. Rawat, who is also the chief of the Congress campaign committee in poll-bound Uttarakhand, said he does not want a lecture from his BJP friends on nationalism and martyrdom. He said his relatives are in the armed forces from the rank of a jawan to brigadier. Rawat said he was proud of the fact that his son-in-law attained martyrdom fighting terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir. "Baluni does not need reminding me of our great military traditions," he said. Justifying his description of Bajwa as Punjabi "brother", he said that part of India's Punjab which is now in Pakistan is also called Punjab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||Former telecom prodigy, Sumant Kant Kaul launching Bliss GenX, a blessing for Wellness Seekers||The former Managing Director of Hitech Cellular and Paging Services, Sumant Kant Kaul is often credited for revamping the Indian Telecom Sector through his vision and his smart policies. He made sure that technology reaches the poorest of poor and the underprivileged section of the society  in our country and people are able to utilise these tools to connect and communicate with each other. The man, after creating a niche in the domain of the telecom industry is now ready to unleash a new era of modernisation through his four new upcoming stellar projects. The visionary entrepreneur has announced different projects which can give a new lease of life to various crumbling sectors in this post COVID era. Bliss GenX, a platform that aims to give a complete overhaul to the Education, Healthcare, and Wellness industry is the first project which Sumant Kant Kaul has announced. It has been a terrible time since COVID hit the world. The depleting economy, the surge in unemployment have been a major concern for people and the establishment. There has been a major shift in the working of various sectors. Moreover, there is a growing need to bring forth new policies and tech-driven approaches to boost different sectors that have been at the forefront of the havoc unleashed by the pandemic. Catering to this, Sumant Kant Kaul has come up with Bliss GenX in order to revamp the education and wellness sector. People have often heard the phrase 'Health is Wealth' and this proves to be true especially at a time when the world is dealing with a deadly virus. To combat COVID, people need to be aware and educated about wellness, especially mental health. Through Bliss GenX, the platform Sumant aims to impart knowledge on healthcare. This platform tends to launch a global application that will impact the lives of billions directly and indirectly as he feels his projects will create the ripple effect and there would be millions joining his and also bring similar projects like these. Through this new initiative, the virtuoso is emphasising innovative ways of imparting education in wellness. The platform provides an effective, new-age education system where a Bliss GenX member would be guided to master the concept of education in Wellness. The platform will also provide certification after a member has successfully completed his/her masterclass and online assessment. New age requires new tech-driven solutions and through Bliss GenX, Sumant Kant Kaul is ensuring this. The initiative is slated to be launched in 2021. The platform is believed to be the future of education and will focus on skill-based learning. The much-hyped second project that Sumant Kant Kaul has announced is -Fourth Eye Meditation App. It will be a multilingual global mediation app aggregator that tends to connect different communities globally. It will be focusing on providing high-quality wellness and healthcare products along with semi precious an precious gemstones and jewellery. It will be launched in 2021 only but fully operational in 2022.Believing in the magical power of Meditation, Sumant has been excited to announce this venture. The app wants to make people aware of the benefits of meditation not only in India but across the globe and hence the app will be available in various popular languages which include English, Hindi, Chinese, Japanese, Hungarian, Russian, Spanish, French, German. The app will cater meditation solutions to a wide range of issues be it pre and post-pregnancy, stress, insomnia, anger, traumas, abuse, relationship issue and special meditations for students  to resolve their  mental stress due to fear of exams and failure in life . 'Online is the New Offline' and believing in this, the astute entrepreneur has decided to launch his third project,  which is a software development platform named App Dukaan. Loaded with advanced tools like Artificial Intelligence (AI), the platform will be a boon to a wide range of small, medium, and growth-stage enterprises. These firms can boost their online presence with the help of pre-packaged, low-cost applications. App Dukaan will be formally launched by 2022. This venture is announced keeping in mind the growing needs of web development services that are hired by a lot of brands to boost their online presence. App Dukan will be an Artificial Intelligence (AI) driven software development program that will help industries in establishing their online presence through affordable pre-packaged applications. The platform is currently under the developing stage and will be operational fully by 2022. Taking into account the vast potential of e-commerce companies, the 4th project, Dazzle, will be a C2C social e-commerce platform. The project is believed to bring a stride in the online business segment by empowering consumers directly with suppliers /manufacturers customers by enabling them to connect with one another without any intermediaries. Dazzle is expected to be operational by 2022. Dazzle is going to be a social e-commerce platform which is the 4th project that Sumant has announced, will be a platform based on the Customer to Customer (C2C) model. It will provide an all-new innovative way for customers to freely interact with each other without any intermediaries. It aims to abolish traditional markets where consumers were required to interact with businesses in order to purchase a product or service. Dazzle is slated to be released in India, the India, USA, Hungary, and the United Arab Emirates in the year 2022-23. The platform will also be operational in more than 80 countries by the end of 2024. It is out in the open for everyone to see that e-commerce giants are slowly taking up all the business. It won't be wrong to say that they are the future of the business globally. With these stellar projects, one can, without an iota of doubt, say that Sumant Kant Kaul has a vision for the future. He is the man who understands the need for technologies in touching people's lives. Through his strategically designed futuristic projects, he seeks to revamp these crucial sectors that have immense potential in contributing to the country's economy and growth as well as touching the lives of billions of people in this post COVID era.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||Koko Petkov on the Importance of Appreciating the Little Things in Life||The little things in life are often overlooked, especially in the business world. However, these little things are often what aspiring entrepreneurs need to achieve in small steps before accomplishing their bigger goals. As shown by Koko Petkov’s students, appreciating the little things in life is what can help you achieve your career dreams. Koko Petkov is the owner of Koko Trading, a firm that offers trading and stock market education to those looking to build their portfolios. Primarily, Koko works with those looking to be active in the markets and who are interested in day trading and long-term investments. Koko took up this occupation after being burned out from 100-hour weeks. After discovering his love and entrepreneurial mindset, he started trading. Koko Trading was then established, led by requests from aspiring traders who wanted to learn the Koko way. Koko began by offering free trials for aspiring traders. This initiative soon turned into a successful business and Koko became a millionaire at the age of 34. Throughout his educational programs, Koko has witnessed how clients can be excited and most appreciative of the little tips he gives them. Although the programs involve extensive knowledge, the small and personal tips that the educational service provides to the students prove to be those that are most treasured. Koko recognizes that all trading is now done online. Due to the technological advancements and competitive markets, which change on a day-to-day basis, not every trader can be successful. In fact, only around 5% of new traders emerge successful. Such little tips can help the traders go the extra mile and achieve success in their trading careers. Koko Trading operates within a small and niche market, which aligns itself with a certain type of students. Notably, all are willing to learn and take on board the unique and personal tips. Koko Petkov recognizes how important the small offering of a free trial was important to his clients. Furthermore, he acknowledges how important the little things in life are, such as personal tips and one-on-one sessions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||List of Covid deaths to be updated based on Centre's guidelines, says Kerala minister||The list of those who succumbed to COVID-19 was being updated based on the new guidelines of the Centre, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said on Thursday. The minister, speaking to reporters after visiting the new ICUs at the Government Medical College here, also said that even the state's guidelines would be updated as per the Centre's norms and the finalised version would be ready in a few days. She said that the new guidelines would cover various aspects, including considering deaths 30 days after turning negative as a COVID fatality. A comprehensive list will be published in this regard, she added. Besides that the Health Department will also be looking into the number of COVID deaths reported in the state and is taking steps to rectify the same, she said, adding that steps are being taken to resolve the complaints and grievances it has received on this issue. She said the state government was of the view that all those who have suffered loss of loved ones due to the pandemic should get some relief and will do everything possible to ensure the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||PM-CARES fund not a government entity but functions with transparency, HC told||The PM CARES Fund is not a Government of India fund and the amount collected by it does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India, the Delhi High Court has been informed. An affidavit filed by an Under Secretary at the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) who is discharging his functions in the PM Cares Trust on honorary basis, has said the trust functions with transparency and its funds are audited by an auditor -- a chartered accountant drawn from the panel prepared by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The affidavit was filed in response to a petition seeking a direction to declare the PM CARES Fund a 'State' under the Constitution to ensure transparency in its functioning. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Amit Bansal has fixed the matter for further hearing on September 27. "To ensure transparency, the audited report is put on the official website of the trust along with the details of utilisation of funds received by the trust, says the affidavit filed by Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, Under Secretary at the PMO. "I state that when the petitioner is claiming to be a public-spirited person and seeking to pray for various reliefs only for transparency, it does not matter whether PM Cares is a State' within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India," the officer said in the affidavit. "Irrespective of whether the trust is a State or other authority within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution or whether it is a public authority' within the meaning of provisions of the Right to Information Act (RTI), it is not permissible to disclose third party information," he added. It said that all donations received by the trust are received via online payments, cheques or Demand Drafts and the amount received is audited with the audited report and the expenditure of trust fund displayed on the website. "The trust functions on the principles of transparency and public good in larger public interest like any other charitable trust and, therefore, cannot have any objection in uploading all its resolutions on its website to ensure transparency," it said, while reiterating that the trust's fund is not a fund of Government of India and the amount does not go in the Consolidated Fund of India. The officer said he is discharging his functions in the PM Cares Trust on honorary basis which is a charitable trust not created by or under the Constitution or by any law made by the Parliament or by any State legislature. "Despite being an officer of the Central government, I am permitted to discharge my functions in PM Care Trust on an honorary basis," he said. The court was hearing a petition filed by Samyak Gangwal who has said that the PM CARES Fund is a 'State' as it was formed by the Prime Minister on March 27, 2020 to extend assistance to the citizens of India in the wake of the public health emergency -- the ongoing COVID-19 Pandemic. His counsel had told the court that if it is found that the PM CARES Fund is not 'State' under the Constitution, usage of the domain name 'gov', the Prime Minister's photograph, state emblem etc has to be stopped. The petition said that the Trustees of the fund are the Prime Minister, Defence Minister, Home Minister and the Finance Minister and immediately after the formation of the fund, the Centre through its high government functionaries represented that the fund was set up and operated by the Government of India. To ensure transparency and accountability, the plea has sought a direction for periodic auditing of PM CARES website and disclosure of the details of donations received by it. In his alterative prayers, Gangwal has sought to direct the Centre to publicise that the PM CARES Fund is not a fund of the Government of India and to restrain PM CARES from using 'Prime Minister of India' or 'Prime Minister', including its abbreviations its name, on its website, Trust Deed and other official or unofficial communications and advertisements. On March 9, the court had said it was not inclined to issue notice on the plea as the Centre was already represented through counsel who may file their written submissions. The petitioner has also filed another petition to declare PM CARES as a 'public authority' under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, which is being heard together with the first plea. This petition challenges a June 2, 2020 order of the Central Public Information Officer (CPIO), PMO, refusing to provide documents sought by him on the ground that PM Cares Fund is not a public authority under the RTI Act. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who represented PMO, had opposed the petition, stating that it was not maintainable and that he would file a response explaining why it should not be entertained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||Pegasus: SC likely to set up committee to probe snooping row||The Supreme Court on Thursday orally observed that it would be setting up a technical expert committee to inquire into the Pegasus snooping matter, and an order will be passed next week on a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the issue. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said the order, which was to be pronounced earlier, will now be delivered next week. "We will be able to finalise the members of technical expert team by next week and then pronounce our orders, said the bench. The observation assumes significance as the Centre had earlier offered to set up an expert panel on its own to look into the grievances of alleged snooping on phones. The top court on September 13 had reserved its order, saying it only wanted to know whether or not the Centre used the Pegasus spyware through illegal methods to allegedly snoop on citizens. The Centre had stoutly refused to file an affidavit citing national security on pleas seeking an independent probe into the snooping row. The pleas seeking an independent probe are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-183
23-09-2021||India||Four injured in building wall collapse in Calcutta||Four people were injured as the wall of a building in eastern Kolkata's Kareya area collapsed on Thursday morning, following a loud noise, suspected to be that of a blast, police said. The incident happened around 6.30 am in Ahiripukur 1st Lane, they said. "Locals heard a loud sound from the building and informed the police. On reaching the spot, we found that a wall on the ground floor of the four-storied building collapsed and four inhabitants were injured," a senior police officer said. The injured persons were admitted to a hospital, he said. Forensic experts were examining the spot, he said, adding that an investigation was started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Delhi riots: Hearing in Umar Khalid's bail plea adjourned to Oct 9||A Delhi court on Thursday adjourned to October 9 hearing on the bail plea of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid in the 2020 Delhi riots conspiracy case. The hearing was adjourned to next month as Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat is on leave. This was informed to Khalid's counsels by the court staff through video conference. Khalid along with several others has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case. They are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. On September 6, Khalid had withdrawn his bail plea and filed a fresh one after the prosecution's objected to its maintainability. In a hearing on September 3, Khalid, through his lawyer, told the court that the charge sheet in the case has made hyperbolic allegations without any factual basis and reads like a script from a web series and news channels. The Delhi Police had earlier said that the bail plea has no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||India logs over 31,000 fresh Covid cases, 282 casualties in a day||India added 31,923 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,35,63,421, while the active cases declined to 3,01,640, the lowest in 187 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,46,050 with 282 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.90 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.77 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. As many as 15,27,443 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 55,83,67,013. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.09 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 24 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.11 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 90 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,28,15,731, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 83.39 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 282 new fatalities include 142 from Kerala and 48 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,46,050 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,664 from Maharashtra, 37,668 from Karnataka, 35,400 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,039 from Kerala, 22,888 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,691 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Taliban's commitment not to allow use of Afghan soil for terrorism should be implemented: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has told the G20 nations that the Taliban's commitment not to allow the use of Afghanistan's soil for terrorism in any manner should be implemented and the world expects a broad-based, inclusive process that involves representation from all sections of the Afghan society. Jaishankar addressed the G20 Foreign Ministers' Meeting on Afghanistan on Wednesday, held on the sidelines of the high-level 76th session of the UN General Assembly. International community must come together in response to humanitarian needs. Assistance providers must be accorded unimpeded, unrestricted and direct access, Jaishankar said in a series of tweets after the virtual meeting. Taliban's commitment not to allow the use of Afghan soil for terrorism in any manner should be implemented. The world expects a broad-based inclusive process that involves representation from all sections of Afghan society, he said. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan last month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities in the backdrop of withdrawal of the US forces that began on May 1. On August 15, the capital city of Kabul fell to the insurgents. The Taliban claimed victory over opposition forces in the last holdout province of Panjshir on September 6, completing their takeover of Afghanistan three weeks after capturing Kabul. The Taliban has said that Afghan territory will not be used against any country. Jaishankar said the UN Security Council resolution 2593 on Afghanistan reflects global sentiment and should continue to guide our approach. India's engagement will be driven by its historical friendship with the Afghan people. The resolution, adopted under India's Presidency of the 15-nation Council in August, demanded that Afghan territory not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts, and reiterated the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan, including those individuals and entities designated pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999), and noted the Taliban's relevant commitments. It had condemned in the strongest terms the deplorable attacks of August 26 near Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, which were claimed by the Islamic State in Khorasan Province, an entity affiliated with the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (Da'esh), and resulted in deaths and injuries of over 300 civilians and 28 military personnel. The resolution took note of the Taliban's condemnation of this attack. Following the G20 meeting, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken tweeted Had a productive dialogue at #UNGA76 with G20 Foreign Ministers and International Organisation Principals on Afghanistan. The international community is united in its expectations for the Taliban to adhere to their commitments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Militant killed in encounter with security forces in JK's Shopian||A militant who was involved in a firing incident on Wednesday night has been killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Thursday. "Last night, recently active terrorist who was earlier an OGW (overground worker) and also involved in drugs, namely Anayat Ashraf Dar...fired upon a civilian Jeewer Hameed Bhat, who got seriously injured and is still hospitalised," the Kashmir Zone police said on its Twitter handle. The police said Anayat also used to threaten other people in and around his village with his illegally acquired weapons. "After thorough interrogation of several suspects after attack and input from sources, a CASO ( cordon and search operation) was launched at village Keshwa. While laying cordon he fired upon joint search party," the police said. It said all the civilians in the adjoining houses of the target area were evacuated. "He (militant) was offered to surrender for whole night, but he didn't surrender. Later on, during encounter the said newly active terrorist got neutralised. One pistol and ammunition were also recovered from his possession," the police added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Modi arrives in US to attend Quad leaders' summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived here on Wednesday on an official visit to the US during which he will hold the first face-to-face meeting with President Joe Biden and his deputy Kamala Harris, attend the maiden in-person Quad summit and address the 76th session of the UN General Assembly in New York. Modi, who is visiting the US for the 7th time after assuming office in 2014, said his visit would be an occasion to strengthen the Indo-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership and consolidate ties with Japan and Australia. "Landed in Washington DC. Over the next two days, will be meeting @POTUS @JoeBiden and @VP @KamalaHarris, Prime Ministers @ScottMorrisonMP and @sugawitter. Will attend the Quad meeting and would also interact with leading CEOs to highlight economic opportunities in India," Modi tweeted. He was received at the airport by senior officials of the Biden Administration and India's Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu. "Namaste USA! PM @narendramodi was greeted on arrival by Shri Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Ambassador of India to USA and Mr. T. H. Brian McKeon, US Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources," Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted. Despite heavy rains since early in the morning, a significant number of Indian Americans were also there at the Andrews Joint Airforce Base to welcome the Prime Minister. "Exuberant members of the Indian diaspora welcoming PM @narendramodi upon landing in Washington D.C," Bagchi tweeted along with pictures of Modi interacting with Indian-Americans. Prime Minister Modi has a packed agenda over the next three days. President Biden will host Modi at the White House for their first bilateral meeting on September 24. Later on that day, Biden will host the first-ever in-person Quad Leaders' Summit with Modi, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. Both Biden and Prime Minister Modi have spoken virtually on multiple occasions after the former, a Democrat, became US president in January. The last telephone conversation between them took place on April 26. Vice President Harris will meet Prime Minister Modi on September 23. This will be the first meeting between the two leaders. Harris had earlier spoken with Modi over the phone in June during the COVID-19 crisis. Harris is the first woman, the first Black American, and the first South Asian American to be elected Vice President. "During my visit, I will review the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with President Biden and exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest," Modi said just before leaving for the US. "I am also looking forward to meeting Vice President Kamala Harris to explore opportunities for cooperation between our two nations particularly in the area of science and technology," said Modi, who is visiting the US at the invitation of President Biden. Modi said he will participate in the first in-person Quad Leaders' Summit. The Summit provides an opportunity to take stock of the outcomes of the Quad leaders' Virtual Summit in March this year and identify priorities for future engagements based on our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific region, he said. Prime Minister Modi will also hold bilateral meetings with Prime Minister Morrison and Prime Minister Suga and take stock of the strong bilateral relations. "My visit to the US would be an occasion to strengthen the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with the USA, consolidate relations with our strategic partners - Japan and Australia - and to take forward our collaboration on important global issues," he said in his departure statement. Modi said that he will conclude his visit with an address at the 76th session UN General Assembly on Saturday, focusing on the pressing global challenges including the COVID-19 pandemic, the need to combat terrorism, climate change and other important issues. At a media briefing in New Delhi, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Tuesday that the developments in Afghanistan will be extensively discussed in the bilateral talks between Modi and Biden and the Indian side will convey that Washington needs to continue to focus on that country. Prime Minister Modi will also hold one-on-one meetings with five top executives from the US. These include Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Shantanu Narayen from Adobe, Mark Widmar from First Solar, Vivek Lall from General Atomics and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone. All of Prime Minister Modi's previous visits had his signature massive meetings with the Indian American community in particular the one at the Madison Square Garden in 2015, and thereafter in the Silicon Valley and the last one was Houston in 2019. However, because of COVID-19 restrictions, no large event for the prime minister is being planned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Centre offers Rs 50,000 ex gratia to Covid victims' kin||The Centre on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that the family of each Covid dead would be awarded an ex gratia of Rs 50,000 and that the states would pay the money from the state disaster relief funds (SDRFs). The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) had in an order in April 2015 announced that ex gratia for families of those dying of a disaster should be Rs 4 lakh. But in an affidavit on Wednesday, the home ministry said “different norms” needed to be applied to Covid for the following reasons: ⚫ The pandemic was still continuing and the number of deaths rising, with uncertainty about new variants of the virus and likely future waves. This made it impossible to estimate the total financial burden that the ex gratia — which would be given to the families of all future Covid dead too — would eventually run up. So, financial prudence demanded a sum that the authorities could go on providing even if the Covid fatalities continued to rise. ⚫ The states have already incurred huge expenditures from the SDRFs on various aspects of Covid prevention, management and response. ⚫ The possibility of other natural disasters that occur more frequently has not abated. So the SDRFs should maintain sufficient funds to provide timely relief in case of other disasters too. The Supreme Court, dealing with a batch of petitions seeking ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh for each Covid-bereaved family, had on June 30 directed the Centre to provide the relief but allowed it to decide the amount. The government had contended that ex gratia was discretionary and not mandatory, and that no judicial directive could be passed on the matter under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. But the court had rejected the argument. Wednesday’s affidavit made it clear that the ex gratia would be given only if the death has been certified by a qualified medical practitioner as resulting from Covid, and sufficient identity proof provided. In the June 30 order, the apex court had also directed the NDMA to frame guidelines for the payment of Covid ex gratia and simplify the procedure for issuing Covid death certificates to avoid harassment of the claimants. Apart from the ex gratia, the families of the Covid dead have the option of seeking additional remedies such as compensation claims in civil courts against the government or insurance companies. The official Covid death toll in India is about 4.45 lakh although independent sources such as The New York Times have estimated a far higher count. The June 30 directions had come on petitions filed by advocates Reepak Kansal, Gaurav Kumar Bansal and a couple of others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Govt sets up committee to develop National Curriculum Frameworks||The government has set up an expert committee to develop the National Curriculum Frameworks, the guiding documents for the preparation of school, preschool and teacher-training textbooks. The ministry of education has formed the 12-member National Steering Committee under the chairmanship of former Isro chairman K. Kasturirangan, who had also headed the panel that prepared the draft National Education Policy. The committee will develop four NCFs — one each for school education, early childhood care and education, teacher education and adult education. According to the committee’s terms of reference, it will discuss the various aspects of these four areas, draw inputs from state curriculum frameworks prepared by the SCERTs, and develop the NCFs. The committee may invite subject experts if required. Its tenure will be three years. The other members of the panel are Mahesh Chandra Pant, chancellor of the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration; Govind Prasad Sharma, chairman of the National Book Trust; Najma Akhtar, vice-chancellor of the Jamia Millia Islamia; T.V. Kattimani, vice-chancellor of the Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh; Michel Danino, a Padma Shri recipient for his work on literature and education; Milind Kamble, entrepreneur; Jagbir Singh, chancellor of the Central University of Punjab; Manjul Bhargava, an American mathematician of Indian origin; M.K. Sridhar, a member of the NEP committee ; Dhir Jhingran, founder-director of the Language and Learning Foundation, an NGO working on foundational learning for children; and Shankar Maruwada, co-founder of the EkStep Foundation, an NGO working for child literacy and numeracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||MCC's new rules replaces 'batsman' with 'gender-neutral' term 'batter'||Back in July 2014, when members of M.S. Dhoni’s team were introducing themselves at a garden party hosted by then Indian high commissioner Ranjan Mathai, Virat Kohli announced himself with characteristic chutzpah: “My name is Virat Kohli and I am the batsman of India.” Let’s forget about the “the” for a moment but today to fit in with the new laws of the Marylebone Cricket Club, the guardians of the game, he would be saying: “I am the batter of India.” Batsman? Batter? The MCC has changed its rules so that “batsman” is replaced with the “gender-neutral” term “batter”. The change has been talked about for some time to take account of women cricketers, but now it’s official. No doubt, the MCC will be accused of going “woke” by Right-wing newspapers and commentators, but on Wednesday morning came the formal declaration from Lord’s: “The Laws of Cricket have been amended throughout to include the term ‘batter’ in place of ‘batsman’ and ‘batters’ instead of ‘batsmen’ wherever these terms appear.” The MCC said the change was “effective immediately” and “updates have been made to the Laws of Cricket published at www.lords.org/laws, with the Laws of Cricket App and printed editions to be amended accordingly at their next updates”. “MCC believes that the use of gender-neutral terminology helps reinforce cricket’s status as an inclusive game for all,” the announcement said. “A number of governing bodies and media organisations are already using the term ‘batter’ in their playing conditions and reporting. We expect and encourage others to adopt the updated terminology following today’s announcement of the change to the Laws.” The MCC added: “At the time of the last redraft in 2017 it was agreed, following consultation with the International Cricket Council (ICC) and key figures within women’s cricket, that the terminology would remain as ‘batsman’ and ‘batsmen’ within the Laws of the game. “The changes announced today reflect the wider usage of the terms ‘batter’ and ‘batters’ which has occurred in cricketing circles in the intervening period. The move to ‘batter’ is a natural progression, aligning with the terms of bowlers and fielders that already sit within the Laws.” Some old school buffers will think back to the days when women were not allowed into the Long Room at Lord’s. But the MCC underlined: “Women’s cricket has enjoyed unprecedented growth at all levels around the world in the same period. England’s victory over India in the 2017 World Cup final took place in front of a capacity crowd at Lord’s. “A record international crowd saw Australia defeat India in the T20 World Cup final in Melbourne three years later and earlier this year, Lord’s broke the record for a domestic women’s match as 17,116 watched Oval Invincibles defeat Southern Brave.” Jamie Cox, assistant secretary (cricket and operations) at MCC, said: “MCC believes in cricket being a game for all and this move recognises the changing landscape of the game in modern times.” So now we know. Bradman was the world’s best batter. Some Indians would say he was equalled only by Sachin, the best batter from Bombay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||SC hands off ‘toolkit’ stay||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to interfere with a Chhattisgarh High Court order staying the probe ordered by the state government into the alleged role of former chief minister Raman Singh and BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra in the Congress “toolkit” controversy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-184
23-09-2021||India||Jammu observes first shutdown since abrogation of Article 370 ||Jammu on Wednesday observed its first shutdown against the government since the abrogation of Article 370 provisions two years ago, accusing it of putting the region “on sale” to outsiders that included a suspicion that Reliance would open 100 retail outlets. The strike was called by the Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry, whose office-bearers are close to the BJP and had for long been averse to going against the government. Although Reliance Industries had on Tuesday categorically denied any plan to set up retail outlets in Jammu, it did not assuage the concerns of local traders who fear they would be thrown out of business if the behemoth entered the arena. Many in Jammu had cheered the Narendra Modi government’s move to scrap the erstwhile state’s special status in August 2019. However, Wednesday’s shutdown was a reflection of how people of Jammu were feeling increasingly unnerved over “outsiders” invading their livelihood. Anger has been brewing in Jammu over a slew of measures including a new mining policy where non-locals reportedly got a larger share of the pie. Matters came to a head recently when there were reports that Reliance would make a foray into Jammu. Local traders claimed they had credible information on such a possibility and had also seen advertisement hoardings. Wednesday’s shutdown by the chamber was supported by several political parties and groups. Normal life remained paralysed in Jammu as markets wore a deserted look and vehicles largely stayed off the roads. Traders and political parties staged protests at several places while work in courts was also affected with the J&K High Court Bar Association supporting the shutdown call. Protesting traders carried placards that said “Jammu on Sale”. Chamber president Arun Gupta said 99 per cent of shops stayed closed. “Even those areas that had never shut down before, even during the worst of crises, responded to our call,” Gupta said, wondering why non-locals were choosing Jammu when Prime Minister Modi “wanted more and more people to settle in Kashmir”. “No store (by non-locals) is being opened there (in Kashmir),” he added. Wednesday’s shutdown was also against the government’s decision to discontinue the annual Darbar move, a 150-year-old tradition where main government offices shuttled between Jammu and Srinagar every six months. Tens of thousands of Kashmiris would visit Jammu every winter during the administration shift, and Jammu traders fear the halt would badly affect their business. A Reliance Retail spokesman had on Tuesday evening said the claim that the company would open 100 outlets in Jammu was “completely untrue”. “We have not opened any stores in Jammu. We have a few delivery points in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and these are set up by our delivery partners to support the small traders,” the spokesperson had said. Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Gupta, however, said the statement was “misleading” and the “situation on the ground is different”. Traders Federation Warehouse president Deepak Gupta, who led a protest at Nehru Market in Jammu, said 50,000 small shopkeepers would be rendered jobless if Reliance opened retail stores. “We will not tolerate any decision that we feel is against the interests of the Jammu business community,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
23-09-2021||India||SC directs govt to allow women cadets to join NDA from this year||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected the Narendra Modi government’s request to allow the entry of women cadets into the National Defence Academy (NDA) only from May next year and directed the Centre to permit them to take the entrance exam scheduled this November. The defence ministry had cited lack of time to develop infrastructure and logistics to accommodate women at the NDA, where only male cadets were allowed, and fix criteria for physical fitness. The ministry pleaded that women be allowed to appear for the next instalment of the entrance exam in May 2022. The court, however, said the armed forces were equipped to deal with emergencies and would have no difficulty in allowing women cadets into the NDA. It refused to vacate its earlier interim order in favour of women taking the November exam. “It is not so complex, what you are saying? The armed forces are the people who deal with everything in emergencies. They are the best response team we can get in the country. So I don’t believe that the armed forces’ response team will not be able to deal with the scenario…. Not many have enrolled for the exams this time,” a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B.R. Gavai told additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati appearing for the Centre. “This (exam) is something which is happening for the first time in the country. Instead of postponing it, try to work something out for them,” the court added. Bhati said the government would be pushed into a “tight situation”. But Justice Kaul, heading the bench, said: “Ms Bhati, the armed forces have been in more difficult and tight situations than this…. We are sure they would be able to deal with this emergency.” “We are not saying problems are not there. But I am sure the armed forces are capable of finding a solution. What we are finding difficult to accept is to postpone everything by a year. Having given some hope to the women to take the examination in November, we don’t want to belie that hope now…,” Justice Kaul said. “…What answer would we have for the students who are on the anvil of taking the exam? Don’t ask us to effectively vacate the order. You go on with the exercise. Let us see the result and see how many women get it,” the bench added. “We will thus not vacate the order passed by us. We will keep the plea pending here so that directions can be sought as situations arise,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
23-09-2021||India||Bihar: Molester granted bail on condition to wash, iron clothes ||A Bihar court has granted bail to a youth accused in a molestation case on the condition that he would wash and iron the clothes of all the women in his village for free for six months to atone for his crime. Additional district judge–I Avinash Kumar of Jhanjharpur court in Madhubani district, located around 180km northeast of state capital Patna, asked accused Lalan Kumar Safi, 20, to obtain a certificate from the mukhiya (headman) of his village panchayat, sarpanch (head judge of panchayat) or any government official that he has completed the free service, and present it to the court. “Bail is being granted to him (Lalan) on the condition that he will collect, wash and press clothes of all women of his village for six months. This will help inculcate respect for women in him,” the judge said in his order on Tuesday. The judge also asserted that the youth would have to visit all households in his village to return the washed and ironed clothes. He was also asked to furnish two bail bonds of Rs 10,000 each. A copy of the order was being sent to the panchayat so that the elected representatives could keep an eye on whether Lalan, a washerman by profession, was abiding by it or not. The youth, a resident of Majhaura village, had assaulted a woman in Laukaha Bazar area on the night of April 17 and tried to molest her. A case (FIR no. 130/2021) was registered at Laukaha police station in connection with the incident on April 18. The police arrested him on the same day and forwarded him to jail. “We had charged Lalan under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 354B (assault or use of criminal force on a woman with an intent to disrobe her). The charge-sheet in the case was submitted in the court in May and the judgment has come now,” Laukaha station house officer Santosh Kumar told The Telegraph. The SHO also said that the police would also keep a watch on the youth to see whether he was following the court’s order. Incidentally, the court’s order came after the advocate of the victim said that she did not wish to pursue the case any further. A reconciliatory petition was also filed to end the prosecution proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
23-09-2021||India||Post-mortem report of Mahant Narendra Giri tilts to suicide||The post-mortem report of Mahant Narendra Giri, who was found hanging at an Allahabad mutt on Monday, has confirmed death due to suffocation and a ligature mark around his neck, sources in the Uttar Pradesh home department said on Wednesday. A source said: “If we look at the post-mortem report together with the police report that says the two doors of Narendra Giri’s room were locked from inside, then the suicide theory is substantiated.” The post-mortem was done on Wednesday by a panel of five doctors. Some family members and disciples of Narendra, the chairman of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad that is an umbrella body of the country’s 15 major akharas or sects of naga sadhus, have alleged that he was blackmailed and murdered. The police have claimed to have found an eight-page suicide note in his room at the Baghambari Mutt. Media reports have said Narendra had mentioned in his suicide note that his estranged disciple Anand Giri had been blackmailing him. Anand is in police custody. After the autopsy, Narendra’s body was taken for a bath to the Ganga in Allahabad in a procession led by deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. He was then laid to rest at the Baghambari Mutt. Hindu seers are buried, not cremated. Ravindra Puri, secretary of the Niranjani Akhara to which the Baghambari Mutt belongs, said: “The suicide note is fake.”  Narendra Giri didn’t know how to write.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
23-09-2021||India||Cong demands probe into heroin haul at Adani-operated port||The Congress on Wednesday demanded investigations by sitting Supreme Court judges into the smuggling of heroin through the Adani-operated Mundra port in Gujarat, and into allegations that e-commerce giant Amazon had paid Rs 8,546 crore in bribes in India as “legal fee”. While officials have said nearly 3,000kg heroin was seized at Mundra port last week, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala cited a newspaper report that said the same company had imported a much larger quantity of heroin — 25,000kg — in June but it had gone undetected. “The Narendra Modi government’s objective is clear: sell off national assets, destroy small and medium businesses, hand over everything to a few companies and push the youth into drugs,” Surjewala said. “These two sensational disclosures have proved that the Modi government has taken a contract to sell India’s future. Their motto is obvious: take money and allow the loot.” Surjewala added: “Now we realise they took Rs 8,546 crore from the e-commerce giant. Who in the government — which official or which politician — took the bribe? Was this bribe meant for changing policies to destroy small businesses and suit e-commerce? Six companies of Amazon paid the money as what they called ‘legal fee’. How are these companies inter-related?” Surjewala asked whether Modi, who is on a US tour, would ask President Joe Biden to initiate a criminal investigation against Amazon and whether the Prime Minister would himself order an inquiry by a sitting Supreme Court judge. Amazon has promised to look into the matter, as lobbying for business is a crime in both the US and India. On Monday, a report by The Morning Context, a research and media company, had stated that Amazon had initiated an investigation against some of its legal representatives for allegedly bribing Indian government officials, PTI reported. PTI said that while initially Amazon had declined to comment on the news agency’s query on the matter, later in the evening, an Amazon spokesperson said a line item from its statutory filings on legal fees had been misrepresented. The line item is “actually termed legal and professional expenses that includes not just the legal costs but also the costs related to other professional services such as outsourcing, tax consultants, customer research, logistic support services, merchant onboarding services, customer service cost, etc”, the spokesperson said. “For instance, for the year ended March 31, 2020, the legal fee was Rs 52 crore, from the total legal and professional expenses of Rs 1,967 crore,” the spokesperson added. Surjewala said the same company whose consignment of 3,000kg heroin was seized last week had imported 25,000kg heroin in the garb of semi-cut talcum powder in June. “The cost of the stuff in the market is Rs 175,000 crore. Where is that stuff? Being sold to India’s youth? The same route was used for that consignment also. Why no investigation against Mundra port owned by Adani?” The Deccan Chronicle newspaper has reported that 25,000kg of heroin was imported in June through a little-known Vijayawada firm but the stuff never came to Andhra Pradesh. “If the Andhra firm has to import something, why will it not use the ports of Visakhapatnam, Thiruvananthapuram or Goa instead of opting for the Mundra port in Gujarat?” Surjewala asked. He said reports suggested that the company was only a conduit and had received a commission of Rs 10 lakh. He said the government must find out who the real operator of the drug cartel was. “Will the Prime Minister answer: were the Narcotics Bureau, CBI, directorate of revenue intelligence, Intelligence Bureau sleeping? Or are they meant only to harass critics of the government?” he said. “Is it not a breach of national security? How is such a huge drug cartel flourishing under the nose of the government?” Surjewala also said that more than 1.14 crore jobs were lost in the last one year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-185
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Big-time BJP leader all set to join our party, claims Firhad Hakim||Senior Trinamul Congress leader Firhad Hakim on Thursday said a “big leader from BJP” is set to join Trinamool Congress in a few days and claimed that the BJP will disintegrate in the state. Firhad Hakim, who is campaigning for TMC chief and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for the September 30 Bhabanipur by-poll, said the party is not indiscriminately inducting BJP leaders into its fold. Trinamool Congress is checking antecedents, track record and image of each BJP leader who has come to TMC and is deciding on their appeal after due deliberation, Mr Hakim, who is also a senior minister in Mamata Banerjee's cabinet, said. Mamata Banerjee's nephew and TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee during an election campaign had said, "The Trinamool has kept its doors shut. The day we open it, the BJP will become empty. There are so many people waiting to cross over." Bengal saw several BJP leaders defecting to TMC after Mamata Banerjee’s party swept to power in the Assembly poll this year. “The process has only started,” was Firhad Hakim's cryptic reply when he was asked by reporters whether there would be more crossovers to the TMC after Babul Supriyo and Mukul Roy earlier. "Wait for a few more days. A big-time BJP leader is all set to join our party... BJP will disintegrate in West Bengal," he said without elaborating. Reacting to Hakim's comments, BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya said, "The TMC should think about ethics and ideology before trying to poach BJP leaders. Those not interested in power and position, but love BJP will not leave," he asserted. Newly-appointed Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumder appealed to disgruntled party leaders to discuss their grievances with their seniors and assured them he will be ever attentive to address their issues. "Don't take any decision which will weaken the fight for people's democratic rights in Bengal," he appealed. Besides Babul Supriyo and Mukul Roy, three BJP MLAs have also joined TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
23-09-2021||West Bengal||BJP set to move high court against 'defector' Mukul Roy||The BJP is all set to move the Calcutta High Court seeking the disqualification of the "renegade" MLA Mukul Roy, who switched to the Trinamul in June without resigning as MLA as per the anti-defection law. The case, to be filed either on Friday or coming Monday depending on the weather in Calcutta, will be the first of its kind. While defections have been happening in the Bengal Assembly ever since the Trinamul Congress was formed, no member has ever been disqualified. The leader of the Opposition, Suvendu Adhikary, announced the decision to seek legal recourse after the fourth hearing in this matter at the Speaker’s office in the Assembly was inconclusive as Roy stayed away. Instead, a letter signed by Trinamul’s chief whip, Nirmal Ghosh, was submitted to the Speaker’s office claiming that Roy was unwell. “This letter from the ruling party’s chief whip proves that Mukul Roy is with the Trinamul Congress,” Adhikary said later on Thursday afternoon. Adhikary said their lawyer had submitted a judgement of the Supreme Court in the case of a Manipur MLA, which states that issues related to defection have to be settled in three months. “Unless the law (Tenth Schedule referred to as the anti-defection law) is changed, the Supreme Court's judgement has to be treated as a ruling. The Speaker has sought time to study the judgment. We don’t have any issues with that. More than four months have elapsed since Roy defected. We will now move court,” said Adhikary. "I am the government chief whip. Any MLA can talk about their problems with me. I have only conveyed an information to the Speaker's office. I don't see how I have done anything wrong," said Nirmal Ghosh, Trinamul MLA and chief whip of the ruling party. During his days in the Trinamul, Adhikary was one of the prime movers behind the defection of several Congress and a few Left MLAs, from Murshidabad and elsewhere, to the Trinamul. While the Congress and the Left moved petition after petition before the Speaker’s office, neither of the parties took the matter to the court. In the previous Assembly, Dipali Biswas, elected on a CPM ticket, had defected to the Trinamul (and later BJP) skipped all 23 hearings that were held to discuss her disqualification. “The letter from the Trinamul chief whip has been submitted without any medical certificate or evidence of his medical condition. Mukul Roy could have written the letter himself,” said Adhikary. He said other legislators who had defected to the Trinamul from the BJP will have to face by-elections soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Abhishek mocks BJP, says its leaders are queing outside TMC office||Amid a series of defections from the TMC to the BJP in West Bengal, the national general secretary of the state's ruling party, Abhishek Banerjee, on Thursday said if his organisation keeps its door ajar, the saffron camp will collapse in no time. Addressing a rally at Murshidabad district's Samserganj constituency, where polls are set to be held on September 30, Banerjee claimed that BJP leaders, mostly MLAs, have been queuing up before the TMC office, the doors of which are shut. "We have kept the doors closed. If the doors are opened, the BJP will surely collapse," he said. The Diamond Harbour MP further said that the Mamata Banerjee-led party, during the March-April Assembly polls, had driven "outsiders" away, and it would do so again in the upcoming polls. The TMC has often referred to the BJP as a "party of outsiders". "These outsiders need to be taught a lesson again... The saffron party will be defeated in the upcoming elections. Wherever the BJP is in power, we will go there and dislodge the party," he asserted. The MP also alleged that the BJP government in Tripura has imposed restrictions under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code to stop him from holding rallies in the neighbouring state. "How long will the order be in force in Tripura? The TMC will register victory in Tripura for sure. People will see what the TMC is capable of achieving in the next three months," he added. Assembly polls are scheduled to be held in Tripura in early 2023. The TMC has fielded Amirul Islam from the Samserganj seat, where polls were earlier countermanded following the death of Congress candidate Rezaul Haque.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC allows EC to file affidavit in Bhowanipore bypolls case||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday allowed the Election Commission (EC) to file an affidavit regarding the contents of the notification issued by it for the Bhowanipore bypoll. The court was hearing public interest litigation that urged it to step into the poll process in the constituency, as the EC allegedly mentioned that a constitutional crisis would arise if the by-election to Bhowanipore was not held, which the petitioner claimed the poll body cannot. The advocate representing the EC sought a short adjournment to file an affidavit regarding the contents of two paragraphs of the notification issued for the election, in view of the arguments raised by Bikash Bhattacharya, the senior counsel for the petitioner. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj adjourned the hearing in the PIL till Friday when it will be taken up again. The West Bengal government had during an earlier hearing on September 13, submitted that the chief secretary of the state had only written to EC, requesting that the bypoll be held and the commission had accepted the request. It had submitted that the state has no role in the decision to hold the bypoll and that it is the sole preserve of the EC. Bypoll to Bhowanipore was necessitated following the resignation of Trinamool Congress MLA Sovandeb Chattopadhyay to facilitate Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's election to the assembly. Banerjee lost in Nandigram, as per the results of the Assembly election declared by the EC in May. According to the constitutional provision, a person has to get elected within six months of taking oath as a chief minister or a minister. She took oath as chief minister for the third consecutive term on May 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Two children electrocuted in Dum Dum||Two 12-year-old girls who were returning from tuition classes through a waterlogged street in Dum Dum in northeast Kolkata were electrocuted when one of them accidentally came in contact with an iron post wrapped with a livewire on Wednesday evening. Both were taken to the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital where they were declared dead. Residents of Bandhab Nagar Colony said the girls were wading through water when a four-wheeler was speeding down the stretch. The girls apparently stepped aside to make way for the car when one of them grabbed the iron post for support. “One of them touched the iron post and got electrocuted. The other girl tried to help her and got electrocuted, too,” said a resident of the area, Krishna Banik, who said he was among the first few persons to reach the spot. The neighbours identified the girls as Anushka Nandi and Sneha Banik. Both are students of Class VI in the same school. Sneha’s family members said Anushka went to their home around 4pm, after which they left for their tuition class. The tragedy struck when they were returning home. Surajit Roy Chowdhury, the coordinator of Ward 9 of South Dum Dum Municipality, where the incident happened, said he had spoken with the power utility and asked them to cut off power supply till the area was examined and declared safe. “It was raining continuously. The moment I came to know about the incident, I alerted the fire department and the police. I have contacted the power utility company and asked them to cut off the supply tonight. It will be restored only after a thorough inspection of the area is conducted tomorrow morning,” he said. The incident happened a day after three members of a family were electrocuted in their house, which had been waterlogged for days. Electrocution has been the biggest killer in Kolkata after every spell of rain. Cyclone Amphan had caused 19 electrocution deaths in the city last year. The six deaths reported in the city in the past 24 hours suggest nothing has changed. Pedestrians continue to die while walking through waterlogged footpaths after coming in contact with lamp posts or snapped wires hanging along the road. In May, a 25-year-old engineer had died after coming in contact with a lamp post on a footpath near Raj Bhavan. In June, an 18-year-old youth and a 36-year-old biker got electrocuted in separate accidents in Patuli and Haridevpur. In 2016, a 14-year-old student was electrocuted while wading through water on a Bhowanipore road and collapsed after touching a lamp post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Family shock probe takes time||Over 24 hours after three members of a family got electrocuted in their waterlogged home in Khardah in North 24 Parganas district, police and state electricity board officials did not seem to be in any hurry to find out what exactly caused the death. A senior officer of the Barrackpore city police said police stations had been asked to coordinate with the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company, the state-run power utility, to conduct an inquiry and create awareness. An official of the power department said “the incident happened inside a private consumer installation” and suggested it did not demand an immediate probe. “I have asked the officers in charge of all police stations in my division to ask the electricity board concerned to conduct an inquiry into the matter and coordinate with them to create awareness among people so that such incidents can be averted,” said Aashish Maurya, deputy commissioner (central zone), Barrackpore city police. Several families living in the same compound, whose ground-floor units are still flooded, have left their homes, scared after the three deaths. Many, who have no alternative, have been forced to stay back. “Any of us can suffer the same fate. We still do not know how to secure ourselves while living in this waist-deep water for days. Yesterday, after the incident, the power supply was off for an hour, after which it was restored. We are scared if there is electricity, we are equally scared if there is no electricity as snakes are entering our homes,” said homemaker Mitun Sarkar, who lives a few blocks away from the Das’s home, where the tragedy struck. Mitun, her husband — who works in the GPO — and their 18-year-old daughter shift to a relative’s house every night so he can reach his workplace in dry clothes. Once he leaves for office, the mother and the daughter return to spend the day in their waterlogged home. Asked about the cause of Tuesday’s electrocution that killed Raja Das, 38, wife Poulami, 30, and their son Neel, 10, an official of the state power department said it was a ‘private consumer installation’ and the tragedy happened inside a private property. “The incident happened inside the house. According to the protocol for an electrical accident, we have reported the matter to the police. That’s all we have to say regarding this case,” said the official who refused to be named. The official said the power supply had been restored in the entire area by Wednesday and that they would take action if they received further complaints. Soummo Patra, 23, a resident, said a foot infection because of long hours in the water and an overflowing commode forced him to move into a neighbour’s place. “Every corner of the house is flooded from kitchen to washroom. There is no way we can use the washroom. I have developed an infection on my feet after I tried to stay at home in the water for the last few days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Sample tests of ill kids to start at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital||Consistent spike in influenza-like illness (ILI) cases among children in different districts of north Bengal has made the state health department draw up a plan so that samples of such children can be tested at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH). Over the past couple of weeks, most of the ILI cases among children have been reported in Jalpaiguri and Malda districts and also in Siliguri subdivision of Darjeeling. Cases have also been reported from other districts of the region, but they are fewer. “So far, the blood and swab samples of these ill children were being sent to The School of Tropical Medicine in Calcutta from the NBMCH as well as other hospitals of the region (north Bengal). This led to delay as pressure was mounting on the institute’s labs. That is why it has been decided that from now on, the testing facility would be introduced here at the NBMCH itself,” said a source at the hospital. Even now, around 50 children with viral infection are under treatment at the NBMCH. Similar number of children are also undergoing treatment in Jalpaiguri and Malda, said sources. S. Ponnambalam, the district magistrate of Darjeeling, said that NBMCH authorities would use multiplex PCR kits which can test the samples of children from across north Bengal. “A tender has already been floated to procure the kits. At NBMCH, six types of kits will be used to test the samples and we hope the results will come much faster. The plan is to start the testing from next week,” said the district magistrate. Superspeciality block In another development, the state has also planned to open the superspeciality block at the NBMCH soon. “However, we need to clean the NBMCH area for which the administration has sought help from Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) and Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA),” the Darjeeling district magistrate added. Sources said the SJDA, which has been entrusted with cleaning, has recently sent a letter to NBMCH authorities, saying they need to spend around Rs 7 lakh per month for the regular cleaning work and it was getting tough for them to continue the work every month without getting suitable funds. “Regular cleaning of garbage, medical and clinical wastes is necessary. The district administration and state health department should resolve the issue (of funds for the purpose),” said a senior faculty member of NBMCH.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||App, drone for vigil on Durga Puja days in and around Siliguri||The Siliguri Metropolitan Police will launch a mobile app for pandal-hoppers in and around Siliguri ahead of Durga Puja this year. The decision was made at a preparatory meeting that senior police officers held on Tuesday with Puja organisers of the city. Sources said 280 Pujas in all are held in the civic area while close to 400 Pujas are organised in the Siliguri Metropolitan Police area every year. According to police sources, any smartphone user who intends to visit the Durga Puja pandals can install this app in to obtain detailed information on the location of pandals, traffic and its curbs in different parts of the city, locations of police assistance booths and the nearest healthcare unit. “The app will also enable a user to call up the police control room in case of an emergency. Also, a host of other information will be there in the app to confirm that people enjoy festive days in a hassle-free manner,” said Gaurav Sharma, the commissioner of Siliguri Metropolitan Police. “We will engage drones for aerial vigilance. This would help us to know about the movement of traffic and crowd and can also help us to intervene in case of any need,” said a police officer. In all, police will run 18 police assistance booths in different strategic locations of its area that covers a major part of Siliguri subdivision and some contiguous parts of the Jalpaiguri district. During Durga Puja days, additional forces will be deployed in various places of Siliguri, including key crossings and near prominent Pujas. Along with the police, the civic authorities also held a meeting with different departments on Tuesday to discuss preparations for Durga Puja. Gautam Deb, chairman of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, spoke with department officials to ensure no disruption in basic civic services are made during Puja days. “Immersion of idols will be allowed from October 15 to 17. Organisers can collect permission from the civic body till October 4,” said De. “According to the decision of the state government, permission will not be granted to any new Durga Puja this year. In due course, Covid 19 protocols will also be circulated among Puja committees,” said a civic official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt to pay Rs 2 crore for dirty rivers: NGT||The principal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has instructed the Mamata Banerjee government to pay an interim compensation of Rs 2 crore so that the sum can be used to reduce pollution in the Mahananda river and Fuleswari and Jorapani two rivulets. The Mahananda is the principal river that flows through Siliguri and the two rivulets crisscross the city. On Monday, the NGT bench, comprising chairperson Adarsh Goel, along with three judicial members, Brijesh Sethi, Sudhir Agarwal and B Amit Sthalekar, and expert members Saibal Dasgupta and Nagin Nanda, said that despite repeated orders issued by the NGT, officers and state agencies who are supposed to take steps to reduce pollution of these three water bodies and restore the quality of water, have not carried out their responsibilities. “The principal bench has asked the state government to deposit a sum of Rs 2 crore with the district magistrate of Darjeeling so that it can be used for the improvement of these water bodies. Also, the chief secretary of the state has been asked to attend a hearing in January next year with the action-taken report,” said a source. In Siliguri, issues of Mahananda’s pollution and encroachment of its banks, as well as the condition of the rivulets have  time and again been raised by environmentalists and people in general. In 2005, the Centre  granted around Rs 60 crore under the Mahananda Action Plan for the restoration of the river and two rivulets. Initially, some initiatives were taken up, but eventually, the plan was not implemented fully. The dilapidated condition of Mahananda had prompted Subhash Datta, a Calcutta-based environmentalist, to file a petition with the NGT a few years back. This made the NGT react and pass as many as 12 orders to the district administration, the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and to Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority to take necessary steps. “The bench is aggrieved with the performance of these agencies and has mentioned in its order that a recent field survey has shown that even now, there are 88 encroachments in the Mahananda. It has also mentioned that the SMC should remove all encroachers and the unauthorised structures by March 31 next year,” the source added. While environmentalists and residents have welcomed the tribunal’s order and are hopeful that the river and the two rivulets will be cleaned, civic authorities have decided to hold a meeting soon to draw up the plan of action to curb pollution. “We will hold a meeting to ensure that the Mahananda flows freely and the sources of pollution are curbed through appropriate measures,” said Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Armed gang threatens and abuses BDO in Alipurduar district||An officer of the state administrative services posted as the block development officer (BDO) of Kalchini in Alipurduar district was threatened by armed persons at his residential quarters on Wednesday around 12.30am. This occurred hours after Trinamul president of Kalchini block, and some others, went to the BDO’s office on Tuesday afternoon and accused him of functioning without consulting elected representatives of rural bodies. Prasanta Barman, the BDO, who ran inside the washroom of his quarters when he saw the armed men and heard their threats “in vile language”, called up his colleagues and Kalchini police from there. He emerged from the washroom 40 minutes later when his colleagues and police arrived. He later filed a complaint with the police. No arrests have been made so far. In recent times, Barman hit the headlines for going beyond the call of his duty to help people get benefits of the state’s social welfare schemes. “I stay alone in my quarters. Around 12.30pm, I heard somebody knocking on one of the windows that I had left open. As I got up and approached the window, I saw some four people carrying firearms. They hurled abuse at me and threatened to kill me. I rushed to the washroom,” the BDO said. “I fail to understand why I was threatened. I am only discharging my official responsibilities as the BDO,” he added. On Tuesday, when Barman was in his office, Pasang Lama, block Trinamul president of Kalchini, with other leaders, gave him a memo. Lama was heard saying that from now on, he and his associates will prepare the list of beneficiaries under the 100-days-work scheme and the BDO won’t have a role in it. “If the matter is not sorted within seven days, we will launch protests against you. We won’t let you work at the behest of some central ministers,” he was heard saying in a clip that came on social media. On this, Barman said: “I will not bow before anybody. I am working under state government’s guidelines. On Wednesday, Lama said the BDO should respect rural representatives. He condemned the night’s incident. “I am a panchayat functionary for around 15 years now but have never seen a BDO initiating a project without discussing with us. As far as the night’s incident is concerned, we condemn it and want the police to take appropriate steps.” Calls made to Bholanath Pandey, the Alipurduar SP, went unanswered. Another police officer speaking on condition of anonymity, said they were probing the case. “We are working on inputs and trying to trace those who had entered the BDO’s residence,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Film-maker Sandip Ray launches new book Aparajito Satyajit||Film-maker Sandip Ray, along with Kalyani University vice-chancellor Manas Kumar Sanyal, launches a book — Aparajito Satyajit — to mark the birth centenary of his father Satyajit Ray in Calcutta on Wednesday. The book is a collection of memories and articles on the legendary film maestro penned by eminent names, including actress Sharmila Tagore, who has acted in many Ray films. It has been published by Kalyani University. Ray, born on May 2, 1921, in Calcutta, made his directorial debut in 1955 with Pather Panchali, an adaptation of Bibhutibhushan Bandyopadhyay’s novel of the same name. Ray was also an accomplished writer, illustrator, graphic designer and music composer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Schoolgirl pedals 12km a day for water in North 24-Parganas village||Schoolgirl Toma Das, 15, cycles 12km every day to bring drinking water home in her North 24-Parganas village from a roadside PHE reservoir. In the last week of July, Toma, who studies in Class X Hulorchar village of Hansnabad block, submitted an appeal through the Prime Minister’s public grievance portal, saying that fetching water hampered her studies. “Every day, I bring 30 litres of water, which is not sufficient for a family of five persons. Sometimes, we blatantly avoid offering a glass of water to guests since it will only reduce our stock,” the student stated in the portal. “The regular journey for water costs me valuable study time in the morning as I spent two hours to bring water. Sometimes, it becomes tough to attend school,” the girl added. The Class X student had willingly taken the burden of bringing 30 litres of drinking water home in two plastic containers after finding out the hard way that the groundwater her family used to drink from the tube well was excessively saline-rich and therefore not healthy. Till two years ago, her father Subol Das, a mason, used to bring home water from the local tube well. Then, he fell ill. Secretary of Maa Saroda Women & Rural Welfare Society, Subhasis Mondal, an organisation that is working for the socio-economic development of the Sunderbans, said: “It (excessive salinity in water) is a tremendous problem with which children are growing up. But unlike their parents and grandparents, they are not ready to accept it lying down anymore. Constant saline exposure leads to several skin problems.” According to sources, areas like Amlani, Bhawanipur-I, Hansnabad, Patlikhanpur, Barunhat, Rameswarpur, Bhawanipur-II gram panchayat under Hansnabad block Bispur, Dulduli, Gobindakati, Jogeshganj, Kalitala, Rupmari, and Sandelerbil under Hingalganj block are suffering from exposure to salinity. Toma is among a few thousand persons living in 14 gram panchayats of Hingalganj and Hansnabad blocks, in Basirhat subdivision, who either walk or pedal a few kilometres every day to fetch drinking water, having no other recourse. Enveloped with several rivers connected to the Bay of Bengal, most blocks of the Sunderbans spanning North and South 24-Parganas suffer from high groundwater salinity. No block has recently reported salinity below 300mg per litre, which is unsafe for drinking. Hence, people do not drink the water they draw through deep tube wells. The latter is an unchanged arrangement dating to the pre-Independence era. For instance, Toma collects water from a roadside PHE reservoir near Bailani market in Hingalganj block. In 2009, the Centre had launched the National Rural Drinking Water Programme aiming to provide safe and adequate water for drinking, cooking and other domestic needs to every rural household on a sustainable basis. The state government had planned to provide piped water to 70 per cent rural households by 2020. However, only 25 per cent of households received the facility so far. The Bengal government last year announced a Rs 58,000-crore Jal Swapno project to provide piped water supply to two crore rural households over the next five years with support of central funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Bus carrying migrant workers crashes, 70 injured||A private bus carrying migrant workers and their family members from Jharkhand to Lucknow went off NH12 at Rupahar near here on Wednesday night, injuring many of the 70-odd passengers. North Dinajpur district police chief Sana Akhtar said the bus had rammed into a small vehicle and then fallen into a ditch. “We have admitted around 40 passengers to Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital. The bus is yet to be pulled out of the ditch,” Akhtar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
23-09-2021||West Bengal|| Siliguri Metropolitan Police special op group seizes narcotics, two held||The special operation group (SOG) of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police arrested two persons with narcotics on Tuesday. Police sources said Khaibul Muhammad, a resident of Islampur of North Dinajpur and Bapi Singha, a Matigara resident were nabbed with 260 grams of brown sugar — a derivative of heroin — and 22 bottles of cough syrup during the raid at Biswas Colony, a locality under Matigara police station. In the past 72 hours, this is the second such raid conducted by the SOG in which narcotics was seized. In another incident, a team of the state forest department  and the Sashastra Seem Bal (SSB) seized a number of illegal timber logs from different locations of Nagrakata block on Wednesday. The team, sources said, raided areas like Dangapara, Khasbusty, Hajipara and Bamandanga. Also, a deer horn was seized from Nagrakata. Paku Kheria, a local resident, has been arrested in this connection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Two persons on hilsa hunt killed by lightning in East Midnapore||Two persons were killed by lightning in East Midnapore’s Mahisadal early on Wednesday while drawing in their catch of hilsa from the Rupnarayan river. The deceased, Samir Pal, 35 and Biswanath Bhuniya, 25, were part of a group of four. Milan Bhuniya, 30, Biswanath’s younger brother, and Sheikh Faruk, 42, are undergoing treatment at Tamluk district hospital and Mahisadal block hospital, respectively. Biswanath and Samir reportedly died on the spot. “The tragedy comes after the inclement weather began last Monday,” said district disaster management official, Mrityunjay Haldar, noting that flooding that had been triggered by the overflowing Kansabati and Keleghai rivers on Monday was exacerbated on Wednesday. The youths who had gone fishing amid a lull in the storm were not fishermen by profession. All were idol makers who had a few days’ break from Puja preparations, owing to the monsoon. “We live right by the river and my brothers have always been used to trying their luck during the hilsa season,” said youngest brother Haripada Bhuniya, 15. “This is fishing season for average citizens. There were several others along the bank when the incident occurred,” said Mahisadal panchayat samiti member Dipali Bhowmik, adding that “heavy rain” had commenced by dawn on Wednesday. On Wednesday, rain-related woes in Patashpur worsened. The Telegraph had reported on Tuesday how flooding in the Keleghai and Kansabati had displaced lakhs and damaged innumerable homes. The residents of the area gheraoed panchayat officials who were in the area to survey the damage to dykes. The protesters said they had also emailed irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra regarding an immediate solution to the flooding. “Our district magistrate brought this development to the notice of the state chief secretary during a meeting today,” said a district official, adding the irrigation department had verbally informed district officials that “the repairs would take time owing to persistent flooding”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19 recoveries surpass fresh cases in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged 683 new Covid-19 infections, 687 recoveries and 13 deaths. Active cases fell by 17 to 7,724 in all in Bengal. The number of active cases fell for 94 straight days. Bengal now has 2.6 per cent of India’s active cases and is seventh on among states with the highest number of such infections. Calcutta logged 112 new cases and North 24-Parganas 108, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure of new cases. Calcutta reported three deaths and North 24-Parganas five on Wednesday. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent — the highest ever this pandemic — still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.74. Bengal’s daily Covid-19 positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.84 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.63 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes close to 15.37 lakh recoveries and 18,691 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Hill tea bonus talks fail again over instalments||Bonus talks between hill tea garden unions and officials of the Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA) failed for the second time on Wednesday. Although hill planters agreed to pay bonus at the rate of 20 per cent of the workers’ annual earnings, their proposal to pay it in instalments was rejected by eight hill unions. Hill unions wanted planters to pay bonus at one go. Hill unions of major parties like Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Party, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, Gorkha National Liberation Front, CPM, Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists and others, who are otherwise bitter rivals in hill politics, came up with a joint statement seeking payment of the 20 per cent bonus at one go. “We all trade unions of the hill stand united to oppose the discrimination and suppressing policy of the hills tea garden owners and appeal your good self to justify our demands… that please do not split the bonus of accounting year 2020-2021 and let it be paid at one go,” the letter to the additional labour commissioner states. At a time of intense competition among hill parties, many believe none of them  can afford to back an inch on the bonus issue now. The meeting was held at the additional labour commissioner’s office in Siliguri on Wednesday and sources said that the next meeting has been scheduled for September 27 at the labour commissioner’s office in Siliguri from 1.30 pm. Planters cited their problems. “We don’t have any cash flow. It has been stated to the unions that we are agreeable to pay 20 per cent bonus but in instalments. We need time to get the money,” a tea planter said. Owners of tea gardens in the Dooars region agreed to pay the bonus at the rate of 20 per cent at one go in their very first meeting. Darjeeling Tea industry officials, however, insisted that the scenario was different in the hills. “Darjeeling tea is orthodox tea largely dependent on exports badly hit by the pandemic. There is also a crisis of containers because of which tea should not be shipped,” a DTA source had earlier stated. The official added that last year there was a drop in crop produce by 40 per cent too. “The gardens in the plains produce CTC tea which has a domestic market,” the source added. Last year, the hill gardens had paid a bonus in two instalments of 15 and 5 per cent. The previous year, bonus was again paid in instalments of 12 and 8 per cent. However, there were allegations that some gardens did not clear the instalment according to the agreed dateline, which prompted the “payment at one go” clamour. Sixty-six gardens from the hills are with the DTA while 12 gardens are members of the Indian Tea Association. Though there are technically 87 tea gardens under Darjeeling Tea Industry according to lease documents, many have been merged for management reasons into 78 gardens. The hill gardens employ around 70,000 workers. The ITA usually agrees with the agreement reached by the unions with the DTA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul might be in for bypoll surprise, says Hardeep Singh Puri||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday campaigned for the BJP candidate for the Bhowanipore bypoll with “a great deal of confidence and hope” after paying a visit to a gurdwara as “a proud Sikh”. Puri, the central minister for petroleum and natural gas, and housing and urban affairs, said if voting took place the way it should, the Trinamul Congress might even be in for a surprise in the constituency where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is its candidate. “I can tell you, looking at the composition of the electorate, looking at the qualities of our candidate, I certainly approach this with a great deal of confidence and hope. Bhowanipore is a constituency with people from all over the country…. It reflects Bengal’s syncretic culture. They are mature voters. I hope they see through this (various alleged dualities in Trinamul’s stand on national issues),” Puri told this newspaper. “If the voting takes place in the manner in which it should, don’t be surprised if the result is not according to the ‘popular expectation’, and it is more a reflection of the will of the people. Trinamul may be in for a surprise,” the Union minister said regarding the constituency never lost by Trinamul since a delimitation resurrected it in 2011. The BJP lost the seat by a margin of 22.55 per cent of the vote share in the Assembly polls this year. The BJP has fielded Priyanka Tibrewal in the bypoll. Puri alleged that Trinamul had won its third consecutive victory in Bengal on the basis of a “vitiated” narrative. “Let’s be serious, anybody pitted against Mamata Banerjee, with so many years in power, and other things.… We all know what we’re talking about here. These things happen in certain places and can’t happen in other places. So the political narrative here, I found vitiated in the last election. But I see remnants of that taking place this time as well,” said Puri — a 1974-batch retired Indian Foreign Service officer with nearly four decades as a civil servant. Puri, who calls himself “a proud Sikh”, was sent by the BJP to campaign in the cosmopolitan south Calcutta constituency with a considerable Sikh and non-Sikh population originally from Punjab. The 69-year-old began his day with a visit to the Gurdwara Sant Kutiya on Harish Mukherjee Road, which Mamata had visited exactly a week ago. Asked what he thought had gone wrong for the BJP in its quest for conquering the unvanquished territory of Bengal, Puri said he was “not sufficiently familiar” to do that. “Each election has its own defining characteristics. Whether we should have done this or that. I am a student of political processes and I am more interested in the study of where we started out and where we reached,” Puri said, apparently choosing to focus on the BJP’s rise from three MLAs in 2016 in the 294-seat Assembly to 77 in 2021. The tally has subsequently come down to 71 following resignations and defections. Asked what he thought were Mamata’s chances nationally, he said: “I wish her the very best. There are a lot of very senior, seasoned leaders that are there…. I keep hearing of interesting sparks flying every time they try to resolve these issues (of leadership).” The Union minister conducted a door-to-door campaign on Ray Street, visited Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s residence, then Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s residence, followed by lunch at a party worker’s residence on Alipore Park Road. Post lunch, he met students at a Lord Sinha Road address and then met representatives of the business community at the Hotel Hindustan International. He went back to Lord Sinha Road for a street-corner there, followed by a visit to the Ajanta Dhaba, and then another meeting with representatives of the business community in the evening. “When I went to the Gurdwara Sahib this morning, seeking blessings, both for myself and the candidate... somebody told me there that she (Mamata) had come there and spoken about the kisan andolan (farmers’ movement). Now what the kisan andolan has to do at a gurdwara or in the Bhowanipore constituency is something that escapes me altogether,” said Puri. Regarding the alleged kick-up to Dilip Ghosh, who was replaced before the end of his term as state president earlier this week, Puri said it was because the BJP was “truly democratic”. “In one of my books, Delusional Politics, one of the comments I recall making was that during the 16 years in which Shrimati Sonia Gandhi was Congress president, the BJP had changed six presidents. Our presidents, both at the national and state levels, have defined terms. I think the gentleman’s (Ghosh’s) term was anyway coming to an end, in November,” he said. Bhowanipore has about 3-5 per cent Punjabi electorate and bringing Puri to campaign for Tibrewal was a strategic move on the BJP’s part, sources in the party said. He reached the gurdwara around 8 in the morning and “paid obeisance and sought blessings”. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt puts south Bengal districts on alert after rain forecast, extra vigil in Bhowanipore Assembly||The Mamata Banerjee government has put all south Bengal districts on alert after the Met office predicted heavy rainfall in the region in the next seven days but the authorities asked officials to keep extra vigil in the Bhowanipore Assembly segment of Calcutta where the chief minister is contesting a bypoll scheduled to be held on September 30. State chief secretary H. K. Dwivedi on Wednesday held a video conference with the disaster management department and district magistrates after the rainfall alert reached Nabanna. “The chief secretary asked all districts to be ready with dry food, medicine and other relief material to help people in case floods hit the districts. The chief secretary also asked the authorities to keep NDRF teams on standby for Bhowanipore as by-election would be held on September 30 and the state does not want any hindrance in holding the polls,” said a senior state government official. The heavy rainfall predicted in the next one week has left the authorities worried for two reasons. First, the state has already witnessed a good monsoon this year and hence, all water bodies, including ponds and rivers, are filled to their capacity. In such a situation, consistent rainfall for the next few days could cause a severe flood in large parts of the state. Second, the authorities are concerned over completing the poll-related arrangements in Bhowanipore, which is considered to be important for the state administration as Mamata Banerjee has to win to continue as the chief minister. According to sources, the booths have to be kept ready and polling officers have to be sent there ahead of the voting day. Moreover, officials need to visit the residences of the elderly and people with physical disabilities with postal ballots before September 30. “All these preparations could be hurt if Calcutta remains waterlogged in the next few days. That is why the authorities are leaving no stone unturned to ensure that the city, particularly the Bhowanipore area, does not get waterlogged,” said a senior official. While the authorities are worried over the poll preparedness, the Trinamul Congress appeared to be concerned over the heavy rainfall predicted as it could leave the city waterlogged for a few days just ahead of the polls. The chief minister herself explained that Bengal had received such a heavy rainfall this year that it had never witnessed in the past 30 years. “Earlier, the city used to remain waterlogged for seven days. But now, we have carried out several projects so that water recedes within a short span,” Mamata said during an election meeting near Alipore Bodyguard line on Wednesday. Beside parts of Alipore, Mominpur and Ekbalpur, engineers of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said, Northern Park, Elgin Road and Doctor Sudhir Bose Road were among the waterlogging-prone areas in the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency. The chief minister said a water pumping station was being built in the Bodyguard line area which would help people get rid of prolonged water logging problems. Another pumping station would come up at Kabitirtha, which would help people living in Ekbalpur and Khidderpore get rid of waterlogging problems. Additional reporting by Subhajoy Roy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||West Bengal||Didi asks Bhowanipore electors not to be complacent, & step out to vote||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday appealed directly to the Bhowanipore electors against complacency, warning them against taking her victory as a foregone conclusion and therefore, not stepping out to vote on September 30, especially in case of rain. “(Suppose) It’s raining. You think, ‘O Didi will win anyway, so my not going (out to vote) will not make a difference’…. Please, please have mercy and do not think that way. Please have mercy and do not do this,” the chief minister urged voters, repeatedly, with folded hands. “Every vote of yours, if I don’t get, I will have to suffer losses. If I do not get every vote of yours, remember, you will not get me. Every vote, therefore, is very necessary,” the chief minister added, in a street-corner at Ekbalpore. She reiterated her appeal, almost verbatim, in a similar campaign exercise at Chetla. Bhowanipore, which agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chhattopadhyay won with a margin of 28,719 votes (22.55 per cent of the vote share) this summer, was vacated for Mamata by him in May. The Trinamul Congress chief, who took oath as chief minister for the third consecutive term on May 5, has till November 5 to be elected to the 294-seat House. “Our party has an absolute, two-thirds majority. But for remaining the chief minister of Bengal, if I am not able to win, then somebody else will become the chief minister. I will not be able to remain as the chief minister…. This I am telling you very clearly, to explain to you why there is a need for each and every one of you to go and vote,” said Mamata, who had unsuccessfully contested from the Nandigram seat. “Irrespective of a storm, inundation, downpour, 100 out of every 100 people must come out to vote. Because this is a much bigger fight (than just the bypoll of Bhowanipore),” she said. “Who will fight against the NRC, the CAA, the NPR (the three components of the contentious citizenship matrix of the BJP-led Centre), against demonetisation, against the riots of the BJP, against atrocities, for development?” she asked, as the audience chanted “Didi, Didi!”. “Every vote from you, remember, will help us march forward to Delhi in future.” The chief minister said she had gone on a whim to contest from Nandigram and rued not having contested from her home turf, attributing to destiny the need for her to contest from the bypoll in Bhowanipore. “I grew up in this constituency…. My mother had suggested once, that I contest from here. I had asked her why, she had said then she would be able to cast her vote in my favour,” said Mamata at Chetla. “Even when I went to contest in Nandigram, I used to miss not contesting from Bhowanipore. Maybe this is fate, which brought me back here, to win the bypoll and continue as Bengal’s chief minister,” she added, before reiterating that a “fearsome” conspiracy had been hatched – even putting her life at risk – to ensure her defeat in Nandigram, and asserted that the truth would soon be revealed. She said for such reasons, the bypoll this time was “very challenging”. “The BJP will conspire in various ways, they will try to foment tension, disturb peace, try to instigate riots… have the elections cancelled somehow. Do not yield to their provocation, their conspiracies,” she added. BJP leader dies BJP candidate Dhurjati Saha, who had contested unsuccessfully from the Magrahat West constituency, on Wednesday succumbed to injuries he had allegedly received on counting day on May 2. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
23-09-2021||North East||Assam burns rhino horn stockpile on World Rhino Day||The Assam government on Wednesday destroyed a stockpile of rhino horns to dispel the myth that they have medicinal value and send a strong message against the poaching of the animal and smuggling of its parts in an event to mark World Rhino Day. Altogether 2,479 rhino horns brought from seven treasury offices in the state were consigned to the flames using six gas-based furnaces at the programme attended by several thousands at Bokakhat in Upper Assam’s Golaghat district amid the chanting of Vedic mantras and blowing of sankhas (conch shells) by 21 priests. It took over six hours to destroy the horns. “We wanted to send a message to the world that Assam does not trade in rhino parts and that Assam does not believe that rhino horns are a source of medicine. Instead Assam believes in protecting the rhino from poachers. Don’t kill a rhino for its horn. It has no value. The horn has value till the rhino is alive,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. He said the state government chose World Rhino Day to carry out the exercise so the message gets more traction because the one-horned rhino is “not only integral to our civilisation, but also a symbol of our prized heritage and identity”. An official told this newspaper that “daha sanskar” (cremation rites) for the dead rhinos those who died protecting them were performed by the chief minister and other ministers before the horns were consigned to the flames. “Twenty-one purohits (priests) conducted the ritual. A 21-gun salute was also organised in their honour,” the official said. The BJP heads the coalition government in Assam. Sarma tweeted: “Today is a historic day for Assam & India. We have taken an extraordinary step of burning stockpile of 2,479 horns of single-horned Rhinos, first-of-its-kind globally in volume terms, pursuing vision of Hon’ble Prime Minister Sri @narendramodi of putting an end to poaching in Assam.” Assam has 71 per cent of the world’s one-horned rhinos. The government’s conservation initiatives over the years has seen the population of the greater one-horned rhinos, which is also the state animal, grow from 1,672 in 1999 to 2,652 according to the 2018 census, moving it from “endangered” to “vulnerable” under the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Messages of leading conservationists from across the world were beamed on giant screens at the venue hailing the move to destroy the horns. Bibhab Talukdar, wildlife expert and an authority on Asian rhinos, told The Telegraph that it was a bold step taken by the Assam cabinet in August to bust the myth surrounding rhino horns. According to him, since India is a signatory to CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora), and since greater one-horn rhino is in Appendix-1 of the CITES List, India can’t trade wildlife trophies and the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, as amended till date doesn’t allow any trade of rhino horn. “As such, rather than keeping a huge rhino horn stockpile in government treasuries, it was imperative to take a bold decision to dispose of the same in public view to send a strong message that rhino horn is not medicine,” Talukdar, who attended the programme, said. Altogether 94 horns being preserved included the longest (57cm) and heaviest horns (3.05kg). Samples for future genetic analysis were extracted from the rhino horns marked for destruction and preservation by drilling. A forest department statement said due to demand in some countries, poaching pressure on rhinos is ever persistent and it is intended that consigning rhino horns to flames will dispel these myths about its medicinal values without any scientific backing. Prior to selecting the horns for destruction, an elaborate process of reconciliation of rhino horns stored in seven treasuries of the state had been carried out by a committee chaired by the chief wildlife warden, Assam, with the help of a technical committee and seven respective zonal committees. The re-verification or reconciliation exercise was carried out in the presence of civil society members, members from non-governmental organisations, media, police and district administration officials. The entire process was carried out according to the provision of Section 39(3)(c) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, wherein a public hearing had also been carried out on August 21. There was no objection to the move. The section deals with destruction of wildlife parts, Talukdar said. Referring to suggestions from a few quarters that the accumulated stockpile of rhino horns could have been sold to earn revenue by the government, Sarma said it was against the “country’s law to sell or buy wildlife properties and resources”. “Selling these horns would only propagate the very myth of rhino horns containing medicinal values which the state government wants to bust. Just as trade in human organs cannot be allowed, we are committed towards curbing animal organ trade,” Sarma said, adding that Kaziranga National Park will reopen for tourists from October 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
23-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Babul Supriyo joins Trinamul Congress||About turn Sir — The decision of Babul Supriyo to join the Trinamul Congress should not be seen as an achievement for the party (“Babul joins Trinamul”, Sep 19). Not too long ago, in late July, Supriyo had announced that he is resigning from the Bharatiya Janata Party as he intends to retire from active politics — this decision came after Supriyo was removed as a Union minister in the latest cabinet reshuffle. What, then, prompted his decision to join the TMC so soon? Supriyo has been part of Bengal’s political fabric since 2014 but has done little for the betterment of the people. Instead, he is known for frequently getting into altercations with his critics for no good reason. It seems that Supriyo was waiting for the right offer since his defeat in the Bengal assembly elections earlier this year. His entry into TMC may be an ego boost for the party, but unless Supriyo delivers in the upcoming months, he will become a liability for the TMC. Aditya Mukherjee,New Delhi Sir — These days politicians, barring a few exceptions, seem to be devoid of any loyalty. The departure of Babul Supriyo from the BJP and his recent induction into the Trinamul Congress — he had fought bitterly against the TMC only a few months back — is only the recent example of a politician jumping ship. His scathing remarks against the TMC are still fresh in our minds. Yet, days after joining the TMC, he has declared that Mamata Banerjee will be a frontrunner for the prime minister’s post in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Voters, including ardent TMC supporters, are bound to see through his act. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Sir — No matter what political leaders would like to believe, voters are not foolish. Most people are certain that Babul Supriyo’s change of heart had nothing to do with serving the people of Bengal. His decision to join the TMC hinged upon personal gains and it seems that the TMC delivered by including him within the inner circle almost immediately. Over the last few years, the BJP has become notorious for poaching parliamentarians and members of legislative assemblies from other parties, leading to the toppling of governments in several states. This time it seems that it has received a dose of its own medicine. Nevertheless, this cannot bode well for the TMC in the long run. Party leaders as well as the common people of Bengal will not look favourably at Supriyo’s sudden entry and elevation to the top echelons of the TMC. Supriyo has lost all credibility. Mrinal Kanti Kundu,Howrah Sir — Babul Supriyo’s entry into the TMC in the presence of its national general-secretary, Abhishek Banerjee, may have flabbergasted the BJP, but it is not all that surprising. Few believed the legislator when he announced that he will be retiring from active politics. It is obvious that the TMC was hoping to make a point by welcoming former BJP legislators — including Mukul Roy — into its fold. But the upcoming Lok Sabha elections will determine the future of India. As such, Mamata Banerjee, who many expect to be at the forefront, should be mindful of who she includes in her inner circle. One hopes that this decision does not cost the TMC dearly. Minakshi Sethi,Mumbai Good game Sir — Mithali Raj must be congratulated for completing 20,000 career runs during India’s match against the Australian team at the Great Barrier Reef Arena. The skipper of the Indian women’s one-day international team also scored her fifth consecutive 50 at the match. This achievement proves, once again, that Raj is one of the finest cricketers in the world. It is truly unfortunate that female cricketers in India continue to be overlooked. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — Mithali Raj has shown that she still has a lot of cricket left in her. She must be congratulated. Soumya Kumar,Calcutta  Far from satisfactory Sir — Many people lost their jobs in the wake of the pandemic. But it seems that many others, especially the youth in countries such as the United Kingdom and Japan, are voluntarily leaving their jobs as they feel unsatisfied with their work. Such luxuries, though, seem unimaginable in India. Unemployment, especially among those with a college education, is at an all time high with many being forced to take on underpaid jobs just to put food on the table. A shrinking economy and an apathetic government have ensured that satisfaction is the furthest thing on the minds of the Indian youth. Abhinav Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
23-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Forked tongue||Freedom of speech is of little significance if people are not afforded the liberty to speak the language of their choice. The government seems to be vocal about defending this public right: but does its actions speak otherwise? This Hindi Divas, the Union home minister, Amit Shah, urged the people to use Hindi alongside their mother tongues. He also claimed that there is no competition between Hindi and other Indian languages. Recent developments have been curious though. While the National Education Policy has reportedly been amended such that Hindi is not imposed as a compulsory language choice for students, the Centre’s Nipun Bharat scheme, launched in July to improve literacy and numeracy in primary schools, invited criticism from non-Hindi-speaking states for the prolific use of formal Hindi in speeches and presentations. Strikingly, nurses from Kerala in a Delhi government hospital had to oppose a ban on speaking Malayalam among themselves. The push for Hindi is often justified by the argument that the language is spoken by a majority of Indians. This assumption is flawed for two reasons. First, the conclusion is drawn primarily on the basis of census data, which count the number of people who identify Hindi as a mother tongue rather than their spoken language. Moreover, their number may well be inflated because the census categorizes as many as 50 other regional languages — Bhojpuri, Rajasthani and Chhattisgarhi — as Hindi. Second, even the increase in the actual Hindi-speaking population can be attributed to demographic factors — higher fertility rates and migration — rather than the purported popularity of the language. Such misleading narratives are detrimental to the fate of regional languages — by some estimates, of the 780 languages in India, about 600 are potentially endangered. Clearly, then, commemorative occasions — the Hindi Divas is an example — would benefit such vanishing tongues more than Hindi. The need to safeguard the multilingual nature of India has been historically recognized — the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 revised the boundaries of India’s states and territories along linguistic lines in a nod to linguistic pluralism being integral to India’s democratic ethos. If the Bharatiya Janata Party were not so intent on promoting a ‘Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan’ narrative to realize its problematic ideological mission, it would perhaps have pursued a more inclusive approach.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
23-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Pact time||The twenty-first century was supposed to be a time of Asian resurgence. Asia is, admittedly, dominating the global discourse but in a rather unexpected manner: it has become the new theatre of the Great Game. This is evident from the formation of numerous multilateral blocs that have their eyes set firmly on developments in the Asian region. The principal reason for this shift in the global geopolitical attention is China’s emergence as a powerhouse. Apart from its deep pockets, Beijing is seldom hesitant to flex its military muscles. Indeed, there is substantial evidence of Chinese belligerence. Apart from encroaching on Indian territory, China has made exaggerated territorial claims in the South China Sea. It has also heated the waters of the Indo-Pacific. The global response has been in the form of the creation of multiple coalition platforms. For instance, the United States of America, the United Kingdom and Australia — Canberra is not immune to China’s expansionism — has formed Aukus, a trilateral security pact, that would involve the sharing of intelligence and advanced technologies. Another relatively new pact is that of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue whose members include the US, Australia, India and Japan. Quad — the US is hosting the first-ever in person summit — is undoubtedly meant to deter China from indulging in adventurism. China, understandably, has reacted with scorn towards the formation of these alliances. What is interesting though is that there is heartburn in the other camp too. India has not been included in Aukus. The foreign secretary may have dismissed the possibility of Aukus adversely affecting Quad but New Delhi could well be cut up about not just the exclusive dimensions of Aukus but also the fact that the US transfer of advanced technology to India has been minimal. Meanwhile, France is peeved with Australia and the US because the French lost out to the Americans on a lucrative deal on nuclear submarines after Canberra tilted in favour of Washington. Significantly, ‘regional issues’ — the Indo-Pacific — figured in the latest deliberations between the French president and the Indian prime minister. Given the fluid nature of the drama unfolding in the region, New Delhi should be careful not to place all its eggs in the American basket. It should be open to forming alliances that serve its own interests. There is even a case for New Delhi to breathe life into the moribund South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation — ministerial level talks at the Saarc have been cancelled — if only to attempt and wean some of its members away from the lengthening shadow of China over them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
23-09-2021||Opinion||Great Indian sale of its wilderness||In a meeting held on August 2021, the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife, chaired by the Union environment minister, Bhupender Yadav, took a decision to levy 2 per cent of the proportionate cost of projects falling inside protected areas and eco-sensitive zones on user agencies, thereby legitimizing infrastructure and development inside a national park or wildlife sanctuary. You could, for instance, have a six-lane highway tear through, say, Ranthambore National Park as long as you coughed up ‘compensation’ for the fact that a pristine forest would be destroyed and fragmented and wild animals — from tigers to bears to snakes — killed by speeding vehicles. Leaving aside the obvious matter of wildlife not having any use of money (as was commented upon in a SC-NBWL meeting that I was part of), in taking this decision, the Standing Committee, a core working group drawn from the larger body of the NBWL, contravenes both the letter and the spirit of the law it draws powers from. Section 5C of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 mandates the NBWL to promote the conservation and development of wildlife and forests, a duty further strengthened by various court judgments, including one in 2013 where the Supreme Court laid emphasis on the board’s role “to frame conservation policy and advise governments on promoting wildlife conservation”. The board, however, is doing anything but that: so much so that in my book, The Vanishing, I termed it the “Notional” Board for Wildlife. The environment lawyer, Ritwick Dutta, goes a step further, calling the NBWL a “big threat to India’s wildlife”. The SC-NBWL is meant to regulate activities in PAs, which constitute barely 5 per cent of India and are the last remaining refuges of our beleaguered wildlife such as tigers, lions, pangolins, floricans, rhinos and so on. Only those activities that benefit wildlife may be permitted. However, between 2015-20, the committee permitted 680 projects within PAs and its eco-sensitive zones. As per an analysis by the Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment, in just one meeting held in October 2020 — ironically during ‘Wildlife Week’, the SC-NBWL cleared over 1,000 kms of wildlife-rich areas, including the denotification of a chunk of Hastinapur Sanctuary, an excellent riverine habitat which harbours otters, Gangetic dolphins and in its meadows wallows the rare swamp deer. In the first meeting in July 2014 that was held after the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance government came to power, it cleared over 130 projects, including a road through the Kutch Wildlife Sanctuary that threatens to destroy the only known nesting site of flamingos in India. Subsequently, it approved the Ken-Betwa river-linking project that would affect about a third of Panna tiger reserve’s core area, drowning breeding sites of critically endangered vultures and tigers. The above is a tiny representation of the litany of destruction that the NBWL has unleashed in a blatant abuse of its power. The minutes of SC-NBWL meetings — I pored over a few recent ones — make for depressing reading: they are an inexhaustible list of decisions that recommend either deleting parts of PAs or diverting land for roads, railway lines, power projects and so on. How these are beneficial to wildlife is best explained by the incumbent NBWL; science, however, establishes that habitat losses and the degradation they cause threaten flora and fauna and can potentially lead to local extinction. Barely one per cent of projects are rejected; these usually work their way back to the table and are mostly cleared, as was done in the case of a ropeway through Girnar Wildlife Sanctuary in Gujarat in January 2015. This one would mine the cliffs, a death knell for the long-billed vulture — its population has plummeted by 98 per cent — that nest there. It is not just about the number of clearances; what is even more problematic is the frivolous manner in which they are granted. The decisions are hasty — dozens of projects are cleared in a matter of hours, leaving little room for deliberations. Site visits that provide for detailed and thorough scrutiny of project impacts are scant. Some were conducted after the approval had been granted, thus defeating its purpose — the possibility of rejecting a project if ground surveys indicate detrimental wildlife impacts. During the lockdown, as the country grappled with a pandemic, the business of the NBWL continued through virtual meetings, leaving little room for debate, detailed scrutiny, opinions of experts and other stake holders. Projects cleared in the April, 2020 ‘VDO meeting’ included a highway through the Mollem National Park — part of a global biodiversity hotspot — in Goa and a hydroelectric project that would drown no less than 768 hectares in the eco-sensitive zone of the Binog Wildlife Sanctuary (Uttarakhand), home to rare pheasants and where the now extinct Himalayan Quail was last recorded. The downfall of the NBWL has been ongoing for at least the past two decades. But of late, it has shed any pretence of conservation, focusing instead on easing the path of ‘development’ through easy approvals of destructive projects within wildlife parks and sanctuaries. The Great Indian Clearance sale of our natural heritage continues. It hurts to say this for the NBWL is meant to provide essential checks and balances to protect wildlife, but a more apt title for it would perhaps be ‘National Board Against Wildlife’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
23-09-2021||Opinion||Thoughts of school||Chumki Mandal is a sparkling young girl of about 12 who lives in the southern fringes of the city with her parents, siblings, and widowed paternal grandmother. Her mother works as a domestic help in several homes and her father has a small kabariwala shop where he stores the used newspapers, magazines, plastic and glass bottles and other detritus that he collects from middle-class homes on his daily rounds, and which he then sells to sundry others who, in turn, recycle these discarded items into paper bags, plastic mats and containers and so on. Chumki’s nickname is ‘Chutki’ (‘the little one’), since she is quite a bit younger than her brother, aged about 21 or 22, who helps out in their father’s shop apart from doing odd-jobs for a local electrician. Chumki’s sister is about 18 or 19, and finished her Madhyamik (Class X board) examination (or, to be more accurate, received passing grades for the cancelled exams) this year. She has decided not to study any further, and has already started to make enquiries about getting trained as a beautician — her dream is to, one day, have a parlour of her own. Unlike her siblings, Chumki is serious about her studies, does well in the government school she attends, and hopes to become a doctor. In many ways, Chumki’s family is representative of the many millions who may not be right at the bottom of the socio-economic ladder, but whose existence is crucially dependent on things remaining more-or-less stable and predictable. In the winter of 2019-20, matters seemed to be going their way — Chumki’s father’s shop was doing well, her brother hoped to make the first down payment for a motorcycle, and they’d recently replaced the tiled roof of their house with a proper cemented one. There was even talk of buying a small refrigerator. Then Covid-19 struck and their world, and everything in it, was turned upside down. Chumki was perhaps the worst affected. After several months of no school from March to about July last year, when online classes started the family’s only smartphone was seldom available for her. Her sister’s claim was — perhaps rightly — deemed to be greater than hers and her brother, too, felt he needed the phone more than the littlest one in the family. Fortunately, one of the households where her mother works, and from where her father collects used newspapers and other discarded materials on a regular basis, came to know of Chumki’s plight and bought her a smartphone — so she was now able to attend online classes; but the problem of poor connectivity and lack of data remained. Today, more than a year later, Chumki’s academic performance has deteriorated considerably, and she often speaks of joining her sister, without first completing Class X. Her dream of becoming a doctor seems to be fading rapidly. The recently-released Locked Out: Emergency Report on School Education encapsulates the experiences of many Chumkis spread across 15 states and Union territories. The data presented in this short (30 pages) report make for dismal reading. Of the 1,362 children from underprivileged households — in both rural and urban areas — who formed part of the SCHOOL (School Children’s Online and Offline Learning) survey, only 8 per cent of children in rural areas and 24 per cent of urban children are studying online regularly; more distressingly, 37 per cent of rural and 19 per cent of urban children are not studying at all; and three-quarters of their parents feel that their children’s reading abilities have declined during the last 18 months. Parents, the report states, “are desperately waiting for schools to reopen. Indeed, for many of them, school education is the only hope that their children will have a better life than their own.” Calling online education a “fiction” with teachers “out of touch”, the report speaks of how literacy rates are “off the charts” and “the predicament of Dalit and Adivasi households... worse than average”. Locked Out ends by stating bluntly, “As things stand, the system seems to be heading towards ‘business as usual’ when schools reopen — this is a recipe for disaster.” An indication of how such a disaster may be avoided is provided in another new publication, Learning Together: The Opportunity to Achieve Universal Education, which calls itself an “action oriented study conducted in West Bengal” by Shiksha Alochana, a “platform... formed in 2016 by a group of primary school teachers who [wanted to] transform their schools into active social institutions, which, apart from bringing in excellence in teaching-learning and all-round development of children, would inspire, accommodate and integrate local communities with the school.” In Learning Together, the experiences of teachers who found novel, innovative ways to reach out to deprived children during the pandemic are recorded, which, in turn, may provide clues to how formal teaching-learning can be resumed once schools reopen. Chapter Two of the study, “Alternative processes of teaching-learning during the pandemic”, records some of the ways in which teachers have been reaching out to students whilst schools remain closed. These have included in-person classes in spaces where Covid-19 protocols can be maintained; used digital tools and methods where feasible; or taken the form of creating plays, cartoons or videos that can be easily shared. Most crucially, all of these modes of connecting with students have been vitally dependent on the active participation of local communities and (usually young) volunteers. Such experiments by its members have enabled Shiksha Alochana to suggest ways and means to overcome the challenges that lie ahead, succinctly presented in Chapter Three of the study, “Challenges ahead and way forward”. These include a five-point agenda for reopening schools, starting from “Preparing the ground” to “Preparing the schools” to “Preparing for lessons” where a set of Minimum Most Essential Learning Outcomes are chalked out for Classes I through V. The study ends by reminding us that the education of our children is a collective responsibility and not something that can be left to the government alone, or allowed to be blown about by the whims and fancies of private entities. Learning Together can be seen as a kind of companion piece to Locked Out, helping us to think through the process of resuming our children’s formal schooling — not in a typically business-as-usual fashion but keeping in mind the havoc already wreaked by the pandemic, the contours of which are still not fully clear. As Sukanta Chaudhuri puts it in his magisterial Foreword to Learning Together, “We are fortunate in having a substantial body of teachers in our state who can think so big even in this most disheartening of times, and propose a practical template for reform. Let us not fail them, so that we do not fail our children and our nation.” Samantak Das is professor of Comparative Literature and pro-vice-chancellor, Jadavpur University. Views expressed are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jamtara police arrest 9 in cyber fraud case||Jamtara police, as part of a drive, on Thursday arrested nine cyber criminals  from Narayanpur Police station of the district and recovered 24 mobile phones, 26 sim cards and 10 ATM cards from them. Jamtara SP, Deepak Kumar Sinha while talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday said, “We have arrested nine persons on the basis of a complaint from a Himachal Pradesh based victim during a joint raid conducted by a team of  Karmatand and Narayanpur Police stations.” “We have so far arrested altogether 250 cyber frauds as part of the drive against cyber crime since January this year on the basis of complaints being received from different parts of the country and have also seized significant amounts of cash on the basis,” he said. “We are also returning the money to victims as per the complaints after verifying their complaints,” said Sinha and added that the drive will continue as they are looking into all the complaints coming from different parts of the country. “We have also arrested 11 cyber criminals on September 21 during which we also recovered 27 mobile phones, 37 SIM Cards and one laptop from them,” Sinha further said. Notably, Jamtara has earned the notoriety of being the hub of cyber criminals of the country and earlier several cases of cyber frauds have taken place from Jamtara . On August 30, Delhi Police arrested 14 cyber criminals after raids were conducted in association with Jamatara Police. Earlier, several incidents of cyber frauds have taken place from residents of different parts of the country including Maharastra, Tamil Nadu, UP, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||UK envoy lauds Jharkhand overseas scholarship scheme for tribals ||British Deputy High Commissioner in Kolkata Nick Low lauded the Jharkhand government’s overseas scholarship programme for tribal students on Thursday, the day chief minister Hemant Soren presided over a programme to felicitate the first batch of six students handpicked by the state for 100 per cent scholarships to pursue higher studies in five universities of the UK. The programme also marked the formal launch of the scholarship scheme that was announced last year and notified in March. Selection of students was completed on September 6. In a letter addressed to Hemant, the envoy appreciated the Marang Gomke Jaipal Singh Munda Overseas Scholarship Scheme that has been designed to help students from tribal communities to go overseas to pursue higher studies. He also expressed his sadness at not being able to be a part of the felicitation event. “I sincerely congratulate you for steering this visionary initiative to bridge the inequalities of access to higher education faced by marginal communities in India. Your leadership and the efforts of the state government to drive this knowledge partnership between Jharkhand and the United Kingdom deserve the highest praise. The legacy of Jaipal Singh Munda, who started his Oxford BA programme a century ago will, I believe, now be taken forward both through this batch of scholars and subsequent beneficiaries,” Low wrote. In his response, Hemant wrote, “I acknowledge your heartfelt message and my heartiest thank you to you for your kind words. This is a beginning and we look forward to working with you and the British high commission on education, sports, climate change and other allied areas.” At the function, Hemant noted that Jharkhand was the first state in the country to start such a scholarship programme. "While the Union government runs foreign scholarship schemes, children of the common man rarely get a chance. However, with our scheme, children of poor tribals and the marginalised can also dream of flying high and pursuing studies in global universities," he said. Hemant recalled that the idea came to him while chairing a programme on world indigenous day. “I am happy that my officials have walked the extra mile overcoming all technical odds to roll out this scheme. It is just a start,” he said, adding that Rs 10 crore had been allocated to begin with. Jaipal Singh Munda, he noted, was the first tribal to study in Oxford a century ago. "He is not just an icon of this state but for the whole country. He also played a key role in the making of the Constitution of India. He was also a legendary hockey player. Jharkhand has many such legends. By running programmes in their names, we intend to keep their legacies alive.” Under the scheme, the state government will send 10 tribal students every year to 15 notified universities in the UK to pursue doctoral or masters programmes across 22 disciplines. The first students to be selected for the scheme include Hercules Singh Munda (MA in linguistics, School of Oriental & African Studies, University of London), Ajitesh Murmu (MArch-bio-integrated design in University College London —The Barlett School of Architecture), Akanksha Mary Balmuchu (MSc in climate change science and management, Loughborough University), Anjana Pratima Dungdung (MSc in international relations, University of Warwick), Dinesh Bhagat (MSc in climate change, development and policy, University of Sussex), Priya Murmu (MA in creative writing and writing industries, Loughborough University). An official of the state tribal welfare department said there were 22 applicants for the scheme, of which six were selected by a panel of five professors. The remaining four students would also get selected soon, he said. “We only selected students whose admission was confirmed,” he said, adding that the government would bear all the costs including air fare, tuition fees, local expenses etc. The students are scheduled to fly out later this month. Hercules Singh Munda, who is from Ranchi said, “I am a second generation learner from my family. After completing engineering in IT from BIT-Mesra in 2015, I worked at the Outlook Group in Delhi. I also worked as a research intern in IIIT-Hyderabad in 2019. Later, I started a company named TriLingo, a digital learning platform that enables tribal students to learn in their mother tongue. I will now pursue a masters degree in linguistics so that after I return I can contribute to my state and community.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Marandi accuses Hemant of weakening democracy in state||Former chief minister Babulal Marandi on Thursday charged the Hemant Soren led government of the state of deliberately trying to weaken democracy by withholding local body elections and trying to concentrate power in its hand. He expressed his views while talking to the media at circuit house of Dhanbad and also claimed that the government is not willing to hold elections on party basis to favour those having money and muscle power to win elections. “Several of the urban bodies like Dhanbad and Ranchi are spread over large areas and thus it is not possible for an individual to move around and cover the vast area on his own and thus holding the election on a political party basis could have solved the problem,” said Marandi. “We not only wanted to hold the Municipal Elections on party basis but even favoured holding the Zila Parishad elections having even larger area on party basis but the government is not ready to hold even the municipal elections on party basis preventing good people to contest and win elections and instead favour those having money and muscle power and thereby weakening democracy,” further said Marandi. Over the delay in holding local body elections he said, “I can’t understand the reason for the delay in the elections when other states like Bihar have  already announced holding elections and have started preparations for the same.” “Not only Urban Body elections but the government should also initiate simultaneous efforts to hold Panchayat  in order to strengthen the 3-tier system of democracy as panchayats are spread all across the state ,” said Marandi. Marandi also raised the issue of viral audio clipping of Latehar Deputy Commissioner Abu Imran advising Congress leader Bandhu Tirkey of not visiting his area as he himself looks after the well being of a section of his 'own people' and said, “The excerpts of the audio clearly hints that the officer works for a particular section of the people and for the particular political party and thus giving posting to such an officer in the district shows the intentions of the government.” Asked about the Dhoti Sari distribution scheme titled Sona Sarban Yojna launched by the government, he said, “It is to be seen how many people get the benefit of the scheme and who remains deprived of the benefits of the scheme.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad judge run over by auto intentionally, CBI tells HC   ||The Dhanbad judge, who was run over by an autorickshaw on July 28, was hit intentionally, the CBI told Jharkhand High Court on Thursday. During a hearing before a two-member high court bench comprising chief justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Naryan Prasad, sources said, that CBI Joint Director Sharad Agarwal said that the death Uttam Anand was intentional and not accidental. The CBI which submitted four forensic reports to the high court _ it is monitoring progress in the investigations into the death of Anand _ said its probe was heading towards a conclusion. It said the act of running over Anand by an autorickshaw on July 28 was intentional. The agency, however, said it was still investigating the motive. The CBI, sources said, also told the court that one of the two persons arrested in connection with the case, was a habitual offender who kept changing his statements. The agency also said that it was looking at the brain mapping test of the two arrested persons, namely, auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma. The court, however, expressed its dissatisfaction over the slow progress of the investigation. “It is for the first time that a judge was deliberately killed and if the case is not solved at at the earliest it will be detrimental to the judicial system,” the bench noted. Anand (49) posted as additional district and session judge in Dhanbad, was hit by an auto rickshaw near Randhir Verma Chowk on July 28 around 5.08am while he was on his morning walk. The legal fraternity, expressing outrage at Anand's death, sought the immediate intervention of the high court to ensure the case was probed thoroughly at the earliest and guilty brought to book. Lawyers pointed out that Anand was hearing more than 15 high profile cases in his court, and had even denied bail to certain "criminals with connections". Hence, his untimely death could be linked to these cases, they felt. State police led by ADJ Sanjay Anand Latkar carried out an initial probe into the incident after which the auto driver and his accomplice were arrested. The CBI took over the probe on August 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand plans to set up mother's milk banks for newborns||Jharkhand is planning to set up milk banks in a bid to provide “lifesaving” breast milk to babies born to women who cannot breastfeed their newborns due to medical conditions or ailments, officials from the health department said on Thursday. As a part of this project, the first such milk bank is likely to come up in Ranchi, officials involved in the planning of the project said. These, they said, would function like blood banks and lactating mothers will be able to donate milk as a voluntary gesture of saving lives of babies. Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Arun Kumar Singh said that a proposal for setting up milk banks in some districts of Jharkhand has been prepared and the health department is working on a plan to execute the idea. “The milk donated by lactating mothers will also help in fighting malnutrition among newborn babies in the state,” said Singh. Doctors say that breastfeeding within the first one hour of birth plays a crucial role in keeping the baby healthy and safe. Many newborns may even die if they are not breastfed within the first hour of birth. In such cases, milk from the milk bank will help save the life of the baby. Women suffering from polycystic ovary syndrome, hypothyroidism or hypoplastic breasts – a condition in which a woman has insufficient glandular tissues – are unlikely to lactate after giving birth to a child, say doctors. Also, women who have undergone breast surgeries or chemotherapy may not be able to lactate. On the other hand, many healthy and lactating mothers often produce more breast milk than their baby’s requirement. The surplus milk, which is usually wasted, can be donated to the milk banks, say doctors. The project is likely to start in Ranchi first to check its feasibility and then expand to other districts, an official from the health department said. While the government is yet to decide on a location, sources said that one such facility may come up either at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) or Sadar Hospital here. The demand for human milk grew across India during the Covid-19 pandemic as several new mothers either fell extremely sick after contracting coronavirus infection and some even succumbed to it. Donated milk, according to doctors, can be stored at a temperature of 18 to 20 degrees Celsius for eight to 12 months or provided immediately to a baby through a special breast pump. Rich in immunoglobulins, breast milk helps enhance a baby’s immunity and is easy to digest, say doctors. Many states, including Kerala and Rajasthan, have set up milk banks during the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma elephants embark migratory journey to Bengal||Elephants of Dalma wildlife sanctuary are ambling towards the migratory corridor of Bengal as part of their annual sojourn. Jumbos, including calves, in a sizable number are presently scattered in forests at the foothill and are slowly and steadily moving towards the migratory route. Some of the elephants have already moved to Bengal. Around a dozen elephants have already migrated to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura districts of Bengal last month. Annually, jumbos from Jharkhand migrate to the neighbouring state between August-September. There are around 150 elephants in the 192 sq km sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur According to trackers (village youths recruited as daily wagers to keep watch on movement of elephants and other animals) over 70 jumbos were spotted at the foothills. “The jumbos are scattered in the forests downhill. They are moving towards the migratory route,” one of the trackers said. The jumbos migrate to Bengal via two designated corridors – one from Jhunjka leading to Nutandih and the other from Burudih, passing through Narsingpur, Dalapani, Suklara and Aamdapahari. Asked if there was threat to villagers living along the foothills, Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said, “The elephants are in the jungles and there is no danger as such. Moreover, villagers usually don’t tease elephants. There is no threat to human life as such,” he added. The vegetation along the migratory corridor have been trimmed for the safe passage of elephants who would amble back to the Dalma sanctuary in February-March next year. Around 25 elephants, who don’t migrate, are positioned uphill. “These elephants stay at the sanctuary throughout the year. Sanctuary would be sans the jumbos in some time. Elephants are the main attraction of this place,” a forester said. Tourists from Jharkhand, Bengal, Odisha and Chattisgarh visit the sanctuary to spend quality time in natural surroundings. They enjoy the flora and fauna and also visit the ancient Shiva temple located at the top.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon likely to overstay in Jharkhand||India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday hinted at an extended monsoon in Jharkhand this year. The date when the monsoon was expected to retreat from the country is the third week of September. The withdrawal usually starts from Rajasthan in western part of the country. But weathermen said monsoon currents are likely to stay energised till at least the end of this month with two more back-to-back low-pressure systems and associated cyclonic circulations lining up in the Bay of Bengal. “We see no signs of withdrawal of the monsoon from the western parts of the country. Monsoon is active in several states resulting in widespread and heavy rain,” said an IMD official in New Delhi. “Normally, the monsoon lasts in Jharkhand till October first week. However, this year it is likely to have an extended stay due to the influence of subsequent low pressure formations over the Bay of Bengal and Orissa coast,” explained a duty officer at IMD's Ranchi Met Centre. A weather official at IMD's Regional Met Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said monsoon is not likely to withdraw by the end of this month due to formation of two cyclonic circulations over the Bay of Bengal and their west-northwestward movement across central and adjoining northwest India. Weather models were pointing to the possibility of yet another system forming in the Bay of Bengal around September 28. Currently, a cyclonic circulation is hovering over South Chhattisgarh extending 5.8km above the mean sea level. The cyclonic circulation would increase cloud coverage. A well-marked low pressure formation also took place over north Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. And both systems would help in rainfall activity in Jharkhand and several other states, said weathermen. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Thursday passing through Jharsuguda and Puri in neighbouring Odisha. Monsoon rain statistics revealed that Jharkhand has so far received 985 mm rain against a normal of 1,007.2 mm, a deficit of two per cent. The widespread and heavy rain caused by a low-pressure zone and a cyclonic circulation helped to narrow the overall monsoon season deficit in Jharkhand to two per cent from five per cent in the last 72-hours. “Any further improvement during the rest of the month will put this year's monsoon in either normal or surplus category,” said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.9 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Wednesday vaccinated more than 1.90 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of the disease dropped to 63 as the state reported at least nine Covid recoveries against seven fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission, as many as 1,27,787 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 in the state, while at least 70,398 beneficiaries got the second jab. At least 21,000 residents were vaccinated in Dhanbad, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, on Wednesday. Ranchi inoculated over 20,000 beneficiaries on Wednesday, while about 19,000 residents got vaccinated in East Singhbhum. According to a press communique from the health department, more than 1.29 crore residents have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and more than 37 lakh of them have also received the booster dose of the vaccine. Ranchi and Bokaro reported two fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Wednesday, while Jamtara, West Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported one Covid case each, stated a bulletin from NHM. With at least three Covid recoveries reported,  the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 27 in Ranchi. The count  dropped to five in East Singhbhum as the district reported zero cases against two Covid recoveries, while in Dhanbad the active caseload reached two as the district did not report Covid recoveries. As per NHM data, at least 11 of 24 districts in Jharkhand had zero active cases of Covid-19 by Wednesday evening. Ranchi accounted for almost half of the total active cases in the state, while no other district had a double-digit figure of active caseload. The doubling rate of cases in the state jumped to 38,388.82 days against the national average of 1094.23 days, highlighted NHM data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||FJCCI plea to state to abolish diesel power generator duty||The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), the apex trade body of the state, has appealed to the government to abolish the provision of paying duty on the consumption of power generated by diesel generator sets terming it “impractical”. In a letter to the chief secretary and the secretaries of the industries and commercial taxes departments, the FJCCI pointed out that electricity consumers, particularly the owners of industrial units and business establishments, are forced to purchase and use generator sets only because the state-run discom (distribution company) is unable to provide adequate power supply. Hence, the traders who had to invest on DG sets for no fault of their own were burdened with the responsibility of paying electricity duty on energy produced by them. “Charging electricity duty under such circumstances is unfair, particularly when the parent state Bihar (whose rules were adopted in toto at the time of creation of Jharkhand in 2000) abolished it in 2011,” it said. Besides paying the duty, those using DG sets have also to bear the additional responsibility of filing quarterly and annual returns and informing about the assessment of power generation and consumption, it added. “There is no justification of charging this electricity duty when Bihar has abolished it,” FJCCI president Praveen Jain Chabra told The Telegraph, adding that the compulsion of filing returns, etc also hampered the spirit of ease of doing business. Though the provision has been in force since 2011, not many were even aware about their responsibility of paying taxes, he said, apprehending that they would now face the liability of paying penalty. The duty charged is just 5 paise per unit and the tax authorities also accept the assessment of consumption submitted by the users but submitting those returns, etc, regularly is a cumbersome process, he said. “The government should ensure uninterrupted power supply than forcing us to buy DG sets and spend over three times for getting power from alternative sources,” former FJCCI president Deepak Maroo said. He said generating one unit by using DG set costs about Rs 21 if not more due to rising diesel prices instead of around Rs 6.50 per unit charged by the discom. Though the provision of paying electricity duty for power generated by DG sets was there even earlier, the present problem cropped up after the commercial taxes department issued a notice on September 16. The notice asked those using DG sets with a capacity of over 10kVa (kilo volt ampere) to get themselves registered under the provisions of the Jharkhand Electricity Duty (Amendment) Act, 2011, and pay duty latest by September 30, failing which they could face penalty charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||NGT slams Jharkhand govt and JSPCB over report delay||The National Green Tribunal has slammed the Jharkhand government and the state pollution control board for not submitting an action-taken report on the assessment of compensation for all constructions raised without environmental clearance even after a year of its order. An NGT eastern zonal bench headed by Justice B. Amit Sthalekhar, in its order on Tuesday, pulled up the government and the Jharkhand State Pollution Control (JSPCB) for their failure to submit action-taken reports within six months of its directive on September 9, 2020. “The state of Jharkhand and JSPCB were required to file their reports on the action taken in terms of the directions given by the Tribunal within six months from the date of the judgement but we are constrained to observe that even after more than one year, no such reports have been filed. Needless to say that the officer (s) concerned shall invite costs on himself for dereliction and disobedience of the direction given,” the order, a copy of which is available with The Telegraph, states. “Reports be filed within four weeks after serving e-copy/soft copy of the same upon the learned counsel for the applicant as well as the learned counsel for other respondents at least one week before the next date fixed,” the order tells both the Jharkhand government and JSPCB. The matter has been listed for further hearing on October 21. An NGT bench headed by Justice S. P Wangdi in its verdict on September 9, 2020, on a petition by Delhi-based environmental activist R.K. Singh having roots in Jharkhand, had directed the state government to assess environmental compensation for all structures raised without obtaining environmental clearance and recover the cost from the project proponents within three months and also to immediately stop all ongoing construction without such clearance. The petitioner had alleged that various major constructions, particularly in capital Ranchi, industrial city Jamshedpur, Bokaro and Deoghar were done without obtaining mandatory environmental clearance. The Environmental Impact Assessment Notification, 2006, of the Union ministry of environment and forests stipulates that structures having more than 20,000sqm area need to possess environmental clearance. The order had also noted that the status report submitted by the Jharkhand government had revealed that as many as 35 major structures in the state (including the state’s biggest mall P&M Hi-Tech City Centre Mall and residential complex Vijaya Garden, both in Jamshedpur) had been constructed without obtaining environmental clearance. “The state government through the urban development department shall ensure that Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) is undertaken in respect of all the structures which have been raised in the municipal areas expeditiously in accordance with the procedure laid down in the EIA notification, 2006. Accordingly, environmental management plans be prepared and mitigation measures implemented to address the environmental issues arising on account of such constructions without EC. Similar action shall be taken in structures falling within notified nagar palika areas and gram panchayats (rural areas),” the bench had said in its September 2020 order. The bench had further said: “Environmental compensation shall be assessed for all such structures without EC and shall be recovered from individuals, builders, project proponents (as the case may be) within three months from hence. Compensation in respect of those which have already been assessed shall also be recovered within the same period. All ongoing constructions undertaken without EC shall be stopped forthwith until environmental clearance is obtained.” The bench had last year directed the JSPCB to initiate action under Section 19 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, against those who are responsible for the violations. “Since the violations were being committed under the gaze of the concerned authorities, we direct initiation of disciplinary proceedings against the concerned officers, the municipal commissioners and state pollution control board at the earliest,” the order had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Villagers protest ration ‘fraud’ in Giridih  district of Jharkhand||Residents of a village in Giridih district of Jharkhand have alleged that their local ration dealer has been siphoning off food grains meant for beneficiaries of a central government scheme and selling it in the open market. Nearly 50 women from Dhundu village in Manjori panchayat under Bengabad block of Giridih, around 200km from Ranchi, staged a protest at the block development office on Monday accusing PDS (public distribution system) dealer G. Dev of distributing fewer food grains under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana but forcing them to sign showing that they received the full quantity in the ration card register. “Most of the time it is our women who go to fetch rations carrying the ration cards. Though each member whose name is mentioned in the ration card is entitled to get 5kg of food grains every month under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, we are given either 3kg or 2kg and are made to sign on the register showing that we received the full quantity on some pretext or the other. When we protest, the ration dealer threatens us,” said Manoj Goswami, a resident of Dhundu. Manoj claimed that he had received less than 10kg of food grains despite having names of three family members in the ration card which entitles him to 15kg according to the central government scheme. The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana was announced by the Narendra Modi government in March 2020 to ameliorate the distress caused by Covid-19. It was again started in May 2021 after the second wave of Covid and is being continued till November. In Jharkhand, each member of a family whose name figures in the ration card (except green card holders) are entitled to receive 3kg of rice and 2kg of wheat every month under the scheme. Another villager Ashok Sahu said that every month they have been receiving less than the stipulated quantity of food grains. “When we complain, the ration dealer threatens us and says that she has influence in the district headquarters and nobody can harm her. She forces villagers to sign on the ration register showing the proper amount but the food grains we receive is less than that entered in the register. This has been going on for nearly three months,” said Sahu. Manjori panchayat mukhiya Gauri Shankar also said that he had received complaints against the ration dealer. “I have received complaints from the villagers against the ration dealer. But the ration dealer has refused to change her ways,” said Shankar. Bengabad block development officer Qayyum Ansari also said that he had also received complaints from the villagers. “They staged a demonstration to protest against the ration dealer on Monday. I have asked the marketing officer-in-charge of the block to conduct a probe and submit a report so that action can be taken against the ration dealer,” said Ansari. Giridih district supply officer Gautam Kumar Bhagat assured of a probe. “It is a serious issue and I will personally look into the matter during the investigation,” said Bhagat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
23-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Jugsalai railway overbridge to be completed in December 2022 ||Jamshedpur: The much-waited Jugsalai Railway overbridge will not be completed before December 2022. Executive engineer, Rides Jamshedpur division, Ram Villash Sahu who is looking after the work of the Jugsalai ROB's approach road said they needed time upto December 2022 for completion of the work as the revised design of the approach road is yet to be approved by the departmental headquarters in Ranchi. "The revised design of the approach road will be approved in maximum a week time. As soon as the new design is approved we will started construction work and complete the work by December 31,2022," said Sahu to The Telegraph Online. Aimed at easing vehicular traffic movement between densely-populated Jugsalai-Bagbera localities and Bistupur, the Jugsalai ROB was planned as a better alternative than the existing level-crossing at Jugsalai. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: A B.Tech Mining Machinery student of IIT(ISM), Siddhanth Sharma, earned laurels for the institute, and country by winning 'Innovate 2030-Digital natives for a sustainable future-Challenge' a pan european innovation competition as part of a two-member team along with Sairaju Ponnoju, an M.Sc. Sustainable Production Development Student of KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Sharma said,“Two teams qualified for the final held on September 8 this year during which our team, title Team Mission BSH finally emerged winner.” “We offered a solution for a problem given to our company about retrieving used articles by the company and we created a digital interface where customers as well as company can interact and return back of used and waste products can be ensured to producer,” said Sharma added that in developed countries you just can’t throw away the used articles and their are strict rules for retrieving the waste products. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
