25-09-2021||Business||RBI permits sale of fraud loans to asset reconstruction companies||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has for the first time permitted the transfer of loans tagged as frauds to asset reconstruction companies (ARCs). The sale of fraud loans was allowed under the central bank’s revised guidelines for the transfer of loan exposures including stressed loans. The latest master directions said lending institutions resorted to transfer of loans for a variety of reasons ranging from liquidity management to the expediency of re-balancing their exposures. The new directive lays emphasis on transparency on transfer of loans that are not classified as stressed assets. It said the transfer of these standard asset loans should result in immediate separation of the risk and reward associated with the loan to the extent of the economic interest that will change hands. Economic interest is the right that a bank has over a particular loan like earning principal and interest among others. Banking circles said in some transactions, the entire economic interest is transferred whereas in some cases there could be a partial transfer. The RBI said that if the transferor (the entity offloading the loan) retains any economic interest in the exposure, the loan transfer agreement should clearly specify the distribution of the principal and interest income from the transferred loan between the two parties. It added that loan transfers should result in transfer of economic interest without being accompanied by any change in underlying terms and conditions of the original loan contract with the customer. In the case of such transactions, by design, the legal ownership completely remains with the transferor even after economic interest has been transferred to the buyer. In such cases, the roles and responsibilities of both the parties should be clearly delineated contractually. The master direction has also prescribed a minimum holding period for different categories of loans after which they shall become eligible for transfer. It has been fixed a minimum holding period (MHP) at three months in case of loans with a tenor of up to two years and six months in case of loans with tenor of more than two years. It also contained a section on sale or transfer of stressed loans. An interesting development here was the central bank allowing banks to sell loans characterised as fraud, which was not permitted earlier. According to the RBI’s annual report for 2020-21, banks had declared loans worth Rs 1.38 trillion as fraud during the year. Currently, stressed loans which are in default for more than 60 days or classified as non-performing asset (NPA-which are in default for 90 days) are permitted to be transferred to ARCs. “This shall include loan exposures classified as fraud as on the date of transfer,” the RBI said. The central bank added that if such loans are transferred, the responsibilities of the transferor with respect to continuous reporting, monitoring, filing of complaints with law enforcement agencies and proceedings related to such complaints will go to the ARC. “The transfer of such loan exposures to an ARC, however, does not absolve the transferor from fixing the staff accountability as required under the extant instructions on frauds,” it observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
25-09-2021||Business||Sensex scales historic 60000-mark, wobble looms||The stock markets continued to surge on Friday with the Sensex blowing past 60000. It took just eight months for the BSE benchmark to cover the journey from 50000 in January this year to scale the unprecedented 60000 mark for the first time on Friday. The strong bull rally on Dalal Street has seen the benchmark index rising 10000 points after hitting the 50000 mark in intra-day trade on January 21, 2021. However, many market experts are now advising caution. Investors should brace for a correction given the expensive valuations, they feel. Though projections vary, the benchmark indices may see a drop of 5-10 per cent, the experts added. “The absence of a 10 per cent correction in the indices over the last 18 months shows the maturity of the local investors but also throws up the possibility of that happening over the next few weeks or months,’’ said Dhiraj Relli, MD & CEO, HDFC Securities. Some experts feel retail investors should stay with large caps and avoid taking positions in some of the more riskier mid-cap or small-cap stocks. They add that taking some money off the table and re-entering after a correction may not be a bad idea. The pandemic in March 2020 saw the benchmark index falling to around 25000. The stocks have been on an upward journey since the unlock process began. The sprint was driven by the easy money policy of global central banks, including the RBI, which ensured that enough liquidity supported stock prices. Expectations of a turnaround in the economy, higher retail participation and improvement in corporate earnings — though there has been intermittent correction — sustained the rally to 60000. The incentives and relief packages offered by the Centre to support various sectors, a pickup in vaccination and lower Covid numbers have kept the momentum going in favour of share prices. “The rally in domestic market is driven by positive global cues, strong inflows by FIIs/DIIs, good corporate earnings, falling Covid-19 cases, upbeat corporate commentaries and low cost of capital,’’ says Motilal Oswal, MD & CEO, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. So far in 2021, the foreign portfolio investors have funnelled almost Rs 64,655 crore into domestic equities. On Friday, the 30-share gauge opened at 60158.76 and hit a peak of 60333 after which it settled at a lifetime closing high of 60048.47 — a gain of 161.11 points or 0.27 per cent. On the NSE, the broader Nifty 50 too came close to the 18000-mark when it touched an intra-day high of 17947.65. It ended at a record finish of 17853.20, a rise of 30.25 points or 0.17 per cent. “The Sensex reaching 60000 is an indicator of India’s growth potential,” said Ashishkumar Chauhan, MD and CEO, BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
25-09-2021||Business||Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC sets price band at Rs 695-712 per share for IPO||Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC has fixed a price band of Rs 695-712 per share for its over Rs 2,768-crore initial public offering (IPO). The share sale will open for subscription on September 29 and end on October 1, the company said in a virtual press conference. The IPO is entirely an offer for sale, that will see two promoters — Aditya Birla Capital and Sun Life (India) AMC Investments — divesting their stake in the asset management firm. The offering of up to 3.88 crore equity shares comprises an offer for sale of up to 28.51 lakh equity shares by Aditya Birla Capital and up to 3.6 crore equity shares by Sun Life AMC. At the upper end of the price band, the initial share-sale is expected to fetch Rs 2,768.25 crore. At present, asset management firms like Nippon Life India Asset Management, HDFC AMC and UTI AMC are listed on the bourses. Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC, the investment manager of Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund, is a joint venture between the Aditya Birla Group and the Sun Life Financial Inc of Canada. The company is the country’s fourth largest fund house and it had an average asset under management of Rs 2.93 lakh crore in the June quarter. At present, it manages 118 schemes. Since its inception in 1994, the fund house has established a geographically diversified pan-India distribution presence covering 284 locations spread over 27 states and six union territories. Investors can bid for a minimum of 20 equity shares and in multiples of 20 equity shares for the IPO. Half of the issue size has been reserved for qualified institutional buyers, 35 per cent for retail investors and the remaining 15 per cent for non-institutional investors. Kotak Mahindra Capital, BofA Securities, Citigroup Global Markets India, Axis Capital, HDFC Bank, ICICI Securities, IIFL Securities, JM Financial, Motilal Oswal Investment Advisors , SBI Capital Markets and YES Securities (India) are the merchant bankers to the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
25-09-2021||Business||Austerity curbs on government departments relaxed: FinMin||The finance ministry has decided to lift the expenditure restrictions on central ministries and departments slapped in June in the wake of the second Covid wave — a move that is expected to kick start a state-funded pump-priming plan to buoy the economy. An office memorandum issued by the economic affairs department in the finance ministry said the decision was taken after a review of the guidelines. The move to relax the austerity programme comes at a time when tax collections have started to rise. “The clear upturn in the government’s tax revenues and the anticipated inflows from the National Monetisation Pipeline are likely to have triggered the welcome withdrawal of the extant cash management guidelines,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra. The government’s spending had contracted by 5 per cent in April-July 2021 on a year-on-year basis, and stood at 29 per cent of the Budget Estimates. With the withdrawal of the expenditure management guidelines, she said “spending will gather pace in the second half of this year, which will be critical to unleash animal spirits and drive a faster recovery in economic activity.” Data showed that net direct tax collection grew 74.4 per cent to Rs 5.70 lakh crore between April 1 and September 22. The ministry said net direct tax collections stood at Rs 5,70,568 crore after adjusting for refunds. It includes corporation tax of Rs 3.02 lakh crore and personal income tax worth Rs 2.67 lakh crore. Net tax collection between April 1 and September 22 recorded a 27 per cent growth over the same period in 2019-20 when net collections amounted to over Rs 4.48 lakh crore. In 2020-21, net collections had fallen to Rs 3.27 lakh crore in April-September. Gross direct tax collections in 2021-22 stands at over Rs 6.45 lakh crore, a 47 per cent rise over Rs 4.39 lakh crore a year ago. Gross direct tax collections were 16.75 per cent higher than the Rs 5.53 lakh crore collected in 2019-20 fiscal (April-September 22). The gross corporation taxes raised amounted to Rs 3.58 lakh crore while personal income tax collections totalled over Rs 2.86 lakh crore. Refunds amounting to Rs 75,111 crore have also been issued so far this fiscal. “The robust growth of 17 per cent in the government's gross tax collections in FY2022, relative to the pre-Covid period, is an enthusing signal of the waning impact of the pandemic on Indian macros. The healthy expansion in the government’s gross tax revenues in H1 FY2022 relative to the pre-Covid level augurs that the upturn will sustain in the second half as well, even though a normalising base may dampen the pace of growth going forward,” Nayar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
25-09-2021||Business||CalSTRS decides to vote against Yasir Othman Al Rumayyan||The first sign of shareholder revolt has been raised at Reliance Industries. The California State Teachers Retirement Fund (CalSTRS) — one of the world’s largest institutional investors — has decided to vote against the appointment of Saudi Aramco chairman Yasir Othman Al Rumayyan as an independent director on the board of the oil and gas behemoth. The pension fund, which has assets worth over $318 billion, holds about 53.07 lakh fully and partly paid shares of RIL according to the latest information available on its website. It’s a tiny sliver of overall equity — just 0.07 per cent —but the decision has a very significant implication since this is the first time that anyone has consciously decided to vote against a management-sponsored resolution. The CalSTRS website said the institutional fund will vote against the appointment of Rumayyan. It, however, did not give any reasons for this decision. A BloombergQuint report said that the fund has decided to vote against the resolution based on the recommendation of global proxy advisory firm Glass, Lewis & Co, which has raised concerns about Al-Rumayyan being designated as independent director. The proxy advisory firm had reportedly said that Al-Rumayyan serves as the governor of the Public Investment Fund, the sovereign wealth fund of the Saudi Arabian government and also serves as an adviser to the general secretariat of the cabinet of ministers of Saudi Aramco. It added that given his connections with the Saudi Arabian government and the proposed business relationship between Saudi Aramco and RIL and, in the absence of a clear disclosure regarding how he is considered to be independent, it will classify him as not being independent at this point of time. Shares of RIL on Friday ended at Rs 2,482.95, a marginal fall of 0.27 per cent over the last close. Saudi Aramco is expected to pick up a 20 per cent stake in RIL’s oil-to-chemical (O2C) business which it aims to spin off as soon as it receives regulatory approvals. Aramco is believed to have offered to seal the $25 billion deal through a mix of cash and its stock that could see RIL being offered a 1 per cent stake in the Saudi entity and the rest in staggered cash payments. While RIL shareholders have already approved the demerger of the O2C business, this is now pending with the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). RIL has engaged the services of KFin Technologies Pvt Ltd, Registrar and Transfer Agent, to provide remote e-voting facility to its members. In its postal ballot, RIL said that given Al Rumayyan’s extensive knowledge and experience in the oil and refining sector, his understanding of and position in the geopolitics of oil and global finance as well as his educational background, the proposed appointment is in the interest of the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
25-09-2021||Business||Big win for Lodha in proxy war with Birlas||Shareholders of MP Birla group firms — Birla Cable, Vindhya Telelinks and Universal Cables — have voted against the appointment of directors proposed by investment firm Punjab Produce and Trading at the annual general meeting of the companies on Thursday. The nomination and remuneration committee as well as the board of directors earlier strongly recommended against the appointments. Harsh Lodha, who was seeking reappointment as director on Birla Cable, received 83 per cent of the valid votes cast in his favour. Justice (retired) Dilip Ganesh Karnik was seeking reappointment as director in Vindhya Telelinks and Universal Cables also received votes in favour from shareholders, 77.54 per cent and 63.17 per cent, respectively. The MP Birla Group in a statement said that all the resolutions, which were aimed at interfering with the management of professionally run companies, were defeated comprehensively. “It is a landmark victory over years of mischievous acts, and one of the most memorable ones in 17 years of the proxy war waged against the wishes of the late Priyamvada  Birla. It gives us immense confidence to take on much more,” said Debanjan Mandal, partner, Fox & Mandal. According to the MP Birla group, two of the three members of the APL Committee, or the court-appointed panel of administrators overseeing the estate of Priyamvada Birla, in the past couple of years made repeated attempts to grab control of investment companies, trusts and societies of the group with the aim of influencing the operations of the listed companies. In 2020, they unlawfully altered the boards of several investment companies, one of them being Punjab Produce. This was legally challenged, but the dispute over the legitimacy of Punjab Produce’s board has yet to come up for hearing at Calcutta high court. Further, these two members of the APL Committee — Justice (retired) Mohit S. Shah and A.C. Chakrabortti — had demanded that Harsh Lodha should step down as chairman of all MP Birla Group entities, citing a contentious verdict passed by a single judge of Calcutta high court in September last year. A division bench of Calcutta high court clarified in an interim order that Lodha was only barred from holding office on the strength of the shares of Priyamvada Birla’s estate, allowing him to continue as chairman of the MP Birla Group. Harsh Lodha has, in the meantime, applied in court for the removal of both these administrators from the APL committee on grounds of bias and illegality of their actions. Petitions seeking their removal are yet to be heard. Allegations of contempt of court against Lodha and the directors of operating companies were quashed by a division bench of the Calcutta high court, and its decision was upheld by the Supreme Court earlier this year. The apex court also instructed the Calcutta high court to dispose of all outstanding legal disputes arising out of the said verdict of the single judge within 31 March 2022. “We remain fully confident that all tactics aimed at obstructing the professional management of the operating companies from acting independently will fail. Our client continues to have full confidence in the judiciary,” said Mandal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
25-09-2021||Business||Google plea against 'information leak' misleading: CCI||The Competition Commission of India told the Delhi high court on Friday that Google’s plea against the alleged leak of confidential probe information was wholly misplaced and an attempt to frustrate the proceedings related to its Android smartphone agreements. Additional solicitor general N. Venkataraman, representing CCI, stated that the commission stood by the legal obligation with respect to maintenance of confidentiality and clarified that there was no lapse on the part of the commission. “There are accusations against a government body and there is not a word (in Google’s affidavit) showing when and how it was done... They are trying to frustrate the proceedings. If they are aggrieved, they should file a suit against (the media),” he said. “They want the process to the thwarted,” said ASG Venkataraman who also informed the court that one of the officials of Google even wrote to the CCI chairperson, saying “we will sue you”. Justice Rekha Palli stated that she did not appreciate the US-based tech giant directly approaching the authority. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, representing Google, highlighted that the allegedly leaked information was only in possession with the director-general who further passes it on to the CCI and no other person, including the parties, are privy to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
25-09-2021||India||India first to develop DNA vaccine, can be given to 12 and above: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said India has developed the world's first DNA vaccine against COVID-19, which can be administered to all people above the age of 12 years. "India, which lives on Sewa Paramo Dharma (service is the main duty), is engaged in vaccination development and manufacturing despite limited resources. I want to inform UNGA that India has developed the world's first DNA vaccine, which can be administered to all people above the age of 12 years," Modi said, addressing the 76th United Nations General Assembly session here. Last month, the Drugs Controller General of India gave Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) to Zydus Cadila's indigenously developed needle-free COVID-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, which is to be administered to beneficiaries in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. "Another mRNA vaccine is in its late stages of development. Scientists in India are also engaged in the development of a nasal vaccine for Corona. Realising its responsibility towards humanity, India has once again started giving vaccines to the needy of the world. I also invite vaccine manufacturers from all over the world today to- Come, Make Vaccine in India," the prime minister said. ZyCoV-D when injected, produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and elicits an immune response, which plays a vital role in protection from coronavirus as well as viral clearance. The "plug-and-play" technology on which the plasmid DNA platform is based can be easily adapted to deal with mutations in the virus, such as those already occurring. The vaccine has a 66-per cent efficacy and it is to be stored in a temperature range of two to eight degrees Celsius. The vaccine is needle-free, to be administered intradermally in three doses at days 0, 28 and 56. It is administered using PharmaJet, an applicator that ensures painless intradermal vaccine delivery. According to Johns Hopkins university data, the deadly virus has so far infected 231,154,501 people and killed 4,737,927 globally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
25-09-2021||India||SC to end extension granted on limitation period for filing court cases on Oct 2||The Supreme Court has said that the relaxation granted on the limitation period for filing court cases in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic would come to an end on October 2. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana ordered that period from March 15 last year till October 2 this year shall stand excluded from computing the period of limitation. Also, in cases where the limitation would have expired during the period between March 15, 2020 till October 2, 2021, all persons shall have a limitation period of 90 days from October 3, 2021 or the balance period originally left, whichever is longer. Earlier, the apex court had on March 23 last year invoked its plenary power under Article 142 of the Constitution to extend the limitation period indefinitely for appeals from courts or tribunals on account of the pandemic with effect from March 15, 2020. On March 8 this year, the top court had noted that the country is "returning to normalcy and had decided to end the extension of the limitation period which was granted in March 2020 to the litigants due to the pandemic. However, the court had on April 27 took note of the onset of the second COVID-19 wave and again relaxed the statutory period for filing petitions, including the election petitions, under the Representation of the People Act, 1951. In its September 23 order passed in the suo motu matter 'cognisance for extension of limitation', the apex court noted, In spite of all the uncertainties about another wave of the deadly COVID-19 virus, it is imminent that the order dated March 8, 2021 is restored as the situation is near normal. In computing the period of limitation for any suit, appeal, application or proceeding, the period from March 15, 2020 till October 2, 2021 shall stand excluded. Consequently, the balance period of limitation remaining as on March 15, 2021, if any, shall become available with effect from October 3, 2021, said the bench, also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant. The bench noted that it had heard submissions of Attorney General K K Venugopal, senior advocate Vikas Singh, who was appearing for the Election Commission of India, counsel appearing for the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association and other lawyers on the issue. There is consensus that there is no requirement for the continuance of the initial order passed by this court on March 23, 2020 and relaxation of the period of limitation need not be continued any further, the court said. It said the order was passed on March 23 last year in view of the extraordinary health crisis . On March 8, 2021, the order dated March 23, 2020 was brought to an end, permitting relaxation of the period of limitation between March 15, 2020 and March 14, 2021. While doing so, it was made clear that the period of limitation would start from March 15, 2021, it said. The bench said as the March 8 this year order was only a one-time measure , in view of the pandemic, it is not inclined to modify the conditions contained in that order. In cases where the limitation would have expired during the period between March 15, 2020 till October 2, 2021, notwithstanding the actual balance period of limitation remaining, all persons shall have a limitation period of 90 days from October 3, 2021. "In the event the actual balance period of limitation remaining, with effect from October 3, 2021, is greater than 90 days, that longer period shall apply, it said. The apex court said the period from March 15 last year till October 2, 2021 shall also stand excluded in computing the periods prescribed under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, the Commercial Courts Act, the Negotiable Instruments Act and any other laws which prescribe period of limitation. The Government of India shall amend the guidelines for containment zones, to state. Regulated movement will be allowed for medical emergencies, provision of essential goods and services, and other necessary functions, such as, time-bound applications, including for legal purposes, and educational and job-related requirements', the bench said in its order. While hearing the matter on September 23, the bench had taken note of the improved pandemic situation and observed that it will recall its April 27 order by which it had extended the operation of an earlier direction on limitation period. It had observed that the suo motu extension of the limitation period will be withdrawn and after that, the usual limitation period of 90 days for filing cases in courts will come into effect once again. During the hearing, the Attorney General had suggested that the March 8, 2021 order of the apex court, which had recalled the last year's direction extending the limitation period indefinitely, may be restored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
25-09-2021||India||National Crisis Management Committee reviews preparedness for cyclone||The National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) on Saturday reviewed the preparedness to deal with a cyclonic storm developing in the Bay of Bengal and directed authorities to take all necessary measures. The storm is expected to cross the northern Andhra Pradesh and the southern Odisha coasts on Sunday evening with wind speeds ranging from 75-85 kmph, gusting to 95 kmph, accompanied by heavy rainfall. It is likely to affect districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, and Ganjam and Gajapati in Odisha. The NCMC under the chairmanship of Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba reviewed the preparedness of central ministries, agencies and state governments to deal with the situation arising out of the cyclonic storm developing in the Bay of Bengal, an official statement said. The director general of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) briefed the NCMC about the current status of the deep depression in the Bay of Bengal, which is likely to develop into a cyclonic storm by Saturday evening. The chief secretaries of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh apprised the NCMC of the preparatory measures being undertaken to protect the population in the expected path of the cyclonic storm as also measures being taken to ensure that there is minimal damage to infrastructure such as telecom and power in the aftermath of the storm. Necessary arrangements have been made to ensure that COVID-19 protocols are followed. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 18 teams in these states and additional teams have been kept ready. The rescue and relief teams of the Army and the Navy along with ships and aircraft have also been deployed. Reviewing the preparedness of the states and central agencies, Gauba stressed that all preventive and precautionary measures should be taken by authorities concerned of the state and central governments before the cyclonic storm makes landfall, the statement said. He said the aim should be to keep loss of life to near zero and minimise damage to property and infrastructure. The cabinet secretary assured the state governments that all central agencies are ready and will be available for assistance. The meeting was attended by the chief secretaries of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, secretaries of ministries of home affairs and power. The directors general of the NDRF and the IMD, and senior officers from the Ministry of Home Affairs also attended the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||When ‘poison of hatred’ is being spread, then what is ‘Amrit Mahotsav’: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said freedom does not mean anything when it is not for everyone and asked what 'Amrit Mahotsav' meant when the "poison of hatred" is being spread in the country. His remarks come in the wake of clashes between police and alleged encroachers during an eviction drive in Assam's Darrang district on Thursday that left two persons dead and 20 injured. A shocking video showing a man slinging a camera and hitting an apparently dead person with a bullet wound on his chest also surfaced after the incident. The man was later arrested and a judicial probe has been ordered into the incident. "When the poison of hatred is being spread in the country then what is 'Amrit Mahotsav'? What does freedom mean if it is not for everyone," Gandhi asked in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag 'Assam'. Congress leaders have met Assam Governor Jagadish Mukhi urging him to stop the eviction drive at Sipajhar in Darrang till a proper rehabilitation package is announced. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Friday asserted that discussions were held for over four months before an eviction drive was launched to clear the land at Gorukhuti village in Darrang district where police firing claimed two lives during the exercise. A 12-hour bandh called by various organisations to protest against the incident affected normal life in Darrang district on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Terrorism will come back to haunt countries using terror as political tool, PM tells United Nations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that countries with "regressive thinking" that are using terrorism as a "political tool" must understand that it is an equally big threat for them also, in a veiled attack on Pakistan which is often accused by its neighbours of providing safe havens to terrorists. Addressing the 76th UN General Assembly here, Prime Minister Modi also said that in order to strengthen the rules-based world order, the international community must speak in unison, in an apparent reference to China which is flexing its military muscles in the Indo-Pacific. Noting that the world is facing an increased threat of regressive thinking and extremism, Modi said countries that are using terrorism as a political tool have to understand that terrorism is an equally big threat to them. "It is absolutely essential to ensure that Afghanistan's territory is not used to spread terrorism and for terrorist activities," he said. "We also need to ensure that no country tries to take advantage of the delicate situation in Afghanistan and use it for its own selfish interests." Pakistan's neighbours, including Afghanistan and India, and the US have long accused Islamabad of providing safe haven and support to militants, a charge denied by it. Modi said that oceans are also a shared heritage. "Our oceans are also the lifeline of international trade. We must protect them from the race for expansion. The international community must speak in one voice to strengthen a rule-based world order, he added. Calling India the "Mother of Democracy", the Prime Minister  Modi also showcased India's credentials as one of the world's oldest democracies and held out the example of how India's political system had empowered people and ensured "equitable development" for the country's masses. "Yes, democracy can deliver. Yes, democracy has delivered," Prime Minister Modi said emphatically. "The strength of our democracy is demonstrated by the fact that a little boy who used to help his father at a tea stall is addressing the UN General Assembly for the fourth time as Prime Minister of India," he said, citing his own example as he has often done in the past. He began the speech by paying tributes to the large number of lives lost since 2019 to the global Covid pandemic. The Prime Minister returned to the topic  a short while after, citing India's ability to develop and manufacture vaccines and the setting up of the Co-WIN platform to streamline the country's ongoing nationwide inoculation drive. He told the General Assembly that India had resumed the process of providing vaccines to those who need it in the world. "I'd like to inform the UN General Assembly that India has developed the world's first DNA-based vaccine...Another is in the final stages of development. Indian scientists are also working on developing a nasal vaccine for coronavirus," he said. "I extend my invitation to vaccine manufacturers from around the world: Come and make vaccines in India." Earlier, stating how the world grows when India grows and how the "world transforms when India reforms", PM Modi listed other achievements of the country on the welfare front. Inspired by the "Integral Humanism" philosophy of Deendayal Upadhyay, the ideological torchbearer of his party, the BJP, he said India was ensuring integrated and equitable development for all. Extending his favourite slogan, "sabka saath, sabka vikas" ("With everyone, everyone's progress"), he said the country's priority was inclusive, universal development that "nurtures all". "India has made homeless families home-owners...We are carrying out a campaign to ensure that piped clean water reaches homes...Drones are being used to map over 600,000 villages (to facilitate) digital land records...They reduce property disputes and increase access to credit and bank loans," PM Modi said, listing some of the projects being undertaken in India today||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Rohini shootout: Plea in HC to take steps to ensure safety, security of Delhi district courts||A plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court urging it to direct authorities to take requisite measures for the safety and security of district courts here, a day after a shootout inside the Rohini courtroom left three gangsters dead and a law intern injured. The petition filed by a woman advocate said she has been practicing in various Delhi courts for years, but it has become unsafe for her and thousands of fellow lawyers to visit there as they have become easy terrain for gangsters to settles scores. It is also painful that a young legal professional has also got severely injured in the scary incident. This shootout inside the court again puts a big question mark on the safety and security of judges, lawyers and litigants inside the district courts in Delhi, petitioner advocate Deepa Joseph said. The plea sought direction to the Delhi Police and the Bar Council of Delhi to consider instructing all police personnel at court entrances to ensure that they check the ID cards of every lawyer who enters the court premises. It also sought to direct the Delhi Police to raise security and frisking level of lawyers at par with the Supreme Court and Delhi High Court, and to take disciplinary action against the officers who fail to implement the direction with utmost diligence and seriousness. The plea, moved through lawyers Robin Raju and Blessan Mathews, said the BCD be asked to issue an advisory to all the District Bar Associations in the city to recommend members of their bar to cooperate with police personnel at the main entrance of courts. On Friday, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana expressed deep concern over the Rohini shootout and spoke to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice in this regard and advised him to talk to both police and the Bar to ensure that the functioning of the court is not affected. Meanwhile, a group of lawyers have also sent a letter to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice D N Patel to initiate a public interest litigation and take cognisance of the issue regarding serious lapse in security arrangement in district courts here. The letter, written by advocates Rishi Kapoor, Ankur Gogia and Shivam Sharma, has been emailed to the Registrar General of the high court. We fear the unpreparedness by the security arrangement in all district courts of Delhi and therefore, we are appealing to your Lordship to take appropriate action, the letter said. The lawyer's petition said the Friday's shootout is not the first-of-its-kind in Delhi and in the recent past, there have been incidents of shooting in the Dwarka court, a firing near the Saket court in May 2019 and an undertrial was killed after being shot inside the Rohini court complex in 2017. Another incident similar in line to the Rohini court also took place in Karkardooma court in 2015 in which a Delhi Police head constable was killed when four armed assailants open fired inside a courtroom. The incident that has happened on Friday, at Rohini court, was truly well planned. The assailants posed as lawyers and were present inside the courtroom before the dreaded gangster was produced before the court. The ease with which the assailants entered into the court premises in the attire shows that they were well aware that it is easy to get access into the court by being in a lawyers' attire, the plea said. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on Friday in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, officials said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. Witnesses said a law intern has also sustained bullet injury in her leg and some also claimed that the gang members pumped 10 bullets into Gogi, one of Delhi's most wanted criminals. Sources said Gogi received about seven bullet injuries, even as there was no official confirmation from police on this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Digital 'de-addiction' centres in Kerala to stop gaming addiction among kids||In a major child-friendly initiative, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday announced the setting up of "digital de-addiction centres" in the state to bring children addicted to online games into the mainstream society. He also declared 20 more police stations as 'child-friendly', taking the total of such stations to 126 in the southern state. Vijayan made the significant announcements while inaugurating the newly constructed or renovated buildings under the police department via online. The police force has been able to lay a special mark in terms of public service through their exemplary work, he said, adding that they could prove through experience that they were ahead of others in serving people. "Digital de-addiction centres will be set up at the behest of police to bring children addicted to online games into the mainstream of society," the CM said while detailing various programmes of the police department. His statement assumes significance in the wake of a handful of incidents of children falling into the trap of online games reported in the state in recent times. Impressive achievements could be made in providing basic infrastructure facilities for police in the last five years, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Tourism sector heading for a comeback||With the help of large-scale vaccination programmes and new norms rolling out, the tourism sector is inching its way back to recovery, and restart of tourism will help kick-start recovery and growth, the Confederation of Hospitality, Technology and Tourism Industry said on Saturday. It is also essential that the benefits this will bring are enjoyed widely and fairly, the industry body said in a statement. "The travel sector, especially domestic travel, appears to be heading for a comeback. Indian travellers are looking for quick getaways through road trips, weekend breaks and staycations that offer local stay experiences," Airbnb India, Southeast Asia, Hong Kong and Taiwan General Manager, Amanpreet Bajaj said. Travellers are also becoming increasingly aware of sustainable travel and are making environment-friendly choices when travelling, he added. "The pandemic has helped promote environmental awareness amongst travellers and today, it's encouraging to see people actively seeking sustainable travel choices," MakeMyTrip Co-Founder & Group CEO Rajesh Magow said. In a similar vein, EaseMyTrip CEO and Co-Founder Nishant Pitti said, "We have noticed that Indian travellers have started making more sustainable travel decisions as the pandemic has made everyone think about the kind of impact they are creating while travelling." They are now more aware of their choices as they reevaluate their plans keeping sustainability in mind, he added. "The industry travel booking trends suggest that in a year from now we will be witnessing the best phase for the travel sector. The demand we are witnessing is fairly distributed and holiday patterns have changed tremendously," OYO India & South-East Asia CEO Rohit Kapoor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Indian Army officer cycles from Leh to Manali to set Guinness World Record||An Indian Army officer is cycling from Leh to Manali in an attempt to set a Guinness record for the "fastest solo cycling (men)", a defence spokesman said. Lt Col Sripada Sriram of the strategic Strikers Division started cycling for his mission after being flagged off by Brig R K Thakur from Leh at 4 am on Saturday, the spokesman said. He said the officer would attempt to cover the distance of 472 km with a total elevation gain of approximately 8,000 metres. The route involves crossing of five major passes in tough weather conditions, the spokesman said, adding the officer is expected to reach Manali in Himachal Pradesh by September 26 afternoon. "This event becomes more special as it is part of 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' celebrations and marks the occasion of 195th Gunners' Day, the spokesman said. India is celebrating 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh' to mark the 50th anniversary of its victory against Pakistan in the 1971 war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Legislature needs to revisit laws to suit needs of time, says NV Ramana||The Chief Justice of India, Justice N V Ramana Saturday said the Legislature needs to revisit laws and reform them to suit the needs of time and people so that they match "practical realities". The CJI while inaugurating the new building of the Odisha State Legal Service Authority here, also said there is need for the executive and the legislature to work hand in hand in realising "constitutional aspirations." "I emphasize, our laws must match with our practical realities. The executive has to match these efforts by way of simplifying the corresponding rules," Justice Ramana said. He also emphasised that it was important for the Executive and Legislature to "function in unison in realising Constitutional aspirations." The CJI noted that it is only then, the Judiciary would not be compelled to step in as a law-maker and would only be left with the duty of applying and interpreting laws. At the end of the day, it is the harmonious functioning of the three organs of the State that can remove procedural barriers to justice, he pointed out. Stating that the Indian Judicial system is faced with twin challenges, the CJI pointed out that the first one is that of Indianisation of Justice delivery system . Even after 74 years of Independence, traditional and agrarian societies which have been following customary ways of life, "feel hesitant to approach the courts, he noted. "The practices, procedures, language of our Courts feel alien to them", he said adding that between the complex language of the acts and the process of justice delivery, the common man seems to lose control over the fate of his grievance. Often in this trajectory, the justice-seeker feels like an outsider to the system, he pointed out. He, however, said that although it is a harsh reality, often the Indian legal system fails to take into consideration the social realities and implications. Sadly, our system is designed in such a way that by the time all the facts and law are churned in the court of law, much gets lost. People might be bringing their problems to the courts, but what remains at the end of a day is yet another case , the CJI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Security beefed up at Rohini court after dramatic shootout||A day after a dramatic shootout in Rohini court left three people dead, the Delhi Police heightened its security arrangements on Saturday, with officials saying only vehicles with allotted stickers will be allowed to enter the court premises and lawyers and litigants will be thoroughly checked. A senior police official said adequate personnel have been deployed inside and outside the court to ensure no untoward incident takes place in the future. He said concerns have also been raised about functioning of metal detectors in the court premises and the matter has been taken up with the court administration. Jailed gangster Jitender Mann alias Gogi and two assailants were killed inside the courtroom in a dramatic shootout on Friday. Video footage of the incident, which exposed security lapses in the system, showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. Although metal detectors were at the gates of the court, it was not known whether they were working or not, and how the armed men could get past, raising questions about security arrangements. "When it comes to checking and frisking, it has been observed that lawyers do not want to be frisked and that was a major problem faced. It is not limited to Rohini court alone as this has been observed in other lower courts as well. But we are in touch with the Bar Association of Rohini court and they are also cooperating," the police official said. A turf war broke out inside Rohini courtroom onFriday between two rival gangs in which Maan and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed in the dramatic shootout that also saw police fire bullets in retaliation. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers were suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. Following the incident, Bar Council of Delhi Chairman Rakesh Sherawat, along with other officials, had also met Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana on Friday to discuss the security situation. "An elaborate review of the existing security arrangements is being done and accordingly, a new set of security measures will be put in place very soon. Emphasis will be laid on improving CCTV surveillance, frisking and deployment of armed police personnel on each floor of the court building is also being considered, another police official said. The joint commissioner of police (northern range) has been asked to probe the incident and submit a report. Meanwhile, a case has been registered and is being handled by the Crime Branch of Delhi Police. Lawyers' bodies in Delhi have demanded a probe into the shootout and called for abstaining from work on Saturday demanding enhanced security norms inside all the seven district courts premises in the national capital. The 'Coordination Committee of all District Courts Bar Associations in Delhi' called for suspension of work on Saturday and said it will decide the further course of action in a meeting that has been called on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||Biden reiterates US support for India's permanent inclusion in UN Security Council||US President Joe Biden has reiterated America's support for India's permanent membership on a reformed United Nations Security Council and its entry into the Nuclear Suppliers Group during his first in-person bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House. President Biden, in his talks with Prime Minister Modi, applauded India's strong leadership during its UN Security Council Presidency in August 2021, according to the US-India Joint Leaders' Statement issued after their meeting in the White House on Friday. In this context, President Biden also reiterated US support for India's permanent membership on a reformed UN Security Council and for other countries who are important champions of multilateral cooperation and aspire to permanent seats on the UN Security Council, it said. President Biden's support provides a big boost to New Delhi's push for the reform of the powerful UN organ as India has been at the forefront of efforts at the United Nations to push for an urgent long-pending reform of the Security Council, emphasising that it rightly deserves a place at the UN high table as a permanent member. India in June asserted that the Inter-Governmental Negotiations (IGN) on UN Security Council reforms can no longer be used as a smokescreen, as the General Assembly decided to roll over the IGN work to the next UNGA session and agreed to include an amendment proposed by the G4 nations of Brazil, Germany, India and Japan. At present, the UNSC comprises five permanent members and 10 non-permanent member countries which are elected for a two-year term by the General Assembly of the United Nations. The five permanent members are Russia, the UK, China, France and the United States and these countries can veto any substantive resolution. There has been growing demand to increase the number of permanent members to reflect the contemporary global reality. During his meeting with Prime Minister Modi, President Biden also reaffirmed US support for India's entry to the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), the joint statement said. The NSG is a 48-member grouping which regulates global nuclear commerce. Ever since India applied for the membership of the NSG in May 2016, China has been insisting that only those countries which have signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) should be allowed to enter the organisation. India and Pakistan are not signatories of the NPT. After India's application, Pakistan too has applied for the NSG membership in 2016. China maintains that there would be no discussion on India's entry into the NSG before reaching a specific plan on non-NPT members' participation in the elite grouping, as it declined to give a timeline to reach a consensus among member states on this issue. President Biden's support to India's permanent seat in the UNSC assumes significance as last month, State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference that the US values "working with India at the United Nations, including in the context this month of the Security Council." Responding to a question on whether the Biden administration thinks that India should be a permanent member of the UN Security Council, Price said that the US supports building a consensus for a "modest" expansion of the Council for both permanent and non-permanent members, provided it does not diminish its effectiveness or its efficacy and does not alter or expand the veto. "We believe that a reformed Security Council that is representative, that is effective, and that is relevant is in the best interest of the United States and all of the UN member states," Price had said. In their talks on Friday, Prime Minister Modi and President Biden also welcomed the extension of the Statement of Guiding Principles on Triangular Cooperation for Global Development to leverage the combined capacities of India and the US to address global development challenges around the world, particularly in the Indo-Pacific and Africa, the statement said. They renewed their close relationship and charted a new course to advance the partnership between the world's largest democracies They also affirmed a clear vision that will guide the US-India relationship forward, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-176
25-09-2021||India||CoWin certificates to mention date of birth of fully vaccinated people travelling abroad||People who are fully inoculated and want to travel abroad will have a CoWin certificate with their full date of birth, official sources said on Saturday amid ongoing discussions between India and the UK over Covid vaccination certificates. Currently, CoWin certificates mention the beneficiary's age based on the year of birth besides other details. The new feature is being introduced in compliance with the WHO norms and is likely to be available from next week. "It has been decided that a new feature will be added to the CoWin under which those who are fully vaccinated and want to travel abroad will have full date of birth on their vaccination certificates," an official source said. The UK on Wednesday had amended its new travel guidelines to include the Indian-made version of the AstraZeneca vaccine in its updated list of approved COVID-19 vaccines. Following India's strong criticism over the UK's refusal to recognise Covishield, London has included the vaccine in its updated international travel advisory. However, Indian travellers vaccinated with two doses of Covishield would still have to undergo 10 days of quarantine in the UK notwithstanding the amendment, UK officials had clarified on Wednesday saying the inclusion of the vaccine would not make much of a difference. "We're clear Covishield is not a problem. The UK is open to travel and we're already seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, business people or students," British High Commissioner Alex Ellis had said in a statement on Wednesday. "We have been having detailed technical discussions regarding certification, with the builders of the CoWin app and the NHS app, about both apps. They're happening at a rapid pace, to ensure that both countries mutually recognise the vaccine certificates issued by each other," he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Centre to soon announce new cooperative policy, says Amit Shah||Union Cooperation Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said the Centre will soon come out with a new cooperative policy and work in tandem with states to strengthen the cooperative movement. Shah, who is also the Union Home Minister, also announced that the number of primary agriculture cooperatives (PACs) will be increased to 3 lakh in the next five years. At present, there are about 65,000 PACs. He was speaking at the first Sehkarita Sammelan or National Cooperative Conference here. The Ministry of Cooperation was formed in July this year. Addressing the gathering comprising over 2,100 representatives of different cooperatives and nearly 6 crore online participants, Shah said some people wonder why the Centre created this new ministry as the cooperatives are a state subject. Shah said there could be a legal response to it, but he does not want to "get into this argument". The Centre, he stressed, will cooperate with states and "there will be no friction". "We will work with all states to take forward the cooperative movement," he said, and added the Ministry of Cooperation has been formed to strengthen and modernise the sector. On the proposed new cooperative policy, Shah said a policy was brought in 2002 by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and now the Modi government will start working on a new policy. Stressing that the cooperative movement was more relevant today than ever, Shah said cooperatives can contribute a lot in the development of the country. According to him, the cooperatives will play a crucial part in making India a USD 5 trillion economy. Referring to the problems being faced by cooperatives on the taxation front and other issues, Shah said he was aware of the concerns and assured that there would be no injustice towards them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Afghanistan developments raised questions about power politics, says Rajnath||The developments in Afghanistan raised questions about role of power politics and the use of terrorism as a tool to change State structures and behaviour, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. In an address at the National Defence College, Singh also said that there has been growing realisation of India's concerns over Pakistan's support to radical and terror groups. In a veiled reference to Pakistan, he said the turmoil caused in the region has been brought about by "aggressive designs" and the active support to non-State players by irresponsible States. "Today, the world is witness to the destabilising effects of terror and the especially dangerous precedence of violent radical forces attempting to gain legitimacy by creating new normals," he said. The defence minister said that there is a widespread realisation amongst all responsible nations over the need to come together against the common challenges. "The recent events in Afghanistan have reinforced the reality of our times. The only certainty about evolving geopolitics is its uncertainty. Changes in State boundaries may not be as frequent today," he said. "However, the fast-transforming structure of States and the influence that external powers can have on it is clearly evident," he said "These events raise questions regarding the very role of power politics and the use of terrorism as a tool to change State structures and behaviour," Singh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Women's rights activist Kamla Bhasin passes away at 75||Eminent women's rights activist, poet and author Kamla Bhasin passed away on Saturday. She was 75. Activist Kavita Srivastava said on Twitter Bhasin breathed her last around 3 am. Bhasin has been a prominent voice in the women's movement in India and other South Asian countries. "Kamla Bhasin, our dear friend, passed away around 3am today 25th Sept. This is a big setback for the women's movement in India and the South Asian region. She celebrated life whatever the adversity. Kamla you will always live in our hearts. In Sisterhood, which is in deep grief," Kavita Srivastava tweeted. The chant of 'Azaadi' which echoed across protest sites in the country is said to have been popularised by Bhasin as a feminist slogan against patriarchy. Netizens took to Twitter to condole Bhasin's demise. Supreme Court lawyer Prashant Bhushan said Kamla Bhasin was not only a women's rights activist, but also a philanthropist who set up and helped setting up many fine public Interest institutions like Jagori in Himachal Pradesh and School for democracy in Rajasthan. "She will be missed by many. May her soul rest in peace," he tweeted. Social activist Harsh Mander also expressed grief at her passing away. "Immense grief at passing of Kamla Bhasin. She has been and will remain a massive influence on many generations, teaching us by word, action, poetry, song & storytelling the equality of genders. She loved life, loved people," he tweeted. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also took to Twitter to condole her death. He shared her poem and posted a message, "Farewell to the inspiring Kamla Bhasin, voice of women's empowerment, heroine of girls' education, immortal poet." Historian S Irfan Habib said, "Very sad to hear about the tragic demise of dear friend and an exceptional human being Kamla Bhasin. We were just discussing her health yesterday but never realised that she will leave us next day. You will be terribly missed." Save the Children India, in a tweet, said, "Your legacy will live on in songs of hope and writings of courage. The spirit of movement will continue to ignite change. Rest in glory Kamla Bhasin. Your work will continue inspiring our collective efforts to drive change for every girl towards a vision of equality you espoused".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Punjab cabinet finalised, seven new faces find place||Seven new faces are likely to be inducted in the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab cabinet while five ministers who were part of the Amarinder Singh-led government are expected to be dropped, sources said Saturday With the list of ministers for the new cabinet finalised, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi Saturday met Governor Banwarilal Purohit at Raj Bhavan here around 12:30 pm. After meeting the governor, Channi told reporters the oath-taking ceremony for the new ministers will take place at 4:30 pm on Sunday. His meeting with the governor came barely hours after he returned from Delhi having held a final round of discussion with the party high command on the cabinet formation. Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, Kuljit Nagra and Rana Gurjit Singh are likely to be included in the cabinet, according to the sources. The party is also learnt to have decided to retain Vijay Inder Singla, Manpreet Singh Badal, Brahm Mohindra, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Arunu Chaudhary, Razia Sultana and Bharat Bhushan Ashu from the Amarinder Singh government. However, five legislators -- Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar and Sunder Sham Arora -- who were ministers in the Amarinder Singh-led cabinet are likely to be dropped, the sources said. A consensus on the names for the Channi-led cabinet was reached during his meeting with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other senior party members in the national capital. Channi was summoned to Delhi by the Congress high command on Friday to discuss the cabinet formation. The visit came within hours of him returning from the national capital. A total of 18 MLAs can be included in the cabinet, including Chief Minister Channi and two his deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Modi raises issue of H-1B visas with President Biden||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his first-ever in-person meeting with President Joe Biden raised a number of issues involving the Indian community in America, including access for Indian professionals in the US and speaking about the H-1B visas, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla has said. Prime Minister Modi described as "outstanding" his first bilateral meeting in the Oval Office with US President Joe Biden who said the Indo-US relationship is destined to be "stronger, closer and tighter. The prime minister and his counterparts - Scott Morrison of Australia and Japan's Yoshihide Suga also attended the meeting of Quad leaders hosted by US President Biden in the US capital on Friday. He (Modi) spoke of the issue of getting access for Indian professionals to the United States. In that context he mentioned H-1B visa, Shringla told reporters at a news conference on Friday. The most sought-after H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China. He also spoke of the fact that many Indian professionals who work here contribute to Social Security. The return of those contributions in the United States is something that affects the number of Indian workers, Shringla said. A fact sheet issued by the White House later said that the United States was proud to have issued a record 62,000 visas to Indian students so far in 2021. The nearly 200,000 Indian students in the United States contribute USD 7.7 billion annually to the US economy. Celebrating the 75th anniversary of the Fulbright Programme worldwide, the programme has been bringing Americans and Indians closer together for 71 years since its launch in India. In 2008, we welcomed India's decision to jointly fund these fellowships with the United States, and renamed the program the Fulbright-Nehru Fellowship Program. Over 20,000 fellowships and grants have been awarded under this exchange programme, and the United States looks forward to building on these successes, it said. The Partnership 2020 programme continues to foster higher education cooperation to promote economic growth and technological advances. In collaboration with the University of Nebraska at Omaha, this programme funds 15 research partnerships between US and Indian universities in the fields of advanced engineering, artificial intelligence, public health, and energy, among others, the White House said. According to the White House, the upcoming launch of the US-India Alliance for Women's Economic Empowerment a public-private partnership between the Department of State, USAID, the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum, and George Washington University will help catalyse collaboration to advance women's economic resilience and empowerment in India. The US-funded Nexus startup and innovation hub showcases the best of American and Indian entrepreneurial innovation and technology commercialisation. Nexus serves as a central hub for entrepreneurs, innovators, faculty, industry players, and funding organisations interested in promoting Indian startups and the local entrepreneurial ecosystem, it said. Since 2016, Nexus's 138 graduates have raised over USD 19 million in outside funding and closed over 70 deals with many prominent Indian and US companies, it said. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration works closely with Indian counterparts in areas such as ocean and fisheries science, meteorology, and earth observation, which helps us better understand climate change and save lives through improved weather modeling and information sharing, the White House said. The US Department of Agriculture looks forward to cooperating with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research on climate-change issues related to agriculture through strategic research on crops, livestock, and fisheries, it said. USAID looks forward to working with the Indian government on establishing the US-India Gandhi-King Development Foundation to promote initiatives and exchanges that honor both visionary leaders, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Rahul calls for aggressive poll campaign in Goa||Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has directed the leaders of his party in Goa, where Assembly polls are due in February next year, to launch an aggressive campaign in the state and ensure the defeat of the ruling BJP. Gandhi gave this direction during a meeting of party leaders, which he chaired in New Delhi on Friday, Congress's Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao said in a statement. Apart from Rao, party's senior election observer for the Goa Assembly polls P Chidambaram, general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal, GPCC president Girish Chodankar and Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Digambar Kamat attended the meeting. "Our leader Rahul Gandhi wants the Congress party in Goa to fulfill the aspirations and respect the sentiments of people of Goa," Rao said. Gandhi asked the party leaders to launch an aggressive campaign and ensure the defeat of the BJP in the forthcoming Assembly elections, he said. "We will take along our well-wishers, sympathisers, supporters in our Victory March towards Elections-2022. We are certain to defeat Team BJP," Rao added. In the 2017 Goa Assembly polls, the Congress had won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House, restricting the BJP to 13. However, surprising the Congress, the saffron party had allied with regional parties and came to power. Over the years, Congress's strength in the Legislative Assembly dwindled to five after many of its MLAs switched sides and joined the ruling BJP. Gandhi's meeting with the party leaders took place amid indications that the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) may jump into the poll fray in the coastal state. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is also gearing up for the polls. Earlier this week, the party's national convener Arvind Kejriwal visited the state and announced that if voted to power, his party would ensure that 80 per cent of jobs, including in the private sector, would be reserved for local people. He also assured a monthly remuneration of Rs 5,000 to families dependent on mining and tourism industries till these sectors are normalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||India logs over 29,000 fresh Covid cases, 290 casualties in a day||India logged 29,616 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of cases to 3,36,24,419, while the active cases rose by 1,280 to reach 3,01,442, according to Union Health Ministry data updated Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,46,658 with 290 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases now constitute 0.90 per cent of the total infections, while the nationwide COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.78 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. An increase of 1,280 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, it said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.86 per cent, while the weekly positivity rate was 1.99 per cent. The latter has been below 3 per cent for the last 92 days, it said. India's tally of cases had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,28,76,319 and the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. On the inoculation front, the cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 84.89 crore. As many as 15,92,421 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 56,16,61,383. The 290 new fatalities include 127 from Kerala, 51 from Maharashtra and 27 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 4,46,658 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,776 from Maharashtra, 37,706 From Karnataka, 35,454 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,318 from Kerala, 22,890 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,716 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Mumbai crime branch officer caught taking Rs 2 lakh bribe||An assistant police inspector of the Mumbai crime branch was caught taking a bribe of Rs 2 lakh, which was part of the amount that he had demanded for not initiating any action against an accused in a car theft case, an official of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) said on Saturday. API Nagesh Ambadas Puranik, 45, was caught red-handed at the crime branch's property cell in Byculla of central Mumbai on Friday, he said. Puranik had demanded Rs 12 lakh bribe from the wife of a man, who is accused in a luxury car theft case. He had told her that if the money is paid, no action would be taken against her husband and his friend, the official said. Puranik had already received Rs 4 lakh bribe and was demanding the remaining Rs 8 lakh from the complainant, he said. However, she approached the officials of the ACB unit in Worli. After verifying the complaint, a trap was laid and Puranik was caught while collecting Rs 2 lakh bribe from the complainant, he said. An offence under section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against Puranik and he was being questioned, the ACB official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Pakistan an 'arsonist' disguising itself as a 'fire-fighter', India tells UN||Pakistan, where terrorists enjoy free pass, is an "arsonist" disguising itself as a "fire-fighter", and the entire world has suffered because of its policies as the country nurtures terrorists in its backyard, India has said in a blistering retort after Prime Minister Imran Khan raked up the issue of Kashmir in his address to the UN General Assembly. "We exercise our Right of Reply to one more attempt by the leader of Pakistan to tarnish the image of this august forum by bringing in matters internal to my country, and going so far as to spew falsehoods on the world stage," First Secretary Sneha Dubey said in the UN General Assembly on Friday. "While such statements deserve our collective contempt and sympathy for the mindset of the person who utters falsehood repeatedly, I am taking the floor to set the record straight," the young Indian diplomat said, slamming the Pakistani leader for raking up the Kashmir issue in his address to the 76th session of the UN General Assembly. "We keep hearing that Pakistan is a 'victim of terrorism'. This is the country which is an arsonist disguising itself as a fire-fighter. Pakistan nurtures terrorists in their backyard in the hope that they will only harm their neighbours. Our region, and in fact the entire world, has suffered because of their policies. On the other hand, they are trying to cover up sectarian violence in their country as acts of terror," Dubey said. Khan in his address had spoken about the August 5, 2019 decision of the Indian government on the abrogation of Article 370 as well as the death of pro-Pakistan separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani. In the Right of Reply, Dubey strongly reiterated that the entire Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh "were, are and will always be an integral and inalienable part of India. This includes the areas that are under the illegal occupation of Pakistan. We call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation". Khan and other Pakistani leaders and diplomats have consistently raked up the issue of Jammu and Kashmir and other internal matters of India in their addresses to the UN General Assembly and other forums of the world organisation. Pakistan's attempts to internationalise the Kashmir issue have gained no traction from the international community and the Member States, who maintain that Kashmir is a bilateral matter between the two countries. Later on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address the Un General Assembly at 6.30pm IST. In Washington, Indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla also noted that Pakistan, which has been projecting itself as a facilitator, has been in many senses an instigator of some of the problems that India has been dealing with in its neighbourhood. Both during the India-US bilateral meeting by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden and the Quad summit comprising Australia, India, Japan and US, there was a clear sense of a more careful look, examination and monitoring of Pakistan's role in Afghanistan, Shringla said as the Indian delegation concluded its two days of hectic engagements in the city. "Both in the bilateral discussions as well as in the forum discussions there was the clear sense that a more careful look, and a more careful examination and monitoring of Pakistan's role in Afghanistan. Pakistan's role on the issue of terrorism, had to be kept, and that certainly weather it is Quad or its other partners have to keep track of that factor," Shringla told reporters at a news conference here on Friday. "An important factor which sometimes gets overlooked is when you see Pakistan, protecting itself as a facilitator, whereas, it has really been in many senses an instigator of some of the problems that we're dealing with in our neighbourhood and beyond," he said in response to a question. Shringla said during the bilateral discussions at the While House, there was a clear concern expressed on Pakistan's role in Afghanistan and the continuing support for an approach that did not seem to be conducive to the international community's expectations of what the war-torn country should be like. "Both India and the United States agreed that the issue of terrorism is very important. Both sides denounced any use of terrorist proxies and emphasised the importance of denying the logistical, financial or military support to terrorist groups, which could be used to plan, or launch terror attacks," he said. The leaders also noted that the US and India will be organising a counter-terrorism joint working group meeting designation dialogue and there is also going to be a renewed US India Homeland Security dialogue in the areas of law enforcement, he said. Noting that there was quite a bit of discussion on Afghanistan, Shringla said that there was a lot of importance attached to the fact that the United Nations resolution 2593 was adopted and India's Presidency of the Security Council. "This is an important resolution which reflected the international community's general view on the situation in Afghanistan and the obligations of the ruling dispensation there to fulfill certain conditionalities that the international community faced are important," he said. "So, the two sides underscored the importance of combat and terrorism in Afghanistan. They called on the Taliban to adhere to these and all of its commitments under resolution 2593. That includes, obviously the issue of ensuring that the Afghan territory is not used to threaten attack against any country, shelter any terrorist groups or finance terrorist attacks and underscores the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan," he said. The two delegations also called upon Afghanistan to respect human rights of women, children, minorities, provision of humanitarian assistance and access to humanitarian workers, Shringla said. They also called upon the two sides to secure an inclusive politically negotiated settlement in Afghanistan, he said. "This is an important point. I think the fact that the current ruling dispensation did not appear to be an inclusive one, did not involve the ethnic minorities of Afghanistan to the extent that it should, that it did not did not include participation of women," he said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-177
25-09-2021||India||Modi photo and slogan in Supreme Court emails; now dropped||The Supreme Court was “shocked” to discover on Thursday evening that the Centre’s e-governance spearhead had appended to all the court’s outgoing emails a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his “sabka saath” slogan, court sources said. After the matter came to the attention of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, who is also the top court’s administrative head, the National Informatics Centre (NIC) was told to remove Modi's image and the slogan immediately and all its senior officials were pulled up, the sources added. “It complied within an hour of the directive being issued on Friday morning,” one of the sources told The Telegraph. On Friday evening, a source said: “Late last evening, it was brought to the notice of the Registry of the Supreme Court that the official emails of the Supreme Court of India were carrying an image as footer which has no connection whatsoever with the functioning of the judiciary.” The source added: “The National Informatics Centre, which provides the email services to the apex court, was directed to drop that image from the footer of the emails originating from the Supreme Court. It was also asked to use the picture of the Supreme Court of India, instead.” “The NIC has since complied with the directions of the SCI,” said the source. Other sources said Justice Ramana had sought a report on the issue so that appropriate action could be taken. The NIC, which operates under the ministry of electronics and information technology, manages the Supreme Court’s official website and almost all its digital networking infrastructure. The sources said some people had alerted the apex court registry that, over the past couple of days, all the court’s outgoing mails were displaying Modi’s picture and the slogan “Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas, sabka prayas (Together with all, development of all, trust of all and effort by all)”. “Fortunately, we came to know within two or three days that our mails were carrying the slogans and the photograph of the Prime Minister. We immediately directed the NIC to delete all such endorsements and advertisements from our emails,” a source said. The sources said the display of political slogans or images of public figures on Supreme Court mails was unacceptable as it would send out an erroneous message that the top court endorsed the ruling party's political manifesto or agenda. Besides, it would damage perceptions about the judiciary's independence from the central government, which is the biggest litigant before the top court, they said. An official said the NIC was earlier allowed to display certain messages of public interest, for example those relating to social distancing and other Covid-19 protocols, on apex court emails. It had previously used the "Swachh Bharat" slogan with the portrait of Mahatma Gandhi in the background, and also a slogan urging polio vaccination. All these were accompanied with a visual of the Supreme Court building in the background. However, this visual was missing from the mails carrying the "sabka saath" slogan and the Prime Minister's photograph. The government's penchant for using Modi's picture on official documents appears to have already earned it ridicule abroad. According to media reports, Modi's photo on Covid vaccination certificates had caused merriment at foreign airports after baffled immigration officers initially accused Indian travellers of fraud because the faces didn't match. The NIC was established in 1976 to provide technology-driven solutions to central and state governments in various fields. Its website says it "offers a wide range of services which includes multi-gigabit nationwide networks NICNET, NKN, National Data Centres, National Cloud, pan-India VC infrastructure, Command and Control Centre, multi-layered GIS-based platform, Domain Registration and Webcast. This plays a significant role in delivering citizen-centric e-services."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
25-09-2021||India||CBI files FIR in Mahant Narendra Giri's death case||The CBI on Friday filed an FIR in connection with the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri in Allahabad. The agency has invoked Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC in the FIR. The seer, who was the president of the largest organisation of sadhus in India, was found hanging at the Baghambari Mutt in Allahabad on Monday. Earlier in the day, the Centre gave its approval for a CBI probe with the department of personnel and training issuing a notification. The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday had said a recommendation for transferring the case to the CBI was made “on the instructions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath.... in the incident pertaining to the sad death of chairman of Akhara Parishad Mahant Narendra Giri”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
25-09-2021||India||Defence minitry signs Rs 20,000cr deal for medium transport aircraft||The defence ministry on Friday inked a nearly Rs 20,000-crore deal with the European aerospace manufacturer Airbus Defence and Space of Spain for the procurement of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Ltd will jointly execute the project to equip the force with the transport aircraft under the Make in India initiative in the aerospace sector. This is the first project in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India by a private company. Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition from Spain within 48 months of signing the contract. The remaining 40 will be manufactured in India by the Tatas within 10 years of signing the contract. The C-295MW aircraft is a transport plane of 5-10 tonnes capacity with contemporary technology that will replace the ageing Avro fleet of the IAF. The C-295MW has a rear ramp door for quick reaction and para-dropping of troops and cargo. The contract was signed on Friday, two weeks after it was cleared by the Prime Minister-led cabinet committee on security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
25-09-2021||India||Shootout at Delhi court kills three||Two men in lawyers’ black coats fired and killed gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi on a corridor at Delhi’s Rohini court on Friday afternoon before being shot dead by the victim’s police guards. The killing of Gogi and the shootout with the police that followed a few feet from the door of court No. 207, where the accused was to be produced, sent lawyers and spectators ducking behind furniture inside the courtroom, videos show. People from other courtrooms, including child visitors who had come with their parents, ran helter-skelter. Gogi was riddled with six bullets from behind, suggesting he was exposed at the rear despite five to six armed cops accompanying him. He was declared dead on arrival at a hospital. No policeman or bystander was injured during the entire incident. Video footage shows policemen shooting, apparently at the two assailants who cannot be seen. Officers said the alleged killers, Rahul and Moris, were from a rival gang led by Sunil alias Tillu Tajpuria, who has been in Sonipat jail in Haryana since his arrest in 2015. Gogi, arrested last year, was in Tihar. Both Gogi and Sunil faced multiple cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, illegal arms possession, carjacking and land-grabbing in Delhi and Haryana, the police said. The Coordination Committee of All District Bar Associations in Delhi resolved to abstain from work on Saturday citing the lack of security. “Such incidents have been happening repeatedly. Despite the issue being raised with the police commissioner, no concrete step has been taken,” said Rakesh Sherawat, chairperson, Bar Council of Delhi. Two accused were shot dead at the Rohini court complex in February and April 2017. In 2016, four gunmen barged into a fifth-floor courtroom in east Delhi and sprayed bullets, wounding an accused in the dock and killing a head constable. In July this year, a 45-year-old man was shot dead outside an advocate’s chamber at the Dwarka court complex. The Delhi police report to the Union home ministry. AAP parliamentarian Sanjay Singh tweeted: “Home minister @AmitShah where are you? Such a big incident in the capital of the country. Bullets echo in the temple of justice.” An officer said Rahul and Moris were from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh. Student politics Police sources said the rivalry between Gogi and Tillu dated back to their days in the Delhi University-affiliated Swami Shraddhanand College in Alipur, north Delhi. Gogi and Tillu, from Alipur and Tajpur Kalan villages, respectively, on Delhi’s fringes, controlled student politics at the college from 2010 to 2015. They also started extortion rackets and formed separate gangs. Over 10 members from their two gangs were killed in their clashes over the past six years, sources said. Police said Gogi had been arrested by Haryana police but escaped from custody in 2016 and killed several of Tillu’s associates. He was arrested last year from Gurgaon. In 2015, Gogi’s gang allegedly killed Deepak of Tillu’s gang, ostensibly to punish him for his romantic advances towards a cousin of Gogi. In apparent retaliation, Arun alias “Commando” — an unsuccessful students’ union vice-presidential candidate in 2013 who was backed by Gogi — was killed. Kuldeep Maan alias Fajja, who was killed by the police in March this year, was a student of Kirori Mal College and had been brought to Gogi’s gang by Arun, sources said. Fajja, accused of committing a string of murders including that of Haryanvi singer Harshita Dahiya in 2017, had first been booked in 2013 for violence during the Shraddhanand College polls. “Many youngsters from the villages of Delhi and those near the Haryana border still look up to these gangsters, who try to influence DU student politics. It was practically impossible for anyone to campaign there without their consent until recently,” a former DU student activist told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
25-09-2021||India||TV reporter swept away in the currents of Mahanadi in Cuttack||A young television journalist was swept away in the strong currents of the swollen Mahanadi in Cuttack on Friday while covering an operation to rescue an elephant stranded in the river. Arindam Das, who worked for the news channel OTV, was swept away by the strong currents of the river, after a powerboat of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), in which they were carrying out the operation, capsized near the Mundali bridge, on the outskirts of Cuttack city, around 30km from here. While Arindam was declared brought dead at the SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, his colleague cameraperson Prabhat Sinha is battling for his life. A search is on for an ODRAF jawan who was also swept away. Arindam and Prabhat had accompanied the five-member ODRAF team to cover the rescue operation from close quarters. However, the boat lost balance due to the strong currents of the river and capsized. Another ODRAF team started a rescue operation immediately after the incident. Hospital emergency officer Bhubanananda Maharana confirmed Arindam’s death. He said: “The cameraman’s condition is still critical but stable. The conditions of the three ODRAF personnel, who were also admitted to the hospital, is stable.” The tusker, which was part of a herd of 17 elephants, was on its way to Chandaka from Nuasasana in Athagarh block in Cuttack district. While other elephants in the herd were able to cross the river, the tusker got stuck. It was caught in the swirling waters of the river and was stranded for over seven hours. After getting information from locals, a team from the 6th battalion of the ODRAF and forest officials reached the spot and started the rescue operation. Arindam and Pravat joined the ODRAF team after donning life jackets as they wanted good visuals of the operation. But the powerboat could not withstand the assault of the turbulent river. The live-streaming of the operation was going on and Arindam was even heard saying that the boat was going to overturn. Everyone on the boat fell into the river within a matter of seconds. While six persons were rescued by another ODRAF team, Arindam and a jawan were swept away by the currents. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and others condoled the death of the journalist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-178
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rain in store for south Bengal next week||Shortly after West Bengal breathed easy having learnt that a developing cyclonic storm over Bay of Bengal is expected to give the region a miss, the IMD on Saturday predicted the formation of a new low-pressure system near the coast of Myanmar, which, in all probability, will dump heavy rain in the state's southern districts next week. Kolkata and its adjoining areas, which are still reeling under the impact of torrential rain that occurred earlier this week, should brace for heavy showers next Tuesday and Wednesday owing to this new weather system, the IMD said in its forecast. A cyclonic circulation is likely to emerge over northeast and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal near the Myanmar coast around September 27, and under its influence, a low-pressure area may develop in the subsequent 24 hours, the Met office said. "The system is expected to move northwestwards and reach West Bengal coast around September 29," it said in a special bulletin. By-election to Bhabanipur assembly seat, where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is a contestant, is scheduled to be held on September 30. The weatherman further said that the existing deep depression over north and central Bay of Bengal may intensify into a cyclonic storm by Saturday evening and cross north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts between Visakhapatnam and Gopalpur by the evening of Sunday. Under the influence of these two weather systems, rain and thundershower with lightning are very likely to occur at "many places" in south Bengal on Sunday and Monday and "most places" on Tuesday and Wednesday. The deep depression may also bring heavy rain to East Midnapore on Sunday and West Midnapore and South 24 Parganas on Monday. The newly developing low-pressure system, on the other hand, could trigger heavy rain at one or two places in Kolkata, East and West Midnapore, North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly districts on Tuesday. Additionally, Bankura, Jhargram, East and West Bardhaman and Purulia districts may receive rainfall on Wednesday, the Met office said. The weatherman warned that as an effect, water levels will rise in rivers, low-lying areas may get flooded in the city and the towns, and crops could be damaged in parts of the state. Squally wind with speed reaching 45 to 55 km per hour and gusting up to 65 kmph is very likely over North and South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore districts. In Kolkata, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Howrah and Hooghly districts, the wind speed may hover between 30 to 40 kmph, gusting up to 50 kmph. Over the next few days, sea conditions will be rough to very rough, and fishermen have been told to keep away till further notice. Several areas in Kolkata and neighbouring districts of South and North 24 Parganas that have been battered by last Monday's torrential rain still lay inundated, causing immense difficulties to locals. The metropolis on Monday recorded the highest one-day September rainfall in 13 years at 142 mm, according to Met data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Why Bengal Cong loyalists are seething at the all-important high command ||From Calcutta or any other distant part of the country, the Congress high command is seen the way the ancient Grecians would look at the Mount Olympus, the seat of the Greek Gods, seeking invocation and sacrifice. One such prayer in the last one month from the Bengal unit of the party to the omnipotent high command was to field a candidate against Mamata Banerjee in the Bhowanipore bye-elections, scheduled for September 30. The high command-cited larger Opposition unity and denied the prayer that has upset a section of the dwindling party in Bengal. The events unfolding in three different parts of the country—Bengal, Tripura and Goa -- should force the high Gods of the Congress to rethink  how it handles the volatile Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul Congress. An editorial in the Trinamul official mouthpiece published on Saturday accused the Congress of going soft on the BJP. “Today’s Congress is a failure, directionless. To defeat Trinamul they forge an alliance with CPM that helps the BJP. The flag of Congress is now in the hands of the Trinamul. It is the sea, Congress is a squalid pond,” the editorial said. This is a continuation of a strategy taken by the Trinamul to attack the Congress while it is trying to establish itself as a viable alternative to the BJP across the country, and at the same time harp on Opposition unity. On Friday night,   campaigning in the Bhowanipore constituency, from where she is seeking a third term, Mamata attacked the CPM and the Congress top brass without taking any names. “CPM ruled in Bengal for how many years? 34 years. They committed innumerable atrocities, did they face any CBI, ED cases? Not a word was said against them. Only Chidambaram (P Chidambaram, former Union finance minister and senior Congress leader) was arrested, their (main people) were left untouched,” Mamata said. The “main people” is believed to be a reference to the holy trinity of the Congress—the Gandhi family comprising Sonia Gandhi and her children Rahul and Priyanka. “They tried to drag the Gandhi family in the National Herald case. If they couldn’t find any evidence against them, what can we do?” asked a Congress leader from North Calcutta. "As a gesture of goodwill and courtesy we did not field any candidate but she does not deserve this courtesy Madam (Sonia Gandhi) herself instructed us not to contest against her. She (Mamata) is really a political humbug," said state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury. Chowdhury feels Trinamul is following the Aam Aadmi Party’s line and should be held responsible for cracks in the Opposition unity as 2024 nears. “The Aam Aadmi Party and the Trinamul are working on similar lines. Wherever they can they are trying to queer the Congress pitch in favour of the BJP. They are targeting rebels and others unhappy within the party. This same tactic both the parties are using in different states. Goa is one of them,” said Adhir Chowdhury, the state Congress president and Berhampore MP. Incidentally, 18 years ago on a September afternoon, then BJP MP Balbir Punj (closely associated with the RSS) had described Mamata as “sakshaat Durga” (Durga’s incarnation) at an event organised by the Sangh. Mamata reciprocated calling the RSS  “true patriots.” While the AICC was thinking the move would placate Mamata, the Trinamul in an apparent attempt to strengthen its organization is making forays into Tripura and Goa. Mamata has been eyeing Tripura for a long time. Like in Bengal, the Trinamul in Tripura too made up of  Congress turncoats, many of whom later joined the BJP before the 2018 Assembly polls. Last month, late Congress leader Santosh Mohan Dev’s daughter Sushmita joined the Trinamul and is believed would be projected as the face of the party in Tripura, though she has been nominated to the Rajya Sabha from Bengal. Former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar has claimed as many as 22 CPM workers have been killed in recent times in the state, which the ruling BJP says is a legacy of the Left. While CPM party offices were burnt and its workers killed, Trinamul jumped into Tripura after some members of a professional political advocacy group I-PAC members, which has a tie up with Trinamul, were stopped from working in the state. Trinamul’s all India general secretary’s proposed march in Tripura is not for the sake of his party workers but professionals. Again, during the Bengal polls, similar activists hired by the BJP were arrested in East  Midnapore’s Contai. In the 2018 Tripura Assembly polls, Trinamul had received only 0.3 per cent of the vote share, while the CPM still held 42 per cent of the votes. A year later in the Lok Sabha polls, the CPM’s vote share, however, fell to just above 17 per cent, while the Congress which has zero legislators bagged 25 per cent of the votes. Many feel Trinamul’s renewed vigour in Tripura would help divide the Opposition votes in case the Left and the Congress decide on a joint electoral strategy in the state and ultimately help BJP retain power. The Trinamul sent MPs Derek O’ Brien and Prasun Banerjee to hoist the Trinamul flag on  Goa's beaches, where the party does not even have any name to project. There are number of factors on which the handful of Congress workers still active in Bengal are fuming. The most unhappy man in the Bengal unit at this moment is the party’s South Calcutta district unit president and local Bhowanipore lad Pradip Prasad. While Congress bigwigs from the same locality have jumped ship over the last 23 years and turned into stalwarts in the Trinamul, Prasad has stayed with the Congress. This time he was keen to contest against Mamata in the Bhowanipore bypoll but the AICC which decides on all matters turned him down. Since 2016 when the Left and the Congress went into an alliance, the Bhowanipore seat was left for the Congress. The Congress nominee, Md Shadab Khan, received 5,211 votes, barely four per cent of the total votes. In the absence of the Congress, the CPM has fielded advocate Srijib Biswas. The BJP had bagged 35 per cent votes in the last elections from the seat. “I would have lost the bypoll, but at least the Congress would have been in the picture. What do we gain by conceding ground to the Trinamul? This sends a wrong signal to the remaining voters who are still loyal to us,” said Prasad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Ganglord arrested in Alipore jail attack ||Sona Pappu, who had allegedly hatched the plot to kill an undertrial as soon as he stepped out of Presidency jail on bail earlier this month, has been arrested, police said. Pappu has multiple criminal cases against him. He was arrested from a housing complex in Kaikhali in north-east Kolkata early on Friday. Biswajit Poddar — who later came to be known as Sona Pappu — has been booked under IPC sections related to rioting and attempt to murder, and under the arms act. The 40-year-old who has allegedly committed a series of crimes — from murder to extortion — was once an “ordinary young man” working in his father’s jewellery store on Picnic Garden Road in south Kolkata, police said. Originally a resident of GS Bose Road in Kasba, Biswajit had a reputation as an obedient son. Friends and family expected him to follow in the footsteps of his father, Hari Narayan Poddar, and run the jewellery business, recalled a senior police officer. “His nickname was Pappu. Because of his association with his father’s gold jewellery business, people in the locality called him Sona Pappu. He gradually became involved in crime after joining the construction material supply business and soon emerged as one of the most dreaded criminals in the Kasba-Tiljala belt,” said the officer. He was out on bail, the police said. Munna Pandey, who Pappu and a team of around 40-50 men had allegedly planned to kill on September 9, had multiple criminal charges against him. Twenty-five of the men allegedly involved in the attack have been arrested but Pappu, who the police said led the attack, was on the run. Pandey and Pappu — two ganglords of Kasba —  had often found themselves at loggerheads over gaining control of areas and running supply syndicates in Kasba, Tiljala and Tangra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Reports on electrocution deaths yet  to come||Over three days have passed since the first electrocution deaths were reported from the city after the recent spell of showers but the authorities concerned have yet to find out the cause of the electrocution. A couple and their 10-year-old child were electrocuted at their home in Khardah in North 24 Parganas district on Tuesday, apparently while trying to charge a mobile phone. The deaths were followed by at least five more electrocution deaths in the city and on the outskirts in the past 72 hours. The Telegraph spoke to several government officials to find out whether the reports, which they say every day they are waiting for to know the reasons for the electrocutions and fix responsibility, arrived on Friday. The answer from each agency was negative. State power minister Aroop Biswas, who told Metro on Thursday that he had sought a detailed report on each electrocution death, said he was yet to receive any report till Friday evening. “As the incidents happened at different places, it is taking time to compile (the information). I am yet to get any report,” he said. The chairperson of the board of administrators of South Dum Dum Municipality, in whose area two 12-year-old girls were electrocuted on Wednesday evening, said he had not received any report. “I am expecting the report tomorrow evening or Sunday morning,” chairperson Panchu Gopal Roy said. The municipality, he said, has show-caused a private agency, hired to maintain the lamp posts in all 35 wards, for alleged negligence. He had not mentioned any private agency while speaking at length with this newspaper on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Debabrata Mukherjee elected chairman of Audit Bureau of Circulations for the year 2021-2022||Debabrata Mukherjee, chief marketing officer, United Breweries Ltd, has been unanimously elected chairman of the Audit Bureau of Circulations (ABC) for the year 2021-2022. He has been part of the Audit Bureau of Circulations, Council of Management, since 2011 and has served as the chairman of the council. Pratap G. Pawar,  publisher member on the council, has been unanimously elected as the deputy chairman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress declares Goa foray before Assembly elections||The Trinamul Congress on Friday declared its decision to take the Goa plunge ahead of next year’s Assembly elections. The declaration on the front page of Trinamul’s Bengali daily Jago Bangla decisively ended speculation that had been rife since poll consultant Prashant Kishor and 200-odd members of his team had been seen testing the Goa waters. Although Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee did mention Goa in passing in a couple of her speeches during the campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll over the past few days, it wasn’t until the formal declaration in the mouthpiece that her party’s attempts for a westward expansion was established beyond doubt. In the story laid out under the headline “Target sarkar toiri, Goay vote-juddhey Trinamul (The target is to form the state government, Trinamul in the electoral battle of Goa)”, the party said the groundwork had already begun. “A team of Trinamul Congress MPs would visit Goa very soon. Before participating in the electoral battle in Goa, an I-Pac (Kishor’s team) group is already there and has begun work. Utmost preparations are underway,” read the piece. The Assembly elections in Goa — with barely 11.5 lakh voters — are likely to take place in February next year when the BJP-led Pramod Sawant government would seek re-election in the 40-seat House. The principal Opposition in Goa is the Congress. In 2017, in a bitterly controversial power-grab, the BJP had formed the government in Goa, despite securing only 13 seats, compared to the Congress’s 17. The majority mark is 21. “Why Goa? The party’s strategy and aim, for now, are the small states…. There is an intense anti-BJP current in Goa. In the past election, although the mandate was against the BJP, the people of the state think by retaining power through the purchase of (non-BJP) MLAs, the saffron army disregarded the verdict of the people,” read the Jago Bangla story, which asserted that the Congress couldn’t keep its flock in order nor could it expand there. “Keeping the West Bengal example forward, the Trinamul Congress’s message in Goa is that the BJP can only be defeated by it, not the Congress,” read the Jago Bangla story. “According to that math, the party’s reach is being put in place. Political steps will be taken on the basis of an understanding of the situation. Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee will go to campaign for the election,” it added. Since his appointment as the party’s national general-secretary on June 5, exactly a month after Mamata was sworn in as chief minister of Bengal for the third consecutive term, Abhishek has – in close coordination with Kishor – been busy exploring opportunities for expansion for Trinamul. Abhishek has on more than one occasion made it clear in public that whichever state Trinamul goes to henceforth, it will do so with the intent to win, not just to start a state unit and get a handful of MLAs. Since then, the party has been seen taking some decisive steps towards becoming a force to be reckoned with in the northeastern states of Tripura and Assam. “Very important is the increasing number of Lok Sabha seats we are gradually getting access to, ahead of 2024. There are the 42 seats of Bengal, 14 in Assam, and two each in Tripura and Goa. That’s 60,” said a Trinamul vice-president, asserting that the expansion beyond Bengal’s borders over the next three years was with the core objective of a stronger presence in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Nine Visva-Bharati teachers to face probe for 'misconduct' ||Visva-Bharati on Thursday night issued letters to nine senior teachers informing them that they would have to face a probe for their “misconduct” in connection with alleged confinement of at least a dozen English teachers for six hours by varsity officials in the presence of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty in February this year. Officials said it was the first time in recent memory that nine senior teachers of the varsity would face a board of inquiry at the same time. However, at least 13 teachers and employees of the varsity had been served suspension orders, while several others faced punishments like termination, salary cut and non-payment of retirement benefits ever since Chakrabarty took over as the VC in November 2018. “The officiating registrar of the varsity has sent letters to nine faculty members, saying they would have to face a board of inquiry that consists of several officials, including a few retired people who are perceived close to Chakrabarty,” said a senior varsity professor. The nine teachers are from the departments of English, philosophy and physics. Sources said the English teachers had allegedly been confined by the varsity authorities in a bid to collect a copy of a mass petition that some faculty members had written to Prime Minister and Chancellor Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind to complain about the manner in which Chakrabarty was running the varsity. After six hours, a teacher of the English department had informed his colleagues about the confinement and around a dozen teachers had come forward to rescue those in alleged detention. Two senior teachers had also lodged a police complaint against the officials. The complainants had accused the varsity authorities of illegally detaining their colleagues. The varsity, however, denied the charge of confinement and claimed that the English teachers were attending an official meeting. Visva-Bharati public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to a WhatsApp message regarding the varsity’s decision to summon the teachers before a board of inquiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal bypoll: Didi adds Pegasus, PM CARES to campaign narrative||Mamata Banerjee on Friday added two key national issues, alleged Pegasus snoopgate and the ownership of PM-Cares Fund, to her campaign narrative for the Bhowanipore bypoll, along with Tripura BJP government’s imposition of prohibitory orders in Agartala during Puja and Diwali this year. The Bengal chief minister wasted no time in adding the two crucial issues to the Bhowanipore mix, a day after proceedings in the judiciary had brought both back in the news. “My phone, your phone, everything has gone to Pegasus. Pegasus is dangerous…. It does not only record and transmit audio, it takes and sends photos, video…. I found out fully after I was talking to PK (poll consultant Prashant Kishor) and Abhishek (Banerjee, her nephew and Trinamul Congress’s Number Two) in my Kalighat office ahead of the election. I was shown (later) how I was tapped through their phones, which were tapped,” said Mamata at a public meeting in Sambhunath Bazaar, near Balwant Singh’s Eating House in Bhowanipore. According to digital forensics conducted by Amnesty International’s Security Lab, Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek and poll consultant Kishor were among the numerous targets of the hack. Her remarks came a day after Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said the Supreme Court would pass orders next week on the constitution of an “expert committee” to probe allegations that the Centre had used the Israeli spyware Pegasus to illegally snoop on citizens. “Tap one phone and you can (indirectly) tap a thousand…. They do this using the phone cameras, which are kept on by them. You think you have switched off the phone and nobody can hear anything. That’s not the case. Even through a switched off phone… nothing is safe…. In the future they will scan our brains. Nothing can be put past them,” added Mamata. Mamata quickly moved on to bring up the fact that the Prime Minister’s Office had told Delhi High Court on Thursday that the PM Cares Fund is not a Government of India fund, but a charitable trust whose collections do not go to the Consolidated Fund of India, and that it does not come under the purview of the Right to Information Act. “But government employees were made to contribute to it. Corporates also contributed. Lakhs of crores were deposited,” said the chief minister. She went on, for the third consecutive day, to bring up the imposition of prohibitory orders in West Tripura through Durga Puja till Diwali this year, to lambast the BJP over its divisive and “false” campaign against her that she was not allowing people to celebrate Hindu festivals in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC scan on Dwivedi letter and process for bypoll ||Calcutta High Court on Friday asked whether the Election commission of India could take a decision of holding bypoll to the Bhowanipore Assembly seat based on a request from the Bengal chief secretary. During the hearing of a public interest litigation which challenged the process in which the Bhowanipore bypoll had been announced even as some other by-elections were pending, a division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj raised several other questions related to the holding of bypolls. “The manner in which the court tossed the questions makes it clear that it wants to address the broader issue of bypoll in a seat that was already filled, but got vacated after the MLA resigned to offer the seat to someone else,” said a lawyer not involved with the case. The PIL referred to alleged irregularities in the poll panel’s notification for the September 30 bypoll in Bhowanipore from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting. The PIL has highlighted that the notification claimed it was announcing the bypoll based on a letter from chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi, who had mentioned that not holding the bypoll in Bhowanipore would result in a “constitutional crisis”. While the matter was heard on Friday, the court asked the following questions: After the conclusion of the hearing, advocate Sayan Banerjee, the petitioner, said he was not praying for the cancellation of the bypoll, but wanted answers to the legal queries about the bypoll. The bench said the verdict would be pronounced “sometime later”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 744 fresh infections and 13 deaths ||Bengal on Friday recorded 96 consecutive days of a fall in total active Covid-19 cases, with 744 new infections, 746 recoveries and 13 deaths. The total fell by 15 to 7,689. Bengal now has 2.6 per cent of the national total of active cases and remains seventh on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 130 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 124, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with three-digit figures of new infections. Seven districts reported single-digit figures. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, which is the highest and still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.75. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.77 per cent on Friday. Calcutta reported three deaths, while North 24-Parganas logged four. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.65 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.38 lakh recoveries and 18,716 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Evacuations begin ahead of rain in South 24-Parganas ||The South 24-Parganas district administration on Friday began evacuating people to disaster shelters in preparation of fresh spells of rain accompanied by squall that are slated to begin on Saturday afternoon. In East Midnapore, officials have issued three days of “strict alert”, with restrictive measures extending to fishermen and tourists. Met department sources said there might be winds  exceeding 45kmph starting Saturday along with heavy rain. The weather office in Calcutta has advised fishermen not to venture into deep sea areas of the north Bay of Bengal from adjoining central Bay of Bengal on September 25 and 26 as well as on the Odisha coast and adjoining areas of west-central Bay of Bengal. It has also been advised that those who are in deep sea should return to the coast by Friday night to avoid any danger. “Our primary objective is to save people,” said district magistrate P.Ulaganathan. On Thursday, the district administration held a meeting at the Kakdwip subdivisional office to discuss disaster management measures. “An integrated command for disaster management has been set up comprising all stakeholders in the district in addition to a round-the-clock control room at the district, subdivision, and block headquarters,” the DM added. Officials in the coastal districts began making announcements over loudspeaker from Friday. Officials of the state fisheries department were seen visiting fishing harbours and interacting with fishermen’s organisations to ensure that those in the sea returned early and none ventured for fishing. Additional director of fisheries (marine) South 24-Parganas, Jayanta Pradhan said: “We are taking no risk. We have over 13,000 registered fishing boats, of which 1,000 are in the sea now. We have requested the fishermen’s association to call them back.” His counterpart in East Midnapore, Surajit Bag, added: “We have taken extensive public announcement measures at harbours to alert fishermen so that they don’t dare to venture out into the sea.” According to instructions communicated from Nabanna, the district administration has already started imparting special training to relief workers at the grass roots and has arranged for adequate tarpaulins and relief materials ready at different strategic locations. “Our efforts would be to reach the victims in the shortest possible time. To make this possible, volunteers have been deployed and relief workers kept alert,” an official said. At the same time, power utilities, public health engineering and PWD authorities have been asked to keep their quick response teams ready for any emergency situation. Public health engineering authorities have been asked to send water pouches to blocks, along with PVC tanks, for storing drinking water in vulnerable spots. “District authorities were also asked to keep medical teams and shelters ready to accommodate evacuated people. Making arrangements for gruel kitchens has also been advised apart from alerting people to the possibility of snapped electric wires,” an official in Nabanna said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri relishes Richa’s Australia innings||Siliguri girl Richa Ghosh continued her brilliant batting in Indian women team’s ongoing Australia tour even on Friday as she reached close to a half-century mark, much to the jubilation of cricket enthusiasts here. Even though India lost at the last ball of the match, her crucial knock with ace opener Smriti Mandhana (86 in 94 balls) helped her team score a mammoth total of 274 for loss of seven wickets on Friday. Ghosh scored the second highest for her team while batting at number five and made 44 with three boundaries and one shot over the rope, while facing total 50 deliveries. “We are not surprised by her innings today. In the previous match, she had also shined with her bat. In that match, she batted at number seven and played an important partnership with Jhulan Goswami, which helped the team score 200-odd runs,” said Manoj Verma, the cricket secretary of Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad, the subdivisional sports body of Siliguri. In the nail-biting second ODI played at Harrup Park of Queensland on Friday, the local girl was found flawless in her innings and helped to build the foundation of the big innings of her team by adding 76 runs in partnership with Mandhana on fourth wicket and 28 runs with Dipti Sharma, before she got bowled by Tahila Mcgrath of Australia. “She has proved that there is no point in sending her to bat at number seven. Today, the team management got the result by promoting her to number five. It is absolutely disheartening that her brilliant innings went in vain. But such efforts will definitely encourage more talents here and develop a confidence in them,” Verma added. SMKP sources said they were planning a grand felicitation programme once Richa reached back Siliguri. In the first ODI, she had made a 40-odd runs partnership with ace Indian pacer Goswami on eighth wicket and helped the team score 225. Manavendra Ghosh, her father, was proud of her daughter’s performance, but because of some family engagements, could not watch the match till the end. “This is her natural play. She used to open for Bengal in domestic tournaments. In her debut match at the World T20 final in Melbourne, she did not feel nervous. It is now proved that the team management is showing confidence in her batting and promoted her at number five for her big hitting capacity. I am happy that she did her job and performed well, but unfortunately, they lost the match,” the father said. Jayanta Bhowmik, the former coach of ace cricketer and Siliguri boy Wriddhiman Saha, who presently holds the post of the chairman of the coaches’ committee of the districts’ sports bodies under Cricket Association of Bengal, was equally elated by Richa’s performance. “She is a gem of a cricketer from the region. With her performance, she has managed to establish herself as an eminent face of cricket in Siliguri and in Bengal as a whole,” said Bhowmik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Narcotics and liquor seized, five arrested in Siliguri||Three suspected smugglers were arrested with 280 grams of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, at Bhittabari located around 15km from here late on Thursday evening. The trio were held in a joint raid conducted by the special operation group (SOG) of Siliguri Metropolitan Police and a team of Bagdogra police. “Our men intercepted an SUV and found the narcotics from the vehicle. The trio have been arrested under the NDPS Act,” said a police officer. Those arrested have been identified as Umesh Chhetri, a resident of Malbazar in Jalpaiguri district, and Raju Sheikh and Mustafa Khan, who hail from Kaliachak in Malda district. The estimated price of the seized narcotic is around Rs 30 lakh, sources said. In another incident, 110 cartons of IMFL (Indian Made Foreign Liquor), which was meant for sale in Arunachal Pradesh, was seized from a pick-up van at Naxalbari on Friday morning. Bijoy Mukhia and Suraj Baraik, residents of Phansidewa of Siliguri sub-division, have been arrested in this connection. They were carrying the liquor from northeast to Bihar, sources said. Also in Maneybhanjyang of Darjeeling district, a pick up van loaded with cartons of IMFL, meant for sale in Sikkim, was intercepted by a Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) team on Friday morning. The consignment has been handed over to the Customs department in Sukhiapokhri, police sources said. “The vehicle’s driver is absconding. We are in search of him,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
25-09-2021||West Bengal||Four die of electrocution in Malda||A civic volunteer, who also worked an electrical mechanic, got electrocuted while carrying out repair works at Nayagram village in Malda district on Friday. Sources said Kailash Das, 53, was declared dead on arrival at the Malda Medical College and Hospital. With his death, four persons have died of electrocution in the district in the past 48 hours. Siddique Sheikh, 60, of Sarafattola village, Tulshi Mondal, 37, of Dakshin Chandpur village, and Haraprasad Bhattacharya, 38, of Narsinghdanga village, lost their lives after they came in contact with a livewire in their respective villages. The state power department and its agencies should regularly monitor the power distribution cables in the villages to avert such incidents, villagers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
25-09-2021||North East||Assam: Death of a 12-year-old and CM's shockingly cavalier statement||The shock came in two waves. First, one of the official victims of the police firing in Assam’s Darrang on Thursday was a child who was aged 12 years and seven months and who had collected his Aadhaar card on the day he was shot dead. The Aadhaar card, ending with the digits 2232, lost its reason for existence within hours of reaching the hands of Shakh Farid, born on February 2, 2009. Second, for Assam chief minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma, the revolting sight of a photographer stomping on a motionless Moinul Hoque, the other victim of the police firing, “is just 30 seconds of the incident”. Later, he said a “3-minute” video. Moinul Hoque, born in 1993 and a father of three, was kicked, punched and kneed by a professional photographer hired by the Darrang district administration to document the eviction at the minority-dominated settlement on the banks of the Brahmaputra on Thursday. The photographer, identified as Bijay Shankar Baniya, has been arrested by the CID. The residents of Dhalapur II say they were not against the eviction but were only demanding rehabilitation instead of being pushed closer to the river. Chief minister Sarma said the government had agreed to allot six bighas to the landless in the affected area in line with its land policy but not to those who had come from outside the area. “The organisations — the AAMSU and the Congress — with which we had discussed (the matter) had agreed. The eviction started after that. But 10,000 people should not have attacked the police with lathis and sharp weapons,” Sarma said. Sarma said: “The photographer attacking a man is condemnable but that is just 30 seconds of the incident. You have to see what happened in the last four months and also see the entire video.” Farid’s relatives said the boy had fetched his Aadhaar card, meant to serve as proof of identity and address and a tool for financial inclusion, only on Thursday although it had been issued in July. When this correspondent visited Farid’s grief-stricken family on Friday, his elder brother Amir Hussain produced the Aadhaar card to give the boy’s personal details. Farid collected the card from the local post office on Thursday so he could avail himself of a scholarship from the minority department. Farid was in Class VII, making him the “most” educated among seven siblings. “What is the use of this card now? The card has lost its relevance, and Farid his life. We were hoping he would one day get a government job,” said Amir, seated beside his ailing father Khalek Ali. Farid’s mother Golabhanu has been inconsolable since the news of the death arrived around 2pm on Thursday. The family hails from Kirakara village, which adjoins Dhalpur where the protest against the eviction to free government land had erupted. “I had seen Farid on his way home with the Aadhaar card. He got caught between the protesters and the police. He was not even 13. Amir had given up his studies to ensure Farid could study and have a good life,” said Sofikul Islam, who lives nearby. Farid was informed about the card on Wednesday, Sofikul said. “He had to submit the card to his school for a scholarship,” he added. For most people in Kirakara and Dhalpur, life is hard and farming the only viable option to eke out a living -- a reason that Dhalpur residents resisted the eviction on Thursday. Darrang district police on Friday said two people were dead and nine policemen injured in Thursday’s clashes. A resident told The Telegraph that Saddam Hussain, identified as one of the dead on Thursday night, was injured but alive. No untoward incident was reported from the affected area on Friday. The government was clearing the area of encroachers to set up a community farming project over a 77,000-bigha tract. “I wanted the eviction but I also said that land would be given to the landless…. That’s why I have ordered a judicial inquiry so that the truth comes out,” chief minister Sarma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
25-09-2021||North East||Assam: No shrine but prayer for peace||Imam Mohd Taizuddin ensured that the Friday prayers went on at the masjid which was demolished during the first round of eviction on Monday to remove encroachers  in the minority-dominated settlement in Assam’s Darrang. In the sweltering heat, the prayers were held in the open by around 40 people. More than a hundred joined them towards the end at the same place where the masjid stood for anywhere between “35 and 40 years”. The eviction, which spun out of control on Thursday, is aimed at setting up a mega community farming project over 77,000 bighas by the BJP-led state government to benefit indigenous youths. “We have all lost our homes. I lost my home on Monday to eviction but we need to keep the faith. There is only one Allah who can help us in these tough times. We prayed before Allah for peace, peaceful coexistence and also to ensure a change of heart in the administration so that they start thinking about people like us because they have nowhere to go,” Imam Taizuddin, 48, told the Telegraph. Kasim Ali, 65, and Samsul Hoque, 56, said they were not opposed to the eviction but what they had asked for was proper rehabilitation. Around 1,000 households have been affected. Some of the  affected alleged that they were served notice hours before the eviction, others a day before. After the eviction, they were informally asked by the administration to shift towards the Brahmaputra river, they said. “We are ready to move out but what will we do there? It is a low-lying area. During the floods, the water level will flow much above our dwellings. Even now we are surrounded by water for around six months. We are also Indians,” said Ali whose name figures in the updated NRC published in 2019. The affected riverine belt is accessible only by country boats, and the area has no power. “Our homes are lit by solar panels, mostly supplied by the government. During the rainy season, there is water in our homes for about a month. For another five months, we have to use country boats for transport,” said Sofikul Islam, a graduate from Dholpur, who helps people with their banking needs. The administration claims the police had to act in self-defence on Friday. The administration is wondering about the assembly of about 10,000 when the number of households to be affected was only around 60. “ Where did they come from?” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma asked on Friday. The imam said the population of the three villages in the area would be around 30,000, a plausible reason for the huge turnout of protesters on Thursday. “Although only Dhalpur was affected, people from nearby villages too came. It is quite natural because the news of eviction was all over the place,” a resident said. Saddam Hussain, a lawyer, said the affected had filed a case in Gauhati High Court in August over the then proposed eviction. “This case will continue. We will also file a PIL against the unconstitutional and inhumane eviction, seeking rehabilitation of the affected,” Hussain said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
25-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Howzat for equality||The ‘batsman’ played a long and tenacious innings, but has finally been bowled out. It is now the turn of the ‘batter’ to take guard. The Marylebone Cricket Club — the sole authority vested with the power to draw up the Codes of Laws that govern cricket since 1787 — has adopted the gender-neutral terms, “batter” and “batters”, in place of “batsman” and “batsmen”. The once hoary institution of privilege and exclusivity — it reluctantly opened its doors to women as late as 1998 — said in its statement that the move aims to recognize “the changing landscape of the game in modern times”. Indeed, women’s cricket has proved its ability to draw crowds — in 2017, England took on India in the Women’s World Cup finals in front of a capacity crowd at Lord’s, while a record international crowd witnessed Australia beat India in the T20 World Cup final in Melbourne three years later. Women cricketers are emerging as stars in their own right and television coverage of women’s cricket has improved as well, forcing the cricketing establishment to play catch up — at last. The rechristening is laudable, but this does little to make the cricket field truly representative. For women cricketers, especially those from India, the pitch remains a vicious turner. While women cricketers need the same amount of resources — money, training, diet, kits — to succeed at the international level, they earn a fraction of what the men do. The annual retainership for women players in the top tier is Rs 50 lakh; the figure is one crore for an Indian male cricketer in the lowest grade. The logic used to pay women less — lack of viewership and sponsorship — is as ancient as some of the men’s cricket clubs. Moreover, the onus of getting fans, sponsors and revenue lies not with cricketers, but the administration. In men’s cricket, the shortening of boundaries and the introduction of the ‘super over’ were decisions taken with an eye on heightening the drama and, by implication, filling the coffers. But this kind of innovation eludes women’s cricket. Studies have shown that the length of the pitch slows down female pacers, making the sport less interesting for viewers. Endorsements are far fewer for women cricketers, as are post-retirement benefits — the latter would be crucial for a greater number of women to look at cricket as a rewarding career. For all this to happen, cricket administrations must cede more space to women. Even though the International Cricket Council has launched ‘100% Cricket’, an annual campaign dedicated to the promotion of women’s cricket, not much is expected to change — apart from the semantics — because of the absence of women’s representation in decision-making bodies. The gathering momentum towards adopting gender-neutral language is welcome; it can help shed the trappings of a binary imagination. But these transformations can also be cosmetic. The European Parliament was one of the first international organizations to adopt guidelines on gender-neutral language. Yet, on an average, European women have to work an extra 51 days per year to earn the same amount as their male colleagues and only 20 out of 47 European states cover discrimination based on gender identity. Even the change in semantics may have its limitations. Batsmen are now out: but the ‘third man’ and ‘nightwatchman’ remain on field.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
25-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Imposition of Hindi as primary language||Language matters Sir — India is a polyglot, multi-cultural and multi-ethnic nation. In recent years, however, there has been a growing and consistent push towards making Hindi the primary language of communication (“Forked tongue”, Sep 23). The Constitution has not accorded prominence to any one language and rightly so. The States Reorganisation Act, 1956 — it redrew the boundaries of states along linguistic lines — was indicative of the predominance of regional languages in shaping identity and politics. One must ask that if Hindi is indeed the great unifier that the Bharatiya Janata Party touts it to be, then why were Hindi-speaking states such as Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh carved out of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh respectively? Moreover, a bevy of languages — Bhojpuri, Rajasthani, Chhattisgarhi — spoken in different parts of northern India are often subsumed under Hindi. This targeted attack on regional languages must be resisted. The imposition of a single language is not only unethical but also goes against the spirit of our Constitution. There is no harm in celebrating the contributions of Hindi as a language. But such celebrations must not come at the cost of others. H.N. Ramakrishna, Bangalore Sir — Ever since the BJP government came to power, there has been a constant push towards adopting Hindi as the “rashtra bhasha”. In fact, some government offices hold language competitions on Hindi Divas. No other language has received this kind of support from the Central government. This sends a clear message to all non-Hindi speakers that the government does not value their mother tongues as much as Hindi. If this continues, the BJP will surely lose all support outside the Hindi-speaking belt. R. Holkar,Navi Mumbai Slippery slope Sir — The inequalities between men and women have exacerbated since the outbreak of the pandemic (“Hardest hit”, Sep 24). Not only were more women laid off from work than men, but according to an estimate by the International Labour Organization, 13 million fewer women are expected to be working in 2021 compared to 2019, while men’s employment will recover to 2019 levels. Between 2019 and 2020, there was a 4.2 per cent decline in women’s employment as a result of the pandemic, representing a drop of 54 million jobs, compared to 3 per cent for men or 60 million jobs. The report admits that although the projected job growth for women in 2021 exceeds that of men, it will nonetheless be difficult to bring women’s employment back to pre-pandemic levels. Only 43.2 per cent of working-age women will be employed in 2021, compared to 68.6 per cent men. Over the last year and a half, it has become apparent that working women are burdened with a greater share of housework than their male counterparts. Women have not only experienced a severe loss of income but also continue to be primary caregivers of their families. Many have been compelled to exit the workforce altogether. Furthermore, there has been a drop in the number of female children enrolled in schools along with a sharp rise in child marriages. These are horrifying developments and must be addressed immediately. Governments as well as private companies must do their all to ensure that the social, economic and educational progress of women — hard-earned through generations of struggle — is not negated in a matter of 18 months. S.S. Paul,Nadia  Show the way Sir — The Tata Group chairman emeritus, Ratan Tata, recently shared a picture of an employee of the Taj Hotel giving shelter to a stray dog underneath his umbrella in pouring rain. This is not the first time Tata has shown his love for stray animals. Last year, the businessman spent Diwali with the dogs living in the company headquarters and has even helped find homes for stray dogs. Tata must be lauded for his constant dedication towards animals. His gestures show how people in public positions can effectively spread the word and help those in need. Others should follow suit. Priya Chandok,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
25-09-2021||Opinion||Bold statement: AOC at Met Gala 2021||The Met Gala 2021 recently took place at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in uptown New York, after being cancelled last year owing to the pandemic. Many refer to this celebrity-fuelled event as the Oscars of fashion. The Met’s Costume Institute unveils an exhibit while guests fundraise and arrive in expressive, sometimes outlandish, attire. The event is also a chance for designers to explore their creativity to the fullest extent. This year’s theme was American fashion. The curator of the Institute told Vogue that the goal was to examine American fashion and how it has changed over the years through the lens of social and political movements, and diversity. This year’s invitation had an official dress code called “American Independence”. Some celebrities showed up in the colours of the American flag; others opted to be more creative. The Congresswoman, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, arrived in a white dress with the words, ‘Tax The Rich’, sprawled on the back in red, inviting criticism from right-wingers for arriving at an event where each ticket costs $35,000 with such a tagline. The Olympics gymnast, Simone Biles, came in a gown that weighed 45 kg, owing to its hand-embroidered Swarovski crystals. Fans were happy to see Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck together in person at the Gala, even sharing a mask-on-mask kiss in front of cameras. New enemy There is a new enemy in town and we have been instructed to kill it. It is none other than the spotted lanternfly — a strangely beautiful moth-like insect that seems to have taken over the states of New York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. These insects are native to India, China and Vietnam, but in recent years, they have spread to other countries, including the United States of America. They pose a threat to the US economy because, in large numbers, they prey on fruit trees, especially grapes. They could damage crops extensively, impacting the agricultural industry. These bugs hop around, and fly only short distances, but it is now common to spot them right on the pavement. If you do see one, there are clear instructions to kill it immediately. “Kill it! Squash it, smash it... just get rid of it,” the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture said. It imposed an emergency quarantine to fight back against the bug, prohibiting businesses and residents from partaking in activities that could foster the lanternflies. These include landscaping, moving logs, pallets and firewood and any outdoor household items. The New Jersey Department of Agriculture instructs to ‘Stomp it out!’ as these pests harm economically useful plants. The insects are, however, eye-catching, with bright red lower wings with black spots. They are said to have arrived in New York in 2014 likely via shipping containers from Asia. Going viral The Met Gala authorities received some criticism for inviting social media influencers to their event, saying that it took away the prestige of the evening. Others said this actually made it more accessible. Whether you love them or hate them, influencers do impact their followers’ lifestyle choices. One social media platform that has taken the centre stage in this arena is TikTok and now it will get its own exclusive spot inside a museum. The Museum of the Moving Image in New York is unveiling an exhibit on October 1 called “Co-Creating on TikTok” that will feature six TikTok videos that have been shared, remixed and remade by users around the world. Young users are picking TikTok even over Facebook and it has more downloads than Instagram. The Met, in fact, was the first major museum to create an account on TikTok and has also launched art contests on the site. The goal is to channel the creativity of the young users. A few months ago, TikTok launched its first-ever global live museum online event tagged #MuseumMoment. It was live-streamed all day and took users on a tour of 23 museums across 12 different countries. TikTok reported that content with tags like #FineArt, #ArtHistory and #ArtOnTikTok have amassed over two billion monthly views globally as of May, growing by over 3,000 per cent compared to the past year. Take the jab Under half the US adult population is yet to be fully vaccinated. The president, Joe Biden, said at a recent press conference that his ‘patience was wearing thin’ with Americans who did not believe in the vaccine. As it turns out, even though they do not believe in the vaccine, they do believe in several other concocted coronavirus ‘cures’. The latest is Ivermectin, a horse dewormer and medicine to cure parasites in other animals. It has been promoted as a cure for Covid-19. The Food and Drug Administration has published a full web page instructing citizens not to use the drug, but The New York Times reports a huge increase in its demand. Last year, it was hydroxychloroquine, promoted by the former president. Most of these claims come as text message threads that often begin with ‘my friend just said’ and spread to WhatsApp chats and Facebook groups. There are also misleading YouTube videos, fake screenshots and documentation from purported health officials. The World Health Organization, FDA and real health experts have had to step in. Last week, the rapper, Nicki Minaj, sent out a tweet stating that her cousin’s friend in Trinidad took the Covid vaccine and had swollen testicles as a result. The internet erupted; many late night show comedians took a jab at how this one tweet became newsworthy overnight. Trinidad’s health department also got several inquiries about the veracity of this claim. It held a press conference the next day debunking it. Footnote If you love the Netflix show, Bridgerton, tickets just went live for a 90-minute ball in March called “The Queen’s Ball: A Bridgerton Experience”. It will take place in US cities, including Washington and Los Angeles, in ‘secret’ ballrooms, with a Regency-era theme. The show is based on Julia Quinn’s books: steamy romances set in early-19th century London. Netflix says Bridgerton was watched by 82 million households in the month of its release. It ranked number one in many countries, including India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
25-09-2021||Opinion||Rare soul||By a fortunate coincidence, this column appears on the seventy-fifth birthday of the living cricketer I hold in the highest esteem. I admire him for his achievements on the field, and, perhaps even more, for how he has conducted himself off it. He is that rare example of a great cricketer who is also a very fine human being. Oddly enough, one of my first cricketing memories of Bishan Singh Bedi has him with bat, rather than ball, in hand. In the Delhi Test of 1969 against Australia, Bedi was sent in as nightwatchman on the fourth day, and safely saw us through till stumps. The following morning, he batted for an hour and a half with Ajit Wadekar, building the foundations for a famous victory, every ball and every run followed by me (and millions of others) on All India Radio. But of course it is as a great spin bowler that Bishan Bedi made his mark on cricketing history. I myself watched Bedi bowl often, in Test cricket and in Ranji Trophy cricket, and never tired of the sight. I remember him lovingly for his classically perfect action, for his masterly control, for his powers of flight and spin, and for his ability to get the better, on all wickets, of the finest batsmen in the world. Bedi’s life in cricket has been celebrated in a volume published on the occasion of his seventy-fifth birthday. Titled The Sardar of Spin, it brings together tributes to Bedi by cricketers of his generation who played with or against him, by writers who followed his career (full disclosure: I am one of the contributors), and by cricketers of younger generations who were mentored or inspired by him. The book is the brainchild of the former Delhi opener, Venkat Sundaram, who played under Bishan Bedi in the Ranji Trophy for many years and remembers with particular fondness the first time Delhi won the championship, in 1978-79, when he was one of the players and Bedi the team’s inspirational captain. It was Venkat Sundaram who conceived of the book, who brought together an array of contributors from around the world, who sourced the photographs, and who found a publisher. It is a mark of the man’s self-effacement and innate decency that his name does not appear on the cover. I warmly commend The Sardar of Spin to lovers of cricket (and not just Indian cricket). In my first reading of the book, I was myself particularly moved by the contributions from those foreign cricketers whom Bedi played against, such as Greg Chappell and Mike Brearley, and by the tributes offered by Indian spin bowlers whom Bedi mentored and inspired, such as Murali Kartik and Anil Kumble. Also insightful are the essays by journalists such as Suresh Menon and Clayton Murzello, who followed Bedi’s career as it unfolded. Since my own essay in the book is about Bedi the bowler, in this column I wish to speak rather of Bedi the man. It is one of the sad truths about Indian cricket today that the greater the cricketer, the more opportunistic and spineless the human being. Cricketers with fame and wealth always seek to stay on the right side of the administrators of the Board of Control for Cricket in India, always curry favour with politicians, and never take a stand on matters of personal ethics or political principle. There are indeed a few Indian cricketers in their thirties and forties who occasionally speak out against discrimination on the field and in everyday life, but these are never those who have the most influence or authority. In the entire history of Indian cricket, there have perhaps been only three individuals of whom it could be said that they were both great cricketers as well as human beings of character and principle. Chronologically, the first member of this trinity was Palwankar Baloo. Born in a Dalit home in 1875, he overcame the enormous barriers that culture and history placed upon him to become the first great Indian slow bowler, indeed — if we regard Ranjitsinhji as an English cricketer, as we should — the first great Indian cricketer itself. By his dignity and his bearing and his achievements on the field, Baloo inspired many younger Dalits, among them B.R. Ambedkar himself. After Baloo had taken more than a 100 wickets on the first All India tour of England in 1911, on his homecoming he was given a reception by the Depressed Classes of Bombay, at which the manpatra, or welcome address, was read out by the young Ambedkar in what was probably the first public appearance of one of the most influential Indians of modern times. If Palwankar Baloo was the first great Indian bowler, then Vijay Merchant was surely the first great batsman nurtured on Indian soil. Born to privilege, the child of a prosperous industrialist, unlike most rich brats, Merchant retained his scruples and his principles. Chosen for the 1932 tour of England, he dropped out because Mahatma Gandhi and other nationalists were in jail. Later, as a player, he financially helped the families of Indian Test cricketers who died young, such as those of his teammates, Amar Singh and Sadashiv Shinde. Still later, in retirement, he worked for the rights of children with special needs, and helped found the National Society for Equal Opportunities for the Physically Handicapped. Baloo and Merchant were towering figures in the history of Indian sport who never allowed their cricketing fame to pervert or corrupt their characters. Bedi is, to my mind, the third — and probably the last — great Indian cricketer to be an exceptionally courageous human being as well. In his playing days, he campaigned tirelessly for the rights of players and against the conniving ways of our administrators, for which he paid a price. After retirement, he eschewed lucrative commentary contracts to nurture and mentor young cricketers in the coaching camps he ran. As captain of Delhi, he made a group of untried youngsters the fulcrum of a Ranji Trophy-winning side; as coach of Punjab he did the same. Whether active or retired, he has always put the game above himself. Bishan Bedi has both an acute understanding of Indian society and a strong moral compass. My own admiration for him rests only partly on what he did as a cricketer; it owes itself equally to what he has taught me about life and human conduct in the years I have been privileged to count him as a friend. Born on September 25, 1946, Bishan Bedi grew up with and has grown old in a free India. Last year, on the occasion of Independence Day, he wrote a moving article in The Indian Express on the crises our country has witnessed in his lifetime, and how he has faced them. He spoke here of our wars with Pakistan, of the anti-Sikh riots, and, most recently, of the sufferings that the pandemic has wrought. Of the “heartbreaking images” that the prime minister’s unplanned lockdown produced, Bedi wrote: “It highlights the utter lack of compassion in our politicians, who enforced the sudden and complete lockdown. Honesty and transparency, too, are missing when it comes to coronavirus numbers.” Reflecting on a nation whose journey has been more or less coterminous with his own life, Bedi remarked that “the one thing that has really pulled this nation down is sycophancy. I have experienced this in the past and now I see it all the time.” He deplored the fact that “even the young and the educated are joining the political conundrum and are reluctant to raise their voice. The reason: sycophancy.” The last paragraph of Bedi’s article ran: “I, fortunately, had the gumption and the strength of character. When I was young, and so was India, I was able to stand up and be counted. Now, it is too late in life. But I am not a pessimist, I have faith in my spirituality and I have hope. We survived wars and invasions and we will survive the political pandemic, too.” If Tendulkar or Gavaskar or Kohli or Dhoni or Ganguly had half the strength of character that Bishan Bedi has, Indian cricket would be run in a more democratic and transparent manner, be more accountable to all its stakeholders, and not be so cravenly sycophantic to the political class. However, individuals like Bedi are scarce not just in Indian cricket; they are scarce in Indian politics and public life too. That is the greater tragedy of our Republic. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
25-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tribal languages at centre of Jharkhand's new teaching model||The school education and literacy department in Jharkhand has identified 5,600-odd government-run primary schools to introduce a new model of teaching by imparting lessons in local and tribal languages to students of class 1 to class 5 from the next academic session, officials from the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) said on Saturday. Only those schools where a sizable number of students have tribal languages as their first language have been earmarked for the project, which is aimed at strengthening the foundation of such students, JEPC officials said. Abhinav Kumar, the state coordinator for quality education, said that Jharkhand has already introduced textbooks in tribal languages for such students and the new model of education will ensure effective utilization of these books. Once the students understand the basics in the language they are more comfortable in, the medium of education will gradually be changed to Hindi, he added. “We have books in Santhali, Mundari, Ho and Kuduk. The new model of educating a select group of students in tribal languages will help develop the interest of students in studies and make them understand their subjects better,” said Kumar. Class 1 students, an official from JEPC said, would be taught the entire syllabus in the local language so that they understand the subjects. However, in class 2, only 60% of the syllabus would be covered in the local language and remaining 40% in English or Hindi, he added. As per records with the education department, there are about 40,000 government schools with over 5 lakhs students in Jharkhand. While most of these schools impart lessons in Hindi, students in some tribal-dominated parts of the state were found to be more comfortable communicating in tribal languages. As per the 2011 Census, the tribal community formed at least 26.3 per cent of Jharkhand’s total population of 3.29 crore. Under the new model of education, the tribal language most commonly used in a particular area will be used as the medium of education in schools that fall under that area, officials said. For instance, Santhali language is commonly used in the Santhal Pargana region of Jharkhand, while Mundari is commonly spoken in Kolhan, which includes West Singhbhum and East Singhbhum districts. “When a child usually communicates in a tribal language at home, he or she will find it difficult to understand lessons taught in Hindi at school. This new model will not only make the lessons clearer for the students but also keep them interested in studies,” said Kumar. The school dropout rate was also high in some of the tribal dominated areas of the state and the lack of interest in studies due to poor understanding of subjects could be one of the reasons for students dropping out of school after primary education, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
25-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia boy comes fourth in UPSC, Dhanbad girl ninth  ||Yash Jaluka (26), a one-time resident of Jharia, came fourth in the  Civil Services examination of UPSC,  results of which were declared on Friday evening. Yash, son of  Manoj Jaluka who has an iron and steel business in Odisha, studied at  De Nobili School, Digwadih in Jharia till Class VIII. After that he went to Odisha and completed his Class X from Xavier’s School. He then did his BCom from Kirodimal College in Delhi and started preparing for the civil services examination which he cleared this year with flying colours. Ankur Jaluka, Jharia based elder cousin of Yash Jaluka who lived together at a house at Poddar Para locality, said, “My brother was  interested in  the civil services examination since his school days and he used to take a lot of interest in general studies.” Ankur, who owns a grocery shop at Lakshminia More of Jharia, added that everyone in the family was naturally thrilled. "Our family and the  entire town of Jharia is happy about the  achievement of my cousin,” he said. Dr Apala Mishra, another student of Dhanbad based parents Colonel (retd) Amitabh Mishra father and Alpana Mishra, secured 9th all-India rank in the civil services examinations. Lal Mohan Mishra, Apala's grandmother, said,  “My granddaughter completed high school from Ann Mary School in Dehradun after which she cleared Class XII from DPS- Rohini in Delhi and then completed BDS  from Army College of Dental Sciences, Hyderabad."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
25-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tribals from nine states seek Sarna code in 2021 census||Tribal representatives from nine states are gearing up for a mass agitation to press for a separate Sarna religious code in the 2021 census if the Centre does not accept their demand. The representatives will meet at the Gandhi Peace Foundation in New Delhi on October 3 and seek an appointment with Union home minister Amit Shah and the registrar general of India. “The tribal representatives from Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Odisha, Bengal and Assam will meet at Gandhi Peace Foundation and draft a memorandum to press for a separate religious code for the tribals in the 2021 census. We will seek an appointment to place our demands with the Union home minister, registrar general of India and heads of various political parties. If the government stand is not favourable, we will have no option but to start an agitation,” said Prem Sahi Munda, national general secretary of the All India Bharatiya Adivasi Dharma Parishad. Another set of tribal leaders under the banner of the Rashtriya Adivasi Samaj Sarna Dharma Raksha Abhiyan have threatened an economic blockade in tribal-dominated states on the same issue. “In terms of population, followers of Sarna are next to Hindus and Muslims but still now we do not have a separate religious code,” said Karma Oraon, former head of the social science department in Ranchi University. The Jharkhand Assembly had in November last year unanimously passed a resolution for a Sarna Adivasi religious code in the 2021 census in a special one-day session and sent it to the Union government. The tribal groups of Jharkhand had earlier this year threatened to boycott the 2021 census if Sarna code was not included in it. They said that with the Centre dropping the “others” option from the religion column for 2021 census, Sarna adherents would be forced to either skip the column or declare themselves members of one of the six specified religions — Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Buddhist, Jain and Sikh — which would damage their separate identity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
25-09-2021||Jharkhand||Cyber security aid for MSMEs by US consulate general and NGO||The US consulate general and Consumer Unity and Trust Society (CUTS) International, an NGO, have partnered to help micro, medium and small businesses combat cyber threats in Jharkhand and other parts of eastern India. In this regard, the US consulate and CUTS International in collaboration with the MSME Development Institute, Ranchi, and the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Patna, organised a daylong workshop in Ranchi on Thursday for micro, medium and small enterprises to equip them with knowledge and hands-on training on how to identify and combat cyber security threats and become more cyber-resilient. Arnab Ganguly, policy analyst, CUTS International, told the participants that the adoption of digital technologies has accelerated due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and many MSMEs went online without the required understanding and safeguards to combat cyber attacks, rendering them vulnerable. “Given that MSMEs contribute roughly 30 per cent of India’s GDP, it is imperative to equip them with the knowledge and tools to become resilient to cyber security breaches and grow their businesses sustainably. We are happy to facilitate the MSME units in Jharkhand in combating cyber threats through experts from C-DAC. Any entrepreneur from Jharkhand can approach us at www.cuts-crs.org and we would facilitate interaction with experts from C-DAC,” said Ganguly. He further said that they would be downloading documents on cyber security for the benefit of MSME units of Jharkhand and other areas on their website for the entrepreneurs. According to the US consulate spokesperson, with growing digitalisation globally, more and more businesses are gradually shifting to digital platforms for doing business. There has been a concomitant rise in cyber crimes. Cyber attacks through malware, phishing, ransomware, etc, have become commonplace. According to a survey by Internet security firm Kaspersky (released in 2020), about 48 per cent of MSMEs faced data breaches owing to a lack of understanding of threats and the importance of cyber security. Adrian Pratt, the new director of the American Center, Calcutta, in a media statement said: “The US Consulate, Calcutta, is happy to partner with CUTS International think tank on this key project titled ‘Cyber Safe East India’ to organise a series of workshops on cyber safety for e-businesses. This project will help the region to cope with the growing threat of cyber-crimes for e-businesses since many companies have moved online during the pandemic.” Union MSME ministry director S.K. Sahoo said that while the Covid-19 pandemic has created considerable challenges for MSMEs, it has also created an opportunity for the MSMEs to expand their business via online platforms. “However, cyber security remains an area of serious concern for the MSMEs. The vulnerabilities of MSMEs stems from several factors, such as lack of understanding of cyber security risks, less prioritisation for cyber safety, limited capital allocation to cyber security, etc. It is important to bridge these gaps by imparting the required skills and knowledge on how to react when faced with cyber security breaches,” said Sahoo. Aditya Sinha, director and centre head, C-DAC Patna, said that there has been a drastic increase in cyber crimes due to limited awareness and cyber hygiene. “The risk of SMEs increases manifold seeing their cyberspace vulnerability. C-DAC Patna aims to operate as a national resource centre to address pressing cyber security issues, accelerate the creation, deployment and use of secure, standard-based technologies and solutions,” said Sinha. He said that C-DAC, Patna, has established a Cyber Security and Forensics Resource Centre to address the issues pertaining to cyber threats. Around 40 representatives from various MSME units in Ranchi participated in the workshop. As the next step, similar capacity building workshops will be organised in Guwahati during October. After the workshops, a compendium of cyber security best practices will be released to help MSMEs safely navigate cyberspace and mitigate cyber risks. A similar workshop was held in Patna (Bihar) last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
25-09-2021||Jharkhand||IRCTC  to run pilgrim special tourist train from Ranchi to Vaishnodevi||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will run a pilgrim special tourist train from Ranchi to Vaishnodevi and other pilgrimages in north India next month. “This will help reduce the negativity that has gripped people during the pandemic,” said Zubraj Minz, IRCTC area manager in Ranchi. However, it seems more like an attempt to revive railway tourism in the state as the IRCTC announced this special train immediately after it had to cancel a south-bound Bharat Yatra train from the region that was scheduled to leave this month. “We got very good response for that train but it was withdrawn in August in view of the sudden increase in Covid infections in some parts in the south,” senior supervisor Jyoti Kumari said. The special train will leave Ranchi on the morning of December 12 and will return on the evening of December 20, after completing a nine-day, eight-night journey, the officials said. The passengers will be able to visit Mathura, Vrindavan, Ram Janmabhoomi Temple and Hardwar, besides Vaishnodevi, during the trip. Unlike Bharat Yatra trains that have only non-AC coaches, this pilgrim special train will have five each AC and non-AC compartments, they said. The fare per person, including charges for food, for AC and non-AC coaches would be Rs 14,175 and Rs 8,505 respectively. Those buying non-AC tickets will have to travel in sleeper coaches, stay at Dharamshala and avail non-AC buses during sightseeing, while the AC ticket holders will avail AC3 coaches, hotel accommodation and air-conditioned buses, the officials said. Besides the official website of IRCTC, passengers can book tickets or board the train at Ranchi, Bokaro Steel City, Dhanbad, Asansol, Chittaranjan, Jamtara, Madhupur, Jasidih, Jhajha, Kiul, Mokama, Bakhtiyarpur, Patna, Ara, Buxer and Mughalsarai stations. The IRCTC advised passengers to carry Covid-19 vaccination certificates that would be a must for visiting temples. It also assured that the coaches, pantry cars, dormitories and rooms would be sanitised and doors, seats and berths disinfected at regular intervals, besides providing sanitiser, masks, gloves and face shields to all passengers. Any passenger who may have to cancel journey due to Covid-19 infection would get full refunds, the IRCTC further assured, adding that they would also keep two coaches aside where tourists, if infected during their journey, would be quarantined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
