26-09-2021||Business||FM: Need 4-5 ‘SBI size’ banks to meet growing needs of Indian economy||India needs 4-5 ‘SBI size’ banks to meet the growing needs of the economy and industry, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Sunday. Addressing the 74th Annual General Meeting of the Indian Banks' Association (IBA), she said the industry needs to imagine how Indian banking has to be in the immediate and long-term future. As far as the long-term future is concerned, she said it is going to be largely driven by digitised processes and there is a need for seamless and interconnected digital systems for a sustainable future for the Indian banking industry. "Although I did say that in the amalgamation process, your systems have spoken to each other, there wasn't a problem of those amalgamating banks. And, I remember the banking secretary at that time, Rajiv Kumar, telling me that we have ensured that the amalgamating banks do have their systems in such a way that they can align with each other," she said. Mega consolidation was announced in 2019 when Kumar was the financial services secretary but was implemented by his successor Debasish Panda effective April 2020. As part of the mega consolidation exercise, Oriental Bank of Commerce and United Bank of India were merged into Punjab National Bank; Syndicate Bank into Canara Bank; Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank into Union Bank of India; and Allahabad Bank into Indian Bank. Following the consolidation, there are now seven large public sector banks and five smaller ones. There were as many as 27 public sector banks (PSBs) in 2017. Kumar, now an Election Commissioner of India, was instrumental in laying a digital pipeline that was leveraged during the pandemic to transfer money into accounts of crores of the vulnerable and needy with a click of button. The finance minister said banks, whether public or private sector, cannot work in digital silos and systems should be speaking to each other. "So, I would think that's one of the areas in which you would give some more time and make sure that bridge crossed," she said. Appreciating the efforts of bankers to carry out smooth consolidation exercise during the challenging time of the pandemic, the Finance Minister said it did not cause inconvenience to the customer and there was no aberration. "Amalgamation, after all, is an important exercise even as important to the Indian Banks' Association because of the way in which the economy is shifting to a different plane altogether, the way in which economy together with the industry is also looking at various different ways of adapting to a post-pandemic era...", she said. Asserting that the driving force for the amalgamation was to build scale, Sitharaman said India needs a lot more banks and a lot of global size banks. "India needs at least four different SBI size banks. So, one of the driving forces was for the amalgamation that we need to scale up banking. "We need to scale up banking to meet the new changing and growing requirements but that was thought of even before the pandemic. Now, all the more reason why we would need four or five more SBIs in this country," she said. Paying homage to bankers who lost their lives in the line of duty during the pandemic, the finance minister urged IBA to help and support the families of the deceased. "I do pay my humble homage to those who have served, but also suffered because of the pandemic but unfortunately couldn't survive it. I am sure the IBA will do everything that it takes to support their families, and keep them spirited and morally sound because the loss is irreparable," she said. IBA came into being in 1946 with 22 members has grown into 244 members from the public, private, foreign, co-operative banks besides financial institutions and NBFCs. Observing that not many organisations or associations have the fortune of having their course of establishment and lifespan running parallel to that of its own countries, Sitharaman said "several of your milestones match with the Indian economic history". Going forward, she said IBA is going to derive the benefit of a greater vibrant economy that India is becoming as much as contributing to that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
26-09-2021||Business||New York court stays proceedings of Cairn Energy lawsuit after retro tax rule change||A New York court has paused Cairn Energy's pursuit of US assets of Air India for the recovery of USD 1.2 billion arbitral award, so as to allow the British firm to reach a settlement with the Indian government on the long drawn dispute. The New York district court delayed the tax suit to November 18, according to court documents reviewed by PTI. This follows Cairn Energy and Air India jointly asking the court to stay further proceedings in view of the government enacting a fresh law to scrap retrospective taxation in the country. The new law will result in withdrawal of the Rs 10,247 crore tax demand that the government had sought from Cairn. Sources with direct knowledge of the matter said the finance ministry is framing rules that will lead to withdrawal of the retrospective tax demand on Cairn and 16 other companies, including Vodafone Group of UK. These rules require the companies to withdraw all litigations against the government in return for being refunded any money that was collected to force the retrospective tax demand. A format for the undertaking that the companies will have to furnish committing to withdraw litigations is under finalisation and should be released in coming days, they said. Companies will have to use that format to give an undertaking, post which the money will be refunded. In all the government has to return about Rs 8,100 crore, of which Rs 7,900 crore is due only to Cairn. The British company had won an international arbitration award against levy of such taxes and sought to take over Air India assets when the government refused to honour the award and refund USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and penalty. Cairn has indicated that the refund, without interest and penalty, was acceptable to it opening an avenue to settle the seven-year-old dispute. Cairn and Air India in a joint request to US District Judge Paul Gardephe on September 13 stated that a stay on proceedings would give them "additional time to evaluate the effects and implications" of legislation that repealed the retroactive tax. In return for the Rs 7,900 crore, Cairn would drop lawsuits threatening court-ordered seizures of Indian government property abroad. One of those suits was filed in May against state-owned Air India Ltd, which Cairn has said should be considered the alter ego of the Indian government. "The implementing regulations are in the rulemaking process and will take some time," the two had said in the petition seeking extension of the October 21 deadline for the presentation of case papers and initial pretrial conference on October 28. They had requested the court to "stay any further proceedings in this matter through October 31, 2021, and reschedule the initial pretrial conference and, respectively, the deadline for the parties to submit their Joint Pretrial Letter and Proposed Case Management Plan, for new dates in November 2021." "The Parties have conferred and agreed that the stay will facilitate the efficient resolution of the dispute, conserve the Court's and Parties' resources, and is not intended to obstruct or delay," they added. Cairn had on May 14 brought a lawsuit in the New York district court to hold Air India liable as the alter ego of the Republic of India for the obligations the government owes under a foreign arbitral award. The firm separately filed a petition before the District Court for the District of Columbia to recognise and enforce the arbitration award against India on February 12, 2021. Seeking to repair India's damaged reputation as an investment destination, the government last month enacted new legislation to drop Rs 1.1 lakh crore in outstanding claims against multinationals such as telecom group Vodafone, pharmaceuticals company Sanofi and brewer SABMiller, now owned by AB InBev, and Cairn. About Rs 8,100 crore collected from companies under the scrapped tax provision are to be refunded if the firms agreed to drop outstanding litigation, including claims for interest and penalties. An international arbitration tribunal in December overturned the levy of Rs 10,247 crore in taxes on a 2006 reorganisation of Cairn's India business prior to its listing. It also asked the Indian government to return the value of shares seized and sold, dividend confiscated and tax refund withheld. This totalled USD 1.2 billion-plus interest and penalty. The government initially refused to honour the award, forcing Cairn to identify USD 70 billion of Indian assets from the US to Singapore to enforce the ruling, including taking flag carrier Air India Ltd to a US court in May. A French court in July paved the way for Cairn to seize real estate belonging to the Indian government in Paris. All these litigations will be dropped once Rs 7,900 crore is paid, Cairn CEO Simon Thomson had told PTI earlier this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
26-09-2021||Business||Safe harbour rules extended: CBDT||The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has extended the safe harbour rules to assessment year 2021-22 but the rates will be kept unchanged. Safe harbour relates to circumstances where the tax authorities indicate that they are ready to accept declarations by the assessee that its transfer pricing deals have been carried out at arm’s length. The announcement will provide a measure of comfort to foreign companies that have dealings with their Indian subsidiaries. Tax experts had expected that the rates — which have been unchanged between financial years 2016-17 through to 2019-20 — would be brought down in fiscal 2020-21. Like 2019-20, the rates have been extended by only a year, said Nitin Narang of Nangia & Co LLP. Earlier, these rates were notified for a stretch of three to five years. Transfer pricing ensures that a transaction between related parties has been struck at a price that is comparable to deals involving unrelated parties. It assures the taxman that the overseas parent isn't striking sweetheart deals or resorting to preferential pricing that would give its local subsidiary an unfair advantage. Different rates have been prescribed for different categories of international transactions. In the case of international transactions relating to software development services, the operating profit margin cannot be less than 17 per cent if the transaction is valued at Rs 100 crore. If the deal size is more than Rs 100 crore but less than Rs 200 crore, then the operating margin cannot be less than 18 per cent. Narang said the safe harbour rules benefit both taxpayers and the tax authorities. It reduces the compliance burden for the taxpayer and saves costs. The administrative convenience means that resources can be deployed in other areas of business. In the case of tax authorities, safe harbour rules reduce the time for review and litigation, and set agreed margins for the computation of taxes. “Businesses have been battling a crisis wrought by the pandemic. Any reduction in the rates would have gone a long way in making safe harbour rules attractive. A lower threshold or any move to widen the pool of SHR transactions would have led to greater tax compliance,” Narang said. “The SHR is an alternative dispute resolution mechanism and it ought to have been made more attractive and exhaustive to give an impetus to filing,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
26-09-2021||Business||Container re-export rule eased||The government on Saturday allowed imported containers to remain at Indian ports for up to nine months to help solve the container shortage issue faced by exporters, according to an official circular. At present, duty-free imports of containers are allowed on condition that it is re-exported in the next six months. However, keeping containers beyond six months is deemed as import and thus import duty is levied — a policy aimed at faster turnaround of containers. To avoid such import duties, shipping lines export empty containers to evade duty payment. However, such practices further aggravate the problem of shortage of containers for exports. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) on Saturday asked its field officers to give three months more for the re-export of imported containers waiting at domestic ports. Rajat Mohan, senior partner at AMRG Associates, said: “The additional period of three months will give exporters enough time to re-export the durable containers without the fear of penalties.” The acute shortage of standard 20-feet equivalent unit shipping containers, used to ship almost all merchandise goods, is part of the second wave of the shipping container crisis, which began in late June. Since then, average charges for renting containers have risen by 3-5 times, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
26-09-2021||Business||ED freezes Karvy chief's holdings||The enforcement directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has frozen shares worth Rs 700 crore after raids against Karvy Stock Broking Limited (KSBL) CMD C. Parthasarathy and others as part of a money laundering investigation against them. He is currently lodged in the Chanchalguda jail of Hyderabad after being arrested by the Telangana Police last month. The ED searches were carried out on September 22 at six locations in Hyderabad and on various premises of the Karvy group of companies, connected entities and the residential premises of C. Parthasarathy, the agency said in a statement. “Several incriminating evidences in the form of property documents, personal diaries, electronic devices and email dumps have been seized and are being analysed,” it said. “It is reliably learnt that C. Parthasarathy is trying to off-load his shares in the group companies through private deals and thus, in order to preserve the proceeds of crime till further investigation, ED has issued a freezing order on September 24 and the estimated value of these shares has been arrived at Rs 700 crore as per the valuation for the year 2019-20,” it said. These shares of the Karvy group are being held “directly and indirectly” by CMD Comandur Parthasarathy, his sons Rajat Parthasarathy and Adhiraj Parthasarathy, and their entities. The ED case, filed under the criminal provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, is based on a Telangana Police FIR alleging KSBL had “illegally pledged the securities of its clients and taken a loan of Rs 329 crore and diverted the same.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
26-09-2021||Business||Aadhaar must for GST refund||The government has made Aadhaar authentication of taxpayers mandatory for claiming GST refund. The move is part of the government’s anti-evasion measures. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has amended GST rules bringing in various anti-evasion measures, including disbursal of GST refunds only in the bank account, which is linked with the same PAN on which the Goods and Services Tax (GST) registration has been obtained. “The move will help in reducing cases of fraudulent refunds as only the verified taxpayers will obtain the refunds now,” said EY Tax Partner Abhishek Jain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
26-09-2021||Business||Arbitration award settles IndiGo row||The battle between the Indigo promoters Rahul Bhatia and Rakesh Gangwal appears to have been settled -- at least for now — after a London court handed down a final arbitration award. But neither side is prepared to disclose the specific details of the award given two days ago by the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA). All that InterGlobe Aviation, the parent of Indigo Airlines and a listed entity, said in a terse regulatory filing was that it had received no directions under the terms of the award. It also said the award “directs the reimbursement of costs incurred by the company” in relation to the arbitration proceedings initiated by InterGlobe Enterprises (IGE) in October 2019. The spat between the two promoters had turned very ugly two years ago after Gangwal, a Florida-based former airline executive turned entrepreneur, accused Bhatia of running the parent company of Indigo Airline like a “paan ki dukaan” with abysmal corporate governance standards. The Gangwal group has a stake of around 36.63 per cent in InterGlobe Aviation while the Bhatia group has a shareholding of 38 per cent. Gangwal has complained about a one-sided agreement he had signed with Bhatia that conferred on the latter “unusual rights” that allowed his entities to strike dodgy supplier agreements with the airline that violated governance codes on related party transactions. Riled by that jibe, Bhatia had riposted: “The Paan ki dukaan continues to do well; it is financially sound and it is run well by a competent set of managers.” In October 2019, InterGlobe Enterprises (IGE) and Bhatia had filed for arbitration proceedings against Gangwal, the Chinkerpoo Family Trust and Shobha Gangwal (collectively called the RG Group). Though InterGlobe Aviation was named as a respondent no monetary claims, including any compensation, was sought from the company. The IGE Group had sought certain reliefs against the other party, including in relation to compliance with the shareholders’ agreement and the company’s Articles of Association (AoA) as well as damages. “The RG Group also sought certain reliefs against the IGE Group, including to carry out all requisite steps and actions, provide consents and assistance to remove certain transfer restriction provisions from the company's articles," InterGlobe Aviation said in its latest regulatory filing. Differences between the two promoters had come out in the open in July 2019, after Gangwal shot off a letter to Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) seeking its intervention to address corporate governance issues in the company. He had also raised questions about certain related party transactions (RPTs) between IndiGo and entities belonging to the IGE group. Gangwal alleged that these transactions between IndiGo and the IGE group did not have the approval of the board and the audit committee and were often backdated apart from also claiming that many of these RPTs undermined the interests of the airline. Among others, he also alleged that there was misrepresentation in the company's Red Herring Prospectus (RHP) dated October 16, 2015. The IGE group rejected all the charges. Earlier, Gangwal’s request for an extraordinary general meeting to discuss the affairs of the company was turned down by a 4:2 vote at a board meeting on June 12 2019. IndiGo later settled with market regulator SEBI the case of alleged corporate governance lapses and listing norms violations raised by Gangwal. The company settled the matter without admitting or denying any violation on its part by paying a settlement charge of Rs 2.1 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
26-09-2021||India||Nitish reiterates demand for caste census||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday reiterated his demand for a caste census, saying it is in national interest and will facilitate development of the communities lagging in development. Asked about the Centre's affidavit in the Supreme Court that virtually ruled out census on the caste lines, he told reporters that it was "absolutely not correct" but added that the matter was not directly related to the issue of caste census. In the national capital to attend Home Minister Amit Shah's meeting with the chief ministers of naxal-affected states, the JD(U) leader also rejected arguments against caste census and asserted that the demand for it has been coming from not only Bihar but many states. Kumar said he will speak to members of different parties in Bihar over the issue to chart out their next course of action. He had led an all-party delegation from the state to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in support of such a headcount across the country. However, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday that caste census of backward classes is "administratively difficult and cumbersome" and excluding such information from the purview of Census is a "conscious policy decision". In an affidavit filed in the apex court, the government has said that caste enumeration in Socio-Economic and Caste Census 2011 was fraught with mistakes and inaccuracies. Kumar asserted that caste census can be done by imparting appropriate training to people. However, the Bihar chief minister, whose party's ties with the BJP have been uneven for some time, refused to be drawn into any political implications of the issue. "Caste census is in the interest of the country. It will help the country's development," he said. After the Centre's stand, many BJP leaders in Bihar have strongly defended the move and questioned the need for caste census. The BJP has made it clear that its stand on the politically fraught issue can be different from those, including some of its allies, supporting the step. As far as the BJP is concerned, it stands for "sab ka saath, sabka vikas", the party had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
26-09-2021||India||Covid effect: Unclaimed ashes of 57 coronavirus victims immersed in river Narmada||A crematorium in Bhopal on Sunday immersed the ashes of 57 coronavirus victims in the Narmada river as the family members of these deceased failed to collect their cremated remains for months, its office-bearers said. Madhya Pradesh has so far registered 10,518 COVID-19 deaths, most of them during the second wave of the pandemic. "Vishram Ghat Trust and Sewa Sanskar Samiti on Sunday immersed the ashes of 57 persons, who died due to COVID-19 but their ashes were not collected by their families after the funerary rituals," Shobhraj Sukhwani, manager of Subhash Nagar Vishram Ghat (crematorium) told PTI. He said the family members of these deceased had failed to collect the ashes due to the pandemic situation. "So, after waiting for months, the asthiyan (cremated remains) were collected and immersed in the Narmada river in Hoshangabad with all the rituals," he said. Vishram Ghat Trust president Ramesh Sharma Guttu said the priests performed all Hindu rituals before the immersion of ashes in the river. "We will also hold 'tarpan' ritual for the peace of the departed souls," he said. In July this year, the management committee of Bhopal's Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat had decided to develop a park using 21 truckloads of ashes of those who died due to COVID-19 infection during the second wave of the pandemic. The decision to develop a park on 12,000 sq ft of land was taken after their relatives failed to collect them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
26-09-2021||India||Ahead of polls Yogi Adityanath expands his cabinet||Months ahead of the crucial Assembly polls, chief minister Yogi Adityanath opted for a crucial Uttar Pradesh cabinet expansion on Sunday. Chhatarpal Gangwar, Dharamveer Prajapati, Sanjeev Kumar Gaur, Dinesh Khatik, Sangeeta Balwant and Paltu Ram among new Ministers of State administered oath in UP. Former Congress leader Jitin Prasada, who switched from the Congress to the BJP was among several new faces that were inducted into the Yogi-led cabinet. He also took oath with the other six new faces of the Modi cabinet. The expansion of the council of ministers has taken place as the BJP prepares for the assembly elections in the crucial state of Uttar Pradesh early next year. The oath was administered by Governor Anandiben Patel at a function in the Gandhi auditorium in the Raj Bhavan in the presence of the chief minister. The new MOS are Paltu Ram, Chhatarpal Gangwar, Sangeeta Balwant Bind, Dharamveer Prajapati, Sanjeev Kumar Gaur and Dinesh Khatik. With the expansion, the upper limit of 60 of the ministry has been reached. The maximum strength of the ministry can be 15 percent of the total strength of the Assembly. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly has 403 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
26-09-2021||India||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi carries out first cabinet expansion||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi carried out his first cabinet expansion on Sunday, inducting 15 Cabinet Ministers which included seven new entrants. The new faces in the Channi Ministry are Randeep Singh Nabha, Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli. Rana Gurjit Singh has made a comeback after resigning in 2018 from the Amrinder Singh Ministry. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office and secrecy to the legislators. Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Razia Sultana, Vijay Inder Singla and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who were ministers in the previous Amarinder Singh led cabinet, were retained as Cabinet Ministers. Channi had taken oath as the chief minister following the unceremonious exit of Congress veteran Amarinder Singh after a prolonged power tussle with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Rana Gurjit Singh, Mohindra and Singla are considered close to Amarinder Singh. A total of 18 MLAs, including the chief minister, can be included in the cabinet. Channi's two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni were sworn in on Monday. Earlier, a section of Congress leaders from the state had written to the party's Punjab unit chief Sidhu against the induction of former minister Rana Gurjit Singh, alleging he was corrupt and tainted". The leaders had also demanded that the cabinet berth may instead be filled up "by giving representation to a clean Dalit leader". A copy of the letter was also sent to the chief minister. Rana Gurjit Singh, after facing flak from the Opposition over allegations of impropriety in the auction of sand mining contracts, had to resign from the previous Amarinder Singh cabinet in 2018. At that time, he had held Irrigation and Power portfolios.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
26-09-2021||India||Justice Ramana calls for 50% reservation for women in Indian judiciary||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Sunday exhorted women lawyers to strongly raise their demand for 50 per cent reservation in the judiciary while assuring them of his "total support". "I don't want you to cry but with anger, you have to shout and demand that we need 50 per cent reservation," he said. The CJI said that it's an issue of thousands of years of suppression and women are entitled to the reservation and added, "It's a matter of right, and not a matter a charity." He said, "I want to say that I strongly recommend and support the demand of a certain percentage of reservation in all law schools of the country for women, so that they can join the judiciary." Speaking at a felicitation function organised by Lady Advocates of Supreme Court for the nine newly appointed judges, including three women judges, CJI Ramana said he has modified Karl Marx's "Workers of the world unite. You have nothing to lose but your chain" quote for the occasion and added: "Women of the world unite. You have nothing to lose but your chain." The CJI said, "You all are laughing. Yes, I don't want you to cry but with anger, you have to shout and demand that we need 50 per cent reservation. It's not a small issue but an issue of thousands of years of suppression. It is high time we have 50 per cent representation of women in the judiciary. You are entitled (to it), it's a matter of right. It is not a matter a charity. It is unfortunate that some things are realised very late." He said he will be "very happy" whenever the goal will be realised. "All my sisters and all of you have carved out exceptions for people in the society and women of the society and for that matter youngsters whether male or female are all waiting and looking at you as if you are role models. Your success stories will make them more impulsive and we expect more women will join the profession and we will achieve the goal of 50 per cent shortly. I wholeheartedly support all initiatives taken by you and so long as I am here I will support all of your causes," he said. The Chief Justice of India said that he believes in mixing with people, knowing about their ideas so that he understands what is the problem the society is facing, but added these days he is visiting lots of places and has got bored of giving speeches. "After coming back yesterday night from Odisha, I collected some information about the system in which we are working. In the entire country...in subordinate judiciary less than 30 per cent are women, in high courts women judges are 11.5 per cent and in Supreme Court four women judges out of 33...(that is) 11 or 12 per cent," the CJI said. He said that out of 1.7 million advocates in the country only 15 per cent are women and only two per cent elected representatives in the state bar councils are women. "The other day I have told Bar council of India chairman Manan Kumar Mishra, what is this in your bar council national committee you don't have any single woman member represented, this needs urgent correction," he said. CJI Ramana further said that people will often say easily that it is difficult to have 50 per cent reservation because women have a lot of problems but that's not correct. "I do agree that there is an uncomfortable environment, lack of infrastructure, crowded courtrooms, lack of washrooms, lack of creches and lack of sitting places, which are some of the major issues which are unfriendly to the women lawyers in the system," he said. He said that after gathering information about the prevailing conditions throughout the country he is proposing for Judicial Infrastructure Corporation, which is the need of the hour. "In 6,000 courts across the country, 22 per cent of them do not have separate toilets (for women) and even lady officers also have to suffer from this, the CJI said, adding, So these are the ground realities which we have to tackle immediately and that is the reason why I am proposing certain issues to the executive to take and correct this." With regard to lawyers' demand for opening of the top court for physical hearings which has been held virtually since the outset of the pandemic, the CJI said that hopefully after Dussehra vacation it may resume. "The problem is you know we have limited opening (both virtual and physical) but majority of the advocates do not prefer, I don't know why but for whatever reasons, particularly senior counsels have some reservations but youngsters and other lawyers are willing to come," he said. He said that senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is president of Supreme Court Bar Association, has raised certain issues with regard to hybrid hearing SOP and it is being corrected and made more liberal. "We can expect full opening of the courts but the problem is we don't want to take any risk because of the medical advice and suddenly they may say that there may be a third or fourth wave.... So you hope that there are no waves and most probably after Dussehra vacation, I think we can go for physical hearing," CJI Ramana said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
26-09-2021||India||Dalit students in UP's Mainpuri asked to wash dishes, keep them separate||A school principal in Mainpuri was suspended and two cooks terminated over complaints that scheduled caste students were asked to wash their mid-day meal utensils themselves and keep them separate, a senior official said Sunday. Chief Development Officer Vinod Kumar said the action was taken after village pradhan Manju Devi's husband Saheb Singh filed a complaint Saturday, alleging SC students were being discriminated against at the government primary school in Dodapur in Bewar block. Singh said in the complaint that the SC students, around 80 in all, unlike others were made to clean their utensils after eating the meal and asked to keep them separate. Upon receiving the complaint, the CDO, along with Basic Shiksha Adhikari Kamal Singh and project director KK Singh, inspected the school and its kitchen, and found the allegations true, the officer said. Taking cognisance of the matter, the CDO terminated the services of the cooks on the spot and suspended principal Garima Singh Rajput on the charges of dereliction of duty, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Five Uttar Pradesh teachers suspended after videos of them dancing in classroom goes viral||Five teachers of a government primary school in the Agra district have been suspended for "unethical behaviour" after a video purportedly showing them dancing to film songs in a classroom surfaced online, an official said on Sunday. The teachers, employed in the Basic Education Department, were suspended on Saturday. The video of the teachers dancing in the classroom, which did not have students, surfaced online on Thursday. Following this, the Basic Education Department, Agra, set up an investigation. "All five assistant teachers and the headteacher of the primary school at Sadhan in Achhnera block were asked to submit their clarifications. Four teachers replied, but one did not," Basic Shiksha Adhikari in-charge Brajraj Singh told PTI. He said all the five teachers were suspended after their clarifications were found wanting. Singh said according to Dinesh Chandra Parihar, the headteacher of the school, the video was shot on March 17 and he was not present on the day as he had gone to attend an educational workshop at the Block Resource Centre. "The clarification submitted by the four teachers was not satisfactory. They were suspended for harming the image of the Basic Education Department. Their behaviour was unethical. They should not have acted like this during school time in the classroom," Singh added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Canada lifts ban on direct flights from India after five months||Canada will allow direct flights from India from Monday, lifting the ban on them after a gap of more than five months. Announcing the decision, Transport Canada on Saturday in a tweet said: "Beginning at 00:01 EDT on September 27, direct flights from India can land in Canada with additional public health measures in place." "Travellers must have proof of a negative COVID-19 molecular test from the approved Genestrings Laboratory at the Delhi airport taken within 18 hours of the scheduled departure of their direct flight to Canada," it added. In April, Canada banned all direct flights to and from India when the second Covid wave hit India. The date of reopening has been postponed many times. Welcoming the decision, India's high commissioner to Canada Ajay Bisaria described it as a "decisive step towards normalising air mobility" between the two nations. "@airindiain and @AirCanada are now set to run daily flights between Delhi and Toronto/Vancouver from 27 September. Working with Canadian partners to further ease travel," he tweeted. Passengers who travel from India to Canada via an indirect route still need to provide a pre-departure negative COVID-19 molecular test result from a third country before continuing their journey to Canada.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath set to expand UP cabinet Sunday evening||Attempting to balance caste and regional aspiration, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will expand his ministry on Sunday evening, months ahead of the crucial assembly polls. The swearing-in ceremony is scheduled at Gandhi Auditorium in the Raj Bhavan at 5.30 pm, officials said. Officials, however, remained tight-lipped over the number and names of ministers to be sworn in amid the name of Congress Brahmin leader Jitin Prasada, who switched over to the saffron party, is doing rounds. UP Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma had recently told PTI that inspired by the work of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Prasada wanted to join the BJP much earlier. Prasada had been inducted into the BJP amid its internal worries about the thin representation of the community in the party. Repeated efforts to contact Prasada proved futile. Sanjay Nishad's name, whose party NISHAD -- Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal -- will contest the 2022 UP assembly elections in alliance with the BJP is also making rounds. Nishad was in the news recently for his demand from the BJP to project him as a deputy chief minister face in the elections. He had claimed that 18 per cent of voters belong to Nishad (fishermen) community which plays a deciding role on 160 assembly seats. The Nishad Party had contested the 2017 assembly elections as an ally of the Peace Party, led by Dr Ayub, and contested 72 seats. Its candidate Vijay Mishra had won from Gyanpur seat in Bhadohi district. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the party had allied with the BJP and Sanjay Nishad's son Praveen Nishad was nominated from Sant Kabir Nagar from where he won the elections. Apart from this, the name of former Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya is also doing the rounds as a probable face for induction in the Yogi Adityanath ministry. There are 53 ministers in the UP Cabinet at present and seven more can be inducted as per the constitutional limit. At present, there are 23 Cabinet ministers in UP including the chief minister. There are nine ministers of state with independent charges and there are 21 ministers of state. The maximum strength of the UP Cabinet can be 15 per cent of the total strength of its Assembly. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly has 403 seats. In the 2017 UP Assembly elections, the BJP had won 312 seats out of the 403 seats. Its ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) had won nine seats. The Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) too had contested the 2017 assembly polls in alliance with the BJP and had won four seats but it had walked out of the alliance in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Some Congress leaders ask Sidhu to not let Rana Gurjit Singh become Punjab minister||Hours before the first cabinet expansion of the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab government, a section of Congress leaders from the state on Sunday wrote to party's state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu demanding that tainted former minister Rana Gurjit Singh should not be included. The leaders also demanded that the cabinet berth may instead be filled up by giving representation to a clean Dalit leader . The copy of the letter was also sent to Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Seven new faces are likely to be inducted in the Punjab cabinet while five ministers, who were part of the Amarinder Singh-led government, are expected to be dropped, sources said. Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, Kuljit Nagra and Rana Gurjit Singh are likely to be included in the cabinet, according to the sources. However, the list of names is yet to be officially declared. After Channi, Sidhu and other leaders held deliberations over days with the party's senior leadership to finalise the names for the first cabinet expansion, it appears to have hit another hurdle with seven Congress leaders including a former PPCC chief writing to Sidhu demanding Rana Gurjit not be included. Rana Gurjit Singh, after facing flak from the Opposition over allegations of impropriety in the auction of sand mining contracts, had to resign from the previous Amarinder Singh cabinet in 2018. At that time, he had held Irrigation and Power portfolios. In the letter to Sidhu, these leaders demanded to drop Rana Gurjit Singh from the proposed cabinet berth, alleging that he is a known corrupt and tainted politician of Doaba . The letter was written by Mohinder Singh Kaypee, former PPCC president, MLA Sultanpur Navtej Singh Cheema, MLA Phagwara Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, Jalandhar North legislator Bawa Henry, Chabbewal legislator Raj Kumar, MLA Sham Churasi, Pawan Adiya and Bholath legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira. Khaira had defected from the Aam Aadmi Party and joined Congress recently. "We the undersigned MLAs and leaders of Doaba wish to convey huge resentment amongst the public and the Congress cadre on the proposed inclusion of tainted Rana Gurjit Singh. "Needless to mention, he was dropped from the cabinet in January 2018 due to the infamous mining scandal..., they alleged in the letter while detailing various allegations which were made against Rana Gurjit at that time. We wonder why Rana Gurjit Singh is being included in Cabinet as he was dropped in January 2018 because of these charges..," they wrote. They also pointed out that despite the Doaba region having approximately 38 percent Dalit population, no representation in the proposed cabinet expansion has been given to a leader from the community. Among MLAs from Doaba region proposed to be inducted in the cabinet include Pargat Singh and Rana Gurjit Singh. "It is amusing that all three ministers proposed to be included in the cabinet from Doaba region are Jat Sikhs and one OBC , whereas there is an approximately 38 percent Dalit population in this region," they wrote. "Therefore, we all request you to immediately drop Raja Gurjit Singh from the proposed Cabinet expansion and instead include a clean Dalit face in view of the upcoming elections," they said in the letter. Khaira later told reporters that (By including Rana) we are deliberately giving handle to the opposition to point fingers. By bringing him in cabinet, what impression will it give". In another development, Amloh legislator Randeep Singh Nabha is also learnt to be upset over being ignored for the ministerial post in the new cabinet. Six-time MLA Rakesh Pandey too expressed unhappiness over the proposed names in the expansion alleging seniors were ignored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Two militants killed in Bandipora encounter||A militant involved in the killing of BJP leader Waseem Bari and two of his family members was among two ultras killed in an encounter with security forces in Bandipora district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Watrina area of Bandipora in north Kashmir following inputs about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon the forces, who retaliated. In the ensuing encounter, two unidentified terrorists were killed, the official said. Among the slain militants is the killer of BJP district president Bari, his father and brother who were shot dead in July last year. #Killer of BJP leader late Waseem Bari, his father and brother #killed in the #encounter. Further details shall follow, Kashmir Zone Police said in a tweet. The official said incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, was recovered from the site of the encounter. The search operation is on in the area, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab makes landfall in Andhra, Odisha; Navy on standby ||Cyclone Gulab has made landfall in coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, India Meteorological Department (IMD) tweeted on Sunday evening, with officials adding that it would cross the coasts between Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and Gopalpur in Odisha in the next three hours. "The cloud bands have touched coastal regions and thus the landfall process has commenced over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south coastal Odisha. System will cross coasts between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur, about 25 km to north of Kalingapatnam, during the next three hours," the IMD tweeted. The Indian Navy said on Sunday that it was closely monitoring the movement of Cyclone Gulab and kept naval ships and aircraft on standby for rescue and relief operations. The Eastern Naval Command in Visakhapatnam and naval officers in charge of Odisha have carried out preparatory activities to combat the effects of the cyclone, according to an official statement. The Navy is in constant liaison with the state administrations for rendering assistance as required and closely monitoring the movement of the cyclonic storm, it said. As part of the preparedness, flood relief teams and diving teams are prepositioned in Odisha and ready at Visakhapatnam to render immediate assistance, it added. In the view of the cyclone, 13 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Odisha and five in Andhra Pradesh, Satya Narayan Pradhan, Director General of the relief force, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Rainfall activity started in Odisha's southern and coastal regions on Sunday morning in the wake of cyclone Gulab, the IMD said. The Odisha government has deployed 168 specialised units in seven districts of the state where Cyclone Gulab is likely to make a severe impact following its landfall on Sunday midnight. The units comprise teams from the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) and fire service. Another 25 units have been kept on alert. The state government has cancelled leaves of the officials and asked them to remain on high alert. The cyclone is moving at 18km an hour, said the official. If its size is anything to go by, it is unlikely to be very severe. The system now has a diameter between 200km and 300km, said an IMD official. Cyclones Amphan and Yaas had a diameter of about 700km while at sea. The Railways have cancelled, diverted or rescheduled trains travelling in the east coast route in view of the cyclone, it said in a tweet. Officials said the Odisha government is working with a mission to achieve zero casualty and efforts would begin to evacuate people from the vulnerable areas. However, it seems that conditions for the cyclone are favourable at this point. “There was scorching heat in Ganjam today making it conducive for the movement of the cyclone towards the coast. I have been witnessing such a climate before any cyclone sets in,” said Berhampur-based photojournalist Gopal Krishna Reddy. Fishermen have been told not to venture into the sea. Many fishermen were seen bringing their boats from the sea to safe locations so that there would be no damage to them during the landfall of the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Ensure no one is left out of vaccination's circle of safety, says Narendra Modi||Ahead of the festival season, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to keep following Covid protocol and ensure that no one is left out of vaccination's "circle of safety". In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' radio address, Modi said the festival season is approaching and when the whole country will celebrate 'Maryada Purshottam' Shri Ram's victory over evil, people should remember the fight against Covid also. "Team India is creating several records daily on this front. Several records have been created in the vaccination drive which are being discussed globally," Modi said. "We not only have to get the vaccine administered when it's our turn, but we also have to ensure that no one is left out of this circle of safety," he said. Even after getting vaccinated, the necessary protocol has to be followed, Modi said, adding that he hopes once again Team India will keep the flag flying high in this fight against the Covid pandemic. In his remarks, PM Modi, on the occasion of the World Rivers Day, called for collective efforts to keep our rivers pollution-free. He also called for making record business of Khadi products on Mahatma Gandhi's birth anniversary on October 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||India logs 28,326 new Covid infections as active caseload increases||India saw a single-day rise of 28,326 new coronavirus infections,, taking the country's total tally of cases to 3,36,52,745, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 4,46,918 with 260 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have increased to 3,03,476, comprising 0.90 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.77 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 2,034 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.90 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for last 27 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.98 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 93 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,29,02,351, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 85.60 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 260 new fatalities, include 120 deaths from Kerala and 58 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,46,918 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,38,834 from Maharashtra, 37,717 from Karnataka, 35,476 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,438 from Kerala, 22,890 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,727 from Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||Student groups and Left parties protest against ‘murder’ in Assam||Student groups and Left parties have been protesting across India against “state-sponsored murder” in Assam’s Darrang district, where a child and a man died in police firing during an eviction drive on Thursday. In Delhi, police detained students on Friday when they attempted to protest in front of Assam Bhavan. Congress student arm NSUI burnt an effigy of Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, and the Left-led students’ union at JNU too held protests. On Saturday, activists from across the Opposition spectrum demonstrated on Jantar Mantar Road near the central secretariat. “This (firing) is a last warning for the whole country,” CPIML Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said. “When the NRC (update) started in Assam and (Union home minister) Amit Shah was explaining the ‘chronology’ (of passing the Citizenship Amendment Act after the National Register of Citizens update to naturalise non-Muslim refugees), the future was hidden. It is being seen now.” Bhattacharya demanded the resignation of Himanta and the removal of the superintendent of police, Sushanta Sarma. “No human being living in our country can be called ‘illegal’; no one has the right to justify this barbarism. Not just the murder or the firing for displacement — the photographer’s celebration and dance are fascism’s dance....” A photographer, hired by the district administration to document the eviction at the minority-dominated settlement, was seen stamping on a motionless Moinul Hoque, one of the victims of the police firing. Bhattacharya said all this was the result of the spread of hatred by the BJP-RSS. “It needs to be stopped…. This was a state-sponsored murder of the most helpless.” The Fraternity Movement, backed by the Jamaat-e-Islami-i-Hind, too participated in Saturday’s protests after its cadres had courted detention opposite Assam Bhavan on Friday. Afreen Fatima, its national secretary and a student councillor at JNU, told The Telegraph: “The enactment of the NRC turned ethno-nationalism into ethno-fascism, and Bengali Muslims are facing the brunt of it. To call them illegal immigrants is a ploy to divert attention from the illegal land grab by the Assam government.” She demanded an “impartial probe” and the immediate suspension of the SP. “We’re here to tell the Muslims of Assam, they’re not alone. They are Indians and will stay in India.” The Assam government has ordered a judicial probe and asked for the CBI to take over the police investigation. Protests were held in Darbhanga (Bihar), Aligarh, Nagpur and several places in Kerala as well. A team from the CPM-backed All India Kisan Sabha will visit the flashpoint in Assam next month. The group said in a statement: “The eviction drive took place even as a case was pending with the Gauhati High Court on the matter, without even giving enough notice to the people…. AIKS demands dismissal of the authorities responsible for the killing and resignation of the Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma....” It added: “The entire eviction drive in the name of ‘illegal migrants’ is with an ulterior motive of communally polarising the state.... If the government was actually promoting a policy of community farming, it could have involved these 800 households who were cultivating the area for decades. “After the Haryana BJP government brutally killed a farmer, Sushil Kajal, now the Assam BJP government has also followed suit by shooting down two farmers with a sinister agenda of pitting communities against one another.” Kajal died of a heart attack after allegedly being injured in a lathi-charge on protesting farmers in Karnal, Haryana, last month. A video shows an administrative officer purportedly asking the police to break the protestors’ heads. In Ranchi, about 50 people representing Left parties such as the CPIML and the SUCI, and other organisations like the All India People’s Forum and Awami Insaf Manch, protested against the Assam firing. The Jharkhand Youth Federation, Awami Group and the Ranchi Youth Association too participated in the demonstration. “The Assam government was pretending to be helping the Adivasis by floating an agricultural project... but had earlier evicted the same Adivasi people elsewhere in the state.” Nadim Khan of the AIPF alleged. “The government move left 800 poor Muslim families homeless too.” Additional reporting by Achintya Ganguly from Ranchi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
26-09-2021||India||India, US to expand collaboration in new domains of critical technology||India and the US on Friday sought to chart a new course together by expanding collaboration in new domains and areas of critical and emerging technology with a view to defining the economic and security landscape of the next century; billing the bilateral relationship as a “partnership of global good’’. The joint statement issued after the bilateral engagement between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden at the White House committed the two countries to building a strategic partnership and working together with regional groupings, including Asean and Quad members; promoting shared interests in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond; developing trade and investment; finishing the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and other health challenges; galvanising global efforts to scale up climate action; strengthening democratic values and institutions in support of “our respective peoples’’; and enhancing people-to-people link. President Biden reaffirmed the strength of the defence relationship between the two countries and Washington’s “unwavering commitment to India as a Major Defence Partner’’ through close defence engagements in information and logistics sharing, military-to-military interactions, strengthening cooperation in advanced military technologies, and expanding engagements in a multilateral framework including with regional partners. The two leaders welcomed the deepening of advanced industrial cooperation; noting in this context the recent project to co-develop air-launched unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) under the Defence Technology and Trade Initiative, and encouraged more such joint efforts. They called upon government and private stakeholders to use the existing ecosystems of innovation and entrepreneurship in defence industries for co-development, co-production and expanding mutual defence trade. They also looked forward to the inaugural meeting of the Industrial Security Agreement summit to facilitate high-end defence industrial collaboration, the joint statement said. According to foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla, the two sides finalized a memorandum of understanding on health and biomedical sciences — “a very comprehensive document that provides for cooperation in the health sector across the board and it also goes into areas like pandemic preparedness and biomedical research, to reduce the risk of future pandemics’’. On Afghanistan, the foreign secretary said, there was very careful consideration by both sides on the support given to certain hardline elements in that country, including terrorist groups by Pakistan. “I think there was a clear concern expressed on Pakistan’s role in Afghanistan and their continuing support for a certain approach that did not seem to be conducive to the international community’s expectations of what Afghanistan should be like,’’ Shringla said. After the bilateral engagement, the Prime Minister attended the first in-person Quad summit which brought the leadership of the four member countries together. Apart from vaccine cooperation which was announced at the first Quad summit held virtually in March, they announced a new partnership in infrastructure; an area in which China now dominates in scale. They also emphasised the importance of supporting open, fair, and transparent lending practices in line with international rules and standards for major creditor countries, including on debt sustainability and accountability, and call on all creditors to adhere to these rules and standards. This is a clear message to China which is often accused by the West of enticing countries into taking loans they can ill afford to pay back and putting them in a debt trap. The Quad joint statement also announced the Quad Fellowship which will be stewarded by Schmidt Futures with support from Accenture, Blackstone, Boeing, Google, Mastercard and Western Digital. It will provide 100 graduate fellowships to leading science, technology, engineering, and mathematics graduate students across the four countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad writes to 33 Opposition leaders||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday wrote to 33 Opposition leaders to seek their support for the demand for a caste census. The Centre had in an affidavit in the Supreme Court on Thursday said it had no plans to enumerate castes or categories other than the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the upcoming census because it would not be feasible. Tejashwi’s letter is being seen as a serious effort to unite the Opposition against the BJP. Sources said it had the blessings of RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury and all non-BJP chief ministers — Mamata Banerjee (Bengal), Naveen Patnaik (Odisha), M.K. Stalin (Tamil Nadu), Pinarayi Vijayan (Kerala), Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra), Charanjit Singh Channi (Punjab), Arvind Kejriwal (Delhi), Hemant Soren (Jharkhand) — are among the leaders to whom Tejashwi has written. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati, National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah and PDP leader Mehbooba Mufti also figure on the list. So does Bihar chief minister and Janata Dal United leader Nitish Kumar, who is an ally of the BJP and leads the NDA government in the state. He had led an all-party delegation from the state to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month to demand a caste census. “The demand for caste-based census needs to be seen as an essential step in nation building. Once conducted, it would actually bring to the forefront the pressing concerns that a country like India must attend to with a sense of urgency. This is a historic opportunity before us to push for an agenda that is essential for making this country more just and egalitarian. It would play a pivotal role in ensuring social harmony and social cohesion,” Tejashwi wrote. Tejashwi said he was sure the leaders would agree with him on the need to join hands and push the government to see the crucial need to set the priorities of the socio-economic development of our country. “I am open to suggestions and inputs from you so that we immediately prepare our plan of action in this regard without any further delay,” the leader of the Opposition in the Bihar Legislative Assembly added. On Friday, reacting to the Centre’s refusal to hold the caste census, Tejashwi had said he would wait for a couple of days for Nitish’s response before revealing his own plans. His father Lalu had asked the BJP and the RSS why they had “so much hatred towards the backward and extremely backward castes”. Lalu had also appealed for the social boycott of BJP ministers, MPs and leaders over the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||Mahendra Singh Dhoni on committee to revamp NCC course||The government has started reviewing the National Cadet Corps curriculum “to make it more relevant in changing times” amid a renewed push to have it introduced as a credit-carrying elective subject at all universities. Last week, the defence ministry appointed a 15-member committee that includes former Indian cricket captain M.S. Dhoni and is headed by former Biju Janata Dal MP Baijayant Panda, who is currently in the BJP. Among the other members are Mahindra Group chairperson Anand Mahindra, BJP parliamentarians Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore and Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Jamia Millia Islamia vice-chancellor (VC) Najma Akhtar, former SNDT Women’s University VC Vasudha Kamat, and the secretary of the RSS-affiliated Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal, Mukul Kanitkar. The move comes at a time the University Grants Commission has renewed its five-year-old effort to have all the universities introduce NCC as an elective course. Currently, NCC is a sort of an additional course that some undergraduates in some universities take. Those who successfully complete it get a certificate. However, a letter that UGC secretary Rajnish Jain wrote to all the vice-chancellors on July 9 suggested the course would in future carry academic credits. It cited the new National Education Policy, which allows students to pursue some courses of their choice — from whichever stream — and earn credits. The UGC has since November 2016 written to all the universities to introduce NCC as an elective course, following a May 2016 nudge from the defence ministry to the education (then HRD) ministry. But the proposal’s implementation has remained tardy. The July 9 letter also outlined a revamped NCC syllabus. In the theory classes, NCC students will be taught about national integration, personality development, disaster management, social service, border and coastal areas, the armed forces, infantry weapons and military history. In their practical classes, the cadets will participate in drills, social service training, weapons training, map reading, field craft and battle craft. At the camps, they will undergo outdoor training. The objectives of the course include the creation of a pool of trained and motivated youths who will serve the nation regardless of which career they choose, the proposal said. A UGC official said that whatever new ideas the Panda panel suggests would be incorporated in the syllabus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||Congress leadership plans for drastic changes in Rajasthan ||The Congress leadership appears to have decided to initiate the process of drastic changes in Rajasthan that will culminate in Sachin Pilot taking over as chief minister much before the next Assembly election in 2023. While there are no indications of any plan to force chief minister Ashok Gehlot to resign immediately as was done with Amarinder Singh in Punjab, sources said the road map is clear in Rahul Gandhi’s mind. “The party will have to offer Rajasthan a new deal if we dream of retaining power,” a senior leader said, arguing that Gehlot had played his innings with three terms as chief minister. The dominant view in the Congress is that change is inevitable and that the party will have to go to the polls in 2023 under the leadership of Pilot who played a critical role in the party’s comeback in 2018. The process will begin soon with a cabinet shuffle, followed by organisational changes and finally a new chief minister. Party strategists believe the new chief minister should be given time to make an impact, unlike in Punjab that has barely five months to go before the polls. Rajasthan is vital to the party’s future plan as it goes to the polls just before the parliamentary election in 2024, setting the tone of the public discourse for the big battle. Congress strategists believe the party cannot build a formidable challenge to Prime Minister Narendra Modi without winning Madhya Pradesh and retaining Rajasthan in December 2023. Gujarat and Karnataka, which will vote in 2022 and 2023, are the other two states that will draw the political trajectory of the Congress. Pilot, who held two meetings with Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi over the last few days, is not interested in any role in Delhi, sources said. Amid speculation about being shifted as general secretary, sources said he had conveyed his desire to continue in Rajasthan. Forcing a change is not easy in Rajasthan because, unlike Amarinder, Gehlot still commands the support of the majority of MLAs. Gehlot is reluctant to accept any other assignment but may be persuaded to give up and that exercise can take some time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||Odisha: Cyclone Gulab to make landfall on Sunday evening||The Odisha government has deployed 168 specialised units in seven districts of the state where Cyclone Gulab is likely to make a severe impact following its landfall on Sunday evening. The units comprise teams from the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) and fire service. Another 25 units have been kept on alert. The state government has cancelled leaves of the officials and asked them to remain on high alert. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena told reporters: “The landfall of the cyclonic storm will be near Kalingapatnam between Gopalpur in Ganjam district and Visakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh). Districts like Kandhamal, Ganjam, Rayagada, Malkangiri, Koraput, Nabarangpur and Gajapati will witness heavy rainfall with strong wind.” A media release of the India Meteorological Department said: “The deep depression over northwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal moved westwards with a speed of 17km in last 6 hours and lay centred at 11.30 hrs over northwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal about 410 km east-southeast of Gopalpur (Odisha and 480 km east-northeast of Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh). It is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm during next 6 hours. It is likely to move nearly westwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts between Kalingapatnum and Goapalpur by evening of 26th September.” Jena also warned of flash floods in the Rushikulya, Nagavali and Vanshadhara rivers. The state government is also worried about landslides under the impact of rainfall. When Cyclone Titli hit Odisha in 2018, landslides in the interior areas of Gajapati district had killed more than 24 people. “We are gearing up the administration to face possible devastation caused by strong winds, rainfall and flash floods. Timely evacuation will be made from the vulnerable areas,” Jena said. Officials said the state government is working with a mission to achieve zero casualty and efforts would begin to evacuate people from the vulnerable areas. However, it seems that conditions for the cyclone are favourable at this point. “There was scorching heat in Ganjam today making it conducive for the movement of the cyclone towards the coast. I have been witnessing such a climate before any cyclone sets in,” said Berhampur-based photojournalist Gopal Krishna Reddy. Fishermen have been told not to venture into the sea. Many fishermen were seen bringing their boats from the sea to safe locations so that there would be no damage to them during the landfall of the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||What a shame to be lectured about democracy, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday said it was a matter of “shame” that other countries were lecturing India about democracy, diversity and tolerance and insisted the country introspect on why it was suffering this ignominy under the Narendra Modi government. The comments came after US President Joe Biden and Vice-President Kamala Harris underscored the importance of democratic principles and Gandhian tolerance when they met Prime Minister Modi separately in Washington DC earlier in the week. The Congress, which has steadfastly accused Modi of trampling on democratic institutions and constitutional values, has found merit in the concerns expressed by Biden and Harris. The Congress has also extended support to the farmers’ call for a nationwide shutdown on Monday, accusing Modi of an undemocratic attitude towards a movement that has completed 10 months despite the death of over 600 protesters. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh cited how the world is coming to believe that democracy is in peril in India. “Freedom House is an independent agency that rates democracies in the world. They downgraded India and described us as a ‘partially independent democracy’,” he said. “(Swedish) institute V-Dem, which expressed concern about diminishing democracy, finally said in its latest report that India was an elected autocracy now.” Vallabh added: “Every Indian’s head will hang in shame when others express concern about democracy in our country.... We are the land of Mahatma Gandhi, and now the American President is tutoring us on Gandhian values of non-violence and tolerance. “Kamala Harris tells our Prime Minister that democracies are in danger across the world. We should understand that they too would be getting to know what is happening in India, that the Indian Prime Minister talks of shamshan-kabristan, a chief minister refers to ‘Abba Jan’.” Vallabh said: “People are now reminding us of Mahatma Gandhi because of the hate this government has spread in society for the last seven years.” “Shamshan-kabristan (cremation ground-graveyard)” was a reference to a comment Modi had made before the 2017 Uttar Pradesh polls that was seen as an attempt to polarise voters on religious lines. Yogi Adityanath recently referred to “Abba Jan”, again in what is seen as an attempt at polarisation. Biden on Friday said: “The world celebrates Mahatma Gandhi’s birthday next week. We’re all reminded that his message of non-violence, respect, tolerance, matters today, maybe more than ever.” A day before, Harris had said that “democracies around the world are under threat”. The Congress believes that Modi should be able to decipher these messages from Biden and Harris. Rahul Gandhi has spoken about the threats to Indian democracy before international audiences. The return of awards by writers, artists and scientists in protest against lynchings has drawn global attention, as have the movement against the citizenship amendment and the attacks on citizens’ eating habits and inter-community marriages. Modi has received adverse international media coverage for India’s mismanagement of the pandemic, and many prestigious journals and newspapers have described him as a divisive figure bent on enforcing a majoritarian agenda. The farmers’ movement too has attracted global spotlight, with the angry responses of the Right-wing ecosystem to international celebrities tweeting in support of the extraordinary protest ending up amplifying their message. The arrest of 22-year-old environment activist Disha Ravi on sedition charges, in a case relating to a social media toolkit created in support of the agitating farmers, got wide coverage because of her organisation’s link with the celebrated Swedish activist Greta Thunberg. The government’s decision to plant nails on the roads and erect barbed-wire fences to block the farmers too provoked critical reactions abroad. “We have reason to support this (farmers’) movement and the ‘Bharat bandh’ call,” Vallabh said. “The Government of India hasn’t shown any concern or sensitivity to the ordeal of farmers.... They have taken a series of anti-farmer decisions, from an exploitative insurance scheme to a savage hike in diesel prices. The input cost has increased by Rs 25,000 per hectare and the (farmers’) debt (has) almost doubled. A government survey shows a farmer’s average income is Rs 27 per day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||Modi cites own example to assert India is functioning democracy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday cited his own example to assert that India is a functioning democracy, using the platform of the United Nations General Assembly after two days of being nudged on democracy and tolerance by the US President and Vice-President. Modi referred to his rise from son of a tea seller to Prime Minister as proof that “democracy can deliver, democracy has delivered”. Appearing to follow advice that he had given the nation last year, Modi said he represented a country that was proud to be the “mother of democracy”. The Prime Minister had on December 10, 2020, said: “When we glorify our democratic history with confidence, the day is not far away when the world will also say: India is the mother of democracy.” On Saturday, Modi used the UNGA to do that in an address that increasingly sounded like a campaign speech as he invoked several schemes of his government after underscoring India’s diversity. “Our diversity is the identity of our strong democracy. This is a country which has dozens of languages, hundreds of dialects, various ways of living and eating. It is a marvellous example of a vibrant democracy,” the Prime Minister said. He spoke about the threat posed to the world by the increase in “regressive thinking” and extremism. “Under these circumstances, the entire world has to make science-based, rational and progressive thinking the basis of development,” he said. In the context of regressive thinking, he sought to admonish Pakistan without naming it by saying that a country that uses terrorism as a political tool should realise that terrorism can become a big threat to it too. He also appeared to be taking on China — again without naming the country — when he stressed that ocean resources were a common resource that should be used, not abused. “Our oceans are the lifeline of international trade. They should be protected from the race for expansion and exclusion,” the Prime Minister said. During this US visit, the Prime Minister has had to deal with subtle concern from the top echelons of power and voices from the streets — where protests were organised in both Washington and New York — at what the Economist Intelligence Unit has described as India’s “democratic backsliding”. Earlier, exercising India’s right of response at the UNGA to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s bid to broach Kashmir, Indian diplomat Sneha Dubey said: “Pakistan is a country which is an arsonist disguising itself as a fire-fighter.” Dubey underlined that Osama bin Laden had taken refuge in Pakistan. Stating that South Asia and the whole world had suffered because of its actions, the young diplomat accused Pakistan of trying to cover up sectarian violence within its borders as acts of terror. “Dissenting voices are muzzled daily…. Unlike Pakistan, India is a pluralistic democracy with a substantial population of minorities who have gone on to hold the highest offices in the country,” Dubey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||India||Pandemic dries up talent pool of activists among students||Most student unions in India have been unable to hold elections since the pandemic began last year, which has dried up the talent pool of activists among students, many of whom graduate to electoral politics. While Covid has also restricted traditional union activities like agitations and cultural events, the students have found new ways of raising their concerns, mainly online. However, their effectiveness as a pressure group has waned. For many student groups such as the Congress’s National Students Union of India (NSUI) and the CPM-backed SFI, the immediate priority is to have all the students vaccinated and the campuses reopened so that normal student activity can resume. The NSUI swept the campus polls at the Sampurnanand Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya in Varanasi, one of the few institutions to witness student elections this year. NSUI national president Neeraj Kundan has, however, had an uphill task mobilising students for agitations against unpaid scholarships, stalled public recruitment, the holding of exams despite the pandemic, and the authorities’ failure to offer fee waivers. “Third-year students, who would recruit freshers, now don’t know who the freshers are…. The government misused this period to bring in the New Education Policy (NEP) at a time when we were struggling to find medical oxygen and hospital beds,” Kundan said. The NEP makes no mention of socialism or secularism, upholds the Bhagavad Gita as its ideal, stresses fundamental duties without mentioning rights, and adds to the states’ fiscal burden. Critics say it will make education more expensive, promote online learning which will further exclude the poor, and dilute student representation. “We have an ongoing campaign to vaccinate students first so that the campuses can reopen,” Kundan said. “The NEP and the movement against privatisation — which effectively reduces jobs for the backward classes — are also issues on which we will seek to mobilise students this year,” he added. “Despite the restrictions of the lockdown (which shut campuses and banned gatherings), we managed to organise several street protests on these issues — even outside Parliament and the education ministry.” SFI general secretary Mayukh Biswas echoed Kundan and termed the pandemic a “golden opportunity for the Right-wing government to implement its policies”. “The SFI had won elections in major central universities such as Jawaharhal Nehru University, the University of Hyderabad and Pondicherry University. Before the pandemic, even apolitical campuses (like the Film and Television Institute of India and Jamia Millia Islamia) had raised their voice against this government,” he said. “This generation is the biggest threat for this regime and that’s why the shutdown of campuses and silencing of dissent.” The SFI had approached the Supreme Court in May to ensure vaccines for all. The union it leads at JNU is on strike outside an administrative office to demand that the campus be reopened. “The real problem is in the rural colleges, where the students are dropping out as they are unable to cope with online education. Child marriages are on the rise too. After the festive season, we will launch street protests for the reopening of campuses,” Biswas said. Crime records show a 50 per cent increase in child marriages last year. The Delhi University Students’ Union (DUSU), India’s largest elected students’ union, has tried a three-pronged strategy to keep itself relevant during the pandemic, its president, Akshit Dahiya of the RSS-backed ABVP, said. “The DUSU has held leadership summits with Union ministers and luminaries from different fields. It has also led protests against exams, and organised volunteers for lockdown relief,” Dahiya said. “Student activism and leadership has been affected because of the pandemic. DU students from all over India used to interact with each other and learn each other’s cultures and languages. From the elections, fresh leaders emerged.... Some 2,500 to 3,000 students used to contest for posts in the DUSU and the college unions, and more than 2 lakh used to vote.” Members of the CPIML Liberation’s All India Students’ Association were booked for violating the epidemic restrictions on gatherings when they recently held a demonstration demanding the reopening of colleges in Delhi. Last year, several JNU and Jamia students were arrested for protesting against the new citizenship regime. The crackdown has led to new modes of protest. Delhi University postponed its exams in May after an online campaign by Arya Ray, a theatre personality and BA English student at the Sri Venkateswara College. “Students and their families were suffering from Covid. Let alone the mental trauma, it was physically impossible for many to write their exams. As it is, online learning has excluded many who do not have the required facilities. DU was not going to budge, so some of our teachers told us to do all we can,” Ray, who does not belong to any political student group, said. “There is only so much that online protests can achieve without activity on the ground…. There is comparatively more freedom of expression online right now. As this exclusionary process of online learning continues, there are more reasons for outrage.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
26-09-2021||West Bengal||CP(I)M, police clash near Mamata's home after cops stop campaigning||The CPI(M)'s Bhowanipore bypoll candidate Srijib Biswas got engaged in a scuffle with the police on Sunday after he was stopped from campaigning on the road that leads to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's residence. Senior CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty, who was accompanying Biswas, said they have every right to campaign among the voters of the area but were being unlawfully prevented by the police. As the CPI(M) leaders and supporters argued that they have the necessary permission, the police said that the candidate and four others can only enter the road together as per the rules. "Mamata BanerjeeBent," Chakraborty told reporters after being stopped at the entrance of the road in the Kalighat area. CPI(M) candidate Biswas, Chakraborty and three others were later allowed to campaign in the Harish Chatterjee Street area. Last week, BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal and the party's state president Sukanta Majumdar also got engaged in a war of words with the police after being stopped from campaigning in the area. The police had then said that they did not have vaccination certificates and were trying to breach a high-security zone. Mamata is the Trinamul Congress candidate in the bypoll, scheduled to be held on September 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||TMC ‘real Congress’, says party mouthpiece||The Trinamul Congress on Saturday mounted another offensive against the Congress, calling itself the “Aashol (real) Congress” in the party mouthpiece. The headline in a Jago Bangla editorial is the seventh notable instance of attack on the Congress after Mamata Banerjee called on Sonia Gandhi in the presence of Rahul Gandhi on July 28. The eighth and ninth such instances also came within a few hours. In the evening, Mamata attacked the Congress twice in her public addresses for her Bhowanipore bypoll campaign. In her speeches at Collin Street and Shakespeare Sarani, Mamata accused the Congress of succumbing to the fear of victimisation by the BJP and striking secret deals every now and then. The editorial in Jago Bangla read: “The flag of the Congress heritage is today in the hands of Trinamul. This is the shomudro (sea). The pawchadoba (putrid small pond) is irrelevant today.” “Most Congress supporters have felt that Trinamul is the real Congress in Bengal. Rajiv Gandhi used to be affectionate towards this same Mamata Banerjee, used to indulge her…. The Congress of today is unsuccessful, disoriented…. The days of resting on the laurels of history are over. The holy war now is on the basis of performance on the ground,” it added. “Whoever is still in the Congress, is welcome in Trinamul. Even in the case of Delhi, that is the tendency,” the editorial said. The persistent and seemingly unprovoked attacks have prompted questions on Trinamul’s intentions towards pan-India Opposition unity. Mamata has been urging non-BJP forces across the country to close ranks against the BJP in good time, much ahead of the crucial Lok Sabha polls of 2024. Jago Bangla is handled largely by Trinamul national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s office, with inputs from Mamata, since its relaunch as a daily on July 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans Tiger Reserve to open from October 1 for tourists||The Sunderbans Tiger Reserve will be thrown open to tourists from October 1, with only one condition. All adult tourists must be vaccinated with at least one dose against Covid-19. Over half a dozen camps in the eco-tourism chapter of the tiger reserve had been closed in March this year following the outbreak of the second wave, putting all tourism stakeholders of the area, including guides and boatmen, in economic jeopardy. “Under government orders, all forest camps in the Sunderbans tiger reserve will be opened to tourists from October 1. The only condition for adults is they need to have at least the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine,” said Jones Justin, deputy field director of the STR. Senior forest officials said they had taken measures, including training guides and boatmen, to ensure awareness about Covid safety protocols. “All tourists must follow Covid protocols. Wearing masks is mandatory visiting forest camps. We have sanitised all the camps and our staff are fully vaccinated,” said a forester. All 55 guides registered with the tiger reserve and over 100 boatmen, have been given both Covid doses. “Boatmen and resort owners will check if all tourists, except children, have received one vaccine at least. We have held meetings with all stakeholders reminding them of the importance of Covid protocols. Boatmen have been asked not overcrowd to their vessels,” he added. Tourists to the Sunderbans mainly visit forest camps on several islands, including the Sajnekhali sanctuary, Dobanki, Jhinkhali, Jharkhali and Bali. The sole animal rescue centre where sick tigers and crocodiles are kept for treatment will be closed to tourists. Sources said at least 10,000 people, including boatmen and owners of homestays or resorts were facing huge financial losses since the reserve closed its camps in March 2021. “We are facing a huge loss. But now we are hopeful of getting a good number of tourists around the Pujas and this will help us survive,” said Monoranjan Sarkar, the owner of a homestay in Jharkhali of South 24-Parganas. Officials said guides at the Sunderbans were facing the biggest financial loss. “Our income became zero after the camps got shut for Covid,” said guide Usha Sankar Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 762 more Covid infections, 11 deaths||Bengal on Saturday logged 762 new Covid-19 cases, 766 recoveries and 11 deaths. Active Covid-19 cases fell by 15 to 7,674 on Saturday in an unchecked drop of 97 days. Bengal now has 2.6 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the highest number of such cases. Calcutta logged 137 new infections and North 24-Parganas 127, the only two of Bengal’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Sixteen districts reported zero deaths on Saturday. Calcutta reported two deaths and North 24-Parganas three. The state’s recovery rate is 98.31 per cent, the highest ever this pandemic, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.75. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.86 per cent on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.66 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.39 lakh recoveries and 18,727 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government to provide Rs 2,000 a month to each Covid orphan||The Bengal government will provide a monthly aid of Rs 2,000 to all children who have become orphans owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Ananya Chakraborti Chatterjee, the chairperson of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR), who was here on Saturday, said: “Data indicates so far around 3,400 children have become orphans in the state because of the pandemic. It has been decided that each will get Rs 2,000 as monthly assistance. We are taking steps to ensure they can continue with their studies and are properly taken care of by their relatives.” Among these, some have lost both parents to the pandemic. Others had lost one parent earlier and the other died owing to Covid-19. The WBCPCR, sources said, is hastening the process of conferring legal guardianship on relatives with whom the children are staying. Respective child welfare committees and district child protection departments will monitor the progress of these children and see to it that they are being well looked after by relatives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling gears up for rap battle in unique musical event at Glenary’s||The hills are set to witness a battle royale of lyrics, music and wits. The Darjeeling Initiative and the Edwards Foundation, two social organisations from Darjeeling, and the Artists of Darjeeling (AOD) have decided to organise the first ever “freestyle rap battle” in this hill town next month. The focus of the event is to connect with youths and spread the message on the ills of drug abuse. “The first ever freestyle rap battle will be held at Buzz (a pub) in Glenary’s on October 8 and there is prize money to be won,” said Praggya Lama, a well-known musician in the Nepali music industry. In a freestyle rap battle, a concept in the music world that started in the 1980s, an impromptu musical piece is played by the organisers and participants have to “battle” each other through clever lyrics and wordplay. Focus is on the rapper’s improvisational skills. It is considered shameful to recite pre-written or memorised rap during a freestyle battle. “Such contests have not been held in the hills but many youths are taking up this genre. We wanted to give due recognition to this genre and provide a platform to talented youths,” said Arbind Subba, member of Darjeeling Initiative. In freestyle rap battle, many believe that a large part of winning depends on how an audience responds to a rapper. The winner is, however, judged by a panel of judges. “We invite all to participate in the event as our motto is to spread awareness on the ills of drug abuse,” said Subba. Forms for the event will be distributed at Glenary’s starting Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||No leave for Bengal government employees till October 5||The Mamata Banerjee government has cancelled leaves of all government employees till October 5, put all PWD engineers on alert and set up a unified control room to deal with the possible heavy rainfall next week. Sources in Nabanna said the state government was not taking any chances as heavy rainfall is likely to hit Bengal again and could coincide with the bypolls at Bhowanipore scheduled on September 30 where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting. “The first target is that all vulnerable people should be moved to safe places. Moreover, we want to ensure that preparations for the bypolls are not affected,” said a source. The combined control room includes representatives of all related state government departments, including disaster management, Calcutta Police, Calcutta Municipal Corporation, PWD, power and health. “The CMC will send its force whenever waterlogging is reported. The disaster management department will send rescue team if anyone is trapped,” said a senior official. The PWD has asked its engineers to intensify inspection of vulnerable roads, bridges and approach roads. Engineers across the state have been asked to initiate immediate steps to restore damaged roads and bridges.The PWD has made it clear that more funds will be available for repairs in case cost exceeds the limit of funds released for maintenance or minor jobs. The state government has also cancelled leaves of all government employees till October 5 as it is apprehended that the government might have to work round the clock to repair the damage that could occur owing to heavy rainfall. “It is vital to repair damages before Pujas. We need to ensure all preparations for the Bhowanipore bypolls are in place even if heavy rainfall occurs,” said a senior official. Weather alert According to a message sent to district magistrates from Nabanna on Saturday evening, the cyclone likely to make a landfall between Odisha and Andhra Pradesh coast on September 26 may not impact Bengal much. But heavy rain is expected from Saturday night in Bengal’s coast. The other cyclone likely to hit Odisha and Bengal coast on September 28 may impact the area between Gosaba and Sagar Islands. Heavy rain is likely in Bengal between September 27 and 29. District magistrates and commissioners have been asked to evacuate people in low-lying areas by September 27 morning. Integrated control rooms should be made operational immediately. Irrigation department must deploy engineers in vulnerable areas and repair damaged embankments, if required. The district officials have been asked to keep enough water pouches, dry food and tarpaulin in stock to help people in distress and run relief camps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Two ‘murders’ in South Dinajpur and Malda||One Anup Sarkar, 50, of village Sadhuhar in South Dinajpur, was allegedly strangled and his body hung from a tree on Friday. Homemaker Tahera Bibi, 44, was found bludgeoned to death at her home in Jadupur in Malda’s Englishbazar on Saturday. Police have detained Anup’s wife Kanchana and are in search of one Imel Hansda, suspected of having an affair with her. In Tahira’s case, police suspect her husband Khalil Sheikh killed her. He is absconding. Police said the way the body was hanging did not look like suicide. In Tahera's case, sources said she fought with husband Khalil Sheikh on Friday evening. Police suspect she was bludgeoned. Heavy objects with blood stains have been found at the spot. Khalil has fled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Five held with gold bars worth over Rs 3 crore in Malda||A team of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence seized gold bars weighing 6.172kg estimated at Rs 3.15 crore from Keshtopur village located near Bangladesh border in Malda on Friday. Five persons have been arrested in this connection. On Saturday, the quintet, residents of South Dinajpur district, were produced in a court here and remanded in jail custody for 14 days. The bars were supposed to be smuggled to Bangladesh, DRI sources said. On Friday, the team arrested a person from Kestopur, located under Englishbazar police station. “Based on the information spilled by him, four others were arrested and the gold bars were seized,” the sources said. The arrested quintet have been identified as Akhil Moral, Ashish Kumar Dutta, Uttam Kumar Dutta, Dipesh Kumar Ghosh and Atul Das. In Dhaprahat of Cooch Behar district, the BSF on Friday detained two Bangladeshi nationals after they infiltrated in India. Sabina Khatun and Farzana Akhter Eama, who hail from Gopalpur and Brahmanbaria districts of Bangladesh, have revealed that they were on their way to Bangalore for jobs. Three cell phones and some Bangladeshi currency have been seized from them. In another incident, the BSF nabbed a suspected Bangladeshi smuggler at Hilli in South Dinajpur on Saturday. Md. Abdul Malek, a resident of Dinajpur district of the neighbouring country, was held while he was trying to cross the border. He has been handed over to the Hilli police station, the BSF sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Centre blocked my Rome trip for World Peace Conference: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee disclosed on Saturday that the Centre denied her permission to visit Rome for a World Peace Conference in October. “The central government sent us a letter today (Saturday). They have denied political clearance. Why? Is it not right for the chief minister to go?” Mamata told a campaign meeting in Bhowanipore. Sources later said the state government received a one-line letter from a joint secretary in the external affairs ministry that the event was not commensurate with the status of a chief minister for participation. The Pope, the Grand Imam of al-Azhar of Cairo, the German Chancellor and the Italian Prime Minister are among the other invitees. Mamata was invited by Marco Impagliazzo, the president of the Community of Sant’Egidio, a Catholic association in Rome. She was the only Indian invited to the event. Mamata said the Centre was “jealous” of her and hence insulted her.  “Italy gave us special permission for this huge peace conference and brotherhood. Otherwise India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh are banned in Italy owing to Covid,” the chief minister said. Mamata referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ongoing US tour.  “No one can go to Europe, America, Britain or anywhere else because Covaxin is not recognised by WHO, but our Prime Minister went on a special permission…. We are not against the Prime Minister’s visit, he needs to go at times…. But why didn’t you let me represent (the nation)?” she asked. “The nation’s pride was associated with this tour. All religions will be represented at the meeting. You only speak about Hindus…. I was invited as a Hindu, why didn’t you allow me? You say so much about the Hindu dharma. Jealousy. Just jealousy,”  Mamata added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
26-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore Junction||Bhowanipore would be knitting its brows in disapproval right now, that is if it were a person instead of a para. To be spoken of in the same breath as a gram! To be referred to like a mere punctuation — ahead of Bhowanipore, X resigns, Y kicked upstairs. There’s that thing Trinamul’s Abhishek Banerjee said while campaigning. “Bh- for Bhowanipore. Bh- for Bharat. If we win Bhowanipore, we shall also win Bharat.” Bhowanipore. Bhowanipore. The air is frenzied. There is a sense that Bhowanipore has only just burst into public memory and is standing on the brink of history. As if to say that all this while it was a nowhere no-place with not a connection or story worth the boast. The earliest recorded history of Bhowanipore dates back to the 16th century. In Abul Kasem Rahimuddin’s book Hey Nagar Hey Mahanagar, the chapter on Bhowanipore begins with a layered and tangential story set in a village inhabited by potters, weavers and farmers. The protagonist is Harimohan Dom, a gunin or magical healer. The story has to do with Harimohan’s involvement with a Brahmin woman, the consequent scandal, her forced marriage with an elderly Brahmin, his death, her sati and Harimohan’s exile. “This happened in the first half of the 16th century,” writes Rahimuddin. In the second half, the aadi sebayat of Kalighat Bhubaneswar Chakraborty’s son-in-law Bhabanidas Bhattacharya settled down in Harimohan’s village and the place flourished through his sustained efforts. The village took Bhabanidas’s name and became Bhabanipur, or Bhowanipore as we say today. This is no exhaustive account of Bhowanipore and its who’s who through the ages. By way of time machine, I have a clutch of books and maps from an excellent research paper by Keya Dasgupta, titled “Genesis of a Neighbourhood: The Mapping of Bhabanipur”. “The original settlement took place along the Adi Ganga, the reason being primarily the ease of transport and trade,” writes Dasgupta. Among the first settlers were kansa baniks or brass merchants, sankha baniks or conch shell merchants, telis or oil merchants and patas or artists. Maps from 1833 onwards show localities named Kasaripara, Teliapara, Sankaripara, Patapara. A map from the early 20th century shows a gaggle of ghats — Babu Madhab’s Ghat, Madan Mohan Pal’s Ghat, Rani Rashmoni’s Ghat... A 1796 map has names of residents and landholders. Note the variety — Guburdan Kessary, Goulab Bibby, Manik Shaw, Nimmoo Tackoor, Rampersaud Doctor. There is a mosque too. The 1825 map is crowded with markets — Setaram Ghose Bazar, Gangaram Sircar Bazar, Sultan Mistry’s Bazar, Jugoobaboo’s Bazar. Jugoobabu-r Bazar, also referred to as Jadubabu-r Bazar — and not mistakenly — exists to date. The ground on which it stands belonged to Sir Robert Chambers, one of the first lawyers who joined the Supreme Court when it was established in 1774. One Joggeswar Laha bought the property and set up a bazar. Later, Rani Rashmoni purchased it for her grandson Jadunath Chaudhuri. The maps show blocks identified as Sailors Hospital, Soldiers Burial Ground, Insane Hospital. There were burial grounds too. Calcutta’s fond barefoot historian P.T. Nair notes that the “old Kasiabagan burial ground was given as a waqf to the Mohammedan community by Nawab Saadat Ali Khan Bahadur”. In 1817, Wazir Ali Khan, the Nawab of Oudh, was buried here, when he died after spending 17 years as a political prisoner in Fort William. But you wouldn’t know this; there is no sign of his grave today. This is what happened. John Woodburn, the man who eventually became the lieutenant governor of Bengal, never met Wazir Ali, but when he was posted in Oudh, he quelled a rebellion inspired by the memory of Wazir Ali’s heroism. The nawab had after all choreographed the “Massacre of Benares”, wherein some British officials had died. Woodburn destroyed the memorials associated with Wazir Ali in Oudh. Decades later, he caught sight of this grave in Calcutta. Woodburn was now fixated on destroying Wazir Ali’s final resting place. Woodburn died in 1902 and was laid to rest in the Lower Circular Road Cemetery but upon the continued efforts of his protegees, the Muslim burial ground was razed and, in 1915, Woodburn Park came into being. In the later part of the 19th century, Bhowanipore came to be the abode of many people from the legal profession as well as many doctors. Sambhunath Pandit, the Kashmiri Pandit who was the first Indian to become judge of Calcutta High Court in 1863, lived here. Ashutosh Mukherjee’s father Ganga Prasad Mukherjee was a medical practitioner who settled here in the 1860s. Jagadananda Chatterjee too was a man of law. Rahimuddin writes that in 1876, Prince of Wales Albert Edward paid a visit to a Jagadananda in Bokulbagan. Prince Albert had an outrageous request — he wanted to meet the women of the household. Chatterjee was greedy to please, and obliged. Bhowanipore and the rest of Calcutta, however, remained scathingly critical of this violation of social mores. The satirist Hemchandra wrote: “Well done Bhowanipore, well done/For the spectacle grand at Bakulbagan/One winter’s day in this, our land/You forsook the purdah for tea with an Englishman.” Elgin Road used to be Peepulputty Road. Chittaranjan Das’s parents shifted here from Pataldanga Road, and Das was enrolled as a student at the London Missionary Society’s Institution here. According to the 1915 Calcutta Street Directory, at No. 4 Elgin Road lived Soumendranath Tagore, grand-nephew of Rabindranath Tagore and leader of the Revolutionary Communist Party of India. At No. 28 lived a Byomkesh, not Bakshi but Chakraborty; and No. 34 belonged to modyo bikreta or spirit vendor Rakhal Chandra Saha. House No. 38/1 belonged to the Raja of Munger and next door at 38/2 lived Janaki Nath Bose, advocate and father of Sarat Chandra and Subhas Chandra Bose. Subhas grew up in this house and it is from here that he slipped away one January night in 1941 only to resurface in Berlin. The 1920s saw a lot of Sikhs in the transport business settle here. Shortly after, Gujaratis arrived. According to the 1931 Census of India, there were 4,713 Sikhs in the city, three times their number in 1921, and “very nearly half of them are found in Bhowanipore”. The 1891 census report of Calcutta states there were 715 Gujarati-speaking people in the city. Bhowanipore is today synonymous with Uttam Kumar. Santosh Ghosh, who is a photographer with The Telegraph, remembers taking a photograph of “Dadabhai” and his wife Gouri Debi at their family home on Girish Mukherjee Road one Lakshmi Puja. But way before the mahanayak, it was home to actor Ahindra Choudhury. The ancestors of actor Ranjit Mallick put down roots here. Bediapara Road was named after Harish Mukherjee, editor of the English weekly Hindoo Patriot. During the indigo crisis, Mukherjee helped the ryots or tenant farmers by drafting petitions and memorials, providing food and protection. His house at Bhowanipore was an asylum for them. In 1860, the indigo planters brought criminal and civil suits against him for this and shortly after his death the house was attached and auctioned off. But it is another street named after another Harish that is the seat of high drama. 30-B Harish Chatterjee Street is the address of Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee. I bring out the Bagchi time machine, go back a hundred years. No sign of the address I am looking for. Between 30/1 held by Haridas and C.C. Pal and the Kalighat High School at 31 flows a humdrum street. I run a finger down the page of Calcutta directory and find a line in parenthesis. It reads: “Here runs a nameless street”. Bhowanipore has always been a favoured address of History. And now for the bypoll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
26-09-2021||North East||Assam: Police shooting during eviction drive triggers questions||The numbing sight of a photographer stomping on a motionless Maynal Hoque in Assam’s Darrang district on Thursday has overshadowed another feature of the video: the manner in which uniformed men are firing at civilians with the stated objective of restoring public order. In the video, the content of which has not been disputed yet, Hoque, one of the two victims of the police firing during the eviction drive in a minority-dominated settlement, can be seen in hot pursuit of two policemen and the photographer hired by the district administration to record the displacement operation in Dhalpur. Wielding a stick, Hoque, 28, is seen hurtling himself towards a posse of Assam police. In the melee, a policeman has a clear shot and he appears to be taking aim at the upper part of Hoque’s body. As several shots can be heard, it is not clear whose bullets hit Hoque. The video later shows a red stain on his chest and a bleeding wound in his left leg close to the ankle. From the video, it would appear that while some policemen may have aimed at his the leg, someone else shot him in the chest. Shakh Farid, 12, the other firing victim, had a wound in his chest, said a resident of Dhalpur. Hoque’s first name was initially reported as Moinul but it is spelt Maynal in his Aadhaar card. The police brutality that follows after Hoque falls to the ground is inexplicable. Just before the photographer indulges in his diabolic act, some of the policemen can be seen surrounding the wounded and fallen Hoque and raining nearly 20 baton blows on him. One policeman takes deliberate steps towards the motionless Hoque, lifts his baton high above his head and lands a blow with all his might. The responses do not match the expectations from a uniformed law-enforcement agency if its principal task was to restore order with the minimum use of lethal force. Firing by multiple policemen to incapacitate a single protester armed with a stick appears difficult to justify. Darrang SP Sushanta Biswa Sarma, younger brother of Assam chief minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma, told The Telegraph that the police had displayed maximum restraint after the situation turned volatile. “When they attacked us, we retaliated in self-defence as per protocol. There were around 4,000 people against 300 policemen.” Imtiaz Hussain, a lawyer, told this newspaper: “Instead of overpowering the man and arresting him as per law, the video clearly shows the bullet was aimed at his chest and then 15-20 policemen beat the wounded man. The beastly acts of the policemen and the photographer reflect the hatred injected deep into the general public by the communal politics of the ruling party in the past six to seven years. The Assam police seem unequipped to deal with such circumstances. They should be properly trained.” Hussain is the general secretary of the All Assam Minorities Students’ Union, which has been seeking rehabilitation of the eviction-affected people and a probe by a sitting high court judge into the Dhalpur incident. The state government has announced a probe by a retired judge. The way the police opened fire is drawing comment at a time “encounter” deaths have clocked a spurt in Assam, particularly since the BJP-led government began its second term in May. Around 26 suspected militants or criminals have been killed while trying to escape from police custody. Over 40 have been injured. Paresh Malakar, educationist and general secretary of the Axom Nagarik Samaj, said the police response in Dhalpur was against all “civilised” notion of policing. “The group of policemen should have been able to disarm the man in the video and take him into custody. The footage shows the man was actually killed and there was a man jumping on him in front of the police. How can you explain this barbarous act?” Malakar asked. He added: “Since the authorities have condemned the act of the photographer, it is expected they will also look into the police’s ability to anticipate and react during crises. What happened was against any civilised notion of policing. They cannot be trigger-happy.” The photographer, identified as Bijay Shankar Baniya, has since been arrested by the CID. He was sent to 14 days’ judicial custody on Friday. In a memorandum to governor Jagdish Mukhi, Congress state president Bhupen Kumar Borah and CLP leader Debabrata Saikia sought exemplary punishment for the photographer and the police personnel involved in the incident. They urged the chief minister to maintain sanity in the police force. On September 14, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had directed the Assam DGP to submit an action-taken report within four weeks on a complaint accusing the police of being on an “encounter spree”. A former DGP said there was no bar on the police resorting to firing but that should be the last option. “Everything depends on the ground situation and the officers on the ground. First you try to control the situation by using the lathi, tear gas and, if these are not working, and if there is a threat to life and property, you resort to firing. One should not go by the video alone. Wait for the inquiry report,” he said. Chief minister Sarma said in Guwahati on Saturday that a group of people had collected about Rs 28 lakh from Dhalpur residents in the past few months to stop the eviction but mobilised local residents when they failed to halt the eviction. He said the government had the names of six people involved in the Dhalpur unrest. He iterated that the entire footage of the Dhalpur incident should be seen before jumping to any conclusion, adding that the police team had been attacked first. Sarma said there was evidence to suggest the involvement of the Popular Front of India (PFI) in the unrest. He said a PFI team had visited Dhalpur a day before the incident to provide relief to those affected by the eviction. The state government had earlier blamed the PFI for the violence that rocked Guwahati during the anti-CAA protests in 2019. Sarma said the state government had already requested the Centre to ban the PFI. Assam PFI general secretary Robiul Hussain dismissed the charges and welcomed the probe ordered by the government into the incident. He said the PFI was an NGO that worked for the empowerment of the backward sections of society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
26-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: A dish served hot||The war against the coronavirus has not been won. Consequently, what the Homo sapiens — an ingenious species wired to survive — seem to be concentrating on is winning the smaller battles. Given the gargantuan size of the human ego, these triumphs have been christened with a singular title: ‘revenge phenomenon’. So contemporary society, ravaged by Covid, is now replete with various kinds of righteous acts of vengeance against the virus. Affluent families lucky enough to have survived in comfortable cocoons go out, whenever there is a dip in the positivity rate, on what is now known as ‘revenge tourism’. There is the ‘revenge dinner’, too, for the patrons tired of the mundane daal-bhaat-torkari food regime, brightening up the mood of restaurateurs. The lovelorn are at it too: ‘revenge dating’ scorched the summer of 2021, says a prominent dating website. Yet, humanity’s relationship with retaliation has been markedly tempestuous. The avenger need not be an angel. Indeed, Francis Bacon, the English philosopher, described revenge as a kind of ‘wild justice’, acts that lie outside the realm of refined, redistributive justice. It is possible that Bacon’s condemnation was directed at the primitive disposition of this kind of justice. History bears evidence of its primeval nature. The pre-industrial, feuding society embraced honour as the core of community life and its members would not hesitate to protect honour by spilling blood. The evolution of modern jurisprudence can be traced to the moral — also philosophical and theological — condemnation of these transgressions. Yet, it cannot be denied that the fascination with revenge could not be snuffed out entirely. Postmodern societies often bloody their hands by dispensing extrajudicial justice. The Indian examples would include khap panchayats that are known for their role in killing men and women, usually inter-caste couples, in the name of honour. The Arts, too, are rich with the evidence of the triumph of recrimination. From Shakespeare’s Hamlet to Alexandre Dumas’s The Count of Monte Cristo to Charles Dickens’s Great Expectations, each work offers glimpses of the human proclivity for reprisal. Artemisia Gentileschi’s Judith Slaying Holofernes is a testament to visual arts’ enquiry into problematic versions of justice; even Mozart, that magisterial composer of light and melody, infused some of his operas with the dark shadow of revenge. The march of civilization mirrors a curious contradiction. Humanity moves forward but the journey is made possible because of received wisdom from the past. The glorification of revenge — it has added a degree of thrill to benign leisure activities — cannot simply be brushed aside as a quibble with semantics. In a world battling a deadly pandemic, the honour — ethics — bestowed upon vengeance is representative of a beguiling intersection of the primitive and the postmodern. But this convergence begets questions. Is mankind evolving or regressing? Is it moving forward or back?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
26-09-2021||Opinion||Photobombing death||The photographer jumping on a man shot dead by policemen in Assam on Thursday is a creature of two intersecting histories. The first is the history of State-sponsored majoritarianism, which in India generally and Assam particularly, is beginning to devolve into a form of fascism. The photographer knew that stomping on Muslims, dead or alive, was sanctioned by the zeitgeist. But he was also performing for the camera in a way that is the signature behaviour of this digital age. The clip that went viral is, in itself, an example of the ubiquity of cameras in our world. You first see the photographer stamp on the man. Immediately afterwards, a policeman hits the prone body with his lathi as if in corroboration. The photographer then knees the dead man, punches him and is ushered away by policemen. Another cameraman moves into the frame, inching up to the body to get a closer shot. Abruptly the stomping cameraman reappears. He takes a running jump and lands on the dead man with a bullet hole in his chest, overshoots and then returns to assault him. A policeman leads him away for a second time. That makes at least three camera persons embedded in the armed police party responsible for the evictions and the subsequent firing. And that’s not counting the cameras in the phones likely carried by everyone on the scene. If we didn’t live in a world where every other act gets videoed and turned into a home movie for someone’s delectation, the dead Muslim would likely still have been killed by the police but the photographer wouldn’t have done his ghoulish death dance: that was an act of performative depravity rooted in the idea of an audience. We have been here before. A few years ago, there was a video of middle-class men calmly beating ragged Dalit workers with metal slats and filming themselves in the act. The provocations on Indian news channels are forms of performative depravity, as are the political pronouncements of the more brazen representatives of the majoritarian right. But this sense that we are continuously performing for an imagined community of unseen eyes isn’t political; it’s a function of the coming together of phone cameras, cellular connectivity and social media. This does two things: one, it amplifies narcissism because people can share themselves and their doings online, instantly, and two, it creates a peculiar disjunction between their here-and-now, that is to say, their corporeal lives and their digital avatars. (It’s interesting that when we’re not online, we acknowledge in our minds that we are ‘offline’; our engagement with the physical world of taste and touch and smell is now described, by default, as a state of disconnection.) This increasingly gets people to do things in their off-line lives that they wouldn’t do otherwise, for the sake of their online personas. The person who walks up to the edge of a cliff to take the perfect selfie and falls off is only the most extreme example of this growing conviction that the physical world exists to supply us with props for our online lives. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the progressive socialist who represents New York’s 14th district in Congress, created a social media splash when she attended a swish gala at the Metropolitan Museum’s Costume Institute in a long white dress with ‘Tax the Rich’ emblazoned in red on its back. A pundit in a conservative British newspaper grudgingly conceded that right-wingers denouncing AOC for hypocrisy — swanning about with the rich and famous while railing against them — missed the point and misread her audience: she was using a real world ‘do’ as a platform to perform and get her message across to a larger audience online. This hyper-awareness of an audience is now existential: ‘I perform therefore I am.’ Everything we do, including eating meals cooked by others, is Instagram-able. I have a friend who constantly shares dreadful portraits of himself wearing his best ‘camera face’ with no self-consciousness because he clearly believes that there is no such thing as a bad ‘view’ or ‘share’ or ‘like’ or ‘follow’. They all count… literally. It’s pointless being superior about this because we are all implicated. In the old days of non-digital photography, when I sent off camera rolls for developing and then got the prints in the mail, I was always exasperated by the idiot pictures I had taken of the Qutub Minar or the Amber Fort because I didn’t figure in them. In my absence, they were just bad amateur postcards. Selfies pre-empt this problem; they foreground you, with the world assigned its proper place in the background as an anchoring detail. Selfies are like late-medieval paintings in European museums, when an exclusive focus on Christ or Mary gives way to pictures with landscapes worked into the composition, visible through casements but still dwarfed by its iconic subjects. Selfies have reached the same point in a reverse journey: Western art moved outward from the iconic image to the landscape; we are receding from pictures of the world around us into the voids of our nostrils. There is a banality to online narcissism because it reduces the world to your presence in it. Nothing matters, except being there and letting people know that you were there. This is what the photographer did: he photobombed a man’s death. We can see from his actions that he enthusiastically endorsed the police firing but approval wasn’t enough: he needed to be in the moment, in the frame. Narcissism in this degree is a useful example of the banality of evil. In the photographer’s mind, he jumped on a what, not a who, a prop, not a person. Narcissism is by definition auto-erotic, but the self-obsession that marks these lives is best described without euphemism: it is a masturbatory view of the world. What we see in that clip is political porn that will be endlessly ‘curated’ and shared by bigots and incels hunched over their screens. A long time ago, Gil Scott-Heron sardonically sang that the revolution will not be televised. The counter-revolution, though, will be shown in instalments, one vile video clip at a time. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
26-09-2021||Opinion||Poor Weather Friends||Five million doses of Covishield later, just when the world was easing into normalcy and opening up, the United Kingdom decided the vaccine manufactured in India was just not kosher. Travellers from India who have taken Covishield shots would be considered unvaccinated and have to self-isolate on arrival in the UK. Now, of course, that has changed. The self-isolation bit remains, but the air has been cleared about Covishield’s acceptability. Some believe it was the noise and talk of “reciprocal action” that did it, others say that the ‘R’ word with all its colonial baggage shamed them into it. The UK government has, of course, offered “dodgy certification” as the reason. And yet India is considered to be the “pharmacy of the world”. It is one of the largest vaccine manufacturers. The Serum Institute, Pune, that is AstraZeneca’s brown surrogate mama if you will, manufactures vaccines used in 170 countries. Vaccines for diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, BCG, measles, rubella, rabies, rotavirus, Hepatitis B… And according to PM Modi, earlier this year, India shared her coronavirus vaccine production with 95 countries and with UN peacekeepers. “Without India, there won’t be enough vaccines to save the world,” said Peter Piot, director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. The coronavirus has brought to the forefront the “First World’s” much altered but little advertised dependency on some dots in the “Developing World”. Between the old grandstanding and new dependence there is a tough balancing act to pull off. The UK’s vaccine double standards is possibly a symptom of that struggle. And so is all that double-speak by Potus. On one hand Mr Biden has unabashedly pursued the America First policy, preferred to hoard vaccines and raw materials through the darkest days of the pandemic. Even when the Ganges was choking with India’s dead, the Biden administration was thinking. Ned Price, the spokesperson for the US Department of State, went so far as to say, “It is not only in our interest to see Americans vaccinated, it’s in the interests of the rest of the world to see Americans vaccinated.” Oh Ned, when one is gasping for oxygen one can barely think. In any case, that was some months ago. Now, when things seem more under control for America, Biden has promised an “arsenal of vaccines” to the developing world while trying to pressure India into lifting its ban on vaccine exports. Only 18 per cent of India has been vaccinated thus far, but there is no India First policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
26-09-2021||Opinion||Lights! We need to see darkness||Please do not now say you did not know. Please spare us. Please seek no benefits accruing from doubt. You never had any doubts. And now I have none either. It was always going to end like this, in a downfall, or a falling down. A terrible falling down. We know how terrible, it is a falling down of all things and it is a falling down that does not stop. And it is not a falling alone, it is also a bringing down. What is falling is bringing all that’s in the way down. You can see it, can’t you? Too much? Don’t like it? Frightened? Wanted it but not this much of it? Well, the trouble is once you pull the plug, you don’t get to decide how much the plugholes will yield. But now that the plugs have been pulled and the plugholes are giving and you really have left yourself no option, get a drenching in the stuff you yearned to get drenched. And get a sense of what it feels like. You can already feel it, can’t you? Or smell it? No? You wish more of it to come down? More robust doses of it? Or you wished, there was a time, wasn’t there? When you fervently wished for this, prayed for this, cried for this, marched for this, screamed for this, paid for this, you were ready to pay any price for this. Such a thing it seems, this thing that you wished to deluge you. The more it comes down, the more it reveals of itself and of what it is around you, what it is that floats about you or what it is that you float in. The filth, among the first things that floats up when put to test: filth. You may have seen it bubble up and gurgle around and whoosh along or eddy in whirls. No? We tried, so you could clearly see. Even in the depths of the darkness of night, we gave you bolts of bright lightning, repeated ones. So you got a good look at it, as what you wished upon yourself. So the next time do consider what you wish for. You can be granted it and it can come to you and mess about with you in ways you never thought it would be able to. Some of you may want the overwhelming, the drowning, the sensation of being so whipped over time and time again, the staggering assault of it as if it were a sensation worthy of being invited and felt, but think. There are more folks than just you, and all folks may, you know, like being thrown. There’s bolts of light in the darkness yet, perhaps you can see. Greet the light, know the light, and bow to it: Har, har Mahadeb. When you’re up to your neck In all of this stinking muck Remember you had a role In bringing us to this hole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
26-09-2021||Opinion||With Channi here to stay, Sidhu will have to cool his heels||Fresh face The new chief minister of Punjab, Charanjit Singh Channi, has been caricatured as a puppet of Navjot Singh Sidhu. The Shiromani Akali Dal even advised Channi not to allow Sidhu to act like a “super CM”. This is an incorrect reading of both the Congress high command’s intention and ground realities. Rahul Gandhi has consciously empowered Channi with a long-term plan of creating a Dalit leader. He will reportedly be given the freedom and support to prove himself and there is no plan to dump him after the assembly election if the Congress retains power. Sidhu has his place in the Congress’s scheme of things, but the party would not like to put all its eggs in one basket, particularly after realizing how temperamental and uncompromising Sidhu can be. It can be safely predicted that Sidhu will have to cool his heels for much longer now because of the importance of the Dalit card that is expected to help the Congress narrative of social justice in other states as well. Dalit groups have welcomed the appointment as Channi is the only chief minister of Punjab from the scheduled castes. A group of Dalit activists met Rahul Gandhi in Delhi to thank him for the decision. The Congress leader also reiterated his commitment to empower the oppressed. Channi himself is a veteran politician with degrees in law and business management. Nobody should be surprised if he remains the Dalit face of the party for a long time to come. Quick wit Behind a stern exterior, PC Siddaramaiah has always been known to have a witty side. Recently, while engaged in a heated discussion in the state assembly, the leader of the Opposition failed to notice a soon-to-be wardrobe malfunction. The Congress state president and lawmaker, DK Shivakumar, sprang to his rescue by warning Siddaramaiah that his “panche” (dhoti) was about to come undone and fall. As he quickly tied the dhoti in place, Siddaramaiah quipped that he had gained four to five kilogrammes during his recovery from Covid-19 and his bigger paunch would not help hold the fabric in place. When a member from the treasury benches offered to help him tie the dhoti, Siddaramaiah said on a lighter note, “Since you are sitting on the other side, I will not ask you for help.” Waste of time It is that time of the year when the Bihar chief minister, Nitish Kumar, holds review meetings with various departments on pertinent issues on a regular basis. The other day, he held one on the law-and-order situation in the state, especially in the context of the approaching festive season. However, the word on the street is that ministers and officers are reportedly finding such meetings increasingly banal, more so in the light of similar instructions being repeated year after year. With crime in the state soaring high, and murders, rapes, kidnappings, and robberies becoming more frequent, people are wondering whether these meetings serve any purpose. “Nitishji stays very busy. He keeps doing samiksha (review) and bhiksha (begging),” taunted the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Tejashwi Yadav. Edged out Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar, dropped as ministers during the July reshuffle, seem to be trying their best to bounce back. The two have been showering praise on the prime minister, Narendra Modi, by lauding the achievements of his government. Both were heavyweight ministers until recently and now stand pushed to the margins. Whispers in the party corridors say that the chances of the two making a comeback are slim. “Modiji has moved ahead. He is building the next generation,” one leader remarked. Party leaders drew attention to the fate of another high-profile leader, Rajiv Pratap Rudy. Rudy, a Lok Sabha parliamentarian from Bihar, is now busy flying as a commercial pilot. Officially, he is a national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party but is rarely called to address press conferences. Many feel that these leaders may even be denied party nominations in 2024. Brief respite At a time when the Left Democratic Front government in Kerala is showing signs of weariness in its second term, the chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, received a rare compliment from a senior Congress leader. The Lok Sabha member, K Muraleedharan, compared the chief minister with his father, K Karunakaran, in the way both successfully catered to all communities. With the Left government struggling to contain the damage caused by a Catholic bishop who accused the Muslim community of orchestrating ‘love jihad’ and ‘narcotic jihad’ against non-Muslims, Muraleedharan’s comments came as a relief. According to him, the only difference is that while his father dealt with the communities directly, Vijayan deploys dedicated teams for the job. Old habits At the stroke of two every afternoon, a majority of the IAS and IPS officers strut out of their offices in Patna and head home for a two-hour-long lunch and siesta. Many of the subordinate officers also follow suit, bringing work to a standstill at the headquarters. Some have pointed out that such an office culture would only be tolerated in a state like Bihar. Asked about the habit, a senior IAS officer said, “I think I inculcated it from our seniors... they got it from their superiors who aped the ICS officers during the raj era. I guess the [British] felt their energy sapped in these humid conditions.” He could not tell why the Indians felt the same. Footnote Last week, the National People’s Party-led Meghalaya government appointed the BJP state unit president, Ernest Mawrie, as adviser to the chief minister, Conrad Sangma. He will advise Sangma on issues related to DoNER, tourism, and animal husbandry and veterinary departments. This decision caught the eye because Mawrie, in spite of the BJP being a part of the coalition government, has been a vocal critic of the ruling dispensation. Who says criticism doesn’t pay?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
26-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: How could pistols be smuggled into a court room?||Empty vessels Sir — When an author gains a level of popularity, people often find it difficult to speak up against him or her. Haruki Murakami — the author’s new book is making quite a splash — is a perfect example of this. His writing skills notwithstanding, Murakami’s female characters only orbit around his solitary male protagonists to sleep with them as a cure for their loneliness, provide emotional relief, or help them come to some sort of existential understanding. These sexualized and self-sacrificing supporting roles make the women nothing more than vessels of liberation for male characters. Kushali Shah, Ahmedabad Lax security Sir — The bizarre incident at Delhi’s Rohini court complex was the stuff of fiction right out of a Bollywood thriller (“Shootout at Delhi court kills 3”, Sep 25). Two gangsters garbed in lawyer’s apparel entered a courtroom and pumped bullets into an undertrial thug quite close to the judge’s seat. The two were later killed by the police. This raises questions about the security of sensitive areas like the court. A thorough probe into the incident must be carried out at the earliest. How could pistols be smuggled past the security check at the entry of the court premises? Responsibility must be affixed and corrective action taken immediately. K. Nehru Patnaik, Visakhapatnam Sir — The scenes from the Delhi court were disheartening. Although policemen showed agility in shooting down the two assailants, their presence inside a courtroom with weapons reveals the security lapses at the court premises. It is especially shocking given the presence of metal detectors, scanners and CCTV cameras at the Rohini court complex. The authorities must investigate the matter. The failure of police intelligence must be probed too. Why did they not anticipate such an incident if they were working on the case and knew that the gangster being produced in court had a price on his head? The law-keepers must learn a lesson from this shootout and ensure that such an event does not take place ever again anywhere in the country. Jayanta Datta, Hooghly Sir — The Rohini court complex shootout should come as an eye-opener. However, the police deserve to be commended for neutralizing the assailants before they could do more harm. Still, the brazen nature of the Delhi case has sent shockwaves across the nation. It revealed security lapses and threats to the lives of judges and lawyers — those who work hard to ensure the timely delivery of justice. K.V. Seetharamaiah, Bangalore Sir — The Delhi shootout was a tragedy waiting to happen. Anyone who has visited a lower court in India is aware of the lax security in the area. If the security establishment does not pull up its socks, this incident will set a bad example that others will follow. More important, in a country where the police shoot down gangsters at whim without waiting for justice to take its course, such behaviour from criminals can hardly come as a surprise. Aditya Bannerjee, Gurgaon Parting shot Sir — Kim Yo-jong, the influential sister of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, has said that they are willing to resume talks with the South if it ends its “hostile policies”. This sudden statement has taken the diplomatic world, and indeed even people outside it, by storm. This statement is even more surprising given that just this month, North Korea tested a 1,500 kilometre long-range missile. Earlier, Kim Yo-jong had sent a warning to the president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, to not cause a stink. Around the same time North Korea blew up a joint liaison office with the South near Kaesong. These do not seem like signs of rapprochement. Kim Yo-jong’s statement is thus suspicious. Has North Korea’s economic situation finally forced its hand or is this a trick? Jang Bahadur Singh, Jamshedpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad Olympic Association president re-elected||Syed Matloob Hashmi has been re-elected as president while Ranjeet Keshri was re-elected as General Secretary for a period of four years of Dhanbad District Olympic Association after the elections and Annual General Meeting held on Sunday. The event was held at The Reet of Dhanbad during which three new district sports associations including, hockey association, Table Tennis and Fencing Associations were also granted affiliation. Hashmi who is also the former general secretary of Jharkhand Olympic Association secured 36 votes out of 52 polled on Sunday defeated B.C. Thakur who secured 16 votes while Ranjeet Keshri also secured the same number of 36 votes against his opponent Asit Sahay who was polled 16 votes. Elections were held through ballot on altogether 21 posts including one each of president, general secretary and treasurer; six posts of vice president; four posts of joint secretary; three posts each of senior Vice President and executive member and two posts of additional secretary. Talking to Telegraph Online, Hashmi who is also the acting president of Jharkhand Olympic Association said, “Our priority during the next tenure is to reach to the remotest corner of the district to  bring out sporting talents with the help of our over 30 affiliated associations, including three which were granted affiliation today.” “We will be also concentrating on organizing the district Olympic Games regularly in order to provide a platform to talented players to showcase their talents and also to create a sporting environment in the district,” said Hashmi. “We organised a series of events during the first 2 ½ years of last tenure of DDOA but due to Covid constraints there was some break in series of events which will again resume under the new committee very soon,” said Ranjit Keshri. “In order to reach remote rural areas of the district we will try to hold the sports events in these areas,” said Keshri and added that the elections were held peacefully under the observation of Bipin Kumar Singh of Jharkhand Olympic Association. Meanwhile on three post of Vice President, Md Zubair Alam, Pramod Kumar Kapoor and Reza Ishtiyaz were elected while on six spots of Vice president, Madan Kumar Roy, Anupam Mahata, Santosh Kumar Singh, Kiran Rani Nayak, Kallol Samanta and Sunil Kumar Pattnaik were elected. Pawan Kumar Burnwal was elected as Treasure of DDOA while Suraj Prakash Lal and Manoj Kumar Sharma were elected as two additional secretaries. On the three posts of executive members Kusum Mahto, Ranjeet Kumar Yadav and Shiv Kumar Mahto were elected while on the four posts of joint secretaries Pratush Kumar Rao, Pappu Kumar, Syed Wasim Hashmi and Pankaj Kumar were elected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Gulab to bring rain to Jharkhand||The India Meteorological Department on Sunday afternoon issued an alert of rain in several parts of Jharkhand due to the impact of cyclonic storm Gulab which originated from the Bay of Bengal and is expected to make a landfall between Odisha and Andhra Pradesh coasts around midnight. The cyclonic storm which lay centred about 160km east of Kalingapatnam (Andhra Pradesh) and 125km southeast of Gopalpur (Odisha) this afternoon will begin its landfall process late in the evening, said India Meteorological Department in its latest bulletin. An alert of heavy rain has been sounded in both neighbouring Odisha and Andhra Pradesh due to the cyclone's landfall while moderate rain forecasts have been issued for Jharkhand and Bengal. Several districts in southern and central Jharkhand were expected to experience moderate rain during the next 24 hours, said weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Ranchi Met Centre also issued an alert of thunder and lightning accompanied by rain during the next 24 hours. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was passing through Jharsuguda in Odisha and was stretched till West Central Bay of Bengal. Head of Ranchi Met Centre, Abhishek Anand said an alert of heavy rain was also issued in Jharkhand on September 29 and 30 due to formation of another low pressure system over the Bay of Bengal. "A cyclonic circulation is building up over east central Bay of Bengal. Under its influence a low pressure area is going to form over the Bay of Bengal and reach coastal areas of West Bengal around September 29. This will result in heavy showers in Jharkhand and Bengal around mid-week," said Anand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Charging states for deployment of central forces illogical, says Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren has raised objections to the Centre charging states for deployment of central forces for anti-Naxalite operations, noting that the problem of left wing extremism could not be considered to be only a state problem. Speaking at a meeting on left wing extremism and issues of security convened by Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Sunday, the Jharkhand chief minister demanded that all such bills be halted with immediate effect. “I am told that the Union home ministry has so far sent bills to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore to Jharkhand for deploying central security forces to fight extremists. It doesn’t seem pragmatic and logical because the problem of left wing extremism is as much a challenge for the Centre as it is for any state. In such a situation, the need of the hour is to uphold the principle of cooperative federalism. It is my humble request that these bills be written off, and not sent to states in future," he said. Hemant also expressed concern over reduction in special central assistance (SCA) funds to LWE districts of Jharkhand. “The government of India has recently cut down SCA funds to the state by reclassifying only 8 districts as most LWE affected against the earlier count of 16. Such sudden discontinuation of schemes may be an opportunity for LWE organizations to resurge,” he said. He called for extension of such assistance for at least another five years. Outlining the current scenario in Jharkhand, Hemant said that because of the joint effort of the state and central governments, hardcore extremists were only limited to four regions, namely, Parasnath Pahar, Budha Pahar, tri-junction of Seraikela-Khunti-Chaibasa in Kolhan and a few areas along the Bihar border. He appealed to his counterpart from Chhattisgarh, seeking his cooperation in holding joint operations to flush out Naxalites from border areas. “Large parts of Burha Pahar are in Chhattisgarh. So far, no major operation has been conducted against Naxalites in this region. This can be possible only with the help and support of Chhattisgarh," he said. Hemant said incidents of Naxalite violence and casualties had come down. “In 2016, 196 naxal incidents were reported. But in 2020, the number was only 126. Similarly, against 61 civilian casualties in 2016, there qwere only 28 in 2020. A total of 85 police weapons, 13,432 rounds of bullets, 515 IEDs and 1,052 kg explosives were recovered from the beginning of 2020 till August 2021. This apart, we arrested 715 militants, including the most wanted ones , and killed 18 extremists,” he said. “From 2020 till August 2021, 27 dreaded extremists have surrendered,” he noted. Hemant said the Jharkhand government was planning to start the SAHAY scheme (Sports Action Toward Harnessing Aspiration of Youth) soon for LWE affected districts. “Under this scheme, youth and other people residing in these areas will be connected through various sporting activities to ensure  holistic development.” He also put forth a set of other demands, like a speedy approval for road project  proposals for 1843km in LWE areas to improve connectivity under various schemes. “This apart, 782 mobile towers were constructed in the state by the Government of India. The proposal to upgrade these towers from 2G to 4G and to install mobile towers at 1,052 new places is still pending approval,” he said. He also asked for hikes in MGNREGA wages and various pensions under social security schemes to improve the standard of living iof those living in LWE affected areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Trains cancelled, diverted for cyclone Gulab ||The Visakhapatnam-Tatanagar Special (08572) leaving Visakhapatnam on Sunday evening will remain cancelled as a precautionary measure in view of cyclonic storm Gulab, which is expected to make landfall in the Odisha coast around midnight. The Rourkela-Gunupur Special (08127) train was also cancelled on Sunday. The Gunupur-Rourkela Special (08128) will also remain cancelled on Monday. Several trains were diverted and rescheduled. Several trains will run on a diverted route via Kharagpur-Tatanagar-Jharsuguda and Bilaspur. The trains include Agartala-Bengaluru Cantt Special which left Agartala on Saturday night, and the Howrah-Secunderabad Special which left Howrah on Sunday morning. The Tatanagar-Ernakulam Special (08189) which left Tatanagar this morning will run on a diverted route via Jharsuguda-Bilaspur and Balharshah. Several trains including Howrah-Yesvantpur Special have been rescheduled to leave Howrah tomorrow instead of Sunday night. A South Eastern Railway spokesperson said that they might notify more changes in train services depending on the situation. "We have asked station authorities in our jurisdiction in Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha to be alert in view of the cyclone," said the spokesperson. Met department inputs suggest that the landfall process of cyclone Gulab will begin on Sunday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant leads all-party team to Shah, seeks caste census ||Chief minister Hemant Soren, leading an 11-member delegation of all parties including the Opposition, met Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday and handed over  a memorandum seeking caste based census in the upcoming nationwide population census. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Hemant said the Centre must take into consideration the growing demands from many quarters on this subject. “Caste based census is the need of the hour to be able to get a proper picture of the population index in the country so that one can frame plans and policies accordingly for overall development of the country,” he said. The Centre has, however, clarified it's opposition to the move in the form of an affidavit in Supreme Court. It said  it would not  include a headcount of other backward caste (OBCs) in the upcoming census. Among those present in the delegation were  BJP’s Prakash, state Congress president Rajesh Thakur and Congress legislature party leader Alamgir Alam, Ajsu-P chief Sudesh Mahto, RJD leader Satyanand Bhokta, CPI (ML) leader Vinod Singh, CPI leader  Bhuvneshwar Prasad Mehata, CPM leader Suresh Munda, Marxxist Community Centre leader  Arup Chatterjee and NCP's  Kamlesh Singh (NCP). In the three- page memorandum addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Hemant noted that the last census on caste lines was done in 1931 on the basis of which reservation to backward class was recommended by the Mandal Commission. But no caste census was conducted after Independence which has led to several anomalies while implementing  developmental schemes and policies for the socially and economic backward class. “In such a scenario, if we don’t conduct caste based census this time, then we will not be able to get the real picture of people of these  communities,” he said. Hemant also cited Article 340 of the Indian Constitution which allows for the formation of a commission exclusively for surveying  economically and socially weaker sections of society. “By conducting caste based census, we will be able to ensure compliance of this provision enshrined in the Constitution,” read the memorandum signed by all the visiting members. Later, state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon issued a statement saying the state government must now plan to conduct  its own OBC census in case the Centre continued to shy away from its responsibilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Hazaribagh business man murders wife, dumps body in Bihar’s Aurangabad||Hazaribagh: Sanjeev Singh, a well-known businessman from the city, mercilessly murdered his wife Puja Singh and dumped her dead body in a forest in Bihar’s Aurangabad district. Sanjeev's parents were not convinced with the sudden disappearance of their daughter-in-law Puja, and were seen enquiring about her. Finally, on Sunday morning, Sanjeev admitted having murdered his wife Puja with whom his relationship had soured in the recent months. According to him, he killed his wife two days back in Aurangabad. Following his confession, the businessman’s parents informed the superintendent of police Manoj Ratan Chouthe and made him surrender. A team of police officers then travelled to the spot in Aurangabad with Sanjeev, from where the body was recovered. An FIR lodged against him. Vishvendu Jaipuria Jamshedpur: A 28-year-old youth was killed on the spot as the bike he was riding was hit from behind by an unknown vehicle near Baug-e-Jamsheed school on Straight Mile Road on Sunday morning. The victim, later identified as Akaash Jwala was coming from the Northern Town end towards Sakchi at about 9 am when the mishap took place. The victim sustained grievous skull injuries as his head hit the road. A police party had, however, rescued the victim and rushed him to Tata Main Hospital, where the doctors on emergency duty declared him as brought dead. A resident of Devnagar in Sidhgora locality of the city, the victim was returning home somewhere from Bistupur when the mishap took place. He was without a helmet. OC, Bistupur thana, Vishnu Raut said, “We haven’t been able to ascertain the exact details of the accident. We are trying to collect CCTV footage so that the unknown vehicle responsible for the fatal mishap can be traced.” The OC further stated that as the Sonari-Sakchi road which passes through Jubilee Park continues to be closed in view of Covid-19 pandemic, all the vehicle-riders have to pass through the Straight Mile Road, thereby making the road both congested and mishap-prone. “As several vehicle-riders have to detour through the Straight Mile Road, the road through the Jubilee Park being closed, they tend to ride faster and recklessly, thus causing the mishaps,” said the OC. Significantly, a huge amount of blood had drained out from the victim's head during about 15 minutes that he lay on the road before being rescued by the police. Kumud Jenamani||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Three of a family hacked to death in Gumla on witchcraft allegations, 2 relatives held||Three members of a family were hacked to death in Loto village under Sadar police station in Gumla district, around 100 km from capital Ranchi late on Saturday night on suspicion of witchcraft. They were farmers by profession. Confirming the incident, Gumla police on Sunday said that two relatives of the deceased family have been held and further investigation into the case is underway. The deceased were identified as Bandhan Oraon, who was in his late 50s, his wife Samri Devi, and their daughter-in-law Basmati Devi. Basmati’s husband works as a labourer in Chennai while her two minor kids, who were sleeping during the incident are safe, said police. The incident occurred around 9 pm, said police adding that two persons—Bipta Oraon and Julu Oraon—nephews of the elderly couple—were held within hours. Gumla SDPO Manish Chandra Lal said that they have also recovered the murder weapon from their possession. “Prima facie, the incident seems to be related with witchcraft but we are also probing from all angles. The elderly couple after returning from the market were about to have their dinner when few people came to their house and launched an attack on them. First the elderly couple was hacked to death with a sharp edged tangi (traditional weapon) after which Basmati was killed fearing she would identify the culprits,” he said, adding that the names of Bipta and Julu surfaced during the initial probe after which police promptly nabbed them. Local sources claimed that Samri used to practice traditional healing (jhad-phuk) and many villagers often visited her for curing of the ailments. “Bipta and Julu were opposed to it. They also had a tiff with the family recently,” said a village man. Murders related to black magic or witchcraft continue to remain one of the biggest social ills in Jharkhand, mainly in tribal-dominated districts. In Gumla alone, at least over a dozen people were killed due to this in the last year. In February this year, five members of a family were killed in the Kamdara block in Gumla by an angry mob over suspicion of the deceased practicing black magic. Again in August, a 60-year-old Asur woman belong to a primitive tribes group was murdered in Bijapath village under the Chainpur police station area. In December last year, a woman was killed on the same charges in Koenara village under Sadar police station of this district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Fare hike protest disrupts service on Howrah-Mumbai line ||An agitation by local residents at Gidhni railway station, about 90 km away from Tatanagar, against recent fare hike in the daily Jhargram-Dhanbad Passenger train disrupted train services on the Howrah- Mumbai main line for over three hours on Saturday. The agitators also demanded introduction of more trains between the two destinations - Jhargram and Dhanbad and improvement in passenger amenities at Gidhni station. Over 100 people gathered at the Gidhni railway station and started the agitation at 7am by squatting on the tracks. According to railway sources, the protesters started gathering at Gidhni  station early morning to participate in the agitation. Several trains had to be detained. The Tatanagar- Howrah Steel Superfast Express was detained at Chakulia railway station while the Howrah- Titlagarh Ispat Superfast Express and Barbil- bound Jan Shatabdi Express were detained for over one hour at Kharagpur and Jhargram railway stations. The Steel Superfast Express had left Tatanagar railway station at its scheduled time at 6.10 am but got stuck-up at Chakulia for over two hours. Several Mumbai bound trains from Howrah were also detained mid-way due to the agitation. Railway police including Railway Protection Force  (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) were deployed at the spot of agitation to prevent any untoward incident. The agitation was lifted at around 10.30 am following assurance by railway authorities of Kharagpur division of South Eastern Railway , who had come to the spot. Tatanagar railway station director H K Balmuchu confirmed the withdrawal of the agitation at around 10.30 am. "The agitation was withdrawn at around 10.30 am following which train traffic on the  Howrah- Mumbai main line via Tatanagar became normal, " he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Tata foundation completes twin treks in Leh||The Tata Steel Adventure Foundation has successfully completed two mountaineering and trekking expeditions organised recently for outdoor enthusiasts in the Leh region. The participants had the opportunity to step out of their comfort zone, test the limits, collaborate, reach the challenging summits and explore the pristine nature in Leh region while testing their stamina and endurance during the Twin Peak Challenge (maximum altitude 20,571 ft) and the Sham Valley Trek (12,713 ft), which was led by legendary climber Bachendri Pal. The team faced bad weather, strong winds, challenges of high altitude, snow conditions on the way to Twin Peak Challenge, said a TSAF official. The premier adventure outfit had kept limited slots and small batch size to ensure all safety protocols were followed and minimise Covid risk. The goal of the Twin Peak Challenge Expedition was to climb two peaks -- Kang Yatze II (20,571 ft) and Dzo Jongo (20,472 ft) in Leh region. This expedition was open for all and consisted of Tata Steel employees and individuals from the community. The team travelled to Leh and then proceeded by road to Chilling which was the starting point of the trek. The team was led by experienced and certified TSAF instructors Asmita Dorjee, Dharmendra Singh, Rathu Mahato and Everester Sushanto Mahato. The expedition lasted for 15 days, a total of 8 participants along with 4 TSAF instructors made it a team of 12 out of which 7 participants  were able to summit the first peak (Kang Yatze II) and 10 of them were able to summit the second peak (Dzo Jongo). Arun Pratap Singh, Anurag Maloo, Vishal Kullu, Pankaj Kumar Sharma, Rahul Raj Singh climbed the Kang Yatze II peak. Arun Pratap Singh, Anurag Maloo, Vishal Kullu, Alok Kumar, Niti Gupta, Pallavi Mariyam climbed Dzo Jongo. All TSAF instructors and 3 members climbed both the summit in a twin peak expedition. This was the first of a kind expedition organized by TSAF. Sham Valley trek was organised for the beginners. The 13-member team was led by Bachendri Pal along with TSAF instructors N S Panwar, Mohan Rawat, Poonam Rana (Everester), and Randeb. Maximum altitude reached during the trek was 12,850 ft. Team had great experiences, especially the inspirational stories from Pal and other TSAF team members. TSAF will continue to organise similar mountaineering expeditions for beginners, medium and advanced category.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases rise for 2nd day in a row in Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Saturday reported a spike in active cases of Covid-19 as fresh instances  of SARS-CoV-2 infection outnumbered recoveries for the second day in a row, taking the active caseload to above 80, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 15 fresh Covid cases against only five recoveries took the active caseload to 82 in Jharkhand on Saturday, while Ranchi also witnessed a spike in the active caseload as it reported at least nine fresh cases against three Covid recoveries. Jamtara reported three fresh Covid cases, while Khunti, Hazaribagh and East Singhbhum reported one case each, the NHM bulletin stated. As per NHM data, at least 11 of 24 districts did not have active cases of Covid-19, while Ranchi accounted for half of the active cases in Jharkhand. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of at least 49,041 residents and 0.03 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. As per government data, over 3.48 lakh residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. Jharkhand on Saturday vaccinated close to 1.30 lakh residents against Covid-19. As many as 78,291 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on Saturday, while at least 50,927 beneficiaries received the booster dose of vaccine. Ranchi vaccinated close to 20,000 residents on Saturday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. On the other hand, East Singhbhum administered vaccines to at least 18,000 beneficiaries and about 10,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Dhanbad. According to the health department, the state has so far vaccinated 99 per cent of healthcare workers and frontline workers, while 50 per cent of residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years have received at least one dose of the vaccine. At least 57 per cent of eligible beneficiaries in the age bracket of 45 years to 59 years have been at least partially-vaccinated, while 58 per cent of senior citizens in the state have received at least one jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
26-09-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi OBC outfit to campaign against BJP in Uttarakhand, UP ||A Jharkhand-based outfit espousing the cause of Other Backward Classes (OBC) will campaign against the BJP in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh in the run-up to the Assembly polls in both states in 2022 over the Union government’s affidavit in the Supreme Court ruling out a caste census. The OBC Arakshan Manch leaders of Jharkhand have decided to send teams to important constituencies having a sizeable population of OBCs in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh by the end of 2021 and make people understand the “real intention” of the BJP-led central government. “We read about the central government’s affidavit (filed by the ministry of social justice and empowerment) in the Supreme Court on Thursday in which it has ruled out ‘caste census in 2021’ with a plea that a caste census of the backward classes is administratively difficult and cumbersome. This shows the real intention of the BJP leaders towards the OBCs. Now we would do our best to expose this before OBC people in both Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh prior to the Assembly polls scheduled in early 2022,” said Kailash Yadav, central president of the Manch based in Ranchi. Yadav said that nearly 70 per cent of the BJP legislators in both Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh are OBCs. “Surprisingly, they (legislators) too are silent on the issue. It seems they have sacrificed the interest of their communities for their personal benefit. We have over 200 members in our Manch and all have been entrusted to speak to like-minded organisations, social outfits and even individual leaders who can raise voices for the OBC cause in their respective constituencies. We will be informing them about the anti-OBC nature of BJP leaders at the Centre and ensure that this has an impact in the upcoming Assembly polls,” said Yadav. The Centre has told the Supreme Court that a caste census “would not be feasible” and that “exclusion of information regarding any other caste”, apart from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, “from the purview of the census is a conscious policy decision”. The Manch leaders, however, welcomed Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren’s efforts for inclusion of OBCs in the 2021 census. “The Bihar chief minister did his part in apprising through an all-party delegation to none other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the caste census. We are happy that despite not being allowed to meet the Prime Minister, the Jharkhand chief minister will be leading an all-party delegation to meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday about the caste census. We would like the Jharkhand chief minister to now pass a resolution in the Assembly and conduct a caste census in the state on its own and ensure reservation for OBCs in jobs,” Yadav said. Soren will meet Shah in Delhi on Sunday at 4pm, along with state BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash, state Congress president Rajesh Thakur, cabinet minister Alamgir Alam, Ajsu MLA Sudesh Mahato, cabinet minister Satyanand Bhokta (RJD), Vinod Singh (CPI-ML), Bhuvneshwar Mahato (CPI), Suresh Munda (CPM), Arup Chatterjee (Marxist Coordination Centre) and Kamlesh Singh (NCP) on the caste census and the inclusion of a separate Sarna religion code in the 2021 census. Soren, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and director-general of police Niraj Sinha will also attend a meeting with Shah earlier on Sunday on Left-wing extremism scenario along with other rebel-hit states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
