27-09-2021||Business||Govt to extend existing foreign trade policy till March next: Goyal||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday said the existing foreign trade policy (FTP) will be extended till March 31 next year. The government had earlier extended the FTP 2015-20 until September 30 this year due to the Covid-19 crisis. The Foreign Trade Policy provides guidelines for enhancing exports to push economic growth and create jobs. “We are notifying it today evening or tomorrow...We have decided to extend the policy until March 31 (2022)...and in the (new) financial year, we can start with the new policy,” he told reporters here. He expressed hope that by that time, Covid-19 issues would be resolved. On March 31, 2020, the government had extended the Foreign Trade Policy 2015-20 for one year till March 31, 2021, amid the coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown. Exports during April-September 21, 2021, stood at over USD 185 billion, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||Centre to borrow Rs 5.03 lakh crore in second half of FY22 to fund revenue gap||The government will borrow Rs 5.03 lakh crore in the second half of the current fiscal to fund the revenue gap for reviving the pandemic-hit economy, the finance ministry said on Monday.  During the first half (April-September), the government has raised Rs 7.02 lakh crore by issuing bonds, the ministry said in a statement.  "Out of gross market borrowing of Rs 12.05 lakh crore projected for FY 2021-22 in the Union Budget, Rs 7.24 lakh crore (60 per cent) was planned to be borrowed in first half (H1).  "The effective borrowing in H1 of FY 2021-22 was Rs 7.02 lakh crore. The Government now plans to borrow the balance Rs 5.03 lakh crore in second half year (H2) of FY 2021-22," it said.  The H2 projection also factors requirements for release of balance amount to states on account of back-to-back loan facility in-lieu of GST compensation during the year, it said.  During the first half, the Centre has released Rs 75,000 crore to states and union territories (UTs) under the back-to-back loan facility in lieu of GST compensation.  The remaining Rs 83,000 crore out of Rs 1.58 lakh crore has to be distributed to states and UTs in the second half beginning October 1.  The statement further said borrowing will be spread under 2, 5, 10, 14, 30 and 40-year securities and floating rate bonds (tenors of 7-8 and 13 years). It will be done in 21 weeks in tranches of Rs 24,000 or 23,000 crore per week.  "The share of borrowing under different maturities will be: 2 years: 4 per cent; 5 years: 11.9 per cent; 10 year: 28.4 per cent; 14 year: 17.9 per cent; 30 year: 13.9 per cent; and 40 year: 15.1 per cent.  "Borrowing under Floating Rate Bonds will be 8.8 per cent. The Government will issue another Floating Rate Bond of 7-8 years, in addition to 13-year. Both will be issued on alternate basis," it said.  According to the Budget for 2021-22, the government's gross borrowing was estimated at Rs 12.05 lakh crore, while net borrowing was pegged at Rs 9.37 lakh crore in the financial year beginning April 1.  Gross borrowing includes repayments of past loans. Repayment for past loans in the next financial year has been pegged at Rs 2.80 lakh crore.  The government raises money from the market to fund its fiscal deficit through dated securities and treasury bills.  The Budget has estimated fiscal deficit at 6.8 per cent for the current fiscal, down from 9.5 per cent of the GDP projected for FY21. However, the actual fiscal deficit for 2020-21 came in lower at 9.3 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP).  According to the statement, the government will continue to carry out switching of securities to smoothen redemptions in coming years.  "Weekly borrowing under Treasury Bills in third quarter of FY 2021-22 is expected to be Rs 20,000 crore with net borrowing of (-) Rs 1.04 lakh crore during the quarter.  "There will be issuance of Rs 10,000 crore under 91 DTBs (Days Treasury Bills), Rs 3,000 crore under 182 DTBs; Rs 7,000 crore under 364 DTBs during the quarter," it said.  To take care of temporary mismatches in government account, it said, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has fixed the Ways and Mean Advance (WMA) limit for H2 at Rs 50,000 crore.  The RBI, in a separate statement, said it may trigger fresh floatation of market loans when the Government of India utilises 75 per cent of the WMA limit.  The central bank retains the flexibility to revise the limit at any time, in consultation with the government, taking into consideration the prevailing circumstances, it added.  Sharing details of borrowing in H1, the finance ministry statement said it has been completed smoothly with weighted average yield at 6.19 per cent and weighted average maturity at 16.69 years.  In H1, good demand for government bonds was seen from all major investor segments and the yields have remained stable, it said.  During the last fiscal, the government had done the highest gross borrowing in the history of the finance ministry.  As against the Revised Estimate of Rs 12.80 lakh crore, the government borrowed Rs 12.60 lakh crore during the last fiscal as the last auction of Rs 20,000 crore was cancelled.  In addition, the government borrowed Rs 1.10 lakh crore on behalf of states for compensation towards the goods and services tax (GST) shortfall. In all, the government borrowing was Rs 13.71 lakh crore, while the net borrowing was Rs 11.03 lakh crore.  Commenting on the H2 borrowing plan, ICRA Chief Economist Aditi Nayar said although the amount is in line with the Budget, it has absorbed the back-to-back GST compensation loan to be provided to the states.  "The implication is that the government's fiscal deficit will be around Rs 1.6 trillion lower than budgeted, despite the modest rise in expenditure, a clear confirmation of the revenue upturn that is underway. This also suggests that the GoI's disinvestment programme is assessed to be on track," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||Sebi tightens risk management rules for mutual funds||India's market regulator on Monday tightened risk management rules for mutual funds, including specifying guidelines to identify, measure and report various risks, in an effort to protect the interest of investors in a fast-growing industry. The new rules mandate the appointment of a chief risk officer, creation of risk management committees and maintaining metrics such as investment risk, liquidity risk and credit risk for each scheme, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) said. The new framework comes a month after it barred Kotak Mahindra Asset Management, one of the country's largest mutual fund managers, from launching any fixed maturity plans (FMPs) for six months and fined it for breaking rules. SEBI also barred Franklin Templeton in India in June from launching any new debt schemes for two years after it found "serious lapses and violations" at the firm when it decided to suddenly shut several schemes. Franklin has appealed against the decision, but agreed it would not launch any new debt funds for the time being. In its new rules on Monday, SEBI provided detailed guidelines on the risk management roles for an asset management company's board, trustees, chief executive officer, chief investment officer, other senior officials and fund managers. The mutual fund industry has grown rapidly in India, especially with interest from retail investors in systematic investment plans that allow investment of a fixed amount regularly in schemes. Assets managed by India's mutual fund houses have increased to about ₹ 36 lakh crore ($487.72 billion) in August from nearly ₹ 28 lakh crore a year earlier, according to the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). Sebi said fund houses have to adhere to the new risk management rules from January 1 and review their compliance every year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||18-year-old Boy Mohit Churiwal, The Man Behind The Growth And Success Of Maxtern Media||Kickstarting his career at an early age, Mohit Churiwal has achieved several milestones and has inspired many people over the years. He is the proud owner of the Public Relation Company named Maxtern Media which he founded in late 2019. Maxtern Media helps people in elevating their businesses by increasing their reach across social media. The growth of the company has never been overnight. Mohit had to work diligently to take the firm to the heights of success. Today, Maxtern Media is one of the most renowned firms which works for the professional development of people. Over time, the renowned Entrepreneur built a strong team of experts who always remain at people’s beck and call to help people in every possible way. With the help of Social Media Marketing, Mohit and his team help people to elevate their businesses to a new level of success. His strategic skills and his ability to take risks are the reason behind the firm’s success. Maxtern Media’s Ceo, Mohit Churiwal recently announced the launch of SuratStore.in. It is going to be Surat’s first E-commerce website where people can find apparel, shoes, and gadgets at affordable prices. By partnering with We Fast Courier Mohit and his team members are constantly on their toes to ensure a hassle-free shopping experience. SuratStore.in aims to provide doorstep delivery for people hailing from Surat. To ensure unique customer service, the team has worked tirelessly to come up with excellent ideas. Customers with temporary requirements will also benefit from the launch of SuratStore. Serial Entrepreneur, Mohit Churiwal promises to provide goods on a rental basis. Now Surat residents can avail cameras, gadgets, and games on rent. The latest Sony Playstation 5 including various forthcoming games like FIFA2022 will also be available on the E-commerce website. Customers can place their orders on the website and the admin will contact them for further details. Mohit’s consistent efforts are the reason behind Maxtern Media’s success. His success journey has been an inspiration to all the people, especially the youth. It will be challenging to make his new startup a huge success but we all know that his extensive knowledge about the market will pave his way towards victory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty tick higher to fresh records||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty inched marginally higher on Monday to end at fresh lifetime highs, led by gains in Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Maruti amid a largely positive trend in global markets. After touching its lifetime intra-day high of 60,412.32, the 30-share Sensex ended 29.41 points or 0.05 per cent higher at its all-time closing peak of 60,077.88. Similarly, the NSE Nifty advanced 1.90 points or 0.01 per cent to record 17,855.10. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 6 per cent, followed by M&M, Bajaj Auto, NTPC, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Tch Mahindra, Bajaj Finserv and Infosys were among the laggards. "Domestic equities traded range-bound amid positive cues from global equities. Heavy profit-booking in IT and pharma nullified the impact of sharp recovery in auto stocks," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, financials and realty indices extended gains. Nifty IT fell over 2.5 per cent as investors preferred to book some amount of profit ahead of September quarter earnings. Auto stocks witnessed strong rebound as continued underperformance for last couple of months, expectations of improvement in demand scenario from October and positive commentary from select companies about semiconductor issue made investors buy quality names in OEMs, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude climbed 1.32 per cent to USD 78.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Monday, led by strong gains in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a largely positive global markets. After touching another lifetime high of 60,339.28, the 30-share Sensex eased slightly but was still trading 245.62 points or 0.41 per cent higher at 60,294.09. Similarly, the Nifty surged 69.90 points or 0.39 per cent to 17,923.10. Maruti was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, SBI, Bajaj Auto, M&M, Axis Bank and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Nestle India, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's and ITC were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index rose 163.11 points or 0.27 per cent to its record closing high of 60,048.47, and the Nifty advanced 30.25 points or 0.17 per cent to a record finish of 17,853.20. Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 442.49 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. The relentless bull-run which began in April 2020 has taken the Sensex beyond 60,000 and is now poised to push Nifty to 18,000 level today, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "The incredible return of above 130 per cent from the lows of March 2020 and above 60 per cent for the last 12 months has created phenomenal wealth for all kinds of investors. After 60,000 for Sensex and 18,000 for Nifty, markets may consolidate for a while," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai tanked over 1 per cent in mid-session deals, while Tokyo, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with gains. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.18 per cent to USD 78.14 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||Term life insurance policy cost likely to get costlier||Term life insurance policies may become costlier with reinsurance companies in favour of stricter guidelines on underwriting amid high mortality claims. According to industry sources, reinsurers have raised their provisions to cover for the rising claims, particularly in the first half of 2021. Munich Re, the largest foreign reinsurer in India, for instance, has increased its provisions by 241 million euros in the second quarter of calendar year 2021 because of higher-than-expected mortality in India and South Africa. The numbers are also evident in the public disclosure of domestic life insurance companies. LIC saw its death claims rise to Rs 7,355.45 crore till the quarter ended June 30, 2021 against Rs 3,151.87 crore for the corresponding period a year ago. The trend of death claims is on the rise among private life insurance companies as well. As a result of the high claims, reinsurers are proposing stricter underwriting guidelines. These include more financial information about the policyholders such as six months’ salary slip and bank statement, more medical tests and higher sum insured. “Already in the last 18 months, there has been a 25-30 per cent rise in premium rates. Additional compliance with the tightening of guidelines from October could result in higher cost for the policyholder,” said an industry source. The premium rates have risen for health insurance policies too with the increase more steep for senior citizens. An increase in the claims ratio, standardisation of polices, medical inflation largely because of the Covid pandemic are among the factors contributing to the rise in rates. “Majority of the grievances and complaints in health insurance are related to lack of proper understanding of the product that is purchased. Individuals should enquire about the waiting period, co-pay sub-limits, sum insured, top-up options, non-payables, discount on wellness while purchasing the policies,” said S. Prakash, managing director, Star Health Insurance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||SpiceJet introduces interim fixed pay system for captains and first officers||SpiceJet, which had resorted to hourly-basis pay for pilots amid the pandemic, on Sunday said it has introduced a new “interim fixed salary system” for captains and first officers. The airline said not only will pilot salaries “increase significantly” under the new pay structure but those who fly more than the stipulated minimum hours will be paid overtime. However, some pilots contested the assurance given by SpiceJet and claimed “stress” due to the continued reduction in their salaries implemented in April last year. The pilots claimed that they were being paid a third or a half of their pre-Covid-19 salaries despite the company achieving an occupancy rate of over 85 per cent on passenger flights and being among the largest air cargo carriers during the pandemic. The Gurgaon-based airline said it had adopted a “block hour payment system” after the Covid-19 outbreak effective April 1, 2020, wherein pilots were paid based on the hourly flying rate without having to send anyone on “leave without pay”. “While many other airlines and organisations severed employee contracts during the pandemic, there was no retrenchment in SpiceJet,” a Spicejet spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
27-09-2021||Business||HDFC Bank aims to double rural presence, hire 2,500 people||HDFC Bank, the country’s largest private sector lender, on Sunday said it aims to double its rural reach to two lakh villages, which will see it hire 2,500 people in the next six months. The city-based bank also said it aims to double its presence in the next 18-24 months through a combination of branch network, business correspondents, business facilitators, CSC (common service centres) partners, virtual relationship management and digital outreach platforms. Earlier in the day, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had voiced disappointment over banking reach and asked lenders to do more. “The rural and semi-urban markets are underserved in credit extension. They present sustainable long-term growth opportunities for the Indian banking system,” its group head (commercial and rural banking) Rahul Shukla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||India needs 4-5 'SBI size' banks to meet growing needs of economy: Nirmala Sitharaman ||India needs four to five “SBI size” banks to meet the growing needs of the economy and industry, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Sunday.  Addressing the 74th annual general meeting of the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA), she said the industry needs to imagine how Indian banking has to be in the immediate and long-term future. As far as the long-term future is concerned, she said it is going to be largely driven by digitised processes and there is a need for seamless and interconnected digital systems for a sustainable future for the Indian banking industry. “Although I did say that in the amalgamation process, your systems have spoken to each other, there wasn’t a problem of those amalgamating banks. And, I remember the banking secretary at that time, Rajiv Kumar, telling me that we have ensured that the amalgamating banks do have their systems in such a way that they can align with each other,” she said. Mega consolidation was announced in 2019 when Kumar was the financial services secretary but was implemented by his successor Debasish Panda effective April 2020. As part of the mega consolidation exercise, Oriental Bank of Commerce and United Bank of India were merged with Punjab National Bank; Syndicate Bank into Canara Bank; Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank into Union Bank of India; and Allahabad Bank with Indian Bank. There are now seven large public sector banks and five smaller ones. Appreciating the efforts of bankers to carry out a smooth consolidation exercise during the challenging time of the pandemic, the finance minister said it did not cause inconvenience to the customer and there was no aberration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||Top Zee investor Invesco seeks removal of Punit Goenka, repeats call for EGM||The ball is back in the court of Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd after largest shareholder Invesco repeated its call for an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) seeking the removal of MD and CEO Punit Goenka and the induction of its six nominees on the  board. Experts said Zee will have to take a call on whether to convene the EGM of shareholders as demanded by the two investors first or prioritise the merger proposal with Sony for their approval. However, with regard to the second option, it needs to be noted that both the firms have signed a term sheet which provides for a 90-day period during which the two entities will conduct mutual due diligence and finalise definitive agreements. The sources added that though there is no obligation on the part of Zee to hold the EGM as demanded by the two large shareholders, current rules say such a meeting has to be called by the company  within 45 days of the notice, failing which the duo can themselves call the meeting within three months. On September 12, Zee had received a letter from two of its largest shareholders, Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund LLC, who hold close to 18 per cent,  seeking Goenka’s removal . However, in a development that caught everybody by surprise, Zee announced a proposed merger with Sony Pictures Networks India nearly 10 days later. The announcement has largely evoked a positive reaction from analysts and the markets. While some felt that the amalgamation between the two can see Invesco even withdraw its demand for the EGM as Sony will have a majority representation on Zee’s board, removing some of the corporate governance concerns. But, Invesco has now shot off another letter to Zee insisting on its earlier demand. Responding to this communication, a Zee spokesperson said that the company is seized of the matter and that it will take necessary action as per the applicable law. Speaking to The Telegraph, Sriram Subramanian, founder of proxy advisory firm InGovern Research, said though Invesco has reiterated its call for the EGM, they have not outlined any actionable plan or said anything explicitly about the proposed merger. He added that the ball is now in the court of Zee and it is entirely up to the company on whether it wants to call the EGM or not. Subramanian added that if Zee does not call for the EGM, Invesco can call on its own at the directors’ expense. But, it remains to be seen if the shareholders vote in favour of the resolution. Soon after Zee announced the proposed merger, InGovern said with Sony as a majority shareholder and a likely reconstituted board, the merged entity would be the best solution Invesco could hope for. Sources said even if in the extreme case that Goenka is removed, there is nothing stopping the board from bringing him back, as recently seen with Siddhartha Lal at Eicher Motors. Given the general view that the merger will be positive for Zee and the removal of Goenka may affect the transaction, few observers feel that Invesco may find it difficult to get the necessary votes in favour of the resolution. Shareholders of the company had on August rejected a special resolution to re-appoint him as the managing director. However, subsequently the company’s board decided to re-appoint him with effect from May 1, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||Revenue-neutral GST on menu||Finance ministry officials have said increasing the average goods and services tax rate closer to the revenue neutral rate of about 15 per cent would help the states in getting more revenue and reduce their dependence on the Centre for compensation for any shortfall. There is a growing clamour among states to extend the compensation beyond June 2022. The officials said in the last GST Council meeting, there was a discussion on getting the indirect tax rates closer to the revenue neutral rate as one of the solutions to address the compensation issue. A committee headed by the then chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian had suggested a range for the revenue neutral rate of 15-15.5 per cent, with a strong preference for the lower end of that range. An official said many states, including some ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, had demanded that the compensation period should be extended by another three to five years. “It is time to correct the rates in the absence of a guarantee on 14 per cent revenue buoyancy to states… the discussion on the issue has just been initiated,” the official added. The GST Council had reduced the rates on several items, especially before the 2019 general elections, which led to the average rate falling below the revenue neutral rate, the official said. After the GST Council meeting, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman  said the GST regime had originally been premised on a revenue-neutral tax rate of 15.5 per cent. However, the actual GST revenues have been going down with the effective tax rate slipping to 11.6 per cent due to the changes made in the tax rates on various goods and services over the last few years. “A detailed presentation was made on the revenue generation aspects, correction of inverted duty structure aspects and the various ways in which the revenue neutral position, which was 15.5 per cent at the time of introduction of GST, has steadily come down to 11.6 per cent, she said. The GST Council to shore up revenues has decided to form two groups of ministers  that have to recommend measures within two months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||Liquidity spook for bubble-wrapped Sensex||The Reserve Bank of India is expected to soon start debating when to tighten its liquidity taps that have released a torrent of money into the financial system ever since the central bank opted for an accommodative monetary policy in June 2019 It was on June 6, 2019 that the RBI policymakers unanimously decided to alter the monetary policy stance from neutral to accommodative to address several key concerns: a significant weakening of growth impulses that were reflected in a widening output gap; a sharp slowdown in investment activity; and a sharp moderation in private consumption growth. Does that sound familiar? In a post-pandemic world, all of those concerns have bubbled once again to the surface. The difference, of course, is in the money that was flowing through the tubes of the financial system. Back in June 2019, the average daily liquidity surplus in the system had risen to a modest Rs 66,000 crore. The surplus has since ballooned and the RBI was forced to absorb as much as Rs 8.4 lakh crore on September 9 through its liquidity-soaking operations. The concern is that instead of all that liquidity hasn’t moved the needle on private investment or consumption — which was the ostensible reason for adopting the easy money policy in the first place. The suspicion is that some of it has seeped into the capital markets fuelling the asset bubble in the stock markets that resulted in the Sensex vaulting above the 60000-point threshold. Any move to turn off the taps now will spook the markets where a crazy bull run has whipped up euphoria among investors and sparked a mad chase for eye-popping returns. In its annual report for 2020-21, the central bank which was worried about a ”bubble’’ building up in the stock markets said that liquidity injected to support economic recovery could lead to unintended consequences in the form of inflationary asset prices. Such a support cannot be expected to be indefinite and calibrated unwinding may be required once the real economy is on a recovery path, according to the annual report. Speaking to The Telegraph, Suvodeep Rakshit, senior economist at Kotak Institutional Equities, said that any unwinding of the surplus liquidity in the banking system will depends on how much comfortable the RBI is with growth and whether it sees any inflationary risks on the horizon. He, however, noted that the worst is over for the economy and that the recovery phase has begun. “As a medium-term policy, the RBI should telegraph on a plan and highlight the markers for a conducive environment to drain the liquidity. In terms of winding up excess liquidity the RBI has various tools to work with. The task becomes difficult and needs to be gradual as the system is used to this kind of liquidity. This is also what we are seeing globally,’’ Rakshit said. He said the course that will be taken has to be communicated well by the RBI and that any such unwinding should not be a hard landing. “This is an opportune time to start communicating, whether it is now or in the upcoming October policy… the RBI should indicate the path that it intends to take,’’ he said. A senior analyst from a domestic brokerage who agrees with Rakshit said equity markets at record levels will not be the major factor to soak up the surplus liquidity and the central bank will be guided by the growth-inflation dynamics. However, experts such as  Arun Kejriwal, director KRIS an investment research firm,  indicated the current rally may not be a bubble. “The key factors that are driving up stocks are strong participation from foreign portfolio investors and a spike in the participation by domestic investors, particularly retail lot… thus the investor base in India has gone up significantly,’’ he said. Kejriwal said the number of demat accounts opened in 2021-22 has shot up to 26 lakh per month from 12 lakh in the preceding fiscal. “There is always an element of fear when benchmark indices are in an unchartered territory…Yes the current markets will correct and we may see the Sensex going down but a fall to 50000 levels seem unlikely unless there is real bad news.’’ The six-member panel of the RBI’s monetary policy committee is set to meet next month at a time the US Federal Reserve has said it will reduce the monthly bond purchases of $80 billion from November and has indicated it may raise interest rates sooner than expected. “Market participants should be wary of the rising inflation and resulting removal of liquidity from the system. During 2021 there has been some central banks — Russia, Korea, and Ukraine — who have raised rates. Rising inflation risk and hence withdrawal of ultra easy monetary policy by global central banks may trigger a sharp rise in bond yields which can cause risk assets to correct sharply,’’ Piyush Garg CIO-ICICI Securities Ltd said. Garg said while domestic investors should watch how global yields move, it can lead to a sharp 10-15 per cent correction in equity prices from the current levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||Altigreen launches its large-format electric three-wheelers in Calcutta||Bangalore-based EV manufacturing company Altigreen has launched its large-format electric three-wheelers in Calcutta. The company has delivered the vehicles to Mahindra Logistics Limited. The company, which operates B2B, manufactures and sells last-mile cargo delivery vehicles to companies in the transportation sector. The start-up entered the market in eastern India by supplying the first batch of 15 electric three-wheeler delivery vans, the Neev Highdeck, to Mahindra Logistics. The company makes four variants of its electric delivery van Neev — the Neev Flatbed, the Neev Chassis Cabin, the Neev Lowdeck and the Neev Highdeck. Its vehicles have payloads of 500kg and 550kg. The vehicles can be fully charged in 3.5 hours. The company has a 35,000 square feet manufacturing plant in Bangalore with a capacity of 6,000 vehicles per annum. At present, it is operating at 70 per cent utilisation. Since August 2021, it has sold 150 vehicles in eight cities and hopes to sell 1,500 vehicles by year-end. “The increasing popularity of e-commerce and FMCG players are causing fast adoption of EVs in cargo operations. With the emergence of high-volume, low-weight categories such as e-commerce, fruits, vegetables, medicines, white goods distribution, retail and others, there is a strong need to  move out from diesel options to make way for clean, efficient, reliable and low-cost EVs in intra-city commercial transportation,” said Amitabh Saran, CEO, Altigreen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||Piaggio India evaluating possibilities to introduce electric Vespa||Piaggio India is evaluating possibilities of introducing the electric Vespa, named Vespa Elettrica. The company had showcased the Vespa Elettrica at the 2018 and 2020 Delhi Auto Expo. “The EV market here is still premature. The Vespa is a luxury lifestyle product and we need to position it in a similar segment in the EV space,” said Sudhanshu Agarwal, business head, two-wheelers, Piaggio India. With most of the EV space in the two-wheeler segment occupied by start-ups and other newcomers, established players are in a wait-and-watch policy. “There are many fly-by-night operators at present in the EV space. One needs to see how the segment actually pans out once the infrastructure is in place and the battery prices stabilise,” said an industry insider. Besides, technology changes are happening every day. The core ingredients in an electric vehicle are proprietary items, he added. With Vespa and Aprilia, Piaggio is not into the mass market segment and so the EV space which is now dominated by mass market is not a space the company would like to venture into. “The EV has to be core to our values and the product has to be aligned to our philosophy,” said Agarwal. The company launched the 75th edition of Vespa in Calcutta recently, a limited edition collectible item celebrating 75 years of the iconic Vespa that became a cult vehicle worldwide after it featured in the evergreen hit film Roman holiday starring Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn. The company recently launched a host of premium products including the Aprilia RS660, the Tuono 660, the Aprilia RS4, the Tuono V4, the Moto Guzzi V85TT in a price range of Rs 13.09 lakh to Rs 23.69 lakh. When asked about the response to the launches Agarwal said: “The response has been encouraging. The premium bike segment has not been affected by the pandemic per se. But the Indian market is still a nascent market for the company’s two-wheeler products.” Commenting on the launch of the Vespa 75th edition which will have only 1000 units manufactured in the country, Diego Graffi, Chairman and Managing Director, Piaggio India said, “We at Piaggio India live the Vespa culture of freedom, originality, spontaneity and innovation. Vespa has lived the idea of emancipation, independence, exploration with light mobility. Being always fresh, vibrant, young and unconventional, the Vespa 75th  edition celebrates the iconic history and special values of Vespa and depicts them with special execution, As we are celebrating the value of independence through Vespa 75th, it also embarks Vespa’s journey in India at the time India celebrates 75 years of Independence.” Vespa 75th will be offered in 125 and 150 CC engine options, it features high lumen LED headlight with center integrated DRL. Front disc brake with anti-lock braking system (ABS) in 150CC and combi braking system (CBS) in 125CC. The special edition Vespa is available across all Vespa dealerships in the country and can be booked for an initial amount of INR 5000- across all dealerships in India and through e-commerce website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||Business||Cover conscious: Things to remember while buying a health insurance||Most of us invest a lot of time in researching and determining what’s best for us. For instance, we look for a smartphone with a good storage space and battery life or when deciding on a car, we check the leg room it offers and the mileage it gives. Checking the features and durability when buying anything is a common tendency. But are you this careful when buying a health insurance for yourself and your family members? Just buying health insurance for the sake of it is not enough. In order to be appropriately secured, you need to look into the coverage and more importantly, the sum insured of the policy. Your policy may cover you for many ailments, but if you don’t opt for the right sum insured, the policy is not of much use. The sum insured of your health insurance policy is basically the extent to which your insurer will pay you in case of a medical exigency under the terms and conditions mentioned within the policy. Just imagine a scenario wherein you have a family floater health insurance policy for yourself and your spouse with a sum insured of Rs 3 lakh,which you may have bought for tax saving purpose. Do you think this amount will be enough to cover both of you in case both are detected Covid-19 positive and need to be hospitalised? Certainly not. You may end up digging into your savings or borrowing from your relatives to pay for the hospitalisation expenses. Below are some of the factors I believe if accounted for will help you choose the right sum insured for your base health insurance policy. Age is a factor It is a known phenomenon that the more you age, the higher will be your medical treatment costs. Hence, you should opt for the right sum insured from the beginning. When you are younger, not only is the premium of your policy less, but since there are less chances of you making a claim, you also get a no claim bonus upon renewal wherein your sum insured increases up to a certain extent. However, if you are buying a policy when you are 50 years or above, you must have a sum insured of at least Rs 10 lakh considering that even a normal surgical procedure can cost you about Rs 2 lakh. ‘What if’ scenario While we always hope for the best, we need to be prepared for the worst. Hence, think about ‘what if’ you or your family members were to be hospitalised. You need to understand and identify the average treatment expenses of good hospitals around you and their room rent costs. This simulation will help you arrive at the sum insured you need to opt for your base cover. Family history & members If there’s a history in your family for a particular ailment or health condition, you should factor in the treatment cost of that ailment while choosing the sum insured of your policy. Family members: This factor is more important in case you are buying a family floater health insurance policy. Since the sum insured under this policy floats across all the family members, it is important to consider everyone’s age, needs of each member and their future healthcare expenses. You need to ensure here that if one family member falls ill, the sum insured is such that it doesn’t get completely exhausted, thereby ensuring other members are still covered. Revisiting the sum insured Today, a Rs 5 lakh base health indemnity policy may be sufficient for an individual. However, considering the rising medical inflation at 12-15 per cent every year and the unknown ailments striking us for which the treatment costs may be higher, it’s wise to revisit your sum insured every couple of years. This will ensure that you are appropriately covered in line with the healthcare costs, thus reducing your out of pocket expenses. There are times when your basic health insurance policy with reasonable sum insured may not be sufficient for you, especially for treating health conditions like a stroke or a kidney failure. Hence, after you have sorted out the sum insured of your base cover, you need to look at how you can further enhance your health coverage. In addition to the basic health policy it is advisable to opt for a super top-up policy, which helps extend your policy to a higher sum insured at a very low price. Additionally, you can opt for a critical illness policy, which is a benefit-only policy that provides you a lump sum amount upon being diagnosed with life threatening health conditions as listed in your policy. Opt for a personal accident cover, which is also a benefit policy and covers death along with total, partial and temporary disability that arises out of an accident. These measures will ensure you have a holistic health insurance cover to take care of you in case of any medical exigency. Health insurance is an indispensable financial tool, which can go a long way in increasing one’s life expectancy because of access to quality medical treatment. I’m sure that if you take into account all the above points, you’ll be sufficiently covered in case of a medical exigency. The writer is MD & CEO, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
27-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: Rains lash several parts of Telangana, IMD issues red alert to 14 districts||Rains pounded several parts of Telangana on Monday, even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned that heavy rains are expected at isolated places in different districts of the State over the next 48 hours. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao took stock of the situation with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar.  Rao directed the Chief Secretary to take necessary precautions against any loss of life or property due to heavy rains forecast across the State for another two days due to the impact of cyclone 'Gulab', an official press release said.  The Chief Minister said all government offices, including schools, colleges and educational institutions in the State, would remain closed on Tuesday due to heavy rains.  Examinations of engineering and degree courses scheduled for September 28 and 29 were also postponed in view of the heavy rains.  The Chief Secretary said the departments of Revenue, Police, Fire Services, Municipal, Panchayati Raj, Irrigation, Roads and Buildings should be on emergency duty to ensure that no property or lives are lost due to heavy rains, the release added.  The IMD, which issued a red alert to 14 districts of the State, warned of heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy rain that are very likely to occur at isolated places in Nirmal, Nizamabad, Jagityal, Rajanna Sircilla, Karimnagar, Peddapally, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Khammam, Mahabubabad, Warangal (Rural), Warangal (Urban), Janagaon, Siddipet, Kamareddy districts today.  The rains would result in massive water-pooling on roads and low-lying areas in most places and agriculture land submerge/crop damage, it said, adding, thunderstorm accompanied by lightning with wind speed 30-40 kmph is very likely to occur at isolated places in all the districts.  Bachodu in Khammam district received highest rainfall of 151.5 mm followed by Wyra (141.5 mm) till 3 PM today. Similarly, several parts of Hyderabad also witnessed rains since this morning.  The downpour caused waterlogging on some roads and low-lying areas.  The IMD further warned of heavy rain that is very likely to occur at isolated places in Adilabad, Nirmal, Nizamabad, Jagityal, Rajanna Sircilla, Vikarabad, Sangareddy, Medak and Kamareddy districts of Telangana between 0830 hours of September 28 and 0830 hours of September 29.  Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning very likely to occur at places in all the districts of Telangana.  Meanwhile, Somesh Kumar once again held a teleconference with District Collectors in the wake of heavy rains. Kumar said Collectors have been directed to remain vigilant in the wake of warnings from the Meteorological Department that there will be heavy rains for another two days across the State.  He said the Revenue, Police, Panchayati Raj, Irrigation and Fire departments in the district should work in tandem. If necessary, services of NDRF teams in Hyderabad, Kothagudem and Warangal should be utilised, he said, adding separate control room should be set up in each District Collectorate office and information should be provided to the control room set up in the Secretariat. The Chief Secretary further said the situation should be reviewed by appointing Special Officers at problematic areas such as inland areas, ponds, ditches and bridges.  Telangana Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy said he had directed the Police Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to work in coordination with the District Collectors.  The police advised citizens to stay indoors unless needed. "Do not cross overflowing streams. Remain indoors in view of heavy rainfall. Dial 100 in case of emergency," they said. Cyclone Gulab, which crossed the Bay of Bengal coast near Kalingapatnam on Sunday night, weakened into a depression and caused widespread rains in several districts of Andhra Pradesh on Monday and also left a trail of destruction, as the death toll rose to two with a woman's death.  Port city Visakhapatnam received a 30-year high rainfall of over 33.3 cm in 24 hours under the cyclone's impact and left a woman dead on Monday, taking the toll to two since Sunday.  On Sunday, a fisherman was killed in the cyclonic storm in Bay of Bengal in Srikakulam district.  Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy reviewed the situation with Collectors of the rain-affected districts and directed them to step up relief works.  The Chief Minister announced an ex-gratia relief of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of those killed in the cyclonic storm.  In Vizianagaram district, agricultural crops in 13,122 hectares and horticultural crops in 291 hectares were damaged, according to the Collector A Surya Kumari.  Nine head of cattle also died in the cyclone.  In Visakhapatnam, boulders fell on a house, causing its collapse and killing a woman, district Collector A Mallikarjuna said.  The Collector, along with Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation Commissioner G Srujana, inspected the rain-affected areas in the city and supervised the relief operations.  Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das visited Srikakulam, the district worst affected by Gulab, and reviewed the rescue and relief operations.  The district administration sheltered over 1,500 persons in 38 relief camps and provided food.  Trees that were uprooted by the cyclone were cleared from the roads on a war-footing while the Eastern Power Distribution Company personnel carried out repair of the damaged power lines.  According to IMD data, rainfall ranging from 60.3 mm to 333 mm was recorded in over 450 places spread over Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna districts in 24 hours.  Guntur and Prakasam districts received up to 7.5 mm rainfall while SPS Nellore and the four Rayalaseema districts received up to 2.4 mm of rain, according to the State Disaster Management Authority.  The sea still remained rough in north coastal Andhra, which could cause moderate to heavy rainfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
27-09-2021||India||WHO further delays emergency use of Covaxin||The World Health Organization (WHO) has further delayed the emergency use authorisation (EUA) for Covaxin, the Covid vaccine developed in India, as the global body has sent more technical queries to its manufacturer Bharat Biotech, according to sources. This delay is likely to adversely affect Indians', especially students', international travel plans. Without EUA, Covaxin will not be considered an accepted vaccine by most countries around the world. WHO's queries for Bharat Biotech comes despite the Hyderabad-based drug maker asserting that it has submitted all data required for clearance. The indication of a delay comes merely days after the Union Health Ministry hinted that the global body was likely to give its nod anytime soon. "There is a procedure of submitting the documents for approval. WHO's emergency use authorisation to Covaxin is expected soon," Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar, Union Minister of State in the Health Ministry, had said last Friday, according to an ANI report. Earlier, Dr VK Paul, Chairperson of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration, had also said that WHO's approval for Covaxin was likely to come before the end of this month. According to Bharat Biotech, Phase III clinical trials of Covaxin had demonstrated an efficacy rate of 77.8 per cent. Covaxin, along with Covishield, was the vaccine first deployed by India in its massive nationwide inoculation drive against COVID-19 launched in January this year. Others like the Russia-made Sputnik were added to the country's armoury only later. Covishield is the only India-made vaccine on the WHO list now. It is manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in Pune and was developed by researchers at Oxford University and pharmaceutical firm AstraZeneca. The WHO has, till now, also approved vaccines manufactured by Pfizer-BioNTech, Johnson and Johnson, Moderna, and Sinopharm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
27-09-2021||India||Goa unit a cruel parody of Congress, Luizinho Faleiro tells Sonia Gandhi||Congress veteran from Goa, Luizinho Faleiro, on Monday said he was quitting as MLA and primary member of the party and slammed the state Congress unit which he described as a cruel parody of what the Congress stands for . Faleiro, however, didn't divulge his plans amid speculations that he might join the Trinamool Congress even as he hailed the leadership of TMC chief and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Addressing his resignation letter to All India Congress Committee president Sonia Gandhi, Faleiro, who represented Navelim seat, has alleged that the Goa unit of the party is led by a "coterie" of leaders whose priority is personal gains. (The Goa Congress unit is) led by a coterie of leaders who prioritize personal gains over the responsibility we owe to our people. We have utterly failed to even be an effective opposition, he wrote. The two-page resignation letter also mentions that the Congress party in Goa is not the same party for which we had sacrificed and fought. "It is functioning contrary to every ideal and principle of its founding fathers upheld by Indiraji, Rajivji and you (Sonia Gandhi)," it said. Shri Rahul Gandhiji too has been uncompromising in his fight against the forces that seek to destroy the fabric of our nation. However, the Goa unit of the party has become a cruel parody of what the Congress stands for, he added. Faleiro, who tendered his resignation as an MLA to Goa Assembly speaker, said, till now, none is being held accountable for the loss of our 13 MLAs while sidelining of true Congress workers continues. "I see absolutely no hope or even the will to prevent the collapse of the party and the change for the better," he said. Faleiro was referring to the 13 MLAs crossing over to the BJP over the last five years, reducing Congress to a single-digit entity in the 40-member House. In his resignation letter, Faleiro has also accused former AICC Goa Desk in-charge Digvijaya Singh, without naming him, of stopping him to stake claim to form the government in 2017 despite the Congress having the required number of MLAs on its side. "I was prevented from going to the governor by the AICC desk in-charge and was asked to wait till we had 24 MLAs, a decision that eventually cost us the government and allowed the BJP to steal the mandate through manipulations and inducements," he alleged. He repeated the allegation in the press conference also without taking any name. Praising Mamata Benerjee and calling for the unification of the fragmented Congress, Faleiro told reporters that he wanted to bring a new dawn to Goa. "Goa needs a credible alternative and my resignation is a call for unification," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
27-09-2021||India||Countrywide response to bandh proves its pan-India nature, says Rakesh Tikait||The countrywide response to Monday's Bharat Bandh has proved that the protests against three farm laws of the Centre are pan-India, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said and urged the people who faced inconvenience due to the shutdown to forget it for the farmers' sake. He said people from not just three states (Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh) but across the country participated in the shutdown called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions leading the protests against the three contentious laws, from 6 am to 4 pm and no violence was reported from anywhere. "Some people had described the protest as an issue of farmers only in three states (Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh). But the response and support to today's bandh across the country has proved that it is a pan-India protest," the national spokesperson of the BKU, part of the SKM, said. The 10-hour shutdown led to several trains being cancelled, highways and key roads blocked and thousands stranded for hours in parts of the country, particularly in the north. "Some people may have faced inconvenience due to the Bharat Bandh today, which is natural, but they should forget it for just one day in the name of farmers," Tikait said in a statement. "The farmers have been on the roads, leaving their houses for the last 10 months, but the blind and deaf government neither sees nor hears anything," he was quoted as saying in the statement issued by BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik. Tikait said in a democracy, there is no other option but to protest and warned the government that the farmers would go back to their homes only after the laws are abolished. "It is an appeal to our government that the problems of the farmers should be resolved as soon as possible," he added. The influential BKU leader said the 10-month-long protests can end today if the government agrees to the farmers' demands and urged the Centre to look into the issue at the earliest. He thanked farmers and workers across the country for making the shutdown a complete "success" and said the movement will continue till the three laws are repealed and a legal guarantee provided by the Centre on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) on crops. "The Bharat Bandh called by the SKM today has been a complete success. Farmers across the country came out on the roads and expressed their anger against the laws. At thousands of places, people came out in support of the bandh and staged demonstrations. "Besides farmers, labourers, traders, private workers, trade unions and political parties extended support to the bandh across the country," Tikait said. He also hit out at the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the Rs 25 per quintal hike on the MSP for sugarcane announced last week and said a separate agitation would be carried out by the BKU over the issue in the coming days. Tikait is leading hundreds of anti-farm law protesters and BKU supporters at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, one of the three key protest sites on the outskirts of the national capital, since November last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
27-09-2021||India||Congress calls RSS charges levelled against Amazon 'serious'||A day after RSS-linked weekly "Panchjanya" dubbed Amazon as "East India Company 2.0", the Congress on Monday said whatever the Sangh says is irrelevant as it does not say anything in national interest, but in the interest of the ruling BJP. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera, however, said the allegations against the US e-commerce giant are serious and cannot be ignored. "The issue of Amazon is a serious one and it merits everybody's attention. The allegations against Amazon are very serious and they cannot be ignored," he said. Asked about the comments of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Khera said, "What the RSS says about Amazon is irrelevant because there is a duet going on between the RSS and the BJP. "We have seen that duet and they stand exposed in the farmers' agitation. We have seen the dubious role played by the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh as it has not come in support of the farmers even for one day in the last 10 months." The Congress leader said "nobody takes what the RSS says seriously anymore, because they do not speak the language in national interest, they talk in the interest of the BJP." Amazon was dubbed as "East India Company 2.0" by "Panchjanya", which has also alleged that the firm has paid crores of rupees in bribes for favourable government policies. In its latest edition, which will hit the stands on October 3, the RSS-linked weekly has carried a cover story that is highly critical of Amazon. "Whatever the East India Company did in the 18th century to capture India, the same is visible in the activities of Amazon," the article titled "East India Company 2.0" reads. Claiming that Amazon wants to establish its monopoly in the Indian market, it says, "For doing so, it has started taking initiatives for seizing the economic, political and personal freedom of the Indian citizens."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Young doctors not football in game of power, says SC on NEET row||Don't treat young doctors as football in the game of power, the Supreme Court said on Monday, warning the Centre that it may pass structures if it is not satisfied with justification for last-minute changes to the NEET Super Speciality Examination 2021 syllabus. The apex court said it will not allow these young doctors to be placed in the hands of some insensitive bureaucrats, and asked the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), National Medical Commission (NMC) and National Board of Examination (NBE) to put their house in order. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and B V Nagarathna asked Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, to hold a meeting with other two authorities within a week. "Better come with some strong reasons as if we are not satisfied, we will pass structures," it said. "Don't treat these young doctors as footballs in the game of power. Hold the meeting and put your house in order. We will not allow the lives of these young doctors to be placed in the hands of some insensitive bureaucrats," it added. The top court was hearing a plea of 41 Post Graduate doctors who have challenged the last minute changes made to the syllabus after the notification for examination was issued. At the outset, senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the young doctors, said that there is urgency in the matter and they have filed a written submission also in the matter. Advocate Gaurav Sharma, appearing for NMC, said that they would like to file reply in the matter and sought adjournment of one week. The bench said, "Mr Sharma, what is the NMC doing? We are dealing with the lives of young doctors who will pursue super speciality courses. You have issued the notification for examination on July 23 and then changed the syllabus on August 31. What is this? They are to sit for examinations on November 13 and 14". Senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for NBE, said that they be given time to file the reply till next Monday, as there were suitable reasons for doing the changes and authorities were well aware of the difficulties of the students and was after approvals of the three authorities concerned. The bench said, "Then why the notification for examination was issued, Mr Singh? Why cannot it happen next year? You see, students start preparing for these critical medicine courses months and months in advance. What was the need for last minute change?" Singh said that the change in the syllabus was in the offing for quite some time and preparation was on since 2018 and the authorities concerned have tried to take care of the difficulties. "Kindly give us one week, we will explain everything," he said. The bench told the senior counsel, "We are ready to hear you but tell the authorities that we are unsatisfied with the way the last minute changes were made. We are putting you on notice in advance that if we don't agree with your justification, we will pass structures and we will deal with you." It said, "Just because someone has the authority to wield power does not mean that he can wield power without application of mind. When you yourself issued notification for examination in July, then what was the need to rock the boat in August. Please talk to MoHFW and NMC and put your house in order." Justice Chandrachud said that this examination is very important for their (doctors) career and merely because these doctors have already passed the MBBS exams doesn't mean that they can change the exam pattern last minute. "You have to deal with these young doctors with sensitivity," he said. Justice Nagarathna said that Pattern of study for these young doctors will depend on the pattern of questions. "If you make last minute changes, they will be ruffled." She said the young doctors might be put at ruse due to the last minute changes. Justice Chandrachud said that he agrees with his sister judge and added, "We have an example of Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). I have heard that students need to study for two years to prepare for the exams. Here it takes months and months for these doctors who have to study critical medicines and to prepare for the examination and you cannot just make last minute changes." Singh said the court should hear the arguments first and then form any opinion in the matter. The bench said that it is open to the arguments but if it does not accept the submissions then the authorities concerned should also be ready to accept the strictures passed by the court. "These people who are doctors at NMC board have passed the stage which the young doctors are in at present but it does not mean that they will treat them like this. You better come up with strong reasons. List on Monday," it said. The plea has said that as per the prevailing pattern of examination, 60 per cent marks are given on questions from super speciality courses while 40 per cent of the marks are given from other courses. As per the notification issued on August 31 for modifying the pattern of examination, 100 per cent marks will be now given on questions from general medicines. The young doctors have said in their plea that they have been preparing for the examination as per the earlier pattern which has been in existence for the last three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Historic response to Monday's Bharat Bandh, says Samyukta Kisan Morcha||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a united front of over 40 farmer unions protesting against three agriculture laws of the Centre, on Monday said its call for a "Bharat Bandh" received an "unprecedented and historic" response from more than 23 states and not a single untoward incident was reported from anywhere. It, however, said Monday's events were "unfortunately marked by three farmer deaths", adding that more details are awaited. The morcha claimed that the response to the bandh call was "more widespread than before" and nearly all opposition political parties extended an unconditional support to it. "Reports have been pouring in about the overwhelmingly positive and resounding response to the Bharat Bandh call to mark 10 months of peaceful protests with rightful demands from the 'annadaatas' of the country. Spontaneous participation from various sections of the society was witnessed at most places," it said in a statement. The SKM said the bandh was observed peacefully in "more than 23 states" and not a single untoward incident was reported. "Reports have come in from hundreds of locations in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal about the bandh, and numerous events to accompany the same," the statement said. In Punjab alone, people gathered at more than 500 locations to express their support to the bandh. Numerous non-farmer associations also stood in solidarity with the farmers, it said. "Life came to a near standstill in several states like Kerala, Punjab, Haryana, Jharkhand and Bihar. Reports indicate that in several parts of southern Assam, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, this was the situation. Scores of protests marked the day in states like Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand," the SKM said. "It is patently clear that the people of India are tired of the government's adamant and unreasonable stand on the protesting farmers' legitimate demands and anti-people policies in numerous sectors," it added. The morcha also said the Uttar Pradesh government insulted farmers by offering a meagre Rs 25 hike per quintal of sugarcane. Farmers are not ready to settle for anything less than Rs 425 per quintal of sugarcane, it said. Earlier in the day, several trains were cancelled, highways and key roads blocked and many thousands stranded for hours as the 10-hour shutdown against the three farm laws disrupted lives in parts of the country, particularly in the north. Protesters blocked highways and arterial roads and squatted on railway tracks at several places from 6 am as the shutdown called by the SKM got underway. The blockade was lifted at 4 pm. The day marks a year since President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the three controversial laws and 10 months since thousands of farmers set up camps at Delhi's border points to voice their protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Congress asks Narendra Modi to talk to farmers, listen to their demands||As farmers across the country held protests as part of the Bharat Bandh, the Congress on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to talk to agitating farmers and listen to their legitimate grievances. The Congress also alleged that instead of redressing the grievances of farmers, the government is trying to paint them as enemies of the country and that is why the farmers are protesting on the roads. The Bharat Bandh was called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 40 farm unions, to demand repeal of three agri laws enacted by the Centre. Expressing support for protesting farmers, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the farmers' non-violent 'satyagraha' is still resolute but the "exploitative" government does not like this and that is why a 'Bharat Bandh' has been called. Posting rhyming lines in Hindi on Twitter, Gandhi said, "Kisano ka ahimsak satyagraha aaj bhi akhand hai, lekin shoshankar sarkar ko ye nahi pasand hai, isliye aaj Bharat Bandh hai (Farmers' non-violent satyagraha is resolute even today, but the exploitative government does not like this and that's why it is Bharat Bandh today)." Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said farmers are facing angst and helplessness, based on which they have called for the Bandh which his party whole-heartedly supports. "We have to stand unitedly with the farmers, otherwise the future of our nation is dark," he told reporters. Noting that the country has seen many prime ministers and will see many more after Modi, Khera said "You cannot be arrogant when you are the prime minister." "You have to listen to your country and when 60 per cent of your country speaks, please speak to them," he said. "You have a strange confidence and a strange belief in your diversionary tactics and you are very confident that come elections and you will be able to distract the attention of the country again from the basic fundamental critical issues that the farmers face today. But, I am sorry this would not happen again," the Congress leader claimed. He alleged that the government has imposed GST on agri equipment and as if this was not enough, it went ahead without due process of consultations with stakeholders and "bulldozed all democratic norms and parliamentary practices" and brought these three "black" laws, which the farmers are protesting against. Khera said the prime minister made a loud announcement and people took him seriously when he said on January 22, 2021 that he is still a phone call away. "The farmers are still waiting for that phone call. But instead of that phone call what has the prime minister, his government and the party done is that they have tried to delegitimise the farmers of the country and they have tried to portray them as the enemies of the country," he charged. "Instead of engaging with them and telling them that we have gone wrong and we will correct and undo what we have done, this is what the government is doing and that is why the farmers and angry and that is why they are agitating and are on the roads," he told reporters. Khera said each one of us irrespective of our occupation and political affiliation, needs to support the farmers and only then will this government perhaps yield. He also said that it is a pity that the country, which is a civilisation and a civilisation which is the mother of democracies, is given a lecture on democracy when we travel abroad. "It is shameful for all of us," he noted. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Hundreds of farmers confront Noida cops in a separate stir||Hundreds of people from various villages here and a large number of police personnel were involved in a confrontation on Monday during a demonstration over land compensation outside the Noida Authority Office on Delhi's outskirts, coinciding with the Bharat Bandh call given by farmer unions against the Centre's three agri laws. The protestors, mostly supporters of the Bharatiya Kisan Parishad, have been staging a sit-in outside the Noida Authority's office for the past several days over a host of demands including hiked compensation for their land acquired by the government. Police officials said that security had been heightened in the area in view of the ongoing protest and barricades were also set up to prevent the protestors from moving towards the Authority's office in Sector 6. While trying to pacify the demonstrators, led by farmer leader Sukhvir Pahalwan, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Noida) Ranvijay Singh asked them not to take the law into their hands. "You have all the right to hold a protest, but you should also be thoughtful of your actions causing problems to other people, affecting their movement," Singh told the protestors, including several women. "We do not expect you to take the situation to a point wherein the police would be required to use force or initiate legal action against you all because that is not going to help anyone," the officer added. This protest by the Bharatiya Kisan Parishad is not linked with the bigger ongoing farmers' stir against the three contentious farm laws, but is related to the residents of 81 villages of Noida whose land has been acquired in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Parts of Delhi witness traffic jams as farmers go on strike||Markets remained open and business activities were largely unaffected in the national capital on Monday, though massive traffic snarls were witnessed in border areas due to road blockades by protesters and security checks by police during the Bharat Bandh called by farmers against the Centre's three agri laws. The auto and taxi unions as well as several traders' bodies extended only "in-principle support" to the Bharat Bandh and decided not to join the strike, saying their livelihood has already been hit hard due to the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. According to Railway officials, about 25 trains have been affected due to the Bharat Bandh including Delhi-Amritsar Shan-e-Punjab, New Delhi-Moga Express, Old Delhi-Payhajot Express, Vande Bharat Express from New Delhi to Katra, and Amritsar Shatabdi. "More than 20 locations are being blocked in Delhi, Ambala, and Firozpur divisions. About 25 trains are affected due to this," a spokesperson for the Northern Railway said. A section of trade unions and civil society groups held a protest at Jantar Mantar in solidarity with the Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers' agitation. The protesters held banners of 'Long Live Farmers Unity' and demanded the repeal of the agri laws and equal opportunities for all. Parts of the national capital witnessed traffic snarls in morning hours as police closed some key roads to prevent any untoward incident during the bandh. Commuters faced difficulty while crossing the city borders, especially the Delhi-Gurgaon border. The traffic on DND was also affected. The Ghazipur border is closed for vehicular movement and the whole traffic is being diverted to DND and Apsara border for Noida and Ghaziabad respectively. There was chaos on one carriageway of the national highway coming from Ghazipur border to Sarai Kale Khan near Akshardham Mandir. The Delhi Police increased security checks at its border points which led to the slowing down of traffic and it informed commuters about road closures and traffic snarls on Twitter. According to police, roads around the historic Red Fort, which witnessed violent clashes during a farmers' tractor rally on January 26, as well as the dual carriageway at the Ghazipur border were closed for traffic. "The traffic is heavy at the Kalindi Kunj flyover and Kalindi Kunj metro station while it is moving slowly on DND flyway. The traffic is also heavy at Rajokri toll plaza as the local police have set up a checkpoint for vehicles," a senior police official said. A Delhi Metro station near Tikri Border, one of the sites of the ongoing farmers' protests, was also closed for security reasons in view of the Bandh. The station in Haryana -- Pandit Shree Ram Sharma -- falls on the Green Line of the network. Autorickshaws and taxis plied normally and shops were open. "Previously also we had supported Bharat Bandh by the farmers but continued to ply our autos and taxis. This time also we are in support of genuine farmers but we are not on strike because our members are in deep distress due to shrinking earnings in pandemic times," said Rajender Soni, the general secretary of the Delhi Auto Taxi Union. The Sarvoday Driver Association of Delhi, representing many drivers of cab aggregator platforms, also supported the farmers but did not join the strike. "We are in support of the farmers, but our work was affected due to the pandemic and we cannot afford to go in their support by striking," said Kamaljeet Gill, president of the Association. Other auto and taxi unions expressed the same sentiment. "We fully support the farmers. But in view of the financial crisis faced by us due to COVID, we are extending our moral and in-principle support to them and their demand while working normally," said Anuj Rathor, secretary of the Rashtriya Rajdhani Kshetra Auto Drivers Association. Markets and shops in the city were open as farmers have not contacted our associations for any strike, said Brijesh Goyal, chairman of the Chamber of Trade and Industry(CTI). "Also, the festival season is approaching and it is time for traders to recover some of the losses they faced due to the pandemic and lockdown. We do support the farmers and urge the government to meet their demand," he said. Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal said there was no effect of the Bandh on the markets across the country including Delhi. "All the markets including in Delhi remained fully open and business activities in the markets went on as normal. We have advised the farmer leaders to leave the path of struggle and find ways to negotiate with the government," he said. To mark one year since the laws were passed, farmer organisations had called a Bharat Bandh on Monday from 6 AM to 4 PM. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year. The government has projected them as major reforms but the unions allege that the laws will leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates and have been protesting on Delhi's borders since November last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||HC to hear plea concerning safety at court premises on September 29||The Delhi High Court Monday said it would hear on September 29 a plea seeking enhanced security in district courts in the national capital which recently witnessed a courtroom shootout that killed three people. Lawyer Richa Singh informed a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh that she has moved an application for early hearing in the petition pending since 2019, seeking better safety and security at the courts where incidents of crime have taken place. The application specifically mentions the Rohini Court complex incident in which three people, including a gangster, were killed in a courtroom shootout last week. Counter affidavit was filed by the high court registry and loopholes on ground situation were pointed out, she added. Your application will come for hearing on Wednesday, said Chief Justice Patel. The application has sought an urgent hearing on account of the shootout inside a courtroom in Rohini court complex here on September 24, leaving three gangsters dead and a law intern injured. The Writ Petition...will take quite considerable time to come up in its own normal turn for hearing before this Hon'ble court. Therefore, the interest of justice demands that the Writ Petition (Civil)... is listed and finally heard at an early time convenient to this Hon'ble court, the application reads. The public interest litigation was filed by six law students and sought enhancement of security systems at the district courts in the national capital. The PIL highlighted several crimes that took place inside the court premises and stated that there has to be an atmosphere of dignity which could be achieved only when security lapses are attended to. In the counter affidavit filed in the case in September 2020, the high court registry had stated that steps were being actively taken and considered by the concerned committees of the district court with regards the safety and security at court premises. On September 24, Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. Witnesses said a law intern has also sustained bullet injury in her leg and some also claimed that the gang members pumped 10 bullets into Gogi, one of Delhi's most wanted criminals. Sources said Gogi received about seven bullet injuries, even as there was no official confirmation from police on this. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana has expressed deep concern over the shootout inside the crowded courtroom here and spoken to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice D N Patel in this regard, an apex court official had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Goa Congress leader quits party after praising Bengal CM Mamata||Former Goa chief minister and Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro resigned as member of the state Legislative Assembly on Monday and is likely to join the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress (TMC). Minutes before resigning, Faleiro praised West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC head Mamata Banerjee and said the country needs a leader like her to take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Faleiro, who represented the Navelim Assembly seat and was recently made the Goa Congress's campaign committee chief in the wake of the state polls due next year, submitted his resignation to Assembly Speaker Rajesh Patnekar. With his resignation, the Congress's strength in the 40-member House has been reduced to four. The Congress had won 17 seats in the 2017 state Assembly elections, but later a number of MLAs resigned from the party. In July 2019, 10 MLAs quit the party and joined the ruling BJP. Shortly before resigning, Faleiro said the country needs a leader like Mamata Banerjee to counter Narendra Modi. "I met certain leaders, they said yes, you are a Congressman, I am a Congressman for last 40 years, I will continue to be a Congressman and part of Congress family...," Faleiro told reporters at his private residence in Margao, about 30 km from Panaji. "This family has to come together to fight Modi. Mamata is the one who has given a fight to Narendra Modi and his juggernaut," he said. He further said the "Mamata formula" has won in Bengal. "She has been able to stand up...she is a street-fighter ," the 70-year-old leader said. Faleiro said Goa is also going through difficult times. "We need such fighters who have the same wavelength, ideology, principles and programmes. The country needs a leader like Mamata," he said. "I am a Congressman, I would like larger picture of all the Congress parties (which have split from the Congress) to come together and fight the next parliamentary election. I would do everything to achieve this dream. It is definitely my dream," he said. Amid rumours of him joining the TMC, Faleiro had on Sunday said he would make an "important announcement". TMC leader Derek O'Brien told PTI on Saturday in Goa that the party will be contesting the upcoming Assembly polls and they were in touch with several local leaders. He had said that the TMC will announce its chief ministerial candidate soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||25 trains affected due to Bharat Bandh, says Railways||About 25 trains have been affected due to the Bharat Bandh called by farm unions on Monday, officials said. "More than 20 locations are being blocked in Delhi, Ambala, and Firozepur divisions. About 25 trains are affected due to this," a spokesperson for the Northern Railway said. Officials said the Delhi-Amritsar Shan-e-Punjab, New Delhi-Moga Express, Old Delhi-Payhajot Express, Vande Bharat Express from New Delhi to Katra, and Amritsar Shatabdi are some of the trains that have been affected. To mark one year since they were passed, farmer organisations have called a Bharat Bandh on Monday against the three contentious farm laws. The bandh began at 6 am and will continue till 4 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||PM Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, under which a digital health ID will be provided to people that will contain their health records, and asserted that it has the potential to bring revolutionary changes in healthcare. In his address after the launch, Modi said the mission marks a new phase in efforts of the last seven years to strengthen health facilities. The pilot project of the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission was announced by the prime minister from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, 2020. Currently, Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission is being implemented in a pilot phase in six union territories. Its nationwide roll-out coincides with the National Health Authority celebrating the third anniversary of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY). In his remarks, Modi said that the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission has the potential to bring revolutionary changes to our health facilities. The prime minister noted that India has nearly 130 crore Aadhaar users, 118 crore mobile subscribers, 43 crore Jan Dhan bank accounts, and such a connected infrastructure can be found nowhere else in the world. Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission will provide reliable data, leading to better treatment and ensuring savings for patients, he said. The prime minister said that under the mission, people of the country will now get a digital health ID. Health records of every citizen will be digitally protected, he said, adding that the poor and the middle class will benefit the most from this mission. Emphasizing on the importance of technology, the prime minister pointed out that the Aarogya Setu app helped a lot in preventing the spread of the coronavirus infection. He also noted that India has been able to administer about 90 crore vaccine doses, and the Co-WIN application and its portal played a big role in it. Based on the foundations laid down in the form of Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile (JAM) trinity and other digital initiatives of the government, Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission will create a seamless online platform through the provision of a wide range of data, information and infrastructure services, duly leveraging open, interoperable, standards-based digital systems while ensuring the security, confidentiality and privacy of health-related personal information, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). It will enable access and exchange of longitudinal health records of citizens with their consent, the PMO said. The key components of the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission include a health ID for every citizen that will also work as their health account, to which personal health records can be linked and viewed with the help of a mobile application, a Healthcare Professionals Registry (HPR) and Healthcare Facilities Registries (HFR) that will act as a repository of all healthcare providers across both modern and traditional systems of medicine. This will ensure ease of doing business for doctors, hospitals and healthcare service providers. The Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission Sandbox, created as a part of the mission, will act as a framework for technology and product testing that will help organisations, including private players, intending to be a part of the National Digital Health Ecosystem become a health information provider or a health information user or efficiently link with building blocks of Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, the PMO said. This mission will create interoperability within the digital health ecosystem, similar to the role played by the Unified Payments Interface in revolutionising payments, it said. Citizens will only be a click away from accessing healthcare facilities, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block highways at many places in Punjab||Farmers on Monday blocked highways and other roads at many places in Punjab, where the ruling Congress said it firmly stands by the farm unions' call for Bharat Bandh against the Centre's three agri laws. In neighbouring Haryana too, there were reports of protesters blocking some highways, including in Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kurukshetra. There were also reports of farmers squatting on rail tracks at a few places in the two states. In Punjab, a complete shutdown was observed at several places, including Moga, where farmers blocked the Moga-Ferozepur and Moga-Ludhiana National Highways. The Bathinda-Chandigarh National Highway too was blocked by farmers, sources said. Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged the Centre to repeal the three anti-farmer laws. #I Stand With Farmers & appeal the Union Govt. to repeal the three anti-farmer laws. Our farmers have been struggling for their rights since more than a year & it is high time that their voice is heard. I request the farmers to raise their voice in a peaceful manner (sic), Channi tweeted. Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said the PPCC firmly stands by farmer unions' for Bharat Bandh. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee firmly stands by Farmer Unions demand for Bharat Bandh on 27 Sept 2021. In the war of right and wrong you can not afford to be neutral !! We urge every Congress worker to fight with all their might against the three Unconstitutional Black Laws !! (sic), Sidhu tweeted. In Haryana, protesting farmers blocked the national highway in Charkhi Dadri while in Kurukshetra too, several roads were blocked. In an advisory issued on Sunday, the Haryana Police had stated that people could face traffic disruptions on various roads and highways of the state due to the bandh. In view of the bandh, elaborate arrangements have been put in place by the civil administration and police according to directions of the state government, a Haryana Police spokesperson said. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers' agitation, had earlier appealed to the people to join the bandh. The SKM had also asked political parties to stand with farmers in their quest to defend principles of democracy and federalism. "As this historic struggle completes 10 months, SKM has called Monday (September 27) to be observed as Bharat Bandh against the anti-farmer Modi government, the SKM had said in a statement. The SKM appeals to every Indian to join this nationwide movement and make Bharat Bandh a resounding success. In particular, we appeal to all organisations of workers, traders, transporters, businessmen, students, youth and women and all social movements to extend solidarity with the farmers that day," it said. The bandh will be held from 6 am to 4 pm during which all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments, as well as public events and functions, will be closed throughout the country, it had said. All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies will be exempted. Farmers from different parts of the country, especially Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws that they fear would do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. The government, however, has been projecting the three laws as major agricultural reforms. Over 10 rounds of talks between the two parties have failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||India's active Covid cases lowest in 191 days||India added 26,041 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,36,78,786, while the active cases declined to 2,99,620, the lowest in 191 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,47,194 with 276 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.89 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.78 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,856 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 92 consecutive days, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.24 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 28 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 94 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,29,31,972, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 86 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 276 new fatalities include 165 from Kerala and 36 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,47,194 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,870 from Maharashtra, 37,726 From Karnataka, 35,490 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,603 from Kerala, 22,890 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,736 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Rahul Gandhi voices support for farmers||Expressing support for protesting farmers, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the farmers' non-violent 'satyagraha' is still resolute but the "exploitative" government does not like this and that is why a 'Bharat Bandh' has been called. The Congress has asked its workers, state unit chiefs and heads of frontal organisations to take part in the 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmer unions to protest against the Centre's three agri laws. Many non-NDA parties have extended support to the nationwide 10-hour strike on Monday called by farmers protesting against the three agri laws under the aegis of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM). Posting rhyming lines in Hindi on Twitter, Gandhi said, "Kisano ka ahimsak satyagraha aaj bhi akhand hai, lekin shoshankar sarkar ko ye nahi pasand hai, isliye aaj Bharat Bandh hai (Farmers' non-violent satyagraha is resolute even today, but the exploitative government does not like this and that's why it is Bharat Bandh today)." Gandhi used the hashtag 'IStandWithFarmers' with his tweet. The SKM on Sunday had appealed for complete peace during the Bandh and urged all Indians to join the strike. The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the 'mandi' and the MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Delhi Police tightens security at border points||The Delhi Police has beefed up security in border areas of the national capital in view of the Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions against the Centre's three agri laws on Monday. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of over 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers' agitation, had earlier appealed to the people to join the bandh. A senior police officer said adequate security arrangements have been made to maintain the law and order situation and prevent any untoward incident in the national capital during the bandh. Patrolling has been intensified, extra personnel have been deployed at the pickets especially across the border areas and every vehicle entering the national capital is being thoroughly checked, according to the police. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said, In view of Bharat Bandh, adequate security arrangements have been made as a precautionary measure. Pickets at the border areas have been strengthened and all vital installations, including India Gate and Vijay Chowk have adequate deployment. No protester is being allowed to enter Delhi from the three protest sites at the city's borders, the official said. The security is preventive and we are fully alert. There is no call for Bharat Bandh in Delhi, but we are watching the developments and adequate number of personnel are on ground, another officer said. Police personnel have been deployed on all roads leading to Delhi through villages near border areas while all vehicles are being checked at the pickets, they said. The SKM had also asked political parties to stand with farmers in their quest to defend principles of democracy and federalism. "As this historic struggle completes 10 months, SKM has called Monday (September 27) to be observed as Bharat Bandh against the anti-farmer Modi government, the SKM had said in a statement. The SKM appeals to every Indian to join this nationwide movement and make Bharat Bandh a resounding success. In particular, we appeal to all organisations of workers, traders, transporters, businessmen, students, youth and women and all social movements to extend solidarity with the farmers that day," it said. The bandh will be held from 6 am to 4 pm during which all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments, as well as public events and functions, will be closed throughout the country, it had said. All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies will be exempted. Farmers from different parts of the country, especially Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws that they fear would do away with the Minimum Support Price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. The government, however, has been projecting the three laws as major agricultural reforms. Over 10 rounds of talks between the two parties have failed to break the deadlock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||BJP projects Modi as 'vishwa priya neta' on his return from America||The BJP on Sunday sought to project Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a “vishwa priya neta” (a leader loved globally) as it welcomed him back from a three-day US visit with drumbeats and a red carpet laid outside the Palam airport gate. The exercise seemed aimed at taking advantage of Modi's foreign trip to hype his personal image at a time his government’s handling of Covid and treatment of minorities and the agitating farmers have attracted criticism at home and abroad. From a makeshift stage outside the airport, party president J.P. Nadda stressed the Prime Minister’s “friendship” with US President Joe Biden, similar to claims made before about Modi’s personal ties with then Presidents Donald Trump and Barack Obama. Earlier, Modi had walked a red carpet onto the stage where he was welcomed with a huge garland as supporters chanted “Modi, Modi....” During the US visit, Modi had had to endure a lecture on Gandhian tolerance from Biden and one on upholding democratic principles from Vice-President Kamala Harris. But the BJP portrayed the trip as a resounding success. “Prime Minister Modi’s friendship with US President Joe Biden is not new. They share an old bond. This was reiterated by the US President too,” Nadda said. “Prime Minister Modi's visit to the US proves that the world views India differently. He has established India as a global player.” A banner behind the stage proclaimed the Prime Minister a “vishwa priya neta” with pictures showing him meeting Biden and speaking at the United Nations General Assembly. Nadda said Modi had spoken like a “statesman” at the UNGA. At the UNGA, while purportedly trying to answer the concerns signalled by Biden and Harris, Modi had himself appeared to be focusing on his personal image, citing his own rise from a humble background as proof of India's functioning democracy. On Saturday, a host of Union ministers and BJP politicians had posted tweets praising Modi's UNGA address. Party sources said the effort to hold Modi up as a world leader was based on feedback from the ground that suggested that the ordinary Indian saw the Prime Minister as having enhanced India's global standing. Modi's return from the US coincided with his monthly radio address, Mann Ki Baat, which the Prime Minister said had been recorded before he left India. In the broadcast, Modi sought to suggest that the country was progressing under his leadership with the people's participation. He repeated his now familiar catchphrases about the "can do determination" of Indians and the need to become "vocal for local". He urged people to set a record in the purchase of khadi and handloom products during the upcoming festivals to try and make India self-reliant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Nearly 40 lakh pupils to participate in National Achievement Survey||Nearly 40 lakh pupils from government and private schools will in the second week of November participate in a National Achievement Survey, which will evaluate their learning levels and assess any decline during the pandemic. Students of Classes III, V, VIII and X will take the written, single-paper test — which will assess their competence in mathematics, social sciences, language and comprehension — on a single day. Education ministry officials said the survey report would be expected before the next academic session. “Several sample survey reports have come out in the past few months showing a learning loss, but their sample sizes were small. The NAS report will help us get a national picture,” a ministry official said. Earlier this month, a sample survey by a group of educationists had found a sharp decline in learning standards among underprivileged children enrolled in Classes I to VIII. About 42 per cent rural children and 35 per cent of urban children from Classes III to V were unable to read a single word from a simple sentence. Students from nearly 1.25 lakh of India’s 15 lakh schools will take part in the test, to be available in 22 languages including Nepali and Urdu. The three-yearly NAS was last held in 2017, with Covid preventing it being held last year. Till now, only students of government and government-aided schools took the tests for Classes III, V and VIII, while the Class X test featured both government and private schools. This year will be the first when students of both government and private schools will take the test for each of the four grades. A ministry official said this year’s test would therefore show, for the first time, how children from poor families who study in the lower classes at private schools, with the government paying their fees at a rate fixed by it, were doing. The Central Board of Secondary Education will conduct the test, while the National Council of Educational Research and Training will prepare the question papers. PISA deferred The internationally esteemed competency test, Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), has been deferred to 2022 because of the Covid situation. The three-yearly worldwide test, conducted by the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, was to be held this year. The test assesses 15-year-olds’ competence in mathematics, reading and science. The Centre has an agreement with the OECD for the participation of Indian students. India had, however, participated only once, in 2009, when students from Tamil Nadu and Himachal Pradesh were selected to represent the country. India had ranked 73 out of 74 countries, finishing only above Kyrgyzstan, and did not participate in 2012, 2015 or 2018. Next year, select students from urban schools in Chandigarh and its neighbourhood will represent the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||N.V. Ramana advocates 50% quota for women judges||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Sunday advocated 50 per cent reservation in the judiciary for women judges, arguing it was a “right” and “not a charity”. Justice Ramana also urged reservation of seats for women at all law schools and colleges as a way of increasing the number of women legal professionals in the country. Such changes would require legislative enactment, which requires government initiative and political will. Justice Ramana dropped a hint saying he was “forcing the executive to take certain decisions”. The Chief Justice was speaking at a felicitation organised by the Supreme Court Women Bar Association for the nine new judges recently elevated to the apex court. He said he would slightly modify Karl Marx’s rallying cry to say: “Women of the world, unite! You have nothing to lose but your chains.” Justice Ramana observed: “Granting 50 per cent reservation for women is not a small issue, because for thousands of years there has been suppression of women in the country. You are entitled to 50 per cent reservation as a matter of right and not as a charity.” He added: “I don’t know whether I will be here or somewhere else, but when we achieve this goal I will be really happy.” Justice Ramana said that after touring several parts of the country and interacting with stakeholders, he had realised that women were grossly underrepresented in the judiciary. He said women made up less that 30 per cent of the judges in the trial courts, 11.5 per cent in the high courts, and 11 per cent in the Supreme Court — that too after the recent induction of three women judges. The Supreme Court now has 4 women among its 33 judges (12 per cent). Of the 1.7 million lawyers in the country, only 15 per cent are women, the Chief Justice said. Women account for an abysmal two per cent of the office-bearers at the various state Bar councils, the Chief Justice added. Justice Ramana regretted the lack of toilet and other infrastructural facilities for women lawyers. He said he had obtained data that showed that of the country’s 60,000 court halls, 22 per cent lacked toilet facilities for women. Justice Ramana said: “These are the ground realities. We have to tackle the issues immediately. I am forcing the executive to take certain decisions and correct it.” The women lawyers at the event gave a standing ovation to Justice Ramana for “creating history” through the elevation of nine new judges to the Supreme Court, including three women, at one go. One of the new women judges, Justice V. Nagarathna, will become the first woman Chief Justice of India in 2027. Mahalakshmi Pavani, president of the women lawyers’ association, urged the Chief Justice to ensure that deserving women lawyers from the Supreme Court were elevated to the various high courts, particular in states that lacked enough women judges. She also underlined the need for facilities such as bar rooms, washrooms and enough seats for women lawyers in the various courts and their corridors. Court reopening Justice Ramana said the Supreme Court was keen on the resumption of physical court proceedings, as were the younger lawyers, but some senior lawyers were against it. He said he would try to get the courts reopened after the Dussehra vacation next month. He added that the Supreme Court wanted the courts reopened only with proper stands of procedure, particularly with a possible third wave of the pandemic looming.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Adityanath expands cabinet six months before Assembly polls||Yogi Adityanath on Sunday inducted seven new ministers into his government less than six months before Assembly polls are due, the exercise apparently aimed at balancing caste equations despite the BJP’s professed disdain for such concerns. One of the new ministers is Congress defector Jitin Prasada, who belongs to the Brahmin community that is perceived to be unhappy with Adityanath. Three are OBCs, the mainstay of the Samajwadi Party, and the remaining three are Dalits, a community that makes up the Bahujan Samaj Party vote bank. However, in an apparent show of defiance, Adityanath desisted from inducting Narendra Modi confidant Arvind Kumar Sharma, a retired IAS officer who had worked for about two decades with Modi in Gujarat and Delhi. Sharma was sent to Uttar Pradesh in January amid strong speculation that the Prime Minister wanted him appointed state home minister, but Adityanath didn’t oblige.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Gulab makes landfall between Odisha and Andhra Pradesh||The cyclonic storm Gulab made landfall on Sunday evening between Gopalpur in south Odisha and Kalingapatnam in north Andhra Pradesh, a few hours after two tourists from Bengal drowned in Balasore while bathing in an already turbulent sea. The storm’s impact was felt in the Odisha districts of Gajapati, Rayagada, Koraput and Malkangiri. Srikakulam district of Andhra has also been affected. Around 9pm — three hours since the landfall process started — the wind was not very strong in Odisha, special relief commissioner P.K. Jena told PTI. Intermittent mild to moderate rainfall is reported from a few districts, Jena added. Around midnight, reports suggested that the storm was weakening. Debarshi Singh, 23, and Abhradip Acharya, 22, both residents of Madhyamgram, were swept away at Talsari beach in Balasore district, which borders the Digha beach in Bengal, around 2.30-3pm. “They were from Madhyamgram in Bengal. Five tourists were bathing in the sea when two of them went in deep, defying the warnings from local people. They were swept away,” a source in the Talsari marine police told The Telegraph. Efforts are on to trace a fishing trawler that had put out to sea two days ago from somewhere between Puri and Konark and has not returned. As a precaution, the state government had ordered all schools closed in 11 districts. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who is in Delhi on an official visit, spoke to the collectors to review the safety measures. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Naveen and promised all help. All those living in vulnerable areas had been evacuated before the cyclonic storm struck. Mindful of the Covid situation, the state government sent masks and sanitisers to the shelters and urged people to adhere to the pandemic protocol. The landfall witnessed tidal waves about half a metre taller than those seen during astronomical tides, particularly in Ganjam district where many low-lying areas were flooded. Many parts of the state, particularly the seven worst-hit districts and Khurda, Puri and Bhubaneswar city, suffered heavy rainfall ahead of the landfall. Train services were cancelled, diverted, rescheduled or truncated. Flights from Bhubaneswar airport were cancelled in the evening. The Odisha government has deployed 42 Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force units, 24 National Disaster Response Force units and 103 fire services units. The navy has deployed two ships --- INS Dega and INS Rajaji -- and an aircraft in Visakhapatnam. Odisha is unlikely to seek navy or air force assistance, special relief commissioner P.K. Jena said. “Odisha already has a robust mechanism to deal with the aftermath of a cyclone. I don’t think we shall require the services of the navy or air force,” he said. Danger signals have been hoisted in all the ports of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Jharkhand delegation demands caste census in a letter to Amit Shah||An all-party delegation from Jharkhand, led by chief minister Hemant Soren, met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Sunday afternoon and submitted a letter demanding a caste census. Sources said Soren had earlier this month written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking an appointment with an all-party delegation over the issue. He had also sought Modi’s time to discuss the issues related to caste census and the inclusion of the Sarna tribal religion code in the census. The letter, addressed to the Prime Minister, was signed by all 11 members of the delegation, including state BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash. The letter emphasised the need for a caste-based census to ensure overall development of those belonging to backward and most backward classes. The census figures available since Independence of the country did not contain caste-specific break-up, making it difficult to assess the educational, social, political and economic status of those backward and most backward people, the letter said, adding that such figures, if available, would help in reaching special assistance to those people. It is unfortunate that the Union government declared that caste-based census would not be done in respect of these people during the ensuing 2021 census, the letter further said, adding that the Mandal Commission had recommended reservations for backward class people on the basis of data available from the census figures of 1931 that was done 90 years ago. “The demand of the time is to translate into reality the belief of Sabka saath, sabka vikas  (Together with all, development of all),” the letter reminded the Prime Minister, adding that the caste-based census would help realise that goal. “The home minister accepted the letter but didn’t commit anything,” state Congress president Rajesh Thakur told The Telegraph after meeting Shah. The demand for a caste-based census had already been raised in states like Maharashtra, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. Earlier in the day, chief minister Soren attended a meeting of states affected by Left-wing extremism (LWE) that was also chaired by Shah in New Delhi. “Both the Centre and the state have the responsibility of weeding out extremists by working together in the true spirit of cooperative federalism,” Soren said at the meeting. As such, it was not practical that the Centre demanded payment for deployment of central forces in the states for the purpose, he added. He further demanded that the Centre write off the bill for Rs 10 crore raised against Jharkhand for the purpose and did not send any such bill for the same reason in future. Soren said that joint efforts by the central and state forces helped contain extremist activities to a large extent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
27-09-2021||India||Free online legal aid platform for journalists launched||An Internet watchdog and a journalists’ group have launched an online free legal aid platform where mediapersons can seek advice, second opinion on their legal strategy and pre-publication review while lawyers representing scribes can ask for counsel on technology-related matters. The Digital Patrakar Defence Clinic (DPDC), based in Delhi with lawyers from the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), is promoted by the Forum for Media Professionals. Started on September 5, the clinic’s brochure mentions the Anil Ambani group’s defamation case against The Wire news portal for its reports on the Rafale deal, and the arrest of Manipur journalist Kishorechandra Wangkhem for a Facebook post contesting claims that cow excreta can cure Covid as examples of journalists they would like to defend. “Over the last few years, India has slipped 20 ranks in the World Press Freedom Index. Journalists are exposed to police violence, ambushes by political activists, reprisals by criminal groups and prosecution for sedition. We believe that India urgently requires innovative strategies employed by principled and committed lawyers who are experienced in dealing with a diverse range and skills, including in criminal prosecution, civil lawsuits, physical violence, Internet shutdowns, website blocking and illegal surveillance. The Internet Freedom Foundation has several years’ worth of experience in these matters,” the clinic’s project manager, Tanmay Singh, told The Telegraph. Lawyers Abhinav Sekhri and Sanjana Srikumar are leading the clinic with support from fellow professionals Apar Gupta, Vrinda Bhandari, Anandita Mishra and Singh. Singh said: “Our members are assisting Ipsa Shatakshi and Rupesh Kumar Singh, among other journalists, on writ petitions relating to the use of (the) Pegasus (spyware) on their mobile phones before the Supreme Court. The DPDC has already provided advice on matters relating to civil and criminal defamation.” The IFF is fighting several free speech and privacy cases, including the Internet shutdowns in Kashmir, WhatsApp’s privacy policy and the repealed Section 66A of the Information Technology Act that continues to be used. Sekhri and Srikumar also represent environment activist Disha Ravi who had been arrested over a “toolkit” supporting the movement against the Narendra Modi government’s new farm regime. Reporters who need to see a lawyer for their work can fill a form on internetfreedom.in and get a link for a personal online consultation with Sekhri or Srikumar. This month, four-hour-long sessions are scheduled. The clinic is open to “all media workers and support staff, community media workers, cartoonists and citizen journalists”. Publications can also contact them for a clinic session for their employees. “In order to effectively defend themselves against legal threats related to their reportage, journalists must be aware of their rights under the Constitution of India, including their right to freedom of speech and expression. In today’s climate, journalists must also have close and direct communication with their legal team in order to de-risk themselves from potential legal action,” Tanmay added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
27-09-2021||India||Credentials of NCF panel members questioned by some academics||The government’s formation of an expert committee to develop the National Curriculum Frameworks, which guide the preparation of school, preschool, adult learning and teacher training textbooks, has set off a debate with some academics questioning the panel members’ credentials for the task. “Kindly educate me if there is any curriculum expert or of philosophy of education in the newly announced NCF committee,” a Facebook post by N.K. Ambasht, former chairperson of the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS), said on Wednesday after the formation of the 12-member NCF “steering committee”. The All India Peoples’ Science Network, a network of 40 organisations that work to spread scientific knowledge and attitudes at the grassroots, has protested the panel’s composition and demanded its reconstitution. “It is a matter of deep concern that the entire span of educational curriculum reform, from the early childhood years to adult education, has been entrusted to a small committee with no expertise in these crucial areas,” a statement from AIPSN secretary P. Rajamanickam said. “(The) members include educational administrators and even entrepreneurs. This seems to be in line with the trend of the National Education Policy 2020 to usher in private players while making subservient (the) established institutions of public education.” The AIPSN expressed surprise that the panel had no expert from the NCERT, which prepares school textbooks. (The committee’s terms of reference say the NCERT director would help the panel.) Anita Rampal, former dean of Delhi University’s faculty of education, too expressed surprise at the composition of the committee. “People who have worked in curriculum and those with research experience in school education, pedagogy or teacher education are best suited for the committee,” Rampal said. “This panel lacks the expertise to guide the preparation of any of the four NCFs.” Rampal compared the committee unfavourably with the panel, headed by educationist Yashpal, that prepared the previous NCF in 2005. The AIPSN statement said the 2005 committee had 11 members from the NCERT and 24 others, including eminent academics from the natural and social sciences, languages and mathematics, teachers and principals from schools and colleges, other educationists, and leaders of NGOs working in the fields of education and human rights. Many more well-known experts were invited as members of the focus groups, it said. “AIPSN calls for a reconstitution of the steering committee with persons having a deep understanding about learners in diverse and disparate socio-cultural contexts, disciplinary knowledge of school education and domain expertise in teacher education/adult education, as well as sound experience of the pedagogical processes required to develop (an) NCF,” the statement said. However, Yagnamurthy Sreekanth, principal of the Regional Institute of Education, Mysore, said the committee was well-equipped for the job. He said the four earlier NCFs had witnessed “a top-down approach”, with central panels preparing them and the states “adopting them for their use”. “Now the state-level SCERTs will prepare state curriculum frameworks (SCFs) according to their requirements. The national committee will examine, evaluate and sum up the SCFs to prepare the NCFs,” Sreekanth said. “For this, the members may not require expertise only on school education.” Sreekanth said the two foreign members on the panel, Manjul Bhargava and Michel Danino, would provide an international perspective that earlier  committees lacked. The members from the spheres of NGO work and entrepreneurship would bring “novelty”. Rampal said that while Mahesh Chandra Pant, a member of the current NCF committee, had been NIOS chairperson, his prior research work was mostly related to education administration. She also questioned the choice of a space scientist as panel head. Emails were sent to the accounts of nine of the panel members, and to Jhingran and Maruwada through the common email mentioned on the websites of their organisations, seeking their responses. The remaining member, National Book Trust chairperson Govind Prasad Sharma, was contacted over the phone. He said he had headed a committee set up by the Madhya Pradesh government to study the NCF of 2005 for adoption in the state. “I was also chairman of the textbook writing committee of Madhya Pradesh for nine years,” Sharma said. Sridhar replied through email: "Perceptions differ. What is critical is the outcome. Better we look for that. I also respect the perceptual differences". Comments from the others are awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
27-09-2021||India||Search on for more riches at Puri Emmar Mutt||The Emmar Mutt, which is one of the oldest in Odisha and associated with the culture of Lord Jagannath, is getting a close look from the state archaeological department officials who inspected its premises earlier this month following reports of recovery of some valuable metals. This religious institution was in news in 2011 when 522 silver ingots valued at Rs 90 crore were recovered from there. In April 2021 another 45 silver ingots weighing 35kg each had been recovered from the premises of the mutt. All the silver ingots are at present in possession of the state endowment commission. The inspection by the officials is being done on the request of Narayan Ramanuj Das, in-charge of Emmar Mutt. The state archeological officials used metal detectors to spot precious metals in presence of the district magistrate and collector Puri. Narayan Ramanuj Das was given the charge of Emmar mutt early this year after the previous mahant of the mutt was relieved of his duties in the wake of the controversy triggered by the discovery of silver ingots. Talking to the media in Puri, Ramanuj Das said: “I had urged the Endowment Commission to do a survey of the premises of the mutt with metal detectors particularly in the unused areas of the mutt, living room of the old mahant and other areas. Following the ongoing demolition process by the administration along the 100-metre periphery of the Jagannath temple, many new things have come before the public. As I suspect some valuables are still there underneath the ashram. I want it to be recovered and handed over to the administration before they are stolen by others.” Sources said the officials have identified four spots where they suspected that some valuable materials might be hidden. They will dig at these places. Talking to reporters, Endowment Commission superintendent Ananat Charan Murmu said: “This is a heritage mutt. With the permission of the ASI (Archaeological Survey of India), the search is being done. We suspect some valuable materials could be present underneath the structure at some places in the ashram. With a high-resolution metal detector, we will inspect the entire premises again. We will also dig at a few places to ascertain whether there is any valuable material there or not.” The mutt established by Swami Ramanuja in 1200 AD, spread over six acres just in front of the Jagannath temple has religious significance and is intrinsically associated with the Shree Jagannath culture. Ramanuja was one of the most important exponents of the Vaishnavite tradition of Hinduism. However, with the ongoing beautification around the periphery of the Jagannath temple, most of the areas have been taken over by the district administration with only a few structures inside the mutt premises left intact. Anil Dhir, a researcher and columnist, said: “Each of the ingots has got assay markings which can reveal its  origin and date. In my research on the great Odisha famine of 1866, the Na’Anka Durbhikshya, I had got conclusive evidence that the bullion was part of the payment made by the British authorities to various mutts for rice purchased from them during the famine years. The Emmar Mutt was among the biggest landowners of the period and had overflowing granaries. The British brought a major part of the relief stock by paying the mutt in silver ingots.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
27-09-2021||India||Naveen calls for banks in Maoist-affected areas||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday asked the Centre to consider his proposal in setting up banks in Maoist-affected areas and observed that a banking correspondent cannot be a replacement for banks in areas hit by LWE (Left-wing extremism). Naveen assured the Centre that the state would provide land, building, etc, for setting up bank branches free of cost in such areas. Addressing a meeting convened by Union home minister Amit Shah on extremism in New Delhi, Naven said: “We have not been successful in creating banking facilities in these areas. The state government will provide land, building, etc, for setting up bank branches free of cost. I would urge the Union government to take expeditious steps to set up banks within a specific time frame of one year or so. Banking correspondent cannot be a replacement for banks in Left-wing extremism (LWE) areas.” Naveen stressed on the improvement of accessibility in the Maoist-affected areas and work done for their economic improvement. “In our experience in handling of LWE, one important learning point is that accessibility and in turn economic prosperity is the biggest anti-LWE measure we should aim for and these have to be done in scale,” he said. Providing mobile connectivity to areas in southern and western Odisha should be taken on a priority basis, the chief minister pointed out. Naveen said: “There are 6,278 villages in Odisha without any mobile access or connectivity, the largest number in the country. We thank the Union home ministry for sanctioning 488 mobile towers for Odisha recently. But to provide (mobile network) coverage to other uncovered villages, an estimated 2,000 more mobile base stations will be required.” Naveen also said that most of the interior areas depend on mobile connectivity and mobile Internet for banking, education and delivery of all government services. “Today, the basic need, therefore, is of 4G mobile base stations at all places. It is, therefore, required to upgrade the 2G base stations also erected earlier,” he said. Naveen also demanded the four-laning of National Highway 326 from Jeypore to Motu via Malkangiri up to Bhadrachalam. “This will provide a parallel road for traffic from eastern India and Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand to the south, especially to Bangalore and Hyderabad. This corridor in addition to reducing the travelling time substantially will also provide huge economic impetus to this region,” he said. The chief minister said LWE-affected districts are not part of the railway network. “The railway ministry and Odisha government are already constructing two legs — from Jeypore to Nabarangpur and Jeypore to Malkangiri — through cost sharing. The missing part between Malkangiri and Bhadrachalam of 153km length and the 118km-long Nabarangpur to Junagarh section can provide a very viable alternative path to the trunk routes of railway. This will have a huge impact on the economic growth of these areas,” Naveen said. Naveen also suggested the “MHA (ministry of home affairs) should do a study on how many children from these LWE-affected areas across the country are getting into national level exams like NEET, IIT, JEE, etc. If our systems continue to bypass these areas, it is not going to help the cause of people of LWE-affected areas”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
27-09-2021||India||Odisha govt to install beehive boxes to ward off elephants ||The Odisha government has decided to install wooden beehive boxes in select forest divisions of the state to keep elephants away from human habitations in a bid to bring down cases of human-animal conflict during the upcoming rabi season. “Engaging honey bees to ward off elephants has been successful in South Africa, Assam, Uttarakhand and Karnataka. We have planned to implement this in Odisha’s selective forest divisions on a pilot basis,” principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) Shashi Paul told The Telegraph. The project has been named RE-HAB (Reducing Elephant-Human Attacks using Bees). With this the government is hopeful that the human habitations as well as the crops will be safe from jumbo attacks. Cases of animal and human conflict are generally noticed in between October and March. According to the plan, the beehive boxes will be put up at several places known for the movement of elephants. “When a jumbo tries to cross the border and comes in touch with the wire connected to the beehive box, the door of the box will open. Angered at being disturbed, the army of honeybees will come out and attack the herd of elephants. Scared by the sudden attack, the elephants will run away and will not enter the human habitations and destroy the crops,” said Paul. According to the plan, the state government will launch a pilot scheme in Athmallik-Keonjhar forest division. “Once the pilot project is successful, we will expand it to other areas where the jumbos are creating havoc,” said Paul. The forest department will procure the beehive boxes from the Khadi and Village Industries Commission. “We have already held meetings with the people on the periphery of the forest division of Athmallik. We have received an overwhelming response,” officials said. The forest department has also decided to monitor the movement of elephant herds through GPS-fitted radio collars. “We are taking the help of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, for this. The radio coordinates will help track the movement of the elephants. Survey work is on,” an official said. The radio collars will be fitted in three elephants in Chandaka sanctuary and four in Similipal sanctuary. The radio collars will be fitted after tranquillising the elephants. A government report says that at least 282 pachyderms have died due to human and animal conflict in the last three years. Similarly, 912 people have lost their lives in elephant attacks during the last 10 years. The state government is also implementing the Gaja Sathi (Elephant Friend) Yojana by roping in members of Van Suraksha Samitis. “At least five members of the Van Suraksha Samitis will be given an opportunity to work as Gaja Sathis with the department. The samiti will recommend the names. Each samiti will be given a monetary assistance of Rs 25,000 per annum. They will work in coordination with the forest department to ward off the elephants. They will be given crackers, lights and other equipment for this purpose,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
27-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI arrests four persons in Bengal coal pilferage scam case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested four persons for their alleged involvement in the multi-crore rupees coal pilferage scam in Bengal, sources in the probe agency said. The four arrested were close aides of Anup Majhi, alias Lala, who is believed to be the key person behind the alleged pilferage of dry fuel from Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) mines in Asansol in Paschim Bardhaman district, they said. The anti-corruption branch of the CBI summoned the four to appear before its officials at the agency's office in Calcutta. They were nabbed following a brief interrogation. Earlier, the CBI arrested Vikash Mishra, brother of Trinamul Congress youth leader Binay Mishra, in connection with the case. The CBI had registered an FIR in November last year against Lala, the alleged kingpin of the pilferage racket, ECL general managers Amit Kumar Dhar and Jayesh Chandra Rai, ECL security chief Tanmay Das, Kunustoria area security inspector Dhananjay Rai and Kajor area security in-charge Debashish Mukherjee. The agency had raided Lala's official premises, residences and other properties in Asansol, Ranigunj and Calcutta. A look-out circular had been issued against him. The CBI is of the view that the scam, arising out of illegal mining from abandoned mines of ECL, runs into thousands of crores of rupees and part of the crime proceeds had been transacted through the hawala route for which the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also joined the probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore: Didi must win big, but dwindling victory margins a cause of worry||The last day of campaigning for the Bhowanipore Assembly by-poll ended with blood spilling on the streets near Jadubabu’s Bazar as supporters of Trinamul Congress and the BJP came to blows. Monday’s violence around a rally by the former state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, in which a BJP supporter suffered a head injury, was the second consecutive day when the Opposition came under attack for campaigning in the chief minister’s home turf. Sunday’s battleground was Harish Chatterjee Street where Mamata’s residence is located. There, CPM central committee member Sujan Chakraborty and others were stopped from entering the narrow street, which is also the neighbourhood of Trinamul Lok Sabha MP Kalyan Banerjee. The Calcutta Police had turned down the CPM’s plea to campaign in Mamata’s neigbourhood that turned into a mighty scuffle, as the police finally relented and allowed a handful of CPM supporters to seek votes on Harish Chatterjee street. On Monday afternoon, it was the turn of the BJP to get into a free-for-all with Trinamul supporters when Ghosh was campaigning for party nominee Priyanka Tibrewal. On paper, there is no reason for Mamata Banerjee to lose from Bhowanipore, her home turf. Yet, in this bypoll, which is already in the eye of the storm for being given "preferential treatment to accommodate the whims of a chief minister", Mamata has appeared jittery. One reason of course is her losing to Suvendu Adhikary from Nandigram in the March-April elections. Mamata knows if she can be beaten once, there is nothing to stop a repeat, if the voters so want. That is one of the reasons why she has made repeated appeals to the Bhowanipore voters to come out of their homes and cast their vote on September 30. She has made it amply clear that not a single vote can be allowed to be wasted. Exactly a decade ago, when Mamata contested from Bhowanipore during a similar by-poll in her first term, the victory margin for the first-time chief minister was a handsome 54, 213 votes. Five years later, Mamata took on a combined Left-Congress Opposition and increased her Assembly tally, crossing well over 200 MLAs. But her own victory margin in Bhowanipore had dipped by half as she defeated the Congress’ Deepa Das Munshi by 25,301 votes. The Lok Sabha votes of 2013 was to be a shocker. The detailed result revealed in the Bhowanipore segment of the Calcutta South Lok Sabha seat that Trinamul’s lead was a mere 3,168 votes. The trend of reduced victory margins is discomforting for Mamata. This on the home turf of supposedly the most popular chief minister in the country and of course Bengal. In 2021, Mamata moved to Nandigram and suffered the second poll snub of her career. Her trusted lieutenant Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay managed to salvage the situation at Bhwanipore and took the victory tally to 28,000 over the BJP nominee Rudranil Ghosh, who came into politics from films holding Mamata’s hands. This victory margin might seem enough but is a cause of headache for Mamata and the Trinamul. Bulk of the lead votes for the Trinamul, approximately 21,000, came from minority-dominated ward 77, the areas around Alipore, Kidderpore and Ekbalpore. Any split in the minority votes in the constituency could bring the lead spiralling down. Mamata became chief minister for the third time in Bengal after losing her seat. Therefore, it is not going to be enough for her to simply win. She has to win by a handsome margin. And Bhowanipore, at least on paper till Monday afternoon, did not display that confidence. “Those who are saying she will win by over a lakh votes, or that the daughter has come to her home are actually scared. They are scared of the BJP, they are scared of the voters. That is why they are orchestrating such attacks. Our appeal to the Election Commission is that it must be as active as it was during the general election, or else, fair polls will be impossible,” said Suvendu Adhikary, leader of the Opposition and BJP’s Nandigram MLA. State minister Firhad Hakim said, “There is no reason to give any importance to the BJP. They are seeking importance. Trinamul does not obstruct anyone. This is a part of their plan to communalise the polls, make personal attacks. In some places where people are fed up with these tactics, they may have protested.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore: Dilip Ghosh says he was manhandled, TMC fires back||BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh was allegedly manhandled while party MP Arjun Singh faced 'go back' slogans by ruling TMC workers while campaigning for party candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, who is pitted against Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Bhowanipore Assembly constituency in the city on the last day of campaigning on Monday. Ghosh was allegedly pushed by TMC workers when he went inside a vaccination camp at the Jodubabur Bazar area in the constituency, where by-poll will be held on September 30. TMC in its turn alleged that Ghosh's bodyguard had brandished firearms to scare away the crowd. TMC supporters present at the spot reportedly pushed Ghosh out and shouted slogans demanding that he leave alleging that he was campaigning at a state-run vaccination programme. Ghosh was escorted out of the camp by his security personnel and left in his car. An angry Ghosh later told reporters that the TMC had attacked him without provocation and heckled him and injured a BJP activist. "We will take up the issue with the Election Commission. What kind of election this is?" he asked. Singh, who is in charge of the BJP campaign in the area, faced 'go back' slogans. He was also called 'bohiragato' (outsider) as he went around the area soliciting votes. The MP represents Barrackpore constituency in North 24 Parganas district. Singh accused the state administration and police of doing nothing even when MPs and national level opposition leaders are being attacked. High drama marked the incident as a strong police force barricaded the area and slogan-shouting TMC activists gathered nearby. TMC leader Firhad Hakim, a close confidant of Banerjee accused BJP of provoking the people to create disturbances in the peaceful middle-class neighbourhood. "BJP is resorting to provocation sensing defeat. It is better to ignore them. Common people are protesting against them for spreading hatred, falsehood and personal attacks," Hakim said. In a tweet, TMC allleged that Ghosh's bodyguard had brandished firearms to scare away the people. "@BJP4Bengal HITS A NEW LOW! How DARE a gun be aimed at (the) public in broad daylight? Do people not have the right to protest against leaders they do not support? Such blatant violation of human rights is shameful! This compromises the safety and security of people in Bhowanipore," the party tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Left activists block rail tracks, roads to support Bharat Bandh||Left activists blocked roads and railway tracks across Bengal on Monday in support of the Bharat Bandh, while normal life remained largely unaffected in the state. Markets and shops were opened as usual, while public transport operated almost normally, except for a few hitches. Government and private offices registered usual attendance. Educational institutions are shut in state the due to the COVID-related restrictions. In Calcutta, CPI(M) members blocked roads at College Street, Jadavpur and Shyambazar Five-Point Crossing but were swiftly removed by the police. Road blockades were held in most of the major towns and cities in the state, including in district headquarters of Jalpaiguri, West Midnapore, East Midnapore, Hooghly and Coochbehar. The Left activists blocked railway tracks at Jadavpur in Eastern Railway's Sealdah division. Reports of rail blockades from the Howrah division also came in. At several locations, Congress activists also joined the protesters, demanding repeal of the three farm laws. The ruling Trinamool Congress stayed away from the 10-hour bandh, but it supported the demands of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the agitation. There was no report of any untoward incident, a police officer said. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- were passed by Parliament in September last year. Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the 'mandi' and the MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
27-09-2021||West Bengal||650 BJP supporters join Trinamul Congress in Siliguri||Around 650 BJP supporters, including some office-bearers of the saffron party from different areas of Siliguri subdivision, joined the Trinamul Congress on Sunday. At a programme organised at Patharghata in Matigara block, on the outskirts of Siliguri, those people were inducted into Mamata Banerjee’s party by district Trinamul leaders in the presence of former minister Gautam Deb. “Many of those who joined Trinamul today had been with the BJP for decades. Many others are in touch with us and will join Trinamul in coming days. They have understood that the BJP only makes hollow promises and never delivers,” said Deb. A Trinamul leader of Matigara said: “The three-tier panchayat elections of the Siliguri subdivision are due and this time, we need to secure majority in the rural bodies of all three tiers, including the Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad. Those who joined today work at grassroots.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Rain flattens flower fields, crisis looms before Pujas||Around 2,340 hectares of flowers cultivated in East and West Midnapore districts were reportedly destroyed amid heavy showers triggered by a low pressure in the Bay of Bengal since last week. The twin Midnapores are Bengal’s chief districts for flower cultivation and export, producing varieties of marigold, tuberose (rajnigandha), jasmine varieties such as juhi and beli, and rose. Nearly 1,500 hectares are estimated to have been destroyed in East Midnapore and nearly 840 hectares in West Midnapore. Roughly 40,000 flower vendors and cultivators in East and West Midnapore have been affected. Coastal districts, including North and South 24-Parganas also bore the brunt of the rain destroying acres of flowers. The immediate fallout is a crunch in supply and imminent rise in flower prices with Durga Puja only days away. The Puja season is considered to be the lifeblood of flower cultivators in Bengal. “Flowers are mainly harvested in two phases, after monsoon and in winter. It looks like the rain is set to ruin both,” said a member of the Bengal Florists and Vendors’ Association. By the end of the year the losses would be no less than Rs 15 crore, he added. Deputy director of horticulture in East Midnapore, Swapan Sheet, said the district would be awaiting instructions from the state government regarding compensation to florists and farmers. Sheet added most cultivators take loans for land lease and saplings. “Both these assets have been destroyed,” said Sheet. Tapan Kar, a flower cultivator of Degra in West Midnapore, who planted an acre of rajnigandha in June, discovered last Saturday that all his farmland lay under water. Tapan said he had no saplings or money left. “The only way out for small farmers is state help," he said. Mohan Maity, a lotus farmer from West Midnapore's Kolaghat, took a loan of Rs 2 lakh earlier this year to lease and cultivate 20 bighas. “As far as I can see, my money is gone,” he said. His neighbour Gourishankar Ghata calls their predicament a “double loss” with rain ruining prospects of both monsoon and winter harvests. In East Midnapore, Panskura and Tamluk are among the worst hit. In West Midnapore, badly affected areas are Degra, Daspur and Kharagpur. An average of 250mm of rainfall was reported in West Midnapore since Tuesday, “immense” for five days. “The price of rajnigandha, marigold and roses is now five times the usual wholesale rate and will stay that way during Durga Puja owing to shortage. The average customer will be hit,” said florists’ association secretary Narayan Naik, adding the association would submit a memo to the state government for aid. Other districts hit are Howrah, Nadia and Dinajpur, said an association member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Leaders of the National Federation for New States angry at BJP||Leaders of the National Federation for New States (NFNS), a pan-India body representing regions demanding separate and smaller states, are disappointed with the BJP-led Centre for failing to address their issues despite “promising” statehood in several parts of India. The NFNS concluded its two-day convention in Darjeeling on Sunday where the mantle to lead the NFNS was handed over to hill leader Munish Tamang, a proponent of the separate state of Gorkhaland, for a five-year term. The immediate past president of NFNS, Shrihari Aney, also the chairman of the Vidarbha Rajya Aghadi and former advocate-general of Maharashtra, said: “We are disappointed with the government at the Centre primarily because it had promised statehood to several parts of India and it has taken no steps thereafter to fulfil its promise….” The focus this time is on Gorkhaland. The NFNS came up with a Darjeeling declaration supporting the demand for Gorkhaland. The NFNS was started by late Union minister George Fernandes, when he was the NDA convener in 1999 and Atal Bihari Vajpayee was in power. Leaders like P.S. Sangma, Shibu Soren, Ajit Singh and Amar Singh have been associated with the NFNS. The members during their meeting said that they were committed to mount “pressure” on the central government to work towards forming smaller states in the country. “In December, we are planning to hold a meeting and probably a convention in the Bundelkhand area. The Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections are scheduled early next year and through the convention some pressure might be built (on the Bundelkhand statehood demand),” added Tamang. The federation has proposed the Bundelkhand state which would cover chunks of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Apart from the proponents of Bundelkhand, Vidarbha and Gorkhaland, the representatives of Tipraland, Ladakh, Bodoland, Dima Hasao and Karbi Anglo and Telangana were also present at the convention in Darjeeling. The NFNS leaders maintained that past experience with regard to creation of smaller states such as Telangana and Jharkhand suggest that “pressure from local representatives in Parliament help a lot to bring the issue into focus.” The leaders in favour of smaller states maintained they would play their part in bringing the Gorkhaland issues in focus at the Centre but added that they expect the local stakeholders to play an active part at the grassroots level in raising awareness. “The NFNS does not participate in local agitations, its members conduct local progammes. We lend support to agitations by providing national exposure and moving the powers in Delhi,” said Aney. Raju Bista, from the BJP, currently represents Darjeeling in the Lok Sabha. The BJP, however, in his election manifesto only promised a permanent political solution for the hills, which so far remains undefined. Its alliance partners in the hills interpret this as a separate state. GNLF break-in bid The GNLF claimed on Sunday that an attempt had been made to break into the central committee office of the party situated at Dr Zakhir Hussian Road in Darjeeling on Saturday night. Party president Mann Ghisingh lives on the top floor of the three-storey building. The GNLF has filed a police complaint related to the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Bullets injure 4 in BJP-Trinamul clash in Nadia||Four persons suffered bullet injuries during a clash between Trinamul and BJP activists at Kaikhali village of Nadia’s Hanskhali late on Saturday night. The injured, two each from the BJP and Trinamul camps, were rushed to the Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar, where another clash occurred, as a group of ruling party workers, led by a former MLA, allegedly tried to prevent the injured BJP workers from getting admitted to the hospital. The situation was brought under control by police. The injured were identified as Trinamul’s booth president Shila Biswas, 51, her son Subhabkar, 28, BJP activist Tapan Biswas, 53, and his son Debarshi, 29. District hospital sources said Shila received a bullet in her stomach and has been shifted to a Calcutta-based private hospital. Tapan Biswas and his son, shot in their legs, were also shifted to a Calcutta hospital on Sunday. Police have begun a case based on two complaints. Till Sunday evening no one was arrested. A large police team has been deployed in Kaikhali. Police said that trouble began at 10pm, when Trinamul’s Shila and her aides accused BJP’s Bimal of selling bicycles under the state’s Sabuj Sathi scheme meant for students for free. He accused them of conspiring to malign him. The altercation turned into a clash, and several rounds of gunshots were heard. Trinamul's former MLA Samir Poddar alleged Bimal’s brother fired at Shila and her son was injured in trying to save her. The BJP's Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar claimed it was an attempt to kill Bimal, “who is instrumental to our party’s success in the area”. A senior police official in the Ranaghat police district said: “The situation is under control. We have begun a probe and expect to arrest the culprits soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||The envious block my trips: Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday reeled off a number of programmes which she couldn’t attend abroad because of alleged meddling by the BJP as the Trinamul Congress supremo stepped up her attack on the saffron camp during her campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll. The latest addition to the list of programmes which the Bengal chief minister wouldn’t be able to take part in is World Peace Conference in Rome in October. “If there is peace anywhere in this nation right now, it is Bengal. That is why Bengal gets asked to attend global peace conferences. Those who are hingshutey (envious), they say, no, one cannot go there, it supposedly was ‘not fit’. What then is fit? Who decides what is unfit? I cannot figure out what is good and what is bad for me, without your explanation,” Mamata asked in her penultimate campaign rally at Jadu Babu’s Bazaar. On Saturday, the Centre had denied Mamata permission for the visit to Rome to attend the event that she had been invited to by Macro Impagliazzo, the president of Community of Sant’Egidio, a Catholic association based in the Italian capital. “There are many states that don’t even seek permission. I do. Because I maintain some courtesies, discipline. Because I believe in matters of external affairs, the states should stand by the Centre. I always extend unflinching support, when it comes to external affairs,” she added. Mamata was the only Indian to be invited to the Rome event. Other invitees included German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Pope Francis, Grand Imam of Egypt’s Al-Alzhar H.E. Ahmad al-Tayyib and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. At the Jadu Babu’s Bazaar rally, Mamata brought up some of the events that she couldn’t attend on account of alleged meddling by the BJP. “Before this, where Swami Vivekananda had delivered that landmark address in Chicago, there, too, my programme was stopped. You know that I had a programme to go to China — not my plans, but of the Centre — but it was called off at the last minute. My lecture at Cambridge, they stopped it. St Stephen’s had invited me, they had stopped it,” she said. Mamata ended her bypoll campaign on Sunday. The trips to the US and China, besides a St Stephen’s College event, that she mentioned were all cancelled in 2018. In September, 2018, Mamata had blamed an “awshubho chokranto (unholy conspiracy)” for her not being able to attend a Chicago event commemorating the 125th anniversary of Swami Vivekananda’s address at the World’s Parliament of Religions. After she had been invited to attend the Chicago event, she received a letter from the Vivekananda Vedanta Society of Chicago, saying it was being called off. In June 2018, Mamata had cancelled her nine-day trip to China hours before her flight as Beijing could not confirm her meetings with the Communist Party of China’s leadership at an appropriate level. The year before that, Mamata had been “advised” by the Centre against going to China to seek investments because of the Indo-China border standoff at Doklam. In July 2018, a proposed address by Mamata to students of St Stephen’s College in New Delhi was cancelled, allegedly under “saffron pressure”. Although the chief minister mentioned Cambridge in her speech on Sunday, sources in her party said she meant a virtual Oxford Union programme last year, which also got cancelled 40 minutes before it was to take place, which Trinamul attributed to “political pressure from the highest levels”. “When she said Cambridge today, she meant Oxford…. She did get invited to deliver a lecture at Cambridge University, in 2010, while she was the Union railway minister, but she did not accept that invitation. In 2011, she was invited to address Harvard University’s history department, but she didn’t go,” said a senior Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. Mamata, in her speech at Bhowanipore, went on to dare the BJP over its alleged influence to ensure cancellation of such events. “How many will they stop? Because you (the BJP) are in power today, you think no end of yourselves…. There will come a great fall in the future,” she said. “I am going to talk about global peace from right here…. Where all will you keep me from speaking? Even if I cannot go there, I will say everything from here. Not once, thousands of times,” added Mamata. “I hail the World Peace Conference. I thank them from the bottom of my heart… especially how the government of Italy specially gave clearances so I could attend.” Earlier in the day, BJP MP Subramanian Swamy — with somewhat of a reputation for shooting from the hip and embarrassing the saffron camp — tweeted a statement of support to Mamata, demanding answers from the Centre on the denial of permission. “Why was Bengal CM Mamata prevented by Home Ministry from attending an international conference in Rome? Which law prevented her going?” asked Swamy on Twitter. “I think I should do a tutorial on Article 19 of the Constitution which includes freedom of travel as a fundamental right but subject to reasonable restrictions. SC in many judgments has given the scope of these restrictions. But scope does not include reason of “not fit for CM”,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypoll: BJP, Left raise disruption charge against Trinamul ||The BJP and the Left Front separately alleged on Sunday that the Trinamul Congress had disrupted their campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll out of Mamata Banerjee’s fear of defeat. The BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate Priyanka Tibrewal and the party’s North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari — an actor-singer from Bhojpuri cinema — were shown Trinamul flags by residents while the duo were campaigning on Sunday morning. Trinamul supporters allegedly told Tibrewal and Tiwari to leave the Ambedkar Colony area of Chetla. “Wherever we went through the campaign season, they kept disrupting our activities. What does this say about the chief minister, is this not fear of defeat?” asked Tibrewal. Trinamul’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, now the agriculture minister, had won Bhowanipore by a margin of nearly 29,000 votes — around 23 per cent of the vote share — this summer. Earlier in the day, CPM leaders had got involved in a scuffle while they were campaigning near the chief minister’s residence on Harish Chatterjee Street. CPM candidate Srijib Biswas was accompanied by the party’s central committee member Sujan Chakraborty and 40-odd supporters. However, they were stopped by police when they tried entering Harish Chatterjee Street. The area is a high security zone because Mamata lives there and there have been several instances of friction between the police and the BJP during the campaign whenever the Tibrewal contingent tried entering the area. On Sunday, two of the three barricades were toppled by CPM supporters and the party alleged that the police had manhandled Chakraborty and Biswas. Later, the police allowed both, along with three others, to access Harish Chatterjee Street and campaign. “Are we living in a monarchy? The people of Bengal aren’t subjects. They are citizens who have basic rights in a democracy,” Chakraborty later said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Beloved Bada Saab can’t retire and leave Bengal||Sixty-nine-year-old Mathew Philips wants to go to his home in Kerala and look after his rubber plantations. But there is a small hitch. Residents of Newlands tea estate in the Dooars are not ready to leave their “Bada Saab”, whom they love as their “father figure”. Philips has spent close to 40 years in the Dooars, and for the past 29 years, as the manager of Newlands, a tea estate in Kumargram block of Alipurduar district. “Other tea estates have managers. But in Newlands, Mathew Philips is our guardian . We don’t want him to go. He is our father figure,” says Prakash Chik Baraik, a youth of the garden. Prakash, also the Alipurduar district Trinamul president, said in the past three decades, Philips brought startling changes to their lives. “I am a living example,” he said. “After my father’s death, he helped me continue with my studies. He stood by three other youths, made them study tea management in North Bengal University and today they are in managerial posts in other estates.” In Newlands, there are 1,545 permanent workers and an equal number of casual workers. For each, Philips is who they turn to in times good and bad. In 1983, Philips, who hails from Thiruvalla town in Kerala, had joined a tea estate in Matialli block of Jalpaiguri. In 1992, he joined Newlands, where he stays with his wife. His daughter is married in Kerala while his son is in Canada. Senior workers said he helped the garden stand on its feet. According to them, the garden was in distress when he joined. Also, it had no power connectivity and bad roads. “He brought power here and was instrumental in improving road connectivity. He stopped the sale of illegal country liquor here,” said a senior worker. Philips got women workers to create a transparent welfare fund from where workers could borrow for emergencies, instead of going to money-lenders, and encouraged children in the garden to study, he added. Philips is equally appreciated for his business acumen. In 1999, the garden’s production dipped owing to low yield at the plantations. To ensure production stayed steady, he took up the task of buying tea leaves from closed tea gardens. It also helped workers of closed gardens to earn some money. Workers here also make extra earnings as he has shown them how to grow rubber and betel nut on vacant areas near their quarters. The manager, who is a Christian, has always enthusiastically taken part in celebrations like Durga Puja or Karam Puja, another  employee added. When told that workers don’t want to let him go, Philips laughed. “I am almost 70 now and lack the dexterity that a garden manager needs. There are many dynamic youngsters (who can take my place). I will speak to the workers soon. All I want is to enjoy a retired life back home,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases rise by 9 in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday recorded the first rise in its total of active Covid-19 cases after a 97-day streak of fall. For the first time after June 21, the state logged a rise, by nine, in the total of active cases, which rose to 7,683. The state reported 748 new infections, 730 recoveries and nine deaths. “There is no cause for great worry yet,” said a minister. “We have been on high alert in apprehension of the third wave, and we remain cautiously optimistic.” Bengal now has 2.58 per cent of India’s active cases, and remains seventh among states with the most such cases. Calcutta logged 139 new infections and North 24-Parganas 118, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Five districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta reported one death and North 24-Parganas two. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.31 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.74 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.86 per cent on Sunday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.66 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.4 lakh recoveries and 18,736 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||20 Trinamul workers hurt in Cooch Behar feud ||At last 20 Trinamul supporters were injured in an alleged infighting at Krishnapur village under Tufanganj police station of Cooch Behar district on Sunday morning. Around 15 are under treatment at MJN Medical College & Hospital. The rest were released after first aid. The village is in Natabari, the Assembly seat of former minister and Trinamul leader Rabindranath Ghosh. “Trinamul infighting has become acute in parts of Cooch Behar, including Natabari. In Natabari, supporters of Ghosh and former party MP Partha Pratim Roy try to wrest control which leads to clashes. It is because of such internal differences that many people have stopped supporting us and back the BJP,” said a party leader. Sources said Mujibar Rehman from the Ghosh camp and Farooque Mondal from the Roy camp led the two groups. On Sunday, their supporters allegedly had an altercation over some trifle that soon led to a clash. Both sides attacked each other with bricks, sticks and sharp weapons. A team of Tufanganj police rushed to the spot and brought situation under control. Both the lobbies have accused each other of violence. Ghosh and Roy denied to comment before the media. Trinamul sources however, said a section of senior leaders have briefed the state leaders about the incident and have sought their intervention to prevent such intra-party clashes in the district. “If such a situation persists, we don’t know how well the party can perform at the upcoming civic elections and in the rural elections due in 2023,” said a leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Celebrations’ bitter brew Tea Board of India's directive to celebrate 75 yrs of Independence draws flak from trade unions||A directive issued by the Tea Board of India to to the tea industry of the country to celebrate “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” or seventy-five years of Indian Independence has drawn flak from various tea trade unions in north Bengal. Tea trade unions have asked what the Narendra Modi government has done for the tea workers and their families since 2014 when the NDA government came to power. Around six lakh workers serve this sector. On September 2, an official of the tea board issued a directive, saying that on September 26, each tea estate and small tea grower should celebrate the seventy-fifth year of India’s Independence. In the tea estates, workers were told to congregate and sing the National Anthem while small tea growers will join the celebration by planting around 1.50 saplings in the villages, the instruction went. “It was stated that the management of a tea estate should hand over a packet of 250 grams or 500 grams of tea to each worker as a token of appreciation for participating in the celebrations,” said a tea garden manager in the Dooars. Accordingly, on Sunday, the tea workers were seen joining together in different gardens, holding a banner that was predesigned and sent to the gardens, and singing the National Anthem. After the event, they stood in queues, accepting the tea packets from a distribution point at the garden. “No one has a problem if the workers sing the National Anthem. But the larger question is when the country is celebrating its seventy-fifth year of Independence, all that a tea worker gets is a packet of tea. Since 2014, we have seen central ministers, and even the Prime Minister, making tall claims about the development of tea workers but no initiative has been taken so far. It is unfortunate that the Centre wants the tea population to join in the celebrations but seems to be least bothered about them,” said Mannalal Jain, a representative of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. In north Bengal, questions have been raised over commitments made by ministers of the NDA government that they would speed up reopening of closed tea estates. Before the Assembly elections of Bengal and Assam in 2021, the Union finance minister had announced a corpus of 1,000 crore in the budget, supposedly on  the welfare of the tea population, especially women and children. “No fund has been allotted in any tea estate out of this corpus, though half the fiscal year has passed. This is yet another glaring example of the hollow promises of the BJP government,” said Gopal Pradhan, a veteran RSP leader and a trade unionist in the Dooars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Ganga washes away mosque, 30 homes in Malda district||An old mosque and around 30 houses were washed away by the swollen Ganga in Lalutla-Bhimagram village of Kaliachak-III block of Malda district on Sunday morning. Residents lamented the destruction of the mosque, locally known as Jama Masjid of Lalutola, which was over 100 years old. The homeless have shifted to other areas. The area is located under Birnagar-I panchayat in Baishnabnagar Assembly constituency. During the past few months, erosion has become acute in almost all villages of Birnagar-I and there is fear that the entire panchayat area would be eventually swallowed by the river. Ainul Haque, the muezzin of the mosque, said the old building had got dilapidated. “In 2014, we reconstructed the main building by spending around Rs 8 lakh. But today (Sunday), we lost the mosque,” said Haque. He said that one-and-half months ago, a portion of the mosque had got damaged as the Ganga had eroded away some land. “We had thought of carrying out repairs around that time and we had been continuing our prayers at the mosque. But today (Sunday), around 9am, the Ganga suddenly started eroding land. Soon, the building of the mosque developed cracks and eventually, it was gobbled up by the river as we helplessly watched the scene unfolding in front of us,” he said. “I have lost around 10 bighas of land owing to erosion earlier but never felt so sad like I did today (Sunday),” added the muezzin. The erosion caused by the Ganga also made the residents shift to safer places as it took away around 30 houses, leaving families homeless. “The erosion continued for around four hours during which we lost our house. We don’t know what to do now. Our families are sitting under open sky with some belongings that we could salvage in a hurry,” said Biren Mondal, an erosion victim. Alamgir Sheikh, a farmer who lost his house, said this year from a prosperous farmer he became a penniless man. “Since May this year, I lost my entire farmland of around 30 bighas. And today (Sunday) I lost my house. It is because of this relentless erosion that I am penniless,” he said. “In future, what other option do I have other than work as a daily-rated worker?” asked Sheikh who added that he has a family of seven to feed. Officials of the block administration said they are keeping tabs on the situation. “The representatives of the local panchayat have been asked to shift the affected families to shelters and will provide them with relief materials. The administration is in touch with the Farakka Barrage Project Authority and the state irrigation department. Once monsoon ends and the water levels recede, anti-erosion work will commence in the affected stretches,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
27-09-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri district's religious tourism plan mooted||The Jalpaiguri district administration has prepared a comprehensive report of prospective circuits of religious tourism that can be introduced in the district and sent it to the state tourism department for approval. Moumit Godara Basu, the district magistrate, said there were hundreds of ancient religious places in the district, many of which with historical links. “We have readied a detailed report of all such sites based on recommendations at a meeting of the district level committee. It has been sent to the state tourism department. The department, in due course, will come up with circuits to be offered to tourists,” she said. Among the sites include the Jalpeshwar temple, the Bhramri Devi temple, the Devi Choudhurani temple, the St Michael’s & All Angels Church, the Petkati temple and many others. “The Jalpeshwar temple is a prominent Shiva temple of north Bengal where pilgrims come from other states and even from Nepal. The Devi Choudhurani temple has links to the history of Sanyashi Vidroh that was penned by Bankimchandra Chatterjee. These sites deserve proper promotion and can bring in pilgrims, as well as historians and researchers,” said Umesh Sharma, a researcher based in Jalpaiguri. “We thank the Jalpaiguri district administration for coming up with a concrete proposal and forwarding it to the state tourism department. The department is aggressively promoting Bengal as a tourist destination these days and we believe soon it will start promoting religious tourist circuits of Jalpaiguri,” said Sabyasachi Roy, secretary, Jalpaiguri Tour Operators’ Welfare Association. He said that so far, tourists mostly visit the Dooars region of Jalpaiguri, but now options in the region would widen. Officials of the state tourism department, when asked about the proposal, said they have started working on it. Jyoti Ghosh, a joint director of tourism in north Bengal, said they have held detailed discussions with the district administration. “We will start promoting these destinations in an integrated manner with hills, forests and other places. Also, those associated with tourism would be asked to promote these areas,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
27-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: No permission for Didi to visit Rome||Petty politics Sir — The Central government has denied the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, the permission to attend a world peace conference in Rome. This is condemnable. Banerjee was the only invitee from India. The domestic rivalry between the Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party is now affecting India’s international relations. Banerjee is right in claiming that the denial is motivated by pure jealousy. The ruling dispensation at the Centre failed to see the importance of such a global meet and the positive impact it could have had on the reputation of the country. One hopes that the Centre eschews such vengeful politics in the future. Nothing should be more important than the reputation of the country. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Sir — It would have been a great honour for the country and for Bengal if the Centre had allowed Mamata Banerjee to attend a world peace conference. The argument put forward by the ministry of external affairs for the rejection — that the event in question is not commensurate in status for a chief minister — is ridiculous. On the contrary, it would have been a point of pride if Banerjee was part of an event where dignitaries include the likes of Pope Francis and the German chancellor, Angela Merkel. It must be noted that Banerjee was invited to Rome in appreciation of her work for “social justice”, “development” and “peace”. The Centre is unwilling to give Banerjee’s image a fillip at the cost of the prime minister’s image. Vendetta politics is what motivated the decision of the Centre. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Sir — The Centre has been extremely petty in not allowing Mamata Banerjee to travel to Italy for a conference being attended by international religious and political leaders. It reflects poorly on India and the Centre. Banerjee’s trip would have helped India. Sneha Parui,Calcutta  Chipped pride Sir — The prime minister has come back from the United States of America with 157 stolen Indian antiquities returned by that government. But the fact that these priceless artworks had been smuggled out of India exposes the loopholes that exist in the institutions protecting cultural treasures. For instance, the lack of a national database makes it difficult to monitor serial predations on this treasure trove. The return of the smuggled artefacts from the US should be an occasion to reflect on these failings. Shiuli Kar,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
27-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Poor coaches||Education is knowledge. But does the student alone profit from education? A report by an expert committee set up by the Tamil Nadu government to investigate the impact of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test has raised this very question — the government has now passed a bill to exempt the state from this entrance test for medical courses. According to its findings, 99 per cent of students who appeared for the exam in 2019-20 had received prior training. This not only points to the massive proliferation of coaching centres — over 400 firms devoted exclusively to NEET training have mushroomed in Tamil Nadu alone — but also exposes the staggering profiteering involved — the centres conduct business worth around Rs 5,750 crore. This ancillary coaching industry is not limited to the southern state; around 1.65 lakh ‘migrant’ students register in the residential coaching centres of Kota every year while many, who cannot afford their exorbitant fees, get left behind. Even for those who can bear the expenses, balanced schooling takes a back seat, reducing education to merely an instrumental means of getting admitted to an institution of choice. Familial and institutional pressure puts young minds under further stress — nearly 20 student suicides were reported in Kota almost every year between 2015 and 2018, while Andhra Pradesh and Telangana witnessed around 50 cases in the span of two months in 2017. Education in India is marred by deep divisions and contradictions. Meritocracy is revered yet there is no respite for students who are herded into the race to excel at any cost. The impersonal, automated evaluation processes of competitive exams leads to a double exclusion. Following the implementation of NEET, in the last four years, there has been an average decline of 11.2 per cent share of medical admission among the ‘crucial’ social categories in Tamil Nadu. Its implications are not confined to the education sector; the fall in the number of rural students joining medical colleges is expected to translate into a severe dearth of medical practitioners in rural areas. This, along with the government’s emphasis on vocational training through the new National Education Policy, is suggestive of a thrust on a functional approach to education that is not conducive to the gathering of knowledge that should be the principal goal of learning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
27-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Too toxic||Kannur University recently decided to not include some of the works of V.D. Savarkar and M.S. Golwalkar in the post-graduate course in governance and politics following the recommendations of a committee that had been constituted to examine the syllabus. The initial plan to accommodate these texts in the curriculum had, expectedly, led to considerable political heartburn, with the Congress and the Students’ Federation of India smelling a plot to ‘saffronize’ the syllabus. The charge of academic curriculum being tinged according to the ideological prerogatives of the powers that be is not new. Earlier, Delhi University’s decision to drop a short story by Mahasweta Devi and the works of two women Dalit writers had raised serious concerns about academic curricula being increasingly given an exclusivist dimension on account of interference from the State. What is interesting is the counter-argument that has been posited in favour of ‘inclusivity’. There is a line of thought — eminent scholars have echoed it — that the accommodation of problematic texts is necessary. Scholarly engagement with these works would enable young minds to trace the root of the poison — the conditions that led to the emergence of such toxic reasoning. The example of Germany is cited as proof. After the expiry of the copyright on Mein Kampf, German academics and the Social Democratic Party had demanded the inclusion of passages from Adolf Hitler’s book in the school syllabus so that students could understand the genesis of the evil of anti-Semitism. Yet, there is an equally compelling case against the advocates of pedagogical freedom. The inclusion of divisive texts — the vision of Savarkar and Golwalkar runs contrary to that of the civilizational and constitutional edifice that India has embraced over the years — raises the risk of according them a degree of legitimacy. This can be a dangerous gamble in a country where governments do not hesitate to pack educational institutions with ideological lackeys. In an India that seems to have taken a marked majoritarian turn in its politics, an academic seal on the works of the original proponents of Hindutva could well replace critical assessment of Savarkar and Golwalkar with an energetic dissemination of their controversial views. At a time of virulent communalism, sacrificing the cause of pedagogical autonomy at the altar of national integration would be the prudent choice to make.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
27-09-2021||Opinion||Smoke and mirrors||When the 9/11 attacks struck New York and Washington in 2001 and the US armed forces went on full alert, the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, immediately got on the direct line to Moscow and told Vladimir Putin not to worry: the United States of America was not going to attack Russia. Putin replied that he understood, and was standing Russian forces down. When Donald Trump claimed that the election was being stolen, and again after the attempted putsch on January 6, Mark Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, called his Chinese counterpart, Li Zuocheng, to reassure him that the US would not attack China. Rice and Milley were both grown-ups, trying to keep their people safe but operating in an international system that still runs by the rules of our hunter-gatherer ancestors. Alliances are fickle; surprise attacks are common; war is normal. So you never stop talking to the people who might become your enemies, and you try to stop them from panicking. This is how wise leaders behaved among the Yanomami of the Amazon headwaters and the San bushmen of the Kalahari, and it’s also how wise leaders should behave in the capitals of the great powers today. Most of the time, they actually do but sometimes they get distracted or confused. And the notion of distraction brings us smoothly to the alliance of the month, Aukus, which has been cobbled together since the fall of Kabul last month to draw attention away from the shambles attending the American retreat from Afghanistan. You could tell that the three wise leaders involved hadn’t spent a lot of time negotiating the new US-United Kingdom-Australian alliance, because Joe Biden couldn’t even remember the name of the Australian prime minister, Scott Morrison. There they were, each in his own capital with the other two on screens, and Biden managed to thank Boris Johnson by name, but when it came to Morrison the US president had to fake it: “And I want to thank that fella down under. Thank you very much pal. Appreciate it...” You may say it’s just a brain fart, and you might even be right, but there are other indications that this ‘alliance’ has not been gestating for very long. Consider the case of the French submarines. The French foreign and defence ministers spoke with their Australian counterparts as recently as August 30 and declared: “Both sides committed to deepen defence industry cooperation and enhance their capability edge in the region. Ministers underlined the importance of the future submarine program.” In 2016, Canberra agreed to spend $66 billion to build a dozen French-designed submarines. It’s not unknown for a sovereign State to rat on an international deal, but it’s bad form to pledge undying loyalty to a deal just two weeks before doing so. When Australia announced that it will build at least eight nuclear submarines using American and British technology, the French foreign minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian, called it “a stab in the back.” Then there’s the fact that the US, the UK and Australia will spend the next 18 months trying to fill in the details of how this deal, and the alliance it serves, will actually work. That’s because there was no time before announcing it: Aukus was obviously cooked up on a secure equivalent of Zoom early this month to make the US strategy in the Far East look coherent. But it isn’t. The Chinese responded to the creation of Aukus just as foolishly, with the State-owned Global Times warning that Australian troops are “likely to be the first batch of Western soldiers to waste their lives in the South China Sea”. Even if we must now talk about ‘sides’ in the Asia-Pacific region, eight Australian nuclear submarines in 15 years’ time isn’t going to make the slightest difference. It’s short-term gesture politics of the worst kind, and a number of people deserve to be spanked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
27-09-2021||Opinion||For an open, better world||June 13, 2021, was a momentous day for the leading democracies of the world. The president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, travelled to the United Kingdom to attend the G-7 summit. On that day, the G-7, the European Union and a few guest nations signed an ‘Open Societies Statement’ of shared democratic values. The opening lines of the document are as follows: “We, the leaders of the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, India, Japan, the Republic of Korea, South Africa, the United States of America and the European Union, reaffirm our shared belief in open societies, democratic values and multilateralism as foundations for dignity, opportunity and prosperity for all and for the responsible stewardship of our planet...” There are eight founding values mentioned in the document — human rights for all; democracy; social inclusion; gender equality; freedom of expression; the rule of law and an independent and impartial judicial system; a multilateral system with free and fair trade and global collaboration; and the “importance of civic space and partnership with diverse, independent and pluralistic civil societies... in promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms.” The emphasis on human rights and inclusiveness by the G-7, the EU and guest nations, including India, means that internal policies and actions have to be aligned with these values. Another important part of the document states “... We are at a critical juncture, facing threats to freedom and democracy from rising authoritarianism, electoral interference, corruption, economic coercion, manipulation of information, including disinformation, online harms and cyber attacks, politically motivated internet shutdowns, human rights violations and abuses, terrorism and violent extremism. We also face threats to our social fabric from persistent inequalities and discrimination, including racism and resistance to gender equality. In the midst of these threats we will work together to create an open and inclusive rules-based international order for the future that promotes universal human rights and equal opportunities for all. Our democratic systems are strong and resilient, but we cannot be complacent — we address our own vulnerabilities and tackle common threats.” The expressed interest of powerful but liberal democratic nations in human rights makes it interesting in the Indian context. How this plays out amidst the alleged human rights abuses in parts of the country, the misuse of laws like the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the weaponization of social media against activists as also issues such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens would, indeed, be interesting. Many laws in India may not find favour in the context of the Open Societies document. The wavering in the implementation of the CAA may be partially attributed to not just external pressure but also India committing itself to the Open Societies document. Additionally, the G-7, the EU and the guest countries, including India, are committed to cooperate with one another and with partners to strengthen Open Societies globally by protecting civic space and media freedom, promoting the freedom of expression, the freedom of assembly and association, the freedom of religion or belief, and tackling all forms of discrimination, including racism. Another important aspect of the document is that it looks forward to building on these commitments in other multilateral fora, including the G-20 (of which India is a member), the United Nations, and the US Summit for Democracy. The signatories also resolve to collaborate with partners around the world, including those in the Indo-Pacific and Africa, to actively promote these shared values for the good of all. It is quite evident that the G-7, the EU, India and other nations have taken on a monumental task to embrace and propagate shared values across the globe. There would be pressure on the member countries to align their national politics along these lines. A large number of countries in Europe and North America are known to be liberal. In Asia, only India falls in the bracket of emerging markets. Changing geopolitical issues would also leave a mark on national politics. Transparency, inclusiveness and fair-play, both real and imagined, would be of significance in this context. As a signatory to the Open Societies document, India has to tread carefully to balance its interests with the shared values it has committed to uphold. India’s actions would now be open to greater scrutiny and debate across multilateral fora. Therefore, it is imperative that contentious issues are amicably addressed and resolved amongst the stakeholders for the country to remain unscathed. One positive outcome is that a rule-based international order is likely to promote equal opportunities for all, universal human rights, and collaborations in sciences. Ashim Bhuyan is a commentator on contemporary issues||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
27-09-2021||Opinion||Changing plot||Kerala’s Syrian Christians solemnly observe the first week of September as the Eight Day Lent of Mary in remembrance of the birth of St Mary, mother of Jesus. During this week, they involve themselves in only noble activities — fasting, praying, participating in charitable and evangelical activities. But this September, a sermon delivered by the venerable bishop, Joseph Kallarangatt, of the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, concluding the holy week, has led to a virulent communal frenzy in Kerala even as the state is reeling under the coronavirus. At a church in Christian-dominated Kottayam district, the bishop of SMC’s Palai Diocese warned the faithful to be beware of the diabolical “narcotic jihad” indulged in by some Muslims to entrap Christian youth into drug addiction. A month earlier, on the centenary of the historic Malabar Rebellion (also called the Moplah Revolt) at Kozhikode, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader, Ram Madhav, said that the revolt was the first manifestation of the Taliban mindset of Muslims in the country in the 20th century. This has coincided with the Indian Council of Historical Research’s reported move to expunge the names of 387 persons who were killed in the rebellion from its “Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle”. Two years ago, a project to make a biopic on a leader of the rebellion was fiercely opposed by the Hindutva camp across the country. The project has since been shelved. Both these remarks appear to have beleaguered Kerala’s Muslims with Christians and Hindus arrayed on the other side. They have vitiated Kerala’s atmosphere, traditionally known for its communal harmony, with polarizing calls to boycott Muslim establishments or even cabs driven by them. Yet, saner voices are also being heard from all communities opposing them, with even four young nuns walking out of a church mass when a priest repeated the bishop’s charges. Both the ruling Left Democratic Front and the Opposition, the United Democratic Front, have condemned the attempts to divide but dithered on taking a firm position fearing backlash from the communities. The Bharatiya Janata Party, which has been trying to woo Christians, has defended Christians and pleaded the Central government to intervene. Even as it opposed blaming the Muslim community, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has said there were attempts to woo women by terrorist groups on campuses. It alleged that extremists were trying to grow among minorities by making use of growing Hindu fundamentalism. Leaders of the Congress and the CPI(M) have visited leaders of both communities, ostensibly to pacify. The statement by the chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, that the bishop’s remark, though unwarranted, was not ill-intended has kicked up more dust. Following widespread criticism, Vijayan took a firmer stand, slamming the bishop’s use of “narcotic jihad” that puts the blame for social evil on a community. The bishop’s charge has come on the heels of many anti-Muslim moves made by the SMC, which leads Kerala’s largest Catholic community. It forms 62.6 per cent of Kerala’s Christians who constitute 18.38 per cent of the population. SMC had earlier raised the ‘love jihad’ charge, accusing Muslims of luring Christian girls by feigning love and marrying them, leading to terrorist activities. Although the police and courts later found the charge to be baseless, the SMC kept citing the presence of a Christian and a Hindu woman among those who went to Afghanistan with their spouses to join the Islamic State in 2016. The 2010 incident of chopping off a Christian college professor’s palm by Islamists, who accused him of blasphemy, had gravely ruptured the trust between the two communities. However, Professor T.J. Joseph later said that he was hurt more by the Church as it had him dismissed from college even after the attack, accusing him of causing communal disturbances. The consequent trauma led to his wife committing suicide. Ironically, the present war between Kerala’s Catholics and Muslims coincided with unprecedented moves by the supremo of Roman Catholics, Pope Francis, to bring them together globally. Reasons for Christians’ ire against Muslims run deeper than what meets the eye. It rises from the way power equations in Kerala society have altered in recent decades. The ongoing Muslim advances spurred by the Gulf migration and remittances have threatened the long-held, preeminent position of Syrian Christians in many fields like business, education, politics and so on. They are most alarmed by the recent demographic shift in Kerala under which Muslims have replaced Christians as Kerala’s second-largest community. During 1951-2011, Hindus’ share in the population fell from 61.6 to 54.9 per cent, Christians from 20.9 per cent to 18.44 per cent, while that of Muslims rose from 17.5 to 26.6 per cent. According to a study by the Centre for Development Studies, Hindus will be below 50 per cent, Muslims will be at 35 per cent, and Christians 16.1 per cent by 2051. Another recent study has shown that Kerala’s Muslim population grew faster than the national average despite its better economic and educational levels. However, the Muslim fertility rate has also been dropping like those of other communities in Kerala, which had the country’s lowest decadal population growth during 2001-2011. The fall in Christian population was seen for long as the fruit of its modern views, economic and educational advances (especially those by women) from the 19th century, and also large-scale migration to the United States of America and Europe. Kerala’s Syrian Christians provided India’s first women in many fields — the Indian Administrative Service (Anna Malhotra), the judiciary (the high court judge, Anna Chandy), surgery (Surgeon-General Mary Poonen Lukose), meteorology (Anna Mani), engineering (Chief Engineer P.K. Thresia) and politics (Annie Mascarene, Kerala’s first parliamentarian). They also gave India the largest number of nurses and nuns. But today, the community’s demographic drop and rapid aging have spooked the Church, which is openly encouraging families to have more children by offering financial incentives. According to SMC, one lakh Christian grooms over 30 years are unable to find life-partners. Christians are also distressed by the recent decline faced by sectors in which they were dominant, like plantations, money-lending, liquor, while those where Muslims dominate, like hotels, tourism, bakeries, have thrived. Muslims from Kerala are among the richest Indians in the Gulf now. In fields like education, media, arts, where they had lagged behind for long, Muslims have recently advanced phenomenally. The shrill debate over the Moplah Rebellion of 1921, which left almost 2,400 dead and scarred Kerala forever, has raged right from its aftermath and continues even after 100 years. Besides British officials, prominent leaders like M.K. Gandhi, B.R. Ambedkar, Annie Besant, V.D. Savarkar and many Indian and foreign historians have written on the topic. Apart from Besant and Ambedkar, supporters of the British and of Hindutva — like Savarkar — have condemned it as a Muslim carnage against Hindus, Gandhiji criticized its violence and communal aspects but desisted from outright condemnation as it was part of the Khilafat movement. Left leaders and historians, starting from Soumyendranath Tagore — Rabindranath’s Trotskyist grand-nephew — had glorified it as a peasant revolt against the British and exploitative landlords. Left leaders like E.M.S. Namboodiripad, later on, took a holistic view, interpreting the rebellion as having contained both positive as well as negative elements, including Muslim extremism although its thrust was against imperialism and feudalism. Today, there is near-consensus among historians that the rebellion was a complex mass uprising with both positive and negative sides defying simplified interpretations. Yet, the debate never dies in Kerala. M.G. Radhakrishnan, a senior journalist based in Thiruvananthapuram, has worked with various print and electronic media organizations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Political banners and posters banned at Dhanbad vaccination centres||Dhanbad district administration has banned the use of political banners, posters, symbols at Covid vaccination centres across the district. A letter in this regard has been issued by Kumar Tarachand, ADM (law & Order) to Shyamkishore Kant, Dhanbad Civil Surgeon instructing him to strictly monitor vaccination centres to ensure that political banners and posters are not used. The political parties however expressed mixed reaction over the decision. Congress welcomed the development but BJP claimed that it would put up banners and posters 50 metres away from vaccination centres. Confirming the development, Vikas Rana, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer (DRCHO) of Dhanbad said, “We have received the letter and will ensure strict adherence to the instruction as we also face difficulty due to the putting up of posters and banners and sometimes even help desks inside the vaccination centres.” “As we have completed the vaccination of over 12 lakh people, we plan to gradually restrict the number of vaccination centres and organize vaccination at only such centres which are well equipped with all the facilities including proper drinking water supply, seating arrangement etc and with the gradual opening of private schools we are not facing paucity of such well-equipped centres,” said Rana. When Brajendra Prasad Singh, District President of Congress party, was contacted, he said “We welcome the district administration move in this regard as we feel that government premises can’t be used for political purposes.” He accused BJP of misusing the vaccination drive for political gain. “Instead of putting up giant size posters of the party and Prime Minister, the Central Government should ensure sufficient stock of vaccines to states as the majority of vaccination centres go dry by the second half of the day,” said Singh. He added, “If at all BJP is concerned about the welfare of the common people it’s party workers should visit door to door to make people aware about the vaccination and to help them to reach the vaccination centres.” Chandrashekhar Singh, district president of BJP said, “We are ready to abide by the instruction if it is bars usage of posters inside the vaccination centre. However, we will flout the rule and are ready to go to jail if it prohibits the use of banners and posters 50 meters away from the vaccination centres.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Farmers' bandh partial across Jharkhand||The daylong Bharat Bandh called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Monday, coinciding with the first anniversary of the Centre's enactment of three contentious farm laws, evoked partial response across Jharkhand even though the ruling coalition partners JMM-Congress-RJD and other non-NDA parties offered support. While commercial and passenger vehicles on state and national highways were fewer than normal, public transport in the cities and towns were by and large unaffected. Long-distance travel was, however, impacted as very few inter-state buses plied the roads. In state capital Ranchi, markets along Main Road were closed till noon as Albert Ekka Chowk saw a series of protests by various political parties since morning. CPM and CPI held protest marches from Kutchery Chowk to Albert Ekka Chowk, while the JMM, Congress and RJD held agitations for over an hour from 11am, paralysing the traffic for more than two hours. Holding banners and posters critical of the farm laws and the Union government, protestors demanded the rollback of the legislations, calling them anti-farmer, anti-poor and pro capitalist. CPI state secretary Bhuwaneshwar Prasad Mehta dubbed the bandh as historic. “The nationwide bandh has got voluntary support from different sections of the society as everyone concedes that the farmers’ woes will impact everyone along the food chain. The farmers’ agitation is only growing from strength to strength,"he said. The JMM also called the bandh successful,  warning the Modi government to mend its ways. Addressing a press conference in the evening, party general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee called it a grand success. He claimed that vehicular movement on  all state and national highways in Jharkhand was suspended. Taking a dig at the Prime Minister, he said, “Since the last seven years, the PM has been holding Man ki Baat. But, he and his government have turned a deaf ear to Kisan ki Baat. Over 1,000 farmers have died so far due to the ongoing agitation but ironically the Centre has turned numb to their woes. It proves that more than annadata (farmers), this government is for its corporate friends like Adanis and Ambanis.” The Opposition BJP, however, claimed that the bandh was a flop. “The bndh in Jharkhand remained a super flop even though the ruling p[arties supported it. Similar was the situation across the country except in handful of states like Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. This proves that people at large in the county believe in Modiji’s leadership and vision,” said state BJP president Deepak Prakash. In  Dhanbad and neighbouring districts of Bokaro and Giridih,  the response to  the bandh was lukewarm. Life was largely unaffected but there were road blocks put up in rural  and suburban areas. Long distance travellers faced difficulty as 80 per cent buses could not ply on highways. Though bandh supporters tried to disrupt train services in Giridih, they were disperesed by RPF personnel. Coal transport of BCCL through tippers remained normal and colliery operations remained unaffected. The attendance in government offices and banks located in urban centres was also normal. In Ranchi, Jharkhand Bus Owners Association secretary Kishore Mantri said that about 30 per cent of about 2000 buses that go from Ranchi remained off the road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jubilee Park gates opened to traffic after 18 months ||The gates of steel city landmark Jubilee Park were re-opened on Sunday evening after 18 months, opening up traffic from the Bistupur and Sakchi ends to save commuters from taking a detour. State health minister Banna Gupta, the MLA representing Jamshedpur West Assembly constituency, and his supporters reached the park on Sunday evening and asked security guards to re-open the gates. Special officer of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) Krishna Kumar and Dhalbhum SDO Sandeep Kumar Meena were also present. "Keeping in view the demand of local residents who have been calling for the re-opening the gates for the last couple of months, I decided to take the lead on the issue. The closure of both the gates of the park (one from the Bistupur end and the other from Sakchi ) were resulting in inconvenience to commuters who had to take a detour using the Straight Mile Road, which, of late, had become accident prone," Gupta told The Telegraph Online. The Jubilee Park Road that passes along the scenic Jayanti Sarovar was closed in March 2020 following Covid-19 induced lockdown. Though the state government, while relaxing the lockdown restrictions in July, had allowed re-opening of parks, vistors were allowed in Jubilee Park only in the morning and evening. As soon as the gates were opened, movement of vehicles were allowed through Jubilee Park. The minister also went around the park. Several political and social outfits had also started agitations demanding re-opening of the gates that are operated by Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (TSUISL), a Tata Steel subsidiary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Santhal Pargana  gets four new trains||Residents of different districts of Santhal Pargana heaved a sigh of relief as the railway department announced four new trains that will connect the region with Goa and Pune. Also, one train each that connects the region with Ahmedabad and Ranchi has been restored. The region that covers Deoghar, Dumka, Godda, Sahibaganj and Pakur, had been suffering due to poor railway connectivity. Asansol Ahmedabad express (09436) began operation from Madhupur since yesterday after its service being suspended for over 17 months, while Jasidih Pune Express (01428) started its inaugural journey from Jasidih today at around 1.15 am will be reaching Pune tomorrow at around 11 pm. Meanwhile, the inaugural journey of Godda Ranchi Special (08604) Express is scheduled to begin from Godda at around 1.15 am to reach Ranchi at around 5.45 am. The fourth train, Jasidih Vasco- Da-Gama express (06398) will embark on its journey from Jasidih at around 1.15 am tomorrow, it will reach Vasco-Da-Gama at around 2.20 pm. The train will be passing through Dhanbad’s Katrasgarh station. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, President of Godda Chamber of Commerce, Pritam Gadia, said, “Though, we are happy with new trains being launched and restoration of some old trains but we are particularly happy with the extension of Ranchi Bhagalpur Express upto Godda. This will make it easier for the traders of Godda to travel to Ranchi directly.” “The credit for the launching of the services of the train goes to continuous effort taken by Godda MP, Nishikant Dubey” he further added. Alok Mallik, Regional Vice President of Santhal Pargana Chamber of Commerce said, “The Ahmedabad train will help a large number of traders Gujarat to visit industrialists of Santhal Pargana and vice-versa for business purpose.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant to inaugurate Chorkari power project on Wednesday||The ambitious Chorkari power project looks all set to be inaugurated by chief minister Hemant Soren on September 29. Once functional, it will make the state-owned power distribution company Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited(JBVNL) self-sufficient for three districts. Thereby, ending its dependency on Damodar Valley Corporation(DVC). The newly constructed 220/132KV power grid substation and transmission line is situated in Chorkari village of temple town Itkhori. Significantly, the foundation for this power substation was laid by former chief minister Arjun Munda about ten years back. Surprisingly in October, 2019 former chief minister Raghubar Das had inaugurated this project in a hurry despite the fact that transmission line work was lying incomplete. Chorkari grid cost Rs.200 crore whereas transmission line came up for another Rs.100 crore. According to a power official, seven districts of the state including Chatra, Koderma, Ramgarh, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih and Hazaribagh fall in the command area of DVC. It supplies power to these seven districts through its own supply network. Frequent shutting down of DVC’s power supply due to payment issues often sparks anger among the residents. Officials said due to this, a project like Chorkari was given green signal to make JBVNL strong in terms of supply networks. The official said, “With Chorkari power station being ready, JBVNL can take up the supply for Chatra, Hazaribag and Koderma.” According to officials the Chorkari grid is equipped with a high power system having two 150 MVA power transformers and two of 50 MVA. Efforts are on to charge all four transformers. Even 109km long transmission lines have been erected to connect Chorkari from the Latehar grid. A JBVNL officer said that they are free to purchase electricity from any of the power producers and to supply it to these districts through Chorkari. “At present trials are on to make this power grid substation ready before the inauguration date,” he added. Officials said, “Chatra is getting power from Barhi substation of neighbouring Hazaribagh district. Chatra’s requirement is only 70 MW power daily. Chorkari has the capacity of 250MW. It means the surplus power will go to districts like Koderma and Hazaribagh which are fully dependent on DVC for power.” DGM of power grid, Shiv Shankar said, “Chatra will be unable to consume even half of the power capacity of Chorkari, so each and every corner of the district will get enough supply from here.” Labour minister and Chatra MLA Satyanand Bhokta confirmed to The Telegraph Online that Chorkari grid inauguration will bring to an end the long wait of Chatra residents. He said, “Once inaugurated, Chatra will get sufficient and uninterrupted power supply.” Getting a nod from Hemant, district officials including deputy commissioner Anjali Yadav and superintendent of police Rakesh Ranjan are monitoring the preparation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to act against tobacco use by minors ||At least 5.1 per cent children between 13 and 15 consume tobacco in some form or the other in Jharkhand, health minister Banna Gupta said on Monday, claiming that the government was focusing on checking the use of tobacco by minors and running several campaigns to stop this practice. In a bid to completely eradicate the use of tobacco products by minors, a bill has also been introduced in the Jharkhand Assembly to increase the minimum age for tobacco consumption or any involvement of a person in tobacco related trade to 21 years from 18 years, the minister said. “Such laws will prove to be a deterrent for minors and keep them away from the deadly addiction of tobacco in Jharkhand,” said Gupta, adding that the Centre must also follow similar steps in a bid to control the use of tobacco. Releasing Jharkhand’s data in the Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS) 2021 in Ranchi, Gupta claimed that many tobacco companies were gradually also trying to attract minor girls towards tobacco use, and the government was committed to prevent any rise in the number of minor girls addicted to tobacco. “Our government is taking all possible steps to discourage the consumption of tobacco and also come up with stricter laws for the same,” said Gupta. In a bid to check the use of tobacco, the Jharkhand government has prohibited the sale of tobacco products within a 100-meter radius of schools, government offices, hospitals and courts. Besides, any person found selling tobacco products to minors will face imprisonment of up to seven years and pay Rs 1 lakh fine. The percentage of children between   13 and 15 years addicted to tobacco in India was 8.5 per cent, higher than that in Jharkhand. However, as per data shared by the minister, the total percentage of the population addicted to tobacco in Jharkhand was higher than the national average. “The percentage of tobacco users in Jharkhand has dropped from 50.1 per cent to 38.9 per cent, but it was still higher than the national average of 28.6 per cent,” said Gupta. In a bid to discourage the use of tobacco products, the Jharkhand government has also decided to take an undertaking from newly-recruited government employees, stating that they do not consume tobacco products. Besides, the government is planning to make tobacco-use related rules for private institutions and offices too, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.20 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand on Sunday vaccinated about 1.20 lakh residents against Covid-19, while the active caseload of the disease dropped to 80 as Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 73,700 residents were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19, while at least 46,961 residents got the second dose. More than 23,000 residents were vaccinated in East Singhbhum on Sunday, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, while over 20,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in Ranchi. About 10,000 residents got inoculated in Dhanbad. . The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped in Jharkhand as the state reported five fresh cases of coronavirus infection against seven Covid recoveries, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. At least four Covid recoveries against three cases of infection brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 45, while in at least 21 of 24 districts did not report fresh Covid cases. Sahebganj and Jamtara reported one fresh case of SARS-CoV-2 infection each. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of at least 41,116 residents and 0.01 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus. So far, over 3.48 lakh Jharkhand residents have tested positive for Covid-19 and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of them could not survive. As per government data, at least 11 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not have active cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. However, Ranchi alone accounted for about 60 per cent of the active Covid cases in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town flyover repair to ease traffic congestion||The Dhanbad district administration as part of its comprehensive effort to improve the traffic situation of the district has now concentrated towards beefing up infrastructure after regulating auto rickshaw and buses movement. Repair of the 49-year-old Bank More flyover of 833 meter which serves as the lifeline of the district connecting Dhanbad town with suburban areas will be conducted from October 1 to October 3 for which a 79-hour mega block has been imposed on flyover from 12am of September 30 to 7am of October 4. Meanwhile, to ensure the management of traffic congestion and law and order situation in general during the ban of movement of flyover and diversion of traffic, the district administration has made 20 posts on which altogether 18 magistrates, 52 officers and 104 traffic policemen will be deputed. Traffic DSP, Rajesh Kumar said, “All the vehicles will have to follow the diverted route during the ban on entry on flyover for its repair.” Constructed at a cost of Rs 32.34 lakh, the flyover, which was inaugurated by then Public Works Minister of unified Bihar on August 20, 1972 has developed large number of potholes and cracks at several places. This apart, the railings of bridge had also broken at several places, while the pillars had also started developing cracks. During the entry ban of the vehicles over the flyover, the vehicles coming from Jharia and Sindri and heading towards Rangatand, combined  building will be diverted from Dhansar Chowk to Howrah Motors- Barmasia Hirapur- and Similarly the vehicles running between towards Dhanbad Dhanbad from Kendua, Putki Katras will be diverted from Matkuria Chowk to Dhansar chowk-Howrah Motors- Barmasia- Hirapur. As per police records more than 2000 vehicles pass through the flyover every ten minutes and due to a large number of potholes, the traffic situation worsens every time. The load testing of the flyover was conducted earlier this year in help with the help of agency Samriddhi. The strengthening of the flyover was earlier carried out in March 2015 as part of a Rs 11crore projection of the National Highway as per which the dead mass of bituminous material of 9 inch thickness deposited on the deck slab of flyover were removed and fresh thin bituminous layer were laid to repair of potholes etc. Mastic Asphalt, material was used on both the ends of flyover including Birsa Munda Chowk and near the Railway underpass called Gaya Bridge to cope with the problem of repeated damage due to water logging as mastic asphalt has water proof properties. After remaining in good condition for four years, potholes again developed on the flyover.        After regulating auto rickshaw and buses movement, Dhanbad district administration as part of its comprehensive effort to improve the traffic situation of the district has now concentrated towards infrastructure beefing up. Repair of 49 year old Bank More flyover of 833 meter which serves as the lifeline of the district connecting Dhanbad town with suburban areas will be conducted from October 1 to October 3 for which a 79 hour mega block has been imposed on flyover from 12 AM  of September 30 to 7 AM of October 4. Meanwhile, to ensure the management of traffic and law and order situation in general during the ban of movement of flyover and diversion of traffic, the district administration  has made 20 posts on which altogether 18 magistrates, 52 officers and 104 traffic policemen will be deputed. Traffic DSP, Rajesh Kumar, “All the vehicles will have to follow the diverted route during the ban on entry on flyover for its repair: Constructed at a cost of Rs 32.34 lakh, the flyover which was inaugurated by then Public  Works Minister of unified Bihar on August 20,1972 has developed large number of potholes and cracks at several places. This apart, the railings of bridge had also broken at several places, while  the pillars had also started developing cracks. During the entry ban of the vehicles over the flyover the vehicles coming from Jharia and Sindri and heading towards Rangatand, combined  building will be diverted from Dhansar Chowk to Howrah Motors- Barmasia Hirapur- and Similarly the vehicles running between towards Dhanbad Dhanbad from Kendua, Putki Katras will be diverted from Matkuria Chowk to Dhansar chowk-Howrah Motors- Barmasia- Hirapur. As per police records more than 2000 vehicles pass through the flyover in every ten minutes and due to large number of potholes lying over it the traffic situation is always caused. The load testing of the flyover was conducted earlier this year in help with  the help of agency Samriddhi. The strengthening of the flyover was earlier carried out in March 2015 as part of a Rs 11 crore projection of the National Highway as per which the dead mass of bituminous material of 9 inch thickness deposited on the deck slab of flyover were removed and fresh thin bituminous layer were laid to repair of potholes etc. Mastic Asphalt, material was used on both the ends of flyover including Birsa Munda Chowk  and near the Railway underpass called Gaya bridge to cope with the problem of repeated damage due to water logging as mastic asphalt has water proof properties. After remaining in good condition for four years, potholes again developed on the flyover.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Innovations by researchers of Jharkhand to aid coal, steel sectors||Two recent scientific innovations by the researchers of Jharkhand are expected to boost activities of two prominent core sectors — coal and steel. While Ranchi-based Central Mines Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI) of Coal India Limited developed a software that will help improve exploration of coal reserves, those working at Research and Development Centre for Iron and Steel (RDCIS) of Steel Authority of India Limited developed a special-grade galvanised steel sheet that will be used for making robust and durable silos for storing food grains. “Exploration of prospective coal reserves is now done by two-dimensional seismic survey, using seismograph but this technique often misses out underground coal seams if those are too thin,” said CMPDI general manager Sanjay Kumar Dubey. He said the new software would help overcome the limitations. Asked about the utility of the new software, Dubey said: “Spectral Enhancement, as the newly developed software has been named, when fitted to a seismograph, will help identify thin coal seams, those with thickness of even about 3 or 4 feet, that was not possible earlier.” The new software will enhance resolution of seismic signals leading to delineation of the thinnest seam in the vicinity, he explained, adding that they had collaborated with the Gujarat Energy Research and Management Institute on the project. “This will save both time and cost of exploration,” Dubey further said, adding that the CMPDI would soon apply for copyright protection of the software developed by them. A team of RDCIS, on the other hand, worked with another team of the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSP) to develop a special-grade galvanised sheet that can be used for making large, strong and durable silos for storing food grains. “This special sheet is actually an import substitute as those who make such silos on our country at present have to import that from other countries,” said N. Mandal, head of the RDCIS team at the Bokaro Steel Plant, adding that these special grade galvanised steel sheets help arrest wastage of grains by precluding weathering effects. A unique chemical composition is used for making these sheets that have both higher strength and higher zinc coating than normal sheets, he said, explaining the speciality of the newly developed steel sheets. “The BSP has already produced the sheets and prospective buyers have also started visiting Bokaro to have a look at those,” Mandal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
27-09-2021||Jharkhand||Funds crisis for 'essential expenditure' hits middle schools||Teachers of middle schools (Classes VI to VIII) in Jharkhand are finding it difficult to run in-person classes because of a dearth of funds for “essential expenditure”. “It’s due to a crisis of funds for meeting essential expenditure and not our reluctance to resume classes after such a long closure of schools,” said Nasim Ahmad, spokesperson of the Akhil Jharkhand Prathamik Sikshak Sangh that has many members teaching in middle schools after their primary schools were merged with or upgraded to middle schools. Following improvement in the Covid situation, the state government allowed physical classes for students of VI to VIII in government-run schools from September 24. There are over 32,000 such schools in the state where more than 70,000 teachers are engaged for teaching students up to Class VIII, Ahmad further said, adding that most of those institutions also faced shortage of teachers. “We have no funds available with us though we have to spend money for making these schools run,” Ahmad said, adding that they had to clean and sanitise the school premises and disinfect doors, tables and benches before starting classes. Besides, the teachers also have to submit many reports and returns for which they need to get photocopies of many documents in the market, he further said. They also have to photocopy question papers for conducting offline examinations for students studying in Classes III to VIII, he added. “All these things require money but we don’t have anything at the moment,” Ahmed said, adding that they had to manage by spending from their own pockets. “We are entitled to get an annual allotment of funds for those expenditure,” he replied when asked how they managed earlier. He said the funds allotted for the current financial year (2021-22) had to be returned after the Jharkhand Education Project Council that controls these schools directed them to do so. The state government had earlier allowed offline classes for high school students in a staggered manner, beginning with Classes IX and XI. The education department now allowed offline classes for those studying in Classes VI to VIII. Depending on the number of students attached to these institutions, the schools are entitled to get an annual grant of Rs 25,000 or above for meeting such expenditures, Ahmed said, adding that the funds surrendered should now be re-allocated to the schools. “Our problem is a bit different and we have to face funds crunch even when the grant is released,” said Naveen Kumar, a teacher at Visti Para Madhya Vidyalaya at Hirapur in Dhanbad, which is now attached to an adjacent high school. “Our middle school had an electricity connection when it ran independently before the merger,” Kumar said, adding that they now faced problem for paying the electricity bill for that connection or even getting a fan repaired “because the funds given by the government is controlled by the high school that often deprives us”. “This should be properly channelled so that they don’t face any problem such as disconnection of power supply,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
