28-09-2021||Business||Govt debt rose 4% quarter on quarter during June-end period||Government's liabilities stood at ₹ 1,20,91,193 crore at the end of the first quarter of the current financial year against ₹ 1,16,21,781 crore at the end of the fourth quarter of 2020-21, thus showing a quarter-on-quarter rise of 4.04 per cent. According to the quarterly public debt management report released by the Ministry of Finance for the June quarter period of the current fiscal, public debt comprised of 91 per cent of the government's total outstanding liabilities by the end of the first quarter. Apart from this, almost 29 per cent of outstanding dated securities showed a residual maturity of less than five years and as per the ownership pattern, commercial banks' share was almost 36 per cent while insurance companies had a share of 25 per cent till the end of the first quarter of 2021-22. Meanwhile in the same period, government issued dated securities worth ₹ 3.46 crore and the repayment stood at ₹ 1.05 crore. The weighted average maturity of newly issued dated securities stood higher at almost 17 years in June-end quarter of current fiscal, compared to 13.3 years in the fourth quarter of 2020-21. During the June quarter of 2021-22, the Centre did not raise funds through cash management bills, the report said. It further noted that the Reserve Bank of India initiated three open market purchase under Government Securities Acquisition Programme (GSAP 1.0). This was in addition to one special open market operation which included simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities during the June-end period of the current financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
28-09-2021||Business||Ordnance Factory Board to be dissolved on Oct 1, employees, assets to go to 7 new DPSUs||In tune with a decision by the Union Cabinet, the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) will stand dissolved with effect from October 1 and its assets, employees and management are being transferred to seven newly established defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs), according to an official order by the defence ministry. The name of the seven defence PSUs are Munition India Ltd, Armoured Vehicles Nigam Ltd, Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Ltd, Troop Comforts Ltd, Yantra India Ltd, India Optel Ltd and Gliders India Ltd, the ministry said in its order. In a major reform initiative, the Cabinet on June 16 had approved a long-pending proposal to restructure the over 200-year-old Ordnance Factory Board that operates 41 ammunition and military equipment production facilities into seven state-owned corporate entities to improve its accountability, efficiency and competitiveness. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh already clarified that there will be no change in service conditions of nearly 70,000 employees of the organisation and the decision to corporatise the OFB is driven by efforts to boost India's defence manufacturing sector. In the order dated September 28, the defence ministry said: "Government of India has decided to transfer, with effect from October 1, the management, control, operations and maintenance of these 41 production units and identified non-production units to seven government companies (wholly owned by the government of India)." The OFB is currently a defence ministry entity and supplies critical arms and ammunition to the three armed forces and the paramilitary. "The government has decided that all the employees of OFB (Groups A, B and C) belonging to the production units and also the identified non-production units shall be transferred en masse to the new DPSUs on terms of foreign service without any deputation allowance (deemed deputation) initially for a period of two years from the appointed date," the order said. It said each of the new DPSUs is required to frame rules and regulations related to service conditions of the absorbed employees and seek an option for permanent absorption from the employees on deemed deputation to the respective DPSUs within a period of two years. "The service conditions of the absorbed employees would not be inferior to the existing ones," the order said, adding a committee would be constituted by the Department of Defence Production (DDP) for guiding the new DPSUs that the absorption package given is attractive. It said the pension liabilities of the retirees and existing employees will continue to be borne by the government from the defence ministry's budget. "For the employees recruited after January 1, 2004, the National Pension Scheme applicable to the Central Government employees is in vogue and the same may be adopted by the new DPSUs, including the continuation of all special provisions applicable to Central government employees under the National Pension System," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
28-09-2021||Business||Future Group gets NCLT go-ahead to conduct shareholders meeting for deal with Reliance||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Tuesday allowed Kishore Biyani-led Future Group firms to hold meetings of its shareholders and creditors to seek approval for the sale of assets to Reliance Retail Ltd. A Mumbai-based two-member NCLT bench comprising Suchitra Kanuparthi and Chandra Bhan Singh dismissed the application filed by e-commerce major Amazon opposing the scheme of merger of the Future group companies, sources close to the development said. Emails sent to Amazon and Future did not elicit any response. Amazon had filed an application objecting to NCLT considering the scheme pending completion of its arbitration proceedings against Future Retail. The NCLT dismissed Amazon's application on the ground that it was premature, the sources said. Moreover, no prejudice is caused in conducting shareholders and creditors meetings for considering the scheme since it will be open to Amazon for raising objections when the scheme is filed for the NCLT's final approval after the shareholders and creditors give the go-ahead, the sources added. The NCLT also pointed out that the Supreme Court had only restrained it from pronouncing the final order approving the scheme, according to the sources. Now, it will be open for Future Group to obtain all preparatory approvals from shareholders and creditors. Future Group may be able to save at least 6-9 months time for the implementation of the scheme in the scenario of it winning the arbitration, the sources added. The scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance Retail entails the consolidation of Future Group's retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets into one entity -- Future Enterprises Ltd -- and then transferring it to Reliance Retail. In August last year, Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL) had said it will acquire the retail and wholesale business, and the logistics and warehousing business of Future Group for Rs 24,713 crore. The deal has been contested by Amazon, an investor in Future Coupons that in turn is a shareholder in Future Retail Ltd. In August 2019, Amazon had agreed to purchase 49 per cent of one of Future's unlisted firm, Future Coupons Ltd (which owns 7.3 per cent equity in BSE-listed Future Retail through convertible warrants), with the right to buy into the flagship Future Retail after a period of 3 to 10 years. After Future's deal with RRVL, Amazon had dragged Future into arbitration at the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). In October, an interim award was passed by the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) in favour of the US-e-commerce major that barred Future Retail from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. Amazon and Future have also filed litigations in Indian courts, including the Supreme Court, on the issue. The apex court had recently ruled in favour of Amazon by holding that the EA award was valid and enforceable under Indian laws. Notably, the Kishore Biyani-led Future Retail Ltd, on August 28, said it has approached the Supreme Court against an order passed by the Delhi High Court to maintain status quo in relation to the deal and directing it to enforce the order of the Singapore-based Emergency Arbitrator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
28-09-2021||Business||Amid weak trend in global markets, Sensex slumps 410 points and Nifty drops below 17,750||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled by 410 points on Tuesday, tracking losses in Infosys, ICICI Bank and HDFC twins amid a weak trend in global markets. After plunging over 1,032.35 during the session, the 30-share Sensex pared some losses to end 410.28 points or 0.68 per cent lower at 59,667.60. Similarly, the Nifty declined 106.50 points or 0.60 per cent to 17,748.60. Bharti Airtel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 4 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, HCL Tech and Infosys. On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, Sun Pharma, Titan, Kotak Bank and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. "Following negative global cues and profit-booking in IT and realty sectors, the domestic market hit rough weather, however, it witnessed a rebound towards the closing," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. A rise in US bond yields and crude oil price along with the Chinese crisis acted as key headwinds to the ongoing rally in the global market, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.89 per cent to USD 79.42 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
28-09-2021||Business||HC refuses bail to Yes Bank founder’s wife, daughters||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to grant bail to Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor's wife and two daughters in a corruption and cheating case involving private sector lender Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). A single bench of Justice Bharati Dangre rejected the bail applications filed by Kapoor's wife Bindu and daughters Roshini and Radha. The three had approached the HC last week, challenging a special CBI court order of September 18 which refused them bail while noting that they had, prima facie, caused a loss of Rs 4,000 crore to the Yes Bank through illegal acts. The lower court had remanded them in 14-day judicial custody and said they did not deserve any sympathy for being women. The three are currently lodged at the Byculla women's prison in Mumbai. In their bail pleas filed in the HC, they had said the special CBI court gravely erred in observing that the accusations against them prima facie show complicity in having co-fraudulently and dishonestly received loans as quid pro quo for favour shown by the Yes Bank to DHFL. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had opposed their pleas and said there was nothing wrong with the special court's order and that it was merely securing the presence of the accused for the purpose of trial. The CBI's case is that Rana Kapoor, who is currently in jail in connection with a related case being probed by the Enforcement Directorate, had entered into a criminal conspiracy with DHFL's Kapil Wadhawan. The CBI stated that between April and June 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of DHFL. In return, DHFL allegedly paid a kickback of Rs 900 crore to Kapoor in the form of loans to one DoIT Urban Ventures, a firm controlled by Kapoor's wife and daughters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 100 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in Infosys, TCS and HDFC Bank amid a largely weak trend in global markets. The 30-share Sensex was trading 124.32 points or 0.21 per cent lower at 59,953.56. Similarly, the Nifty declined 21.40 points or 0.12 per cent to 17,833.70. HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Infosys, Tech Mahindra, TCS and Asian Paints. On the other hand, NTPC, UltraTech Cement, PowerGrid and SBI were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 29.41 points or 0.05 per cent higher at its all-time closing peak of 60,077.88, and Nifty advanced 1.90 points or 0.01 per cent to record 17,855.10. Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 594.63 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. "Benchmark indices outperformed global markets in recent week as favourable Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting outcome and sustained recovery in key economic indicators bolstered investors' confidence. However, investors remain on tenterhook with regards to progress on Evergrande," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. US equities ended mostly lower in overnight sessions as selling pressure in the rate-sensitive technology sector led to contraction in S&P 500 and Nasdaq. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.91 per cent to USD 79.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Raymond to consolidate operations||Fabrics and garments major Raymond on Monday said its board has approved a consolidation exercise, including the combination of its tools and hardware, and auto components businesses with its engineering business to improve synergies and explore monetisation options. Besides, the board has approved consolidation of its business-to-consumer (B2C) venture by transfer of its apparel business into Raymond Ltd, the company said in a statement. As part of the exercise, the real estate business division will be turned into a wholly-owned subsidiary, it added. Commenting on the development, Raymond chairman and managing director Gautam Hari Singhania said the company’s engineering business comprising tools and hardware, and auto components has demonstrated good performance and it is poised for future growth. “We are consolidating the business to explore all options available to us for monetisation, which will enable deleveraging leading to value creation,” he added. In a regulatory filing, the company said its board has approved the consolidation of the tools and hardware, and auto components businesses into JK Files (India) Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary. “With a focus to fast track the recovery post pandemic Raymond will consolidate its B2C business by transfer of apparel business into Raymond.” It will be carried out by demerging the B2C business, including apparel, of Raymond Apparel Ltd (RAL), a wholly-owned subsidiary, on a going concern basis to merge with the company itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Eicher Motors seeks shareholders’ approval for re-appointment of Siddhartha Lal as MD||Eicher Motors is seeking shareholders’ approval for two resolutions that include the re-appointment of Siddhartha Lal as the managing director and his remuneration. The e-voting for these resolutions commenced on September 25 and it will end on October 24. The company’s fresh attempt comes after its shareholders at the annual general meeting held last month, rejected a proposal for his re-appointment as the managing director for five years with effect from May 1 this year. The members also rejected the proposal of his remuneration. While 73 per cent of the votes favoured the re-appointment, the rest 27 per cent were against it. Eicher Motors had then combined the two resolutions into a joint special resolution which needed the support of 75 per cent of the members voting. It is now going back to the shareholders through a postal ballot. However, both the proposals are ordinary resolutions. According to the postal ballot notice, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) approved the re-appointment of Lal on revised initial terms of annual remuneration. The company added that the board has powers upon recommendation of the NRC to revise it from time to time in accordance with applicable law. According to the revised pay structure, Lal will earn Rs 12 crore annually as fixed pay and Rs 1 crore via perquisites. His pay package also includes statutory contributions in accordance with UK laws and payment of commission subject to a maximum limit of 80 per cent of the fixed pay. During 2020-21 he had earned Rs 7.38 crore. Shares of Eicher Motors on Monday ended lower by 1.70 per cent at Rs 2878.50 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Activism erupts over JSPL director pay||Jindal Steel & Power Ltd (JSPL) has flown into the crosshairs of proxy advisory firms that include Glass Lewis & Co over a proposal to pay a one-time remuneration to four independent directors. JSPL is set to hold its annual general meeting (AGM) on September 30 and the proposal — listed as Item No.13 — is the last on the agenda that will be put up before the shareholders for their approval. The company is proposing a one-time remuneration of Rs 25 lakh each to Ram Vinay Shahi and Arun Kumar Purwar, and Rs 5 lakh each to Sudershan Kumaar Garg and Hardip Singh Wirk. JSPL had posted a consolidated profit after tax of Rs 5,527 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021 after being in the red for the past four fiscal years. Besides, Glass Lewis, proxy advisory firms  Stakeholders Empowerment Services (SES) and Institutional Investors Advisory Services (IiAS) have recommended to the shareholders to vote down the proposal. Glass Lewis had last week asked the shareholders of Reliance Industries Ltd to vote against the induction of Saudi Aramco chairman Yasir Othman H al Rumayyan as an independent director on the board of Reliance. After Glass Lewis's recommendation, the California State Teachers Retirement Fund (CalSTRS) has decided to vote against the proposal to pay the one time remuneration to the Jindal directors. CalSTRS has also decided to vote against the proposal to re-appoint Shallu Jindal as a non-executive director. A BloombergQuint report quoting Glass Lewis said that the shareholders should reasonably expect a clear and convincing rationale for this measure and that the minimum remuneration should be limited to fixed pay, with no entitlement to variable pay, aside from commission. The proxy advisory firm also observed that the board of JSPL has not provided a compelling rationale as to why shareholders should approve the one-time remuneration, in addition to the sitting fees. For the year ended March 31, 2021, while Shahi drew a remuneration or sitting fees of Rs 5.40 lakh, Wirk got Rs 5.30 lakh, Garg, Rs 4.40 lakh and Purwar, Rs 5.65 lakh . In August, IiAS had raised concerns over JSPL’s revised proposal to divest its power business to a promoter group firm Worldone citing deal valuation. Finolex Cables Two proxy advisory firms have flagged many corporate governance issues at Finolex Cables and have advised shareholders to vote down the appointments of three directors at the AGM on  Tuesday. Proxy advisory firms Stakeholder Empowerment Services and Ingovern Research have accused the Pune-based company of taking its shareholders for a ride by violating many provisions of the Companies Act and Sebi norms and have advised shareholders to reject the appointments of these directors. The Rs 7,500-crore Finolex Cables manufactures electrical and telecom cables, and is the flagship company of the Finolex Group. The company is holding its AGM on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Shyam Metalics to invest Rs 850cr in 2021-22 for capacity expansion||City-based Shyam Metalics on Monday said it is planning to invest Rs 850 crore in 2021-22 as part of its ongoing capacity expansion. The company in a statement said it is looking to expand integrated production capacity in steel making and ferro alloys from the existing 5.71mtpa (million tonnes per annum) to 11.54mtpa by financial year 2025 at a total capital expenditure of Rs 2,960 crore. The company has spent Rs 736 crore till 2020-21. The expansion plan also includes production of aluminum foils. The company said a plant is being set up at Pakuria, about 40km from Calcutta with an annual rolling capacity of 40,000 mtpa. Pharmaceuticals, FMCG, electronics, automotive, dairy, confectionery are among the sectors where the company expects demand to rise. The aggregate installed capacity of captive power plants is also stated to grow from 227 MW as of December 31, 2020 to 357 MW by FY 2025. The company operates three manufacturing plants —two in Bengal at Jamuria and Mangalpur and one at Sambalpur in Odisha. The company said sales have grown from 1.07 lakh tonnes of long steel products in 2016-17 to 6.37 lakh tonnes in 2020-21 and following the expansion it could go up to 20 lakh tonnes of branded value added products. Joint managing director  Sanjay Agarwal said there are plans to implement pig iron capacities as backward integration. The company listed on the stock exchanges in June this year and its maiden offer was oversubscribed by 121 times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Centre announces fresh round of auctions for 11 unsold coal mines||The Centre on Monday has announced a fresh round of auctions for the 11 coal mines that were offered for commercial mining earlier but could not be sold as they received just a single bid. These were the mines which were offered in the first attempt launched on March 25 this year and had fetched single bids, the coal ministry said in a statement. The move comes at a time of a power crisis on account of a coal shortage. “The nominated authority of the ministry of coal has launched today the second attempt of auction process for eleven coal mines (4 mines under the Tranche 12 of CM(SP) Act and 7 mines under the Tranche 2 of MMDR Act) earmarked for sale of coal in accordance with the rules prescribed under these Acts,” a government statement said. Out of these 11 mines, six are fully explored and five are partially explored. The auction will be held online through a two-stage process, on the basis of percentage revenue share. The key features of the sale include ease in participation with no restriction for prior coal mining experience, full flexibility in utilisation, optimised payment structures, efficiency promotion through incentives for early production and use of clean coal technology. The sale of the tender document shall start from September 27. The coal ministry had earlier said it had executed agreements with eight successful bidders after the auction of second tranche of coal mines for commercial mining. The mines have been successfully auctioned with the winning percentage of revenue share ranging from 6 per cent to 75.5 per cent with an average per cent revenue share of 30 per cent. The e-auction was conducted in the first week of August. In the first attempt of auction under 11th tranche of auction under the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act 2015 and under first tranche of auction under the MMDR Act 1957, out of the 38 coal mines, 19 were successfully auctioned. Out of the remaining mines, four coal which had fetched single bid in the first attempt were put up for re-auction in a second attempt with the same terms and conditions but with the highest initial offer received in the first annulled attempt of auction as the floor price for the second attempt. The coal ministry had launched the auction process of 38 coal mines in the first tranche of auction for sale of coal for commercial mining.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Toyota Kirloskar to stop selling mid-sized sedan Yaris in India||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Monday said it will stop selling its mid-sized sedan Yaris in India with immediate effect as part of its product strategy to cater to the evolving needs of customers. The company had launched the Yaris in May 2018 at a price range of Rs 8.75 lakh and Rs 14.07 lakh (ex-showroom), competing with the likes of Honda City, Hyundai Verna and Maruti Suzuki Ciaz. However, it didn’t get a robust response in the market, clocking a cumulative wholesales of 19,800 units. “Toyota Kirloskar announces the discontinuation of Yaris in India with effect from September 27, 2021. This move is a part of Toyota’s product strategy to continue to cater to the ever-evolving needs of the customer,” the company said. TKM sells a range of vehicles, including hatchback Glanza, compact SUV Urban Cruiser and Innova Crysta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Centre sets up two committees of state FMs to rework GST rate slabs||The finance ministry has set up two committees of state finance ministers which would rework rate slabs, review GST exempt items and identify potential evasion sources. Four years after the rollout of the GST, which replaced the complex indirect tax structure, the Centre and states have started work on moving towards a “simpler rate structure” by reviewing the current rate slabs, including special rates and merger of rate slabs. The Group of Ministers (GoM) on rate rationalisation would also review items under inverted duty structure to help minimise refund payout, and review the supply of goods and services exempt under GST with an objective to expand the tax base and eliminate breaking of input tax credit chain. The seven-member panel, which would submit a report in two months, would be headed by Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and include Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra, Kerala finance minister K.N. Balagopal and Bihar deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad. Under GST, a four-rate structure that exempts or imposes a low rate of tax 5 per cent on essential items and top rate of 28 per cent on cars is levied. The other slabs of tax are 12 and 18 per cent. Besides, a cess is imposed on the highest slab of 28 per cent on luxury, demerit and sin goods. There have been demands for merging the 12 and 18 per cent slab as also take out certain items from the exempt category to balance the impact of slab rationalisation on revenue. With regard to inverted duty structure, the GST Council has already corrected the rate anomaly in case of mobile handset, footwear and textiles. The ministerial panel would now look at representations of inverted duty structure and recommend suitable rates to eliminate any such cases where final goods attract a lower GST than the tax levied on its inputs. The GoM on GST system reforms would identify potential sources of evasion and suggest changes in business processes and IT systems to plug revenue leakage. The panel is headed by Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. The panel, which would give its recommendation to the council from time to time, would review IT tools and interface available with taxmen and suggest ways to make them more effective, identify possible use of data analysis towards better tax compliance and suggest ways of better co-ordination between central and state tax officers. The decision to set up these two GoMs was taken by the GST Council, chaired by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, on September 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Govt extends existing foreign trade policy till end of March 2021||The existing foreign trade policy (FTP) will be extended by six months to the end of March next year, commerce minister Piyush Goyal said on Monday. A new foreign trade policy will be put into effect from the next financial year, he said. The government had earlier extended FTP 2015-20 until September 30 this year because of the Covid-19 crisis. The foreign trade policy provides guidelines to enhance exports to push economic growth and create jobs. "We are notifying it today evening or tomorrow...We have decided to extend the policy (2015-20) until March 31 (2022)...and in the (new) financial year, we can start with the new policy," Goyal said. “Since we have still not overcome the entire Covid issues, a lot of consultation which was expected to go in, is still continuing,” the minister said at a trade event organised by the ministry and the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) here.Giving out the rationale for the extension of FTP, officials said schemes such as the RoDTEP (Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products) and PLI (Performance Linked Incentive) have been implemented. The government wants some time to analyse their impact on exports and determine how these could be supplemented. On March 31, 2020, the government had extended the Foreign Trade Policy 2015-20 for one year till March 31, 2021, amid the coronavirus outbreak and the lockdown. Under FTP, the government provides incentives under different schemes such as Duty Free Import Authorisation (DFIA) and Export Promotion Capital Goods (EPCG). Exports during April-September 21, 2021, stood at over $185 billion, Goyal added. Going by the trend, the country will achieve the $400 billion target for this fiscal, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
28-09-2021||Business||Goldman Sachs raises forecast for year-end Brent crude oil prices||Goldman Sachs raised its forecast for year-end Brent crude oil prices to $90 per barrel from $80, as a faster fuel demand recovery from Delta variant and Hurricane Ida’s hit to production led to tight global supplies. Brent futures hit a near three-year high last week as global output disruptions have forced energy companies to pull large amounts of crude out of inventories. Oil prices were trading at $78.50 a barrel at midnight Indian time, while US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude were at $75.30 a barrel. “While we have long held a bullish oil view, the current global supply-demand deficit is larger than we expected, with the recovery in global demand from the Delta impact even faster than our above-consensus forecast and with global supply remaining short of our below consensus forecasts,” Goldman said in a note dated September 26. Earlier this month, the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allies, a group known as Opec+, agreed to stick to its decision made in July to phase out record output cuts. Hurricane Ida’s hit to supply has more than offset Opec+’s production ramp-up since July with non-Opec+ and non-shale production continuing to disappoint, Goldman said. Hurricane Ida and Nicholas, which swept through the US Gulf of Mexico earlier this month, damaged platforms, pipelines and processing hubs, shutting most offshore production for weeks. On the demand side, Goldman said risks were “squarely” skewed to the upside in the winter, as a global gas shortage will increase oil-fired power generation. Goldman, however, flagged a potential new virus variant, which could weigh on demand and an aggressively faster ramp-up in Opec+ production that may soften its projected deficit, as key risks to its bullish outlook. Diesel price The price of diesel on Monday was hiked by 25 paise per litre -— the third increase since last week -— and more rate hikes for both diesel and petrol are in the offing in the coming days as international oil prices have soared to a three-year high, according to PTI. The price of diesel was hiked to Rs 89.32 per litre in Delhi and to Rs 96.94 in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Calcutta, it will cost Rs 92.42 per litre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
28-09-2021||Business||Lower than expected borrowing for H2 may limit bond yield||Bonds are likely to rally on Tuesday after the government announced lower than expected borrowing for the second half of this fiscal. The Centre on Monday said it would borrow Rs 5.03 lakh crore (trillion) from October-March 2022 which is lower than the Rs 5.25-5.50 lakh crore forecast by some in the bond markets. In Monday’s trade, the benchmark 10-year bond settled at around 6.21 per cent. Although bond prices are expected to surge, some experts believe that the rally could sputter amid rising crude oil prices. The government raises money from the market to fund its fiscal deficit through dated securities. According to the 2021-22 Union budget, its gross borrowing was estimated at Rs 12.05 lakh crore, while net borrowing was set at Rs 9.37 lakh crore. The plan, according to the finance ministry, was to borrow up to 60 per cent of Rs 12.05 lakh crore or Rs 7.24 lakh crore in the first half — though effective borrowing during the period stood at Rs 7.02 lakh crore. The government now plans to borrow the remaining Rs 5.03 lakh crore in the second half of the fiscal. The projection also includes borrowing to pay states their GST compensation dues. “Borrowing in H1 (first half) has been completed smoothly with weighted average yield at 6.19 per cent and weighted average maturity at 16.69 years. In H1, good demand for government bonds was seen from all major investor segments and the yields have remained stable,’’ the statement added. It disclosed that the amount of Rs 5.03 lakh crore is likely to be conducted in 21 weekly tranches of Rs 23,000-24,000 crore and the borrowing will be spread under 2, 5, 10, 14, 30 and 40 year-securities and floating rate bonds having tenor of 7-8 and 13 years. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, ICRA said that the H2 (second half) borrowing calendar has provided a positive surprise. This is because while the amount is in line with the budget, it has absorbed the back-to-back GST compensation loan to be provided to the states. “The implication is that the Government of India’s (GoI) fiscal deficit will be around Rs 1.6 lakh lower than budgeted, despite the modest rise in expenditure, a clear confirmation of the revenue upturn that is underway. “This also suggests that the GoI's disinvestment programme is assessed to be on track. Based on the borrowing calendar, we expect G-sec yields to open gap-down by at least 10 basis points,’’ she said. Nayar however, pointed out that the 10-year G-sec yield is likely to range between 6.0 per cent and 6.2 per cent in the coming quarter, with rising crude oil prices to counteract the benign borrowing figures. With the economy on an recovery path, the Centre has seen higher tax revenue. Recently, the revenue department said that the net personal income tax and corporate tax collection shot up 74 per cent to Rs 5.70 lakh crore between April 1 and September 22, driven mainly by advance tax and TDS payments. It added that the net collection is 27 per cent more than the Rs 4.48 lakh crore it had collected in 2019-20 — or the pre-pandemic period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
28-09-2021||India||Centre extends nationwide Covid-19 containment measures till Oct 31||The Centre on Tuesday extended the nationwide Covid-19 containment measures till October 31 in view of localised spreads of the virus in a few states and the disease continuing to be a public health challenge in the country. In a communication to chief secretaries of all states and union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla also cautioned against the possibility of Covid-appropriate behaviour not being adhered to strictly during the upcoming festival which may lead to a surge in cases again. Despite a decline in Covid-19 cases, it is critical to enforce guidelines that allow regular festivities in a cautious, safe and Covid-appropriate manner, he asserted. He said the daily Covid-19 cases and the overall number of Covid-19 patients in the country are decreasing steadily but there are still localised spreads of virus in a few states and Covid-19 continues to be a public health challenge in the country. "Utmost vigil has to be maintained in respect of mass gathering events, so as to avoid any possibility of a surge in Covid-19 cases. "Consequently, large scale gatherings in fairs, festivals; and religious events and functions may lead to afresh surge in Covid-19 cases in the country," the communication said. The home secretary said states and UTs, on a regular basis, should closely monitor case positivity, hospital, ICU beds occupancy of every district falling under their jurisdiction. "The state governments and UT administrations concerned, having high positivity in their districts, should take proactive containment measures so as to effectively arrest the spike in cases and to contain the spread of transmission," he said. Bhalla said it is important to identify warning signs of potential surges early on and to take appropriate measures to curb the spread. "This would require a localised approach, as has been mentioned in Ministry of Health and Family Welfare advisory dated September 21, 2021," he said. The home secretary said there should be a continued focus on the five-fold strategy i.e. Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, to safely navigate through the festive season and avoid the possibility of a surge in Covid-19 cases. He said the state governments and UT administrations should continue with their vaccination programme with a focus to accelerate vaccination of eligible age groups and prioritisation of the second dose to eligible beneficiaries. The home secretary urged the chief secretaries to issue directions to the district and all other local authorities concerned to take necessary measures as advised in the union health ministry advisory for prompt and effective management of Covid-19. "I would also advise that orders issued by the respective state governments and UT administrations or district authorities in this regard should be widely disseminated to the public and to the field functionaries for their proper implementation," he said. The number of fresh coronavirus cases was recorded at below 20,000 (18,795) in India after 201 days on Tuesday, taking the country's Covid-19 tally to 3,36,97,581, while the number of active cases declined to 2,92,206, the lowest in 192 days, according to the Union health ministry. A total of 18,795 fresh Covid-19 cases were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 4,47,373 with 179 more fatalities, the lowest in 193 days, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 AM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Covid virus expected to continue to transmit for a very long time: WHO||Stressing that the Covid virus may continue to transmit for a “very long time”, senior WHO official Poonam Khetrapal Singh says the level of immunity in a community, through vaccination and previous infection, will determine whether it will become endemic in the long run. WHO’s South-East Asia region regional director added that there is need to get to a situation where “we are fully in control of the virus, and not the virus in control of us”. The endemic stage is when a population learns to live with a virus, very different from the epidemic stage when the virus overwhelms a population. Populations where more people were previously infected and where vaccination coverage is high are expected to be less impacted by the virus in the future than other populations, Singh told PTI in an interview. “The Covid-19 virus is expected to continue to transmit for a very long time. A multitude of factors will decide whether the virus will become endemic in the long run, chief among them is the level of immunity in a community, both through vaccination and previous infection,” she said. On the granting of emergency use authorisation (EUA) for the indigenously developed Covaxin, she said Bharat Biotech's dossier seeking WHO's Emergency Use Listing (EUL) is being reviewed by technical experts and “we can expect a decision when the process is complete”. Discussing the role of booster doses to tackle waning immunity, Singh pointed out that cases and deaths in all countries are predominantly being driven by unvaccinated people. Using vaccines for booster doses constricts supply to countries where millions are still waiting for their first dose, she said. “Hence, WHO has called for a time-limited moratorium on Covid-19 booster doses until the end of 2021. This is to allow for at least 40 per cent of the population of each country - including those most at risk and health workers - to be vaccinated. We must remember that no one is safe till everyone is safe.” She said there is currently no conclusive evidence that Covid-19 vaccine efficacy against severe disease and death wanes significantly over time. The vaccines, the expert emphasised, have remained effective in preventing severe disease and death. “However, WHO has not ruled out that boosters for some population groups may be warranted in future.  WHO's recommendations on boosters will be guided by the scientific evidence, which is still evolving,” she said. “To make a recommendation on the use of booster doses for the general population, more data is needed on optimal timing, safety and dosage of booster doses, which may differ between vaccine products. More extensive research is needed to study the effect of booster doses in the body.” According to Singh, eradication is unlikely but what we can do is to prevent or minimise deaths, hospitalisations, tragedy and social, economic and health loss due to this pandemic. Current evidence, she said, shows that protection levels around the world remain low and most people continue to be susceptible to the virus. “WHO continues to recommend a strong public health response based on risk assessment, and for people to continue to protect themselves by getting vaccinated, maintaining physical distance, wearing a mask, avoiding poorly ventilated spaces, cleaning hands and following respiratory hygiene.” Referring to the probability of a third Covid wave, Singh said another surge and how intense it will be will depend on all of us. “If we together continue to adhere to public health and social measures and continue to vaccinate people as fast as possible, it will be hard for the virus to infect enough people to cause another wave,” she said. “From experience globally, there is enough evidence that the public health and social measures work, even against the Variants of Concern that are spreading more rapidly, and these measures are critical to limiting transmission of COVID-19 and reducing deaths.  For the public health and social measures to be effective, they must be implemented well and timely and must be tailored to local settings and conditions.” On India’s decision to restart exporting Covid-19 vaccines, Singh said there is need for equity of vaccination administration globally to ensure that the most vulnerable such as frontline workers and the elderly are fully vaccinated. “At the moment, several low and lower-middle-income countries are lagging behind in vaccinating their vulnerable populations.  An equitable vaccine distribution will also help check the emergence of variants by halting the spread of the virus.” Singh also noted that the pandemic has given “once-in-a-century opportunity” to strengthen the health system to build back better. “We must invest in strengthening health system resilience to ensure health security and achieve universal health coverage. It means allocation of more resources for health and its efficient governance,” she said. Now is also the time for countries to take lessons from the pandemic to strengthen health systems in her view. “Strong health systems that are primary healthcare-oriented, and which leave no one behind, create populations that are healthier, more productive and financially secure. Resilient health systems are the bedrock of emergency preparedness and response, and ensure that when acute events occur, essential health services can be maintained,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Complete ban on sale and bursting crackers in Delhi till January 1, 2022||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee on Tuesday ordered a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital till January 1, 2022. According to the order, several experts have indicated a possibility of another surge of Covid-19 and largescale celebrations by bursting of firecrackers will result not only in agglomeration of people in violation of social distancing norms but also a high level of air pollution leading to serious health issues in Delhi. The bursting of firecrackers under the prevalent pandemic crisis is not favourable for the cause of larger community health given the significant relationship between air pollution and respiratory infections, it said. "There will be a 'complete ban' on bursting and sale of all kinds of firecrackers up to 1.1.2022 in the territory of NCT of Delhi," the DPCC's order stated. The DPCC has also asked district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to implement the directions and submit daily action taken reports to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Punjab minister Razia Sultana quits in 'solidarity' with Navjot Singh Sidhu||Razia Sultana resigned as the Punjab Cabinet minister on Tuesday, just hours after Navjot Singh Sidhu quit as the state Congress chief. In her resignation letter to Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Sultana said she is resigning "in solidarity with Navjot Singh Sidhu". Sultana is considered close to Sidhu. Her husband Mohd Mustafa, who is a former IPS officer, is a principal strategic adviser to Sidhu. Earlier in the day, Sultana was given the charge of the water supply and sanitation, social security, women and child development, printing and stationery departments. She used to hold the transport department in the Amarinder Singh-led government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Kanhaiya Kumar and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani join Congress||Former JNU students' union president Kanhaiya Kumar joined the Congress on Tuesday in the presence of Rahul Gandhi, saying the oldest party has to be strengthened to "save" the country. Kumar addressed a press conference at the Congress headquarters here along with independent Gujarat MLA and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani who too extended his support to the Congress ideology. Asserting that it is detrimental to a country's interests if the Opposition is weakened, Kumar described the Congress party as a "big ship" and said the small ships will be saved only when the Congress is saved. "I have decided to join the country's oldest party and democratic party because I feel along with the lakhs of youths that if the Congress is not saved, the country will not be saved," he said. Kumar, who was flanked by senior Congress leaders, said the country is "in danger" and "we need the courage of Bhagat Singh, equality of Ambedkar and unity of Mahatma Gandhi". He also took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, describing him as "Govinda of our times who changes his clothes often". Kumar had joined the Communist Party of India (CPI) ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election and had unsuccessfully contested from Begusarai in Bihar against Giriraj Singh of the BJP. Mevani, who is currently a legislator in Gujarat and represents the Vadgam constituency, is the convener of the Rashtriya Dalit Adhikar Manch (RDAM). He said there is a sense of urgency to save the country and the youth should create an atmosphere in this regard. Mevani said he is not joining the Congress due to "technical reasons" as he is still an independent MLA, but announced that he will contest the next Gujarat election on the Congress symbol and will participate in all Congress activities and campaign for the 2022 Gujarat assembly polls. He is a lawyer-activist and a former journalist. Mevani's entry into the Congress comes at a time when it is wooing the scheduled castes community after handpicking the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab. Charanjit Singh Channi succeeded Amarinder Singh as chief minister of Punjab, seen as a bold step by the party for wooing back the scheduled castes, traditionally considered the vote bank of the Congress. However, the party suffered a fresh setback in Punjab on Tuesday when state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu couldn't stand a Dalit was made Punjab chief minister, claims AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday claimed that Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu quit from his post as he 'could not bear" that a Dalit has been made the chief minister of the state. Sidhu on Tuesday resigned as the chief of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee ahead of the Assembly elections in the state early next year. In a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu, however, said he will continue to serve the party. He had taken over as the state party chief in July this year. "This shows that Navjot Singh Sidhu is against Dalits. One poor son was made the chief minister... this, Sidhu could not bear. It is very sad," AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj told reporters. The AAP is the main opposition in Punjab. In his letter to Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu wrote, "The collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab," he wrote in the letter. "Therefore, I hereby resign as the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. Will continue to serve the Congress," he further wrote. It is immediately not known what prompted Sidhu to leave the post of the Punjab Congress chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Muslim artist playing Lord Ram in Ramlila gets death, ex-communication threats||A Muslim theatre artist, who has been playing Lord Ram in 'Ramlila' here for a long time, has been threatened that he would be excommunicated and killed if he does it this year. Thirty-year-old theatre artist Danish, a resident of the old city area, has conveyed the threat to him from a man of his own community in a complaint to Bareilly's Senior Superintendent of Police Rohit Singh Sajwan. In his complaint, Danish has said his tenant, who too belongs to his community and with whom he has some dispute, has tried to make an issue out of a Muslim playing the character of a Hindu god. On Danish's complaint, SSP Sajwan has ordered the Kotwali inspector of police to conduct a thorough inquiry, besides extending necessary security. Danish is associated with a local theatre group and has been playing the character of Lord Ram in Ramlila for the past six or seven years and he has got recognition for his feat. Like previous years, he said, he was preparing for the Ramlila this time too but one of his tenants and his associate did not like it and tried to pressurise him over it. When he did not relent, the tenant started threatening him that if he goes ahead with playing the character, he will be excommunicated and killed. Danish alleged that when he tried to oppose them, the tenant and his associate attacked him with a knife. He, however, managed to save himself somehow with the help of his cousin. Regarding the dispute, Danish said the tenant is neither paying him the rent nor vacating the two shops that he had hired from him. Now he has started threatening him on the pretext of a Muslim man playing a Hindu god's character in Ramlila, only to ensure that no rent is asked from him and he does not have to vacate the shops, Danish said. The Kotwali police said directives have been received from the SSP and security will be extended to the theatre artist and investigations will be done. It is a matter of dispute with the tenant and shows the wrong intentions of the tenant, police said. Danish said that he is an artist and respects all religions. "I play the role of Ram in Ram Lila, this time also the preparations are on but the tenant is making it a communal issue out of it and instigating people against it," Danish added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: Heavy rainfall lashes parts of Maharashtra||Heavy rain in catchment areas of the Manjara dam forced authorities to open all its gates for water discharge on Tuesday, leading to flooding in some villages of Maharashtra's Beed district and neighbouring Latur, while an alert was sounded in other neighbouring districts of the Marathwada region, officials said. In Latur, the local administration and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) launched an operation to rescue 47 stranded residents of Sarsa village, which was flooded due to water discharge from the Manjara dam, they said. When contacted, Latur Collector Prithviraj B P told PTI that 158 villages in his district could be affected by the discharge of water from the Manjara dam. "We are closely monitoring the situation in villages located where the course of the Manjara river changes and the site where the Terna and Manajra rivers meet," he said. Besides, in Beed, several families from the affected villages were shifted to safer places, officials said, adding that so far there was no report of any casualty. After heavy rains on Monday night, the Manjara and Majalgaon dams in Beed were filled up to their maximum capacity. The local administration opened all 18 gates of the Manjara dam and 11 gates of the Majalgaon dam early Tuesday morning, resulting in discharge of 78,397 cusec 80,534 cusec water from them, respectively, officials said. The discharge of water from the Manjara dam led to flooding in villages under Kaij and Ambajogai talukas of Beed district, Ambajogai tehsildar Vipin Patil said. "Villages like Isthal (in Kaij taluka), Apegaon, Tadola, Kopra, Anjanpur, Deora, Tat Borgaon, Akola (all in Ambajogai taluka), located on the Manjara river banks, were facing flooding and water-logging. Nearly 110 families from some of these flood-affected areas were shifted to safer places," the official said. The Majalgaon irrigation department's office has also written to Beed, Parbhani and Nanded collectors to sound an alert in villages located along the Sindphana and Godavari rivers in their respective areas. Beed district disaster management authority official Umesh Shirke said, "The next 24 hours are crucial. No casualty has been reported so far." The district administration is on alert, Beed Collector Radhabinod Sharma said, adding that people were being shifted to safer places. The discharge of water from the Manjara dam also led to flooding in Sarsa village of Latur, located around 40 km from the city, sub-divisional officer Sunil Yadav said. Villagers who had set up their houses on farmland were stranded due to floods caused by water discharge from the dam, he said. "People had not witnessed this kind of flooding in the area. The water level here is nearly two feet, and as a precaution, we are shifting villagers to a safer place. An 11-member team of the NDRF has been deployed. The first batch of five persons is being rescued by a boat, the official said. The rescue operation started around 11.30 am, he said, adding that no casualty has been reported so far. In Beed district, Isthal village resident Pandhari Tokle said the water level began to rise in their area on Monday night. "The water rose up to nearly three feet. Residents started shifting to safer places from 4 am on Tuesday. There is no person or animal left in the village now. The situation is more or less the same in the nearby Anjanpur and Apegaon villages in Ambajogai taluka," he said. Heavy rains lashed eight districts in Marathwada on Monday, inundating several parts of the region, another official said. The cumulative rainfall in eight districts of Marathwada has reached 146.62 per cent, with several parts of 182 circles getting water-logged, the official said. Heavy rains were witnessed in 65 circles of Nanded, 30 in Latur, 29 in Beed, 17 in Hingoli, 13 in Jalna (13), 10 in Aurangabad and six in Parbhani, the official said. The region has received an average rainfall of 996.3 mm??? against average rainfall of 679.5 mm, expected during this period, it was stated. Nanded has so far received 1,149.6 mm rain, followed by Parbhani-1,085.3 mm and Jalna- 1,076.2 mm. Usuf circle in Beed received the highest 211 mm rain in a single day, followed by Shiradhon (in Osmanabad)-171 mm, Golegaon (Nanded)-167.50 mm, and Soyegaon (Aurangabad)-141.25 mm, it was stated. According to the district administration, the inflow in Jayakwadi dam of Aurangabad is 17,481 cusec and the dam is currently filled up to 85.04 per cent of its total capacity. Of the 13 reservoirs in the region, water is being discharged from 10, an official said, adding that the highest amount of discharge was from the Vishnupuri dam in Nanded at 1,11,594 cusec. The Nimn Terna dam in Osmanabad has reached 100 per cent storage. The storage in the reservoir on the same same day last year was 35.07 per cent, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu resigns as Punjab Congress chief, will continue to serve party||Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday resigned as the chief of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. In a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu, however, said he will continue to serve the party. Sidhu had taken over as the state party chief in July this year. "The collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab," he wrote in the letter. "Therefore, I hereby resign as the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. Will continue to serve the Congress," he further wrote. It is immediately not known what prompted Sidhu to leave the post of the Punjab Congress chief. Soon after the resignation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Congress president, former chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday dubbed the cricketer-turned-politician as a man who is "not stable" and "not fit" for the border state. "I told you so...he is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of punjab," Singh tweeted. Sidhu resigned as the PCC chief and sent his resignation to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday. Singh has been vehemently opposing Sidhu and has alleged that he has links with Pakistan. The former chief minister has openly challenged Sidhu, saying he will oppose him tooth and nail. Sidhu was instrumental in the ouster of Singh, who quit as chief minister earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
28-09-2021||India||Rohini court shootout: HC asks police to file status report||The Delhi High Court Tuesday asked the police to file a status report on a plea seeking to ensure adequate security in district courts in the national capital in the wake of a recent shootout inside the crowded Rohini courtroom here which left three people dead. Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to Delhi Police and Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) on a petition filed by a woman advocate and said the report be filed within five days. The court listed the matter for further hearing on October 11. The police informed the court that it was taking steps to ensure that the security in district courts is geared up adequately. The advocate said in her plea that she has been practising in various Delhi courts which have become unsafe and easy terrain for gangsters to settle scores with each other, making courts unsafe for thousands of lawyers. The plea sought direction to Delhi Police and BCD to consider instructing all the police personnel at court entrances to ensure that they check the ID cards of every lawyer who enters the court premises. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24 in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials had said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Delhi riots 2020 a pre-meditated conspiracy, says HC||The Delhi High Court Monday refused to grant bail to an accused in a case concerning the northeast Delhi riots of 2020, saying that there was pre-planned and pre-meditated conspiracy to disturb law and order in the city and events did not take place in a spur of the moment. Justice Subramonium Prasad, while dealing with a bail application moved by one Mohd Ibrahim in the case concerning the alleged murder of Delhi Police head constable Ratan Lal, observed that there was a systematic disconnection and destruction of the CCTV cameras in areas near the place of the incident and innumerable rioters ruthlessly descended with sticks, dandas, bats, etc. upon a hopelessly outnumbered cohort of police officials. The riots which shook the National Capital of the country in February 2020 evidently did not take place in a spur of the moment, and the conduct of the protestors who are present in the video footage which has been placed on record by the prosecution visibly portrays that it was a calculated attempt to dislocate the functioning of the Government as well as to disrupt the normal life of the people in the city, the court said. The systematic disconnection and destruction of the CCTV cameras also confirm the existence of a preplanned and pre-meditated conspiracy to disturb law and order in the city, it added. Dismissing the bail application of Ibrahim, the court stated that the available video footage showing the petitioner with the sword was quite egregious and sufficient to keep him in custody. A perusal of the material on record has revealed to the court that the petitioner has been identified on multiple CCTV footages, carrying a sword and instigating the crowd. The clinching evidence that tilts this Court towards prolonging the incarceration of the Petitioner is that the weapon which is being carried by the Petitioner is capable of causing grievous injuries and/or death, and is prima facie a dangerous weapon, the court stated. The judge while acknowledging the importance of personal liberty in a democratic polity, clarified that individual liberty cannot be misused in a manner that threatens the very fabric of civilized society by attempting to destabilise it and cause hurt to other persons. Even though the petitioner cannot be seen at the Scene of the Crime, he was a part of the mob for the sole reason that the Petitioner had consciously travelled 1.6 km away from his neighbourhood with a sword which could only be used to incite violence and inflict damage, the court said. The petitioner, Ibrahim, was arrested in December 2020 and has been in judicial custody since then. He sought bail on the ground that he never participated in any protest or the riots at any point in time and the place on a record by the prosecution did not place him anywhere close to the scene of the crime. The court, in a separate order, granted bail to one Saleem Khan, saying that in the absence of any material to show that he was a part of the unlawful assembly at the crime scene, the veracity of the allegations levelled against him can be tested during trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Amit Shah hails India's handling of Covid pandemic||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said that India has handled the COVID-19 pandemic in the best possible manner among all countries in the world despite limited resources. Addressing the 17th formation day of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) here, Shah also said that the Centre is planning to roll out the 'Aapda Mitra' (Friends in Disaster) project in 350 districts across the country by imparting training to citizens as first responders to any disaster. The home minister said despite limited resources and with such a large population of 130 crore, India has fought the COVID-19 pandemic in the best possible manner among all countries. If an analysis is done by any neutral agency, it will come to the conclusion that the country has done very well in fighting the pandemic and substantially reducing the death rate, he said. Many countries had a tough time in dealing with the pandemic (Pasina choot gaya tha bahut deshon ka), he noted. Shah also praised the NDMA for its commendable work during the pandemic. Referring to the cyclone that had hit some parts of the country during the pandemic, he said it was due to the excellent planning and preparations that not a single oxygen plant was damaged and there was no power cut to oxygen plants and hospitals in cyclone affected areas. "We have done excellent preparation under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership," he said. On the 'Aapda Mitra' scheme, he said a pilot scheme of the project has been successfully completed in 30 districts of 25 states in the country. Under the scheme, people will be given training on how to immediately respond to any disaster and how to help people in distress and rescue them, he said. Shah said thosepart of the project will be provided an insurance cover and agreements are being signed with 28 states in this regard. The home minister said the government's approach is to ensure zero loss of life during any disaster and it has been successful to a great extent. He said during the super cyclone in Odisha in 1999, about 10,000 people lost their lives but this year, less than 50 people have died in three cyclones so far. "Death of 50 people is also not good and we should target that there is no loss of any life in any disaster," he said. Shah said if an early warning system for disasters like lightning comes into effect, lives of a large number of people could be saved. The scheme for training of community volunteers in disaster response (Aapda Mitra) has been implementing by the NDMA with a focus on training of community volunteers in disaster response in selected 30 most flood prone districts of 25 states. The scheme aims to provide community volunteers with the skills that they would need to respond to their community's immediate needs in the aftermath of a disaster thereby enabling them to undertake basic relief and rescue tasks during emergency situations such as floods, flash-floods and urban flooding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Modi elated at BJP getting first RS seat from Puducherry||With the BJP getting its first Rajya Sabha member from Puducherry, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that it was a matter of immense pride for every member of the party. He also congratulated Union ministers Sarbananda Sonowal and L Murugan on being elected to the Rajya Sabha from Assam and Madhya Pradesh respectively. In a tweet, Modi said, "It is a matter of immense pride for every BJP Karyakarta that our Party has got its first ever Rajya Sabha MP from Puducherry in Shri S. Selvaganabathy Ji. The trust placed in us by the people of Puducherry is humbling. We will keep working for Puducherry's progress." He added, "Congratulations to my Ministerial colleagues, Shri @sarbanandsonwal Ji and Shri @Murugan_MoS Ji on being elected to the Rajya Sabha from Assam and Madhya Pradesh respectively. I am confident that they will enrich Parliamentary proceedings and further our agenda of public good". The AINRC-BJP alliance is in power in the union territory of Puducherry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||India's daily Covid cases fall below 20,000 after 201 days||The number of fresh coronavirus cases was recorded at below 20,000 (18,795) in India after 201 days on Tuesday, taking the country's COVID-19 tally to 3,36,97,581, while the number of active cases declined to 2,92,206, the lowest in 192 days, according to the Union health ministry. A total of 18,795 fresh Covid cases were registered in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 4,47,373 with 179 more fatalities, the lowest in 193 days, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of daily fatalities was recorded at 154 on March 19. The number of active cases has declined to 2,92,206, accounting for 0.87 per cent of the total number of cases -- the lowest since March 2020 -- while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.81 per cent, the highest since March last year, the ministry said. A decrease of 7,414 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Less than 50,000 daily cases are being reported in the country for 93 consecutive days now, the ministry said. Also, 13,21,780 tests were conducted to detect the infection on Monday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 56,57,30,031. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.42 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 29 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.88 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 95 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 3,29,58,002, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 87 crore with more than one crore doses administered in a span of 24 hours. India's COVID-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 179 new fatalities include 58 from Kerala and 32 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,47,373 deaths due to the viral disease have so far been reported in the country, including 1,38,902 from Maharashtra, 37,746 from Karnataka, 35,509 from Tamil Nadu, 25,085 from Delhi, 24,661 from Kerala, 22,890 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,751 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Jaishankar meets Mexican counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar held a "comprehensive discussion" with his Mexican counterpart Marcelo Ebrard Casaub n and reviewed cooperation in various fields, including trade, investment and space, stressing that the two countries must collaborate more closely in international forums. Jaishankar is on a three-day visit to Mexico, his first to the North American country as the External Affairs Minister. "Concluded a comprehensive discussion with FM @m_ebrard of Mexico. Reviewed our political cooperation, trade and investment, space and scientific potential, cultural exchanges and consular issues. Shared perspectives on governance challenges and global narratives," Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting on Monday. Jaishankar, the first External Affairs Minister to visit Mexico in 41 years, said that as independent powers committed to a multipolar world, "India and Mexico must collaborate more closely in international forums." "Glad to note our Mexican partners reciprocating this sentiment," he tweeted. Jaishankar also paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi in Mexico City by offering floral tributes to the statue of the father of the nation. "Particularly appropriate on the occasion of the anniversary of Mexican independence," he tweeted. As part of his other engagements, Jaishankar also attended the Independence Day celebrations of Mexico in Mexico City. He met Serbia's First Lady Tamara Vucic and Foreign Minister Nikola Selakovic. "Glad to learn that the First Lady is an enthusiastic and ardent practitioner of Yoga," he tweeted. Jaishankar also met Belize Prime Minister Johnny Briceno and Foreign Minister Eamon Courtenay. "Appreciated their warm words on our #vaccinemaitri," Jaishankar said. He also met Bangladeshi Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Md. Shahriar Alam on the sidelines of the independence day celebrations in Mexico City. Earlier, Jaishankar was received by Minister of Finance and Public Credit Rogelio Ram rez de la O with whom he discussed Mexico's response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Jaishankar reached Mexico at the invitation of his Mexican counterpart Casaub n after concluding his visit to the US for the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly. Jaishankar will interact with the leading CEOs and the business community in Mexico, which is currently India's second largest trade partner in Latin America and is a member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) alongside India for the 2021-22 period, according to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). The two-way trade in 2018 was USD 10.155 billion, comprising exports worth USD 5.231 billion and imports valued at USD 4.923 billion, according to official data. India's exports comprise mainly of vehicles and auto parts, chemicals, aluminium products, electrical machinery and electronic equipment, steel, gems and ceramic products. India imports crude oil, electrical goods and machinery from Mexico.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||RSS-linked Panchjanya slams Amazon as ‘modern East India Company’ in latest broadside against corporates||Panchjanya, the RSS-linked publication which recently made news by launching a savage attack on Infosys founder N. R. Narayana Murthy, is on the warpath again. This time, it’s lashed out at Amazon, the global e-commerce giant, accusing it of being a modern-day East India Company. The magazine accused Amazon of paying massive bribes and concealing them in different ways, including huge legal fees totalling around Rs 8,500 crore. In a statement last week, Amazon had indicated that its legal expenses were Rs 52 crore for the year ending March 31, 2020, and that the larger figure mentioned included a range of other expenses. Panchjanya’s cover splashed a photo of Amazon founder Jeff Bezos along with the provocative headline: “#Amazon: East India Company 2.0”. The story inside referred to Amazon’s alleged legal payments and asked the question: “What did it (the company) do wrong it needed to bribe...Why do people consider this company a threat to indigenous entrepreneurship, economic freedom and culture?” There was no immediate comment available from Amazon on the article. But in a statement last week, Amazon said: “Given a misleading representation of a line item from our statutory filings on legal fees in a section of the media, we clarify that the line item is actually termed legal and professional expenses.” Under that heading are “not just the legal costs but also the costs related to other professional services such as outsourcing, tax consultants, customer research, logistic support services, merchant onboarding services, customer service cost, etc,” Amazon said. The company noted that for the financial year ended March 31, 2020, for instance, “the legal fee was INR 52 Crore, from the total legal and professional expenses of INR 1967 Crore.” The Congress said whatever the Sangh says is “irrelevant as it does not say anything in the national interest but in the interest of the ruling BJP.” At the same time, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, "The issue of Amazon is a serious one and it merits everybody's attention. The allegations against Amazon are very serious and they cannot be ignored," In early September Panchjanya attacked Infosys and its founder, N. R. Narayana Murthy, accusing the company of being in league with, “Naxals, Leftists, and the tukde tukde gang (the gang that wants to divide the country). Panchjanya’s broadside was ostensibly because of the glitches in the income tax portal that Infosys has been working on with the government. One fact that links the earlier story and the current one, is that Narayana Murthy and Amazon jointly own Cloudtail which is the biggest seller on the Amazon platform. Murthy has a majority stake in Cloudtail but the government has raised objections to this partnership and it is scheduled to be dissolved next year.  The RSS had later distanced itself from the Infosys attack, saying the article was the opinion of the author. The UK’s Financial Times had commented last week that tirades against foreign companies “are unlikely to help attract much-needed foreign investment to India.” Panchjanya’s earlier attack on Infosys and Murthy has caused considerable consternation in the Indian corporate world because it came soon after the Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal launched a vitriolic diatribe against the Tata Group at a meeting where many top industrialists were present, accusing it of not caring about the national interest and having “foreigners’ as business partners. The Tata Group is preparing to make a giant splash into e-commerce by launching a “super-app” which is currently being tested. The Tatas are unhappy about some proposed government regulations because it would prevent them from selling products by group companies like Starbucks. Also, it would not be able to sell products from 1MG, the online pharmaceutical retailer, which it bought recently. The e-commerce arena is likely to turn into fierce battle-zone next year with four powerful contenders, Amazon, Flipkart, the Tatas and Reliance all in the fray. Both the RSS and the BJP had distanced themselves from Panchjanya’s attack on Narayana Murthy and Infosys. RSS spokesman Sunil Ambekar tweeted that Panchjanya was not a “mouthpiece of the RSS and the said article or opinions expressed in it should not be linked with the RSS.” Ambekar added that the article, “only reflects the individual opinion of the author.” “Whatever the East India Company did in the 18th century to capture India, the same is visible in the activities of Amazon," the Panchjanya article said. Claiming that Amazon is seeking to establish its monopoly in the Indian market, the magazine said “it has started taking initiatives for seizing the economic, political and personal freedom of the Indian citizens.” The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), which represents small traders, has strongly lauded the article, saying, “it greatly appreciated” the Panchjanya story and that it shared the view that online retailers Amazon and Flipkart want to, “become a second edition of East India Company.” The, “business model of these two companies are similar (to) that of East India Company – selling goods at cheaper rate irrespective of the quality….killing competition… and monopolising the market in their favour,” B. C. Bhartia, CAIT national president said. The Panchjanya story added: “"For doing so, it has started taking initiatives for seizing the economic, political and personal freedom of the Indian citizens." The CAIT chief added: “This is exactly what East India Company did…both Amazon and Flipkart want to invade our country’s economic and social culture.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Dalit Christian boy who faced acid attack dies in Gaya||A 14-year-old Dalit Christian boy who had faced an acid attack in Gaya died at a Patna hospital on Sunday, with neither Gaya nor Patna police filing cases despite the family alleging longstanding threats by saffron-clad bullies and local people. Class VIII student Nitish Kumar, who had been fighting for life since being drenched with acid on a street on August 11, shares his name with the Bihar chief minister who runs a coalition government with the BJP. The victim’s local police station is in Mahkar, the village of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, whose Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular too is part of the ruling NDA. A police officer suggested the death was a suicide; and a doctor said the family did not want to pursue the matter legally, possibly because matters needed to be speeded up to prevent the body of the burn victim decomposing. The statements of neither the police officer nor the doctor prove anything — only a post-mortem and an attendant investigation can establish the cause of the death; and if it was an unnatural death or a murder, an autopsy was mandatory. The Telegraph had contacted the family when the boy was fighting for his life in hospital. The family declined to speak. In fact, the relatives were so terrified of repercussions that they refused to even discuss their religion. They spoke to the newspaper only after Nitish died. The boy’s father Vakil Ravidas, a rickshaw-puller in Kamta Nagar village, had adopted Christianity with his family around five years ago. Family members said some local people, including a few who appeared Hindutva activists, had been threatening and warning them against attending church but the police refused to register a case before or after the acid attack. When this newspaper contacted the station house officer (SHO) of Mahkar, he refused to reveal his name and said the boy had immolated himself. “We conducted inquiries. It was the result of a family dispute. The victim was sporting long hair and his elder brothers forcibly cut it. Peeved, he set himself on fire and suffered burns,” the SHO said. Asked about the police version, Nitish’s eldest brother Rajeev Kumar told this newspaper: “This is not true. Some people threw acid at him. We wanted to register an FIR and had gone to the police station, but the police were not helpful.” Dr Kamod Narayan Tiwary, owner of the hospital where Nitish was treated, said the local police (from Agamkuan police station in Patna) were informed after Nitish died. “The police came and said they did not want to get involved in the case. It was getting late and the bodies of burn victims decompose fast,” Tiwary said. “Finally, the guardians of the boy were asked (by the hospital) to give a declaration that they did not want to register a case. The body was released after that.” Tiwary added: “The family signed on a consent sheet declaring they were not interested in pursuing the matter further with the police or the courts, did not want a post-mortem and wanted to take the body with them. They took the body away after that.” Shailesh Kumar Jha, a criminal lawyer, said: “It’s the responsibility of the hospital to ensure that a post-mortem is conducted in purported cases of crime, accident or unnatural death. In the case of the boy, too, the hospital should have ensured this even if the family did not want to pursue the case and was willing to give it in writing.” Jha added: “However, Nitish’s family are free to approach the police or court irrespective of their submission to any hospital.” Sanjeet, elder brother of Nitish and a Class X student, said: “My brother (Nitish) had gone to buy vegetables from the local market around 6.30am on August 11. He had hardly gone 750 metres when three men on a motorcycle threw acid on him. He started burning and rushed back screaming.” A local doctor provided first aid. Nitish was admitted to the Apollo Burns Hospital in Patna, about 100km from Gaya, on August 12. “When I saw the boy, 70 per cent of his body had burns. Both hands, his back, parts of the chest, both thighs and a leg had severe burns that seemed to have been caused by acid or a similar chemical,” Tiwary said. “Around 18 per cent of his burns were third-degree burns, reaching deep into his muscles. He was critical. He used to tell me how some people had thrown acid on him.” Agamkuan SHO Abhijeet (who goes by one name) said: “We did not get any information from the hospital; otherwise we would have definitely gone there.” He added: “In any case the hospital did not give us anything in writing.” Asked about this, Tiwary reaffirmed that the police did come to the hospital. “I wasn’t there on Sunday morning. It seems the statement of the family wasn’t recorded,” Tiwary said. Nitish was buried on Sunday afternoon. His mother has taken ill and is repeatedly falling unconscious. Nitish’s eldest brother Rajeev, who’s looking for a job, said the threats to the family had increased recently. “Some local people used to ask us not to attend church or hold prayers at home. In July, threats were being issued all around that all Christians would be chased away from the area,” he said. In December last year, a group of people had blocked the roads leading to the church in Kurwa, which the family and other local Christians attended, he added. Rajeev said the local police had refused to register an FIR after the acid attack. “Later, Gaya city superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar talked to us, but nothing happened after that,” he said. Phone calls by this newspaper to the Gaya city SP and to senior superintendent of police Aditya Kumar were not answered. A local Christian said, asking not to be named, that the people who had threatened Nitish’s family “would not take the name of any organisation but often sported saffron gamchhas, turbans and kurtas”. “They were threatening Christians at many places in Gaya and neighbouring districts. We are afraid to go to the police because our homes, land and businesses are here. I just wish somebody would do something to stop this torture.” Tiwary said Nitish needed skin grafting but had just around 22 per cent normal skin left. And this too was mostly over the belly and therefore unusable, for the boy had to sleep on his stomach. “But his will to live was strong and he kept battling the hopeless condition. It’s a pity we couldn’t save him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Two telling responses mark SKM's Bharat Bandh||Two telling responses marked the Bharat Bandh called on Monday by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which has been spearheading the farmers’ protests for the past 10 months against three farm laws. One, Ashutosh of Swaraj India, a constituent of the SKM, said in a recorded statement: “We apologise to all those who were inconvenienced by our blockade. But people should realise that we were forced to give this call by the central government which has refused to listen to us and talk to us sincerely to resolve the stalemate.” This is not the first time the SKM or a constituent has apologised for inconveniencing common people but it is a habit that stands out. Two, the Right-wing ecosystem sought to discredit the bandh by using an undated picture of a bustling thoroughfare. Messages were posted on social media, stating that “my city is fully open” and naming the city. The same image was used for Pune, Delhi, Surat and Patna. Fact-checking website AltNews performed a reverse image search and found that the image used in all these social media posts was a five-year-old photograph from Patna. As always with bandh mobilisations, the response was mixed, the call being more effective in some states than others. But there were reports of some form of mobilisation from practically every state, including the BJP’s showpiece province of Gujarat. North Western Railway officials said train services in Punjab and Haryana were affected during the bandh from 6am to 4pm as farmers picketed the tracks. Several highways leading into the national capital witnessed traffic snarls because of blockades. The response to the bandh call in Punjab and Haryana was near-complete, with traders downing shutters in solidarity with the farmers, who used their tractors to block roads and highways. Only emergency vehicles were allowed to move. An army convoy was stopped for around half an hour in Jalandhar but was subsequently allowed to move by the protesting farmers. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged the Centre to repeal the three farm laws. “#I Stand With Farmers & appeal the Union Govt. to repeal the three anti-farmer laws. Our farmers have been struggling for their rights since more than a year & it is high time that their voice is heard. I request the farmers to raise their voice in a peaceful manner,” Channi tweeted. While few states could match Punjab, Haryana and Kerala, the bandh was observed on a smaller scale across the country. Karnataka, Bihar, Maharashtra, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha saw farmers turn out in considerable numbers to protest the farm laws, some by picketing the roads and rail tracks and others by organising protest marches. Protests were also organised in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. According to the SKM, several non-farmer associations extended support to the farmers and joined the bandh. A few organisations used the platform to air their grievances too. The farmers’ movement has over the past 10 months sought to build broad coalitions across the spectrum. “The overall mood across the country was anger and frustration with BJP-RSS policies that the Modi government is enforcing, curbing basic freedoms and democracy, and putting most citizens on the path of survival struggle,” the SKM said. Most Opposition parties had extended unconditional support to the bandh call although they stayed in the background, respecting the will of the farmers to decide the course of the movement. Through the past 10 months, the farmers –- even while campaigning against the BJP in elections -– have been particular about ensuring that no political party uses their stage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Corporates entities can't be allowed preferential hearing: SC||Corporate entities cannot be allowed preferential hearing before the Supreme Court, a bench headed by the Chief Justice of India said on Monday, frowning on some big companies’ tendency to try and jump the queue and get their matters listed out of turn. The bench of CJI N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli gave vent to its ire during the mentioning hour in the morning when senior advocate C.U. Singh sought to mention the case of a corporate entity for an early hearing. Justice Ramana said: “Mr Singh, we are still streamlining the system. How can all these corporate people come and start mentioning their matters? There are pending criminal appeals and other cases, too. We have to give priority to other people, particularly the weaker sections.” Bail applications of hundreds of undertrials languishing in jails and other such matters are pending before the apex court, which had a backlog of 69,956 cases on September 4, 2021. The CJI’s observation comes against the backdrop of considerable difficulties being faced by litigants and many lawyers because of the pandemic-induced freeze on physical hearings. Several lawyers are peeved that the pandemic crisis has turned out to be a boon for some select law firms and senior advocates, including those who have relocated themselves to London. The lawyers feel that these law firms and senior lawyers have hijacked the virtual system of hearings and are opposing the resumption of physical hearing. Early this month, the CJI had introduced the hybrid system of hearing, under which advocates have the option of either appearing in person in the court after complying with the standard operating procedure drawn up by the apex court, or continuing to be in the virtual mode. So far, the hybrid system has had few takers, and much of the hearing continues to be held online. Some lawyers have said in private that the virtual system is being patronised by senior lawyers and big law firms as it works to their advantage. Virtual hearings make it possible for lawyers settled in cities like London or holidaying in Goa and exotic locations abroad to appear in quick succession in various courts on a single day and earn astronomical fees, they said. Some senior lawyers have installed nearly a dozen computers or laptops so that they can appear on the same day in different courts, such as the Supreme Court and big high courts, as well as tribunals handling corporate disputes, sources said. But most of the lawyers do not have such rich clientele, and their livelihood has been hit in the absence of physical hearings. “Many lawyers are now finding it difficult to make ends meet. Virtual hearings in courts continue to elude them. There is simply no work for them,” said senior corporate lawyer and former additional solicitor-general of India, Bishwajit Bhattacharyya. “In the interest of the vast majority of our sisters and brothers in the legal profession, it’s time the courts opened for 100 per cent physical hearings with strict Covid protocol.” At a meeting on Monday, the executive committee of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) termed the continued closure of the Supreme Court a violation of the fundamental rights of practising lawyers. SCBA president and senior advocate Vikas Singh told The Telegraph that barring one member, the committee resolved that physical hearings in the Supreme Court should resume immediately. Singh said: “The Supreme Court building is the work abode of the Supreme Court lawyers, and access to it is being denied, which amounts to a clear infringement to our fundamental rights. “The hybrid (system of) hearings has been a non-starter because, first, the virtual option is given to lawyers who find it convenient. Second, lawyers who prefer physical hearings find the SoP unjustified.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
28-09-2021||India||Centre's survey paints rosy picture of job creation and employment||The Centre on Monday released a sample survey’s findings on employment and compared them with data from an eight-year-old economic census, painting a rosy picture of job creation amid the reports of rising unemployment both before and after Covid struck. The Quarterly Employment Survey (QES) covering nine key sectors — conducted by the labour bureau, an arm of the labour ministry, between April and June this year — found 3.08 crore workers. It flagged this 29 per cent increase over the workforce of 2.37 crore in these sectors that the economic census of 2013 found. “The government has compared the QES data with the 2013 economic census to paint a rosy picture. It seems this is a political exercise ahead of Assembly elections in some states,” said labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management, XLRI, Xavier School of Management. Another labour economist who didn’t wish to be identified said that as a sample survey, the QES could not be compared accurately with the economic census. “The census report is actual data. A sample report is an estimate,” he said. The survey covered the nine sectors of manufacturing, construction, trade, transport, education, health, accommodation and restaurants, IT/ BPO, and financial services. These nine, according to the 2013 economic census, accounted for 85 per cent of the total employment in establishments employing more than 10 workers. The QES found a decline in employment, compared with the 2013 economic census, in the trade sector (25 per cent), followed by accommodation and restaurants (13 per cent). Sectors that witnessed job growth were IT/BPO (152 per cent), health (77 per cent), education (39 per cent), manufacturing (22 per cent), transport (68 per cent) and construction (42 per cent). Sundar said that with the expansion of the economy, a simple annual growth rate in employment was quite likely. If a comparison was to be made with eight-year-old data, the government should have taken this growth into consideration. “When all the macroeconomic indicators are poor, this data of 29 per cent increase in employment does not appear convincing,” Sundar said. He said a proper comparison could be made only when the next QES data came in. A direct comparison with the immediate pre-Covid period is difficult because this is the first QES since the government stopped conducting the survey after December 2018, a labour economist who asked not to be named said. He said this was because the latest surveys had shown rising unemployment. The government has now resumed the QES after tweaking the methodology, he said. Several surveys in recent months have shown a job crisis. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a private research agency, nearly 59 lakh of the country’s then total 181 lakh white-collar jobs were lost in the four months between May and August 2020 in the aftermath of the national lockdown. The CMIE found an 11.9 per cent monthly unemployment rate in May this year – 14.73 per cent in urban areas and 10.63 per cent in rural areas — with over 1.5 crore jobs lost that month. The QES too found that nearly 27 per cent of establishments in the nine sectors had retrenched employees because of the Covid-induced economic crisis. However, it gave no figures of job losses. Instead, it said 81 per cent of the workers received full wages during the lockdown period between March 25 and June 30 last year — but calculated the figure without taking into account those who had lost their jobs during this period. It said 16 per cent had received reduced wages and around 3 per cent were denied any wages. The last two groups, government sources said, were mainly informal and casual workers. The QES report said manufacturing accounted for 41 per cent of employment followed by education (22 per cent), health (8 per cent) and IT/BPO (7 per cent). The overall participation of female workers stood at 29 per cent against 31 per cent reported by the 2013 economic census. Labour minister Bhupender Yadav released the report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
28-09-2021||India||Arrested antique dealer's links with Cong leader sparks controversy||The arrest of a self-styled antique dealer who claimed to possess artefacts such as the staff of Moses and two of the 30 silver coins for which Judas Iscariot betrayed Jesus has triggered a wider controversy over his purported links with a Congress leader and former police officers. Monson Mavunkal was arrested in Kochi on Sunday in a cheating case, lodged on the basis of a joint complaint that six of his alleged victims had sent to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan claiming they had been swindled out of Rs 10 crore. Since then, in separate media comments, some complainants have alleged paying Mavunkal at a time state Congress president K. Sudhakaran was in the house, or handing over cash on the premises of senior police officer (now retired) G. Surendran. Social media pictures have also emerged showing Mavunkal with retired police officer Loknath Behera and former chief secretary Jiji Thomson. Sudhakaran, Surendran and Thomson have denied any knowledge of Mavunkal’s business dealings. Mavunkal claimed to possess a piece of Jesus’s attire, the throne of Tipu Sultan, the title deed of the Mysore Palace and a walking stick used by Kerala social reformer Sree Narayana Guru, among other artefacts. All these are suspected to be fake. The six complainants said they had parted with their money after being told that Mavunkal had huge sums of foreign exchange withheld under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) and therefore needed some cash. According to their complaint, Mavunkal had produced a purported document from an international bank to show his money was caught up in legal wrangles over Fema. The complainants say they paid him between June 2017 and November 2020. “Sudhakaran was at his place when I gave him (Mavunkal) Rs 25 lakh on November 22, 2018,” one of the complainants, Shameer MT, told reporters. Sudhakaran told a news conference in Kannur: “I knew Monson (Mavunkal) as a doctor whom I visited six or seven times to have a skin issue treated. But I have nothing to do with his business.” Asked why he would consult a quack, he shot back: “There was nothing to show he was a fraud. There were plenty of luxury cars in his compound and I was told he had historic antiques.” A native of Cherthala in neighbouring Alappuzha district, Mavunkal had started off by manufacturing plastic chairs but soon began presenting himself as an antique dealer and “cosmetologist”. He allegedly used “doctor” before his name, and many took him to be a dermatologist. Yaqoob Purayil, another complainant, said he had handed over Rs 25 lakh to Mavunkal after “being taken to” the Thrissur residence of Surendran when he was a deputy inspector-general. “I was taken to the DIG’s place and then handed over Rs 25 lakh to him (Mavunkal). But I don’t know whether the DIG was involved,” he said. Surendran denied any knowledge of such financial dealings. “I first met him when I was Kochi police commissioner in 2019 at an awareness campaign against drugs. He said he had a collection of antiques. I have known him since then but have absolutely no connection with his financial dealings,” the retired officer said. Jiji Thomson said he and Mavunkal were patrons of the Pravasi Malayali Federation.  “That’s how I met him,” Thomson told a channel. Mavunkal’s  tall claims about his purported antique collection were widely reported in the local media but no one seems to have publicly questioned their authenticity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
28-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab goes easy on Odisha ||Odisha on Monday heaved a sigh of relief as the impact of Cyclone Gulab was minimal in the state. While no casualties have been reported from any part of the state so far, district collectors have been asked to submit the report on the damage caused to property and crops within five days. Sources said, the damage should be much less compared to past cyclones such as Fani. Gulab has now weakened into a deep depression. The Met department has warned of heavy rainfall in the next 24 hours in some of the districts of southern Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
28-09-2021||India||SC pulls up Centre for abruptly changing NEET pattern||The Supreme Court on Monday pulled up the Centre for abruptly changing the pattern of the NEET Super Speciality Examination 2021, saying young doctors can’t be treated like “footballs” by “insensitive bureaucrats”. The bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna warned that the court would pass strictures if the authorities failed to justify their action or rectify their mistake. It posted the next hearing to October 4 to enable the government to explain its stance. The NEET-SS is held for admission to super-specialty DM and MCh courses, and the applicants have to be postgraduate doctors. “Don’t treat these young doctors as footballs in the game of power. We can’t put these doctors at the mercy of insensitive bureaucrats. You should put your own house in order. Just because somebody has the power, he can’t wield the power in any manner,” Justice Chandrachud told senior advocate Maninder Singh, who appeared for the National Board of Examination (NBE), and advocate Gaurav Sharma, who was representing the National Medical Council (NMC). Additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati appeared for the Centre. “If you don’t issue instructions (to restore the original pattern), we will pass strictures if we are not satisfied with your reasons for the last-minute change,” Justice Chandrachud said. The court made the observation while dealing with a joint petition filed by 40-odd doctors challenging the abrupt changes made to the pattern of this year’s entrance examination. Under the original pattern, 60 per cent of the questions were from super-speciality subjects and 40 per cent from general medicine. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, representing the aggrieved doctors, said the notification was issued on July 23 for the exam, which was to be conducted on November 13-14. But suddenly the NBE issued a circular on August 31 at the behest of the NMC, seeking to change the pattern by ensuring all the questions were from general medicine, Divan said. The aggrieved doctors argued that changing the pattern after issuing the notification for the exam amounted to changing the rules after a game had started. Singh initially argued that the new pattern had been in vogue till 2018 and the authorities merely restored it. But an unimpressed court said the candidates had been preparing for several months and a sudden change in the pattern would affect their prospects. “These young doctors might be put at risk due to the last-minute changes,” Justice Nagarathna said. Singh and Sharma sought a week’s time to file their responses. The court later asked Bhati to facilitate a meeting of the authorities concerned and work out a solution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
28-09-2021||India||Those pampered by Congress high command are first to betray||When veteran leader and former chief minister of Goa Luizinho Faleiro quit the Congress on Monday, the dominant view in the party was that those pampered by the high command are the first to betray. Faleiro, appointed chairman of the Congress Election Coordination Committee in Goa barely a few days ago, had been an integral part of the high command structure for around 14 years. Considered close to party president Sonia Gandhi, he has looked after the Northeast as general secretary. He is a seven-term MLA and is now set to join Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress. A senior leader feeling slighted for long told The Telegraph: “We are rotting in the Congress for decades but only those quit who were rewarded by the leadership. Look at the list: Jyotiraditrya Scindia was given a ticket to contest soon after his father’s demise, made central minister twice and then general secretary when the party lost power. He was Rahul Gandhi’s best friend. He not only leaves but also pulls down the government in Madhya Pradesh.” This leader continued: “Jitin Prasada was given a ticket to fight as both MP and MLA, made central minister and then given charge of a state. He joins the BJP. “Sushmita Dev was made MP and then straightaway given charge of Mahila Congress. A couple of very prominent leaders are planning to quit. Alpesh Thakore was brought in with such fanfare and he embraced the BJP.” This feeling is widespread in the Congress, apart from the grudge that those who come from outside are being given undue importance. The names of Nana Patole, Navjot Singh Sidhu, Hardik Patel and Revanth Reddy are cited. The counter view is that the Congress is at its nadir and talented people joining the party must be offered attractive deals. Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani are to join on Tuesday and can both expect exceptional treatment. When Jitin Prasada was sworn in as a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government, former Union minister Manish Tewari tweeted: “Jitin Prasada: 2004-14 represented generational change in the Congress. UPA minister. Today a BJP mantri. A Jyotiraditya Scindia redux. What turned their hearts. Wish I could look inside their heads. Life never ceases to amaze. May he find fulfilment in his New Avtar. God Bless brother.” A young leader considered close to Rahul Gandhi said: “It is inexplicable how young leaders claiming to be ideologically committed join the BJP now when the country is in peril. That’s immorality.” Joining Trinamul is also being viewed as fraught with grave implications. One senior leader from Goa said: “Trinamul and AAP will not win seats in Goa but they will spoil the Congress’s chances. We can see a sinister project to damage the Congress. But what can be done when our leaders don’t see it? Majority of leaders requested Rahul Gandhi to remove Girish Chodankar as state unit chief but he didn’t listen. Faleiro left only because of Girish. When leaders don’t listen, you can only pray. We pray that the very obvious chance for a Congress victory in Goa is not frittered away.” Faleiro said: “I have been a Congressman for 40 years and I will continue to be a Congressman of the Congress family. This family has to come together if we have to fight Modi. Among all the four Congresses, it is Mamata who has given a tough fight to Narendra Modi and their juggernaut….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
28-09-2021||India||Hindi magazine calls Amazon 'East India Company 2.0'||Panchjanya, a Hindi magazine known to echo the views of the BJP’s parent outfit RSS, has termed retail giant Amazon “East India Company 2.0”, weeks after accusing Infosys of aligning with “anti-national” forces to destabilise the Indian economy. The cover story in the magazine’s latest edition accuses Amazon of indulging in corrupt practices to “kill Indian retailers” and gain “sole rights of the Indian market”. Its business model is akin to the erstwhile East India Company, the magazine says. The story also accuses Amazon of assaulting the Indian and Hindu ethos through Prime Videos. The attacks on corporates by a publication linked to the RSS, as well as by RSS-affiliated outfits, are coming at a time the Narendra Modi government has been accused by the Opposition of promoting select business houses. The Swadeshi Jagran Manch, an RSS-affiliated outfit, on Monday raised concerns about Indian start-ups being flipped away, said it was a threat to the country’s security and sought regulatory changes. “Most of the big-ticket start-ups have flipped away and are no longer Indian companies in essence,” Mahajan said, citing Flipkart. Started by two Indians, it is now registered in Singapore. “There is a need to overhaul the system, from policy, regulations, access to capital to push entities to register in India,” Mahajan added. Panchjanya editor Hitesh Shankar said in a video message on Twitter: “It is a factual story, which we have put out for the readers. How did over 40,000 shops close due to one company? How did one company, through so many shadow companies, promote select brands that have captured around 95 per cent of the market?” Amazon, which is locked in a court battle with Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries, on Monday in a statement denied the charges and said its business model had in fact helped small Indian sellers. “During the pandemic, three lakh new sellers joined us... of which 75,000 were local neighbourhood shops,” it said. The company said it had helped over 70,000 Indian businesses to sell “made in India” products globally. Panchjanya had earlier accused Infosys of aligning with “Naxals, Leftists and the tukde-tukde gang” to destabilise the Indian economy, after glitches in the income tax portal managed by the tech giant. Though the RSS and the government distanced themselves from the attack, it came after Union minister Piyush Goyal’s swipe at the Tatas in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
28-09-2021||West Bengal||IMD issues red alert for heavy rains in south Bengal||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red alert for very heavy rains in some districts of south Bengal for Tuesday and Wednesday as a low-pressure system has developed over the Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal areas of West Bengal. In South 24 Parganas, one of the three coastal districts in West Bengal, more than 35,000 people were evacuated from low lying areas, even as the local administration in East Midnapore and North 24 Parganas were keeping the relief shelters ready while maintaining a close watch on the situation. “While red alert, the highest form of alert in the four graded rain alert system, was sounded for three districts – East Midnapore, West Midnapore and South 24 Parganas – on Tuesday, for Wednesday it has been sounded for West Midnapore and Jhargram where there could be rainfall up to 200mm,” said an IMD official in Kolkata Similarly, orange alert, the next category of alert, has also been sounded for multiple districts in south Bengal such as North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Bankura and Purulia, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||SC notice to Centre, others on West Bengal plea against HC order for CBI probe into post-poll violence cases||West Bengal has made out a case for issuance of notices, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday while seeking responses from the Centre and others on the state government's appeal against the Calcutta High Court order directing court-monitored CBI probe into the heinous cases of rape and murder during the post-poll violence there. The apex court refused however to accede to the state's submission that the CBI be directed, in an interim order, not to register any fresh case, saying as per the principle of natural justice no such order be passed without hearing the other side. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose disagreed with the submissions of senior advocate Kapil Sibal that the top court should record that the fate of CBI probe in the cases would depend on the outcome of the state's appeal in the top court. "That is always there, we do not need to say this. Moreover, we are posting it after one week and nothing will happen," the bench observed. "We think you (Sibal) have made out the case for issuance of the notices. Let the other side come and file the response...we will hear out the case one day before the vacation," it said and fixed the case for next hearing on October 7. The Mamata Banerjee-led government is aggrieved by the high court verdict. A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI investigation into all the alleged cases of heinous crimes in West Bengal after the assembly poll results this year, in which the ruling TMC came back to power, after accepting the recommendations of an NHRC panel. As regards other criminal cases related to post-poll violence, the high court had directed that they be probed by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) under the monitoring of the court. The high court verdict came on PILs which had alleged that people were assaulted, made to flee homes and properties were destroyed during the violence in the wake of the assembly elections and sought an impartial probe into the incidents. At the outset, Sibal raised issues related to federalism, selection of some members of the Human Rights panel who were entrusted with the preliminary probe into post-poll violence cases and the fact that administration and law and order were in the hands of the poll panel during the continuation of the poll process. The law and order was under the superintendence of the Election Commission during May 2 to May 5 this year and the definition of post-poll violence' was stretched and even ordinary crimes were brought under its ambit, Sibal said. "The Chief Minister took oath on May 5. Your Lordships will have to decide what do you mean by post poll violence," he said. "They said there was inaction on part of the state... What happens is this is flashed all over the country, there is a matter of reputation of the state as well. You do not give us an opportunity, castigate us and pass the order," the senior lawyer said while assailing the high court order. "The high court proceeded on an assumption that the entire police force of West Bengal cannot be trusted and there was no factual basis to support this," he said. "The state government was not given adequate opportunity and time to respond to several complaints related to criminal offences," he said, adding that scrutiny of cases had taken months in the Muzaffarnagar riots cases. The senior lawyer alleged that at least three members of the six-member fact finding panel of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had open affiliation to the party ruling at the Centre and hence there is an apprehension of bias . "The NHRC panel did not follow the proper procedure prescribed under the law," he alleged. "The principle evolved is that transfer of the case has to be done on the case-to-case basis. You cannot say I have received 100 complaints and will transfer them without analysing the facts and hence there cannot be en-masse transfer," Sibal said. After Sibal outlined his submissions, the bench said that it was prima facie convinced that the notice can be issued and it will be better if the entire case is argued after another side appears and responds. Earlier, the state had moved the Supreme Court challenging the Calcutta High Court order directing the court-monitored CBI investigation into all cases of rape and murder during the post poll violence in the state after accepting the recommendations of an NHRC panel. The high court had observed that there were "definite and proved" allegations that complaints of the victims of violence in the aftermath of the West Bengal assembly polls were not even registered. Besides CBI probe, the high court had ordered an SIT to probe all other cases and it included Suman Bala Sahoo, Soumen Mitra and Ranveer Kumar, all IPS officers of the West Bengal cadre. "All the cases where, as per the report of the Committee, the allegations are about murder of a person and crime against women regarding rape/attempt to rape, shall be referred to CBI for investigation, it had said. The high court has also directed the NHRC committee, constituted by its chairman on a direction by the five-judge bench, and any other commission or authority and the state to immediately hand over the records of the cases to the CBI to carry forward the probe. The bench had said it will monitor the investigations by both the CBI and the SIT and asked the two agencies to submit status reports to the court within six weeks. It had said that the working of the SIT will be overseen by a retired Judge of the Supreme Court for which a separate order will be passed after obtaining his/her consent. In its ruling, the bench had said heinous crimes such as murder and rape "deserve to be investigated by an independent agency which in the circumstances can only be Central Bureau of Investigation". The state failed to register FIRs even in some cases of alleged murder, the bench had said, adding, "This shows a pre-determined mind to take the investigation into a particular direction. Under such circumstances investigation by independent agency will inspire confidence to all concerned". The facts in relation to the allegations made in the PILs are "even more glaring" as the incidents are not isolated to one place in the state, it said. The NHRC committee had on July 13 submitted its final report to the court. An interim report of the NHRC committee had mentioned that its member Atif Rasheed was obstructed from discharging duty and he and his team members were attacked on June 29 in Jadavpur area on the southern fringe of the city, the court noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||High court castigates Speaker for dithering on Mukul Roy defection case||The clock is ticking for Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee who has time till October 7 to decide on the fate of Mukul Roy, the BJP MLA who defected to the Trinamul and was elected as the chairman of the Committee on Public Accounts. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj said that the court would decide the next course of action in case the Speaker did not act by October 7. The bench observed that the issue pertaining to disqualification of respondent No. 2 (Mukul Roy) as member of the legislative Assembly was co-related with him being the chairman of the Committee on Public Accounts. “A petition filed for his disqualification is pending before the Speaker for the last more than three months, the maximum period fixed in the Keishal Meghachandra Singh’s case for a decision,” the bench remarked. The court pointed out that  in case of Roy, the deadline of three months had already passed. Yet  no action was taken. Roy defected to the Trinamul on June 11 and the following month on July 9 he was elected as chairman of the PAC for the 2021-22 financial year. The decision was challenged by BJP legislator Ambika Roy. On Monday, leader of Opposition and BJP MLA from Nandigram Suvendu Adhikary on Monday filed a petition seeking disqualification of Roy as an MLA under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution commonly referred to as the anti-defection law. The bench said that the disqualification petition pending before the Speaker was not a “mere irregularity” but “it is a case of blatant illegality". “The petition for his disqualification was pending consideration before the Speaker, before he was nominated to act as chairman. This cannot be termed to be mere irregularity. It is much more than that if seen coupled with the fact that despite judgements of the honourable Supreme Court the Speaker is sitting tight on the matter of a decision of disqualification… it is a case of blatant illegality,” the court observed. “In case (the respondent No. 2) does not remain the member of the Assembly, there was no question of he being even the member of the accounts committee what to talk of its chairman,” the court said. Never before in the last two decades of Bengal politics since the Trinamul arrived on the scene, has defection, a regular practice in state politics, reached the court. Banerjee’s predecessor, the much respected Hashim Abdul Halim, had actually disqualified two MLAs from the Congress who had defected to the Trinamul. Banerjee on the other hand has held countless hearings in the last 10 years since he has been on the chair, but no defecting MLA has ever been disqualified. “In the case in hand, as is evident from the facts on record, there is failure on the part of the Speaker to discharge his constitutional duty coupled with established admitted constitutional conventions (referring to the PAC chairman post being given to an Opposition legislator). Apparently he has worked on dictates. Finally, he was caught in the web knitted by him,” the bench observed. The court also said failure to discharge duties by those entrusted to maintain constitutional values could endanger the democratic set up. “The objective and purpose of Tenth Schedule is to curb the evil of political defections motivated by lure of office, which endangers the foundation of our democracy. The disqualification takes place from the date when the act of defection took place. The constitutional authorities who have conferred with various powers are in fact coupled with duties and responsibilities to maintain the constitutional values. In case they fail to discharge their duties within time, it will endanger the democratic set up,” the bench observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore: HC slams chief secy for behaving as 'servant of party in power'||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday came down heavily on the Bengal chief secretary, while dismissing a petition challenging the September 30 Bhowanipore Assembly bypoll, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is seeking a re-election. A division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj did not interfere in the poll process but admonished the chief secretary for behaving as a “servant of the political party in power.” “The most offensive part is the conduct of the chief secretary, who projected himself to be more as a servant of the political party in power than a public servant, whereby he stated that there would be constitutional crisis in case election to Bhowanipore constituency is not held from where respondent No. 5 (Mamata Banerjee) want to contest election,” the bench observed. “What constitutional crisis the government could face with one person losing or winning election, was not explained. How the Chief Secretary knew that the respondent No. 5 was to contest from Bhowanipore Assembly constituency? He was not a party spokesperson or a returning officer.” On September 6, the Election Commission of India had issued a notification allowing only the Bhowanipore bypolls to be held while allowing 30 other Assembly seats across the country to remain vacant, following a special plea made by the Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi, claiming that the state would plunge into a constitutional crisis if the bypolls were not held from the seat which Mamata Banerjee had selected for herself. The court reminded the chief secretary that his role was not to ensure any particular person to come to power. “We record our strong reservation about the conduct of the chief secretary in writing a letter to the Election Commission stating that there would be ‘constitutional crisis' in case by-election to the Bhowanipore Constituency is not held. He is a public servant, who is to discharge his duties in terms of provisions of law, whosoever may be in power. He is not to ensure that any particular person should come in power and in the absence there would be constitutional crisis,” the bench observed. The court also observed that the information provided by the chief secretary was contrary to the situation on the ground regarding Covid-19 as the restrictions would be  in place till September 30, the day of polling. The court also said that the EC was misled regarding the flood situation in the state, as it was known to all that the state had received excessive rainfall. The court, however, declined to interfere in the September 30 poll process at the current stage. On the larger issue of an MLA’s resignation from a seat leading to a vacancy (in the case of Bhowanipore Trinamul MLA Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay’s resignation which led to the bypoll), the court will resume hearing on November 19 whether the public should bear cost of by-elections. While the high court was going hammer and tongs against the state chief secretary, the Election Commission hurriedly announced by-polls to the remaining 30 vacant Assembly constituencies, including four from Bengal _ Khardah, Shantipur, Gosaba and Dinhata_ and three Lok Sabha seats, would  be held on October 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta police lodge FIR to probe alleged assault on Dilip Ghosh||Kolkata Police has lodged on their own an FIR against unknown people in connection with the incident where BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh was pushed and heckled while campaigning in Bhabanipur, an officer said on Tuesday. Several sections of the Indian Penal Code relating to unlawful assembly, rioting with arms and weapons, voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation have been invoked in the FIR filed at Bhawanipore police station, he said. Ghosh was Monday pushed and heckled by alleged TMC supporters in Bhabanipur assembly constituency, where West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is in the fray, provoking his security officer to whip out a pistol, as political temperature shot up on the last day of electioneering. National TV channels showed Ghosh being pushed and heckled on a road as a posse of security guards tried to shield him. A suspected TMC supporter was seen grabbing a security man by his collar who swiftly pulled out a pistol to scare away the crowd. The incident occurred when Ghosh had gone inside a vaccination camp in Jadubabur Bazaar area in the constituency, where by-poll will be held on September 30. Ghosh, who was whisked away by his security guards, had alleged TMC supporters "attacked" him without provocation and injured a BJP activist. He had also demanded deferment of the by-poll which Mamata Banerjee must win to stay on as the chief minister. Under the constitutional arrangement, Banerjee can continue as the chief minister only till November 5 without getting elected to the state assembly. She was defeated in Nandigram in the state assembly elections held in March-April this year. A BJP delegation is scheduled to meet Election Commission officials in New Delhi later on Tuesday to register a complaint about the incident involving Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to also go in for lateral entry in bureacracy||The Mamata Banerjee government is mulling following in the footsteps of the BJP-led central government by opting for lateral entry into the bureaucracy in senior positions such as Special Secretary and Joint Secretaries, a senior official said on Tuesday. The lateral entry scheme could see these officials posted in different departments as advisors. The details of their exact job profile and responsibilities have however not yet been "chalked out", according to the official. "All these appointments will be contractual for a specific period only. Their eligibility criteria will be equivalent to an IAS official," the IAS officer said. According to plans the minimum eligibility for such lateral entrants would be 15 years of relevant experience, he added. The pay and perks of these lateral entry officers would be worked out by the state Home Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department. Another highly-placed source, who declined to be named, said that the government would advertise for the appointments for lateral recruitment. "Anyone with a minimum experience of 15 years in the fields of civil aviation, commerce, economic affairs will be eligible for the positions. As of now, it has been decided that the age of the candidate should not be less than 40 years," he added. The proposal may be sent to the chief minister's office for a final nod of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the senior officer added. However, despite several attempts a confirmation from state home secretary BP Gopalika could not be gained. In 2018, the Centre had stated that the lateral entry scheme would fulfil the twin purpose of bringing in domain expertise in the civil services and address the problem of shortage of IAS officers they have been facing. This February, the central government had advertised 30 posts at the level of joint secretaries and directors for lateral recruitment. The UPSC advertisement made that month sought online applications for ministries, departments, PSUs, autonomous bodies for positions that were on contract for a period of three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC dismisses petition on Bhowanipore by-election, polls to be held as scheduled||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition on the by-election to the Bhabanipur assembly seat, ordering that polls will be held as scheduled on September 30. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice R Bharadwaj said it was inappropriate on the part of the West Bengal chief secretary to have written such a letter in which he had appealed to the election commission for holding the by-election at Bhabanipur. The court dismissed the PIL in which the language used to seek the by-poll was challenged. The chief secretary had in the letter said that a "constitutional crisis" would occur if the by-election to Bhabanipur was not held. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting from the Bhabanipur seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Cash seized in part of bypoll belt, two arrested||Two men have been arrested for carrying Rs 4.34 lakh whose origin or purpose they allegedly failed to explain. Sanjay Sharma and Pawan Kumar Parik were arrested on Saturday night at the crossing of Chowringhee Lane and Sudder Street, which is part of the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency that will go to the polls on September 30. As the model code of conduct is in force for the byelection, people carrying more than Rs 50,000 in the constituency should be in a position to explain the source and purpose of the cash with documents or face action by the police and the income tax department. “Anyone carrying more than Rs 50,000 should either carry the withdrawal slip if the money is withdrawn from the bank or the ATM slip if it is withdrawn from an ATM,” a police officer said. If a businessman or an employee carries cash, he or she should possess sales documents that could establish the source of the money. “The two men arrested — Sharma, 43, from Uttarpara in Hooghly, and Parik, 22, from Nalini Seth Road in Calcutta, were arrested after they failed to explain how they got hold of Rs 4,34,550,” an officer said. A case has been registered with New Market police station. In Ekbalpore, parts of which are in the Bhowanipore Assembly constituency, cops intercepted a vehicle on Monday. The two men in the vehicle allegedly failed to explain the source and purpose of the Rs 4,27,600 they were carrying. “The two claimed they were employees of a transport company and had withdrawn the money from a private bank. We have sought the bank statements and withdrawal slips to verify their claims. The verification is on,” said an officer. Vehicles are checked at random ahead of an election to ensure that unaccounted for cash is not transported to places going to the polls. “Citizens can carry less than Rs 50,000 without being questioned. But any amount more than Rs 50,000 will attract scrutiny. If someone carries more than Rs 10 lakh, the IT department has to be informed,” an IT department official said. When cash is seized, he said, there could be three possibilities — the money is the “proceeds of a crime,” the money is unaccounted for or the money is being sent to or carried from any person involved in the election. “In the first and third case, police register FIRs. But in the second case, only the money is seized. If the amount is more than Rs 10 lakh, the income tax department starts a probe but the police are not involved,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Fake cop held in North 24-Parganas||A 22-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly posing as an IPS officer and swindling a woman out of Rs 3 lakh, police said. Raju Debnath, from Duttapukur in North 24-Parganas district, has been arrested on the charges of cheating and criminal intimidation based on a complaint by the woman. An officer said they had seized a police uniform from Debnath’s home. “The accused had posted a few photographs on his social media profile posing as an IPS officer. He had met a woman on social media and taken money from her pretending to be an IPS officer and promising her to return it soon,” said an officer. The woman, who is the complainant, realised at one point that she had been duped and filed a police complaint . Cases involving people allegedly posing as IPS or IAS officers and duping people have been reported in the city over the past few months. Debanjan Deb, who was arrested in June on the charge of organising a fake Covid vaccination camp, had allegedly posed as an IAS officer. Rajarshi Bhattacharya, who was allegedly posing as an IPS officer and roaming around in a beacon-fitted vehicle, was arrested on extortion charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Woman shot dead in Raiganj||A 37-year-old woman died and two of her siblings got injured after a group fired at them in Raiganj town on Monday. The siblings were visiting their parents. The parents had been having problems with their tenant for the past few days. On Monday evening, the tenant turned up with some youths and picked a fight, police said. The youths opened fire after the three siblings asked them to leave. Neighbours rushed them to hospital, where the woman was declared dead. The other two siblings are undergoing treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Boost for private industrial parks in north Bengal||A decision made by the Bengal cabinet earlier this month to allow setting up of private industrial parks on plots measuring five acres and above has come as an element of encouragement for a number of entrepreneurs in north Bengal. A number of them are ready to set up such parks in the region and have drawn up plans to set up MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) units which can boost employment. “This is a very productive decision that can encourage industrial growth and contribute to the economic development of the state. Soon after the decision has been made, we have found a number of private investors in north Bengal, who are keen to buy a piece of land or use their existing land to set up such small industrial parks. The prospective units which would come up at these parks will be labour-intensive and in due course, hundreds of jobs would be created at these parks,” said Surajit Paul, secretary, North Bengal Industries Association. Paul, who is also the convener of Eastern ABC Chamber of Commerce and Industries – an apex body of district-level trade bodies of north Bengal, said they had already found around 20 entrepreneurs in Siliguri who are scouting for land to set up such parks. “We are helping them in finding appropriate land for their projects in places like Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri (which is just next to Siliguri), where the value of land is around 25 lakh per acre,” he added. On September 13, the Mamata Banerjee Cabinet had announced the decision. It was made to encourage private investments in the MSME sector in the state. Also, the state government has set a target to have around 100 such parks across Bengal in the next few years. “It seems half of those proposed parks will come up in north Bengal, considering its geographical location. There are many entrepreneurs who own five acres of land and they have already started drawing up plans for different types of units, ranging from plastic, iron and steel, food items, bought-leaf factories and other household items,” said a representative of the north Bengal zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). He said some others were planning to join hands, buy the land together and set up their units at the site. According to the trade bodies, the reduction in the land ceiling — from 20 acres to five acres — has encouraged the investors. In Bengal, investors making private industrial parks can get 100 per cent reimbursement of stamp duty, get a power sub-station installed free of cost and also a road that the state would build to connect the site with the nearest major road. Also, investors can get cash back up to Rs 2 crore on parks which are set up on an area measuring between 20 acres to 39 acres. “The new parks, which would be set up on an area between five acres and 20 acres, will also get similar incentives which would be announced shortly. This is another factor that is encouraging the investors,” said an industrialist in Siliguri. Social researchers who have been working here said the decision can largely benefit north Bengal, a region where tea and tourism have been the two principal sectors of employment for decades. “In tea industry, employment opportunities have virtually dried up while the tourism industry has taken a beating during the past one and half years due to the pandemic and many people have lost their jobs. In such a situation, if MSMEs come up in private industrial parks, a new employment opportunity for the youths and can also discourage migration,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Farm laws: Strike on rail tracks in Burdwan||Activists of Left outfits block rail tracks in Burdwan in support of nationwide strike on Monday called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha against the three farm laws of the Centre. The strike, mainly supported by the Left and its mass outfits, and the Congress, evoked mixed reactions in Bengal. Bandh supporters blocked tracks at various places including Jadavpur, Birbhum and Burdwan. They also blocked state and national highways at various places. Most private buses did not roll out in districts. Drivers of some government buses wore helmets for safety. The strike had impact in East and West Burdwan and parts of Haldia industrial belt. However, many retail shops were open in view of the festive season. In Durgapur, CPM leader Pankaj Roy Sarkar was accused of slapping a person for questioning the strike. Sarkar said he objected to the use of abusive language for strikers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Flood aid theft slur on three Trinamul Congress rural leaders||The block development officer of Harishchandrapur-I block of Malda has filed police complaints against the head of the local panchayat samiti and two of its members for siphoning funds allotted for the aid of flood victims. The trio from Trinamul  are Koyel Das, sabhapati (head) of the Trinamul-run Harishchandrapur-I panchayat samiti, Roushnara Khatun, the member in charge of women and child development at the samiti and Sujata Saha, the leader of Opposition in the samiti. Sujata had won on a BJP ticket and defected to Trinamul, but her designation stayed the same. All three have gone into hiding. Police are in search of them. Trinamul leaders in Malda have distanced themselves from the scam. Sources said since the past few weeks, officials of the block and subdivisional administration of Chanchal have been receiving complaints that genuine beneficiaries affected in a 2017 flood had not received the cash aid though the fund was allocated by the state. “As we probed the allegations, we came to know that these three elected representatives, who are also office-bearers at the panchayat samiti,  made a list of fake beneficiaries, opened fake bank accounts and siphoned the funds while depriving the genuine beneficiaries. That is why police complaints have been filed against them. We are yet to find out the total sum siphoned,” said an official of the block administration. “Such corruption has exposed Trinamul and the party will feel the repercussions in the next rural polls,” said Rupesh Agarwala, a BJP leader. Manik Das, Harishchandrapur-I block president of Trinamul, played safe. “We don’t support corruption. The law will take its own course. If found guilty, the party will also take steps against them,” said Das. “Sujata Saha has won on a BJP ticket at the 2018 panchayat elections but soon defected to Trinamul. Trinamul did not remove her from the post of leader of Opposition and neither allowed other BJP members to take steps so that she can be removed. These three representatives are involved in the scam,” said a source. A few days back, a former panchayat member of Trinamul was arrested in the same block for a similar scam. The BDO filed a complaint against a Trinamul pradhan of the same block for misappropriating funds meant for families affected in the 2017 flood. Officials in the subdivisional administration of Chanchal said they are taking appropriate steps. “Complaints have been lodged based on the findings of our investigation. The police will take further steps now,” said Kallol Roy, the SDO of Chanchal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||30-year-old youth hacked to death in Malda district ||A 30-year-old youth was hacked to death allegedly by his brother at Kotwali, located under Englishbazar police station of Malda district, on Sunday night. Sources said Ranjit attacked Mithun Choudhury with a sharp weapon during an altercation over a family issue. “Ranjit hacked Mithun repeatedly and he died on the spot. Ranjit is absconding,” said a source. Police have recovered the body and are in search of the accused. In another incident, a Trinamul supporter died in Cooch Behar district late on Sunday night. Sumit Kumar, SP, Cooch Behar, said Osman Ali Mandal was injured in a clash between two factions of Trinamul in Natabari early on Sunday. “Seven others have also been injured in the clash. The police have registered a case and 10 persons have been arrested so far for perpetrating violence.” In Natabari, two lobbies which are close to party leaders Rabindranath Ghosh and Parthapratim Roy often indulge in violence to gain control over the area. “District party leaders will have to take steps to end the internal strife which is causing loss of lives,” said Khokan Mian, a district Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Two arrested with over 40kg cannabis near Siliguri||Two suspected members of a drug smuggling racket were arrested with over 40 kilos of cannabis worth around Rs 5 lakh in Fulbari on Sunday evening. A team of New Jalpaiguri police station under Siliguri Metropolitan Police intercepted an SUV in Fulbari, located on the southern end of Siliguri. “We found 43kg of cannabis from the vehicle. The estimated price of the seized narcotics is around Rs 5 lakh in the grey market. Ranjit Kumar and Motilal Goala, residents of Bihar and Tripura, respectively, who were in the vehicle have been arrested. They were smuggling cannabis from the northeast to Bihar,” said a police officer. “We will interrogate them as they are suspected to be members of a drug smuggling racket,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Plea to frame comprehensive policy for homestays in north Bengal||Homestay owners in north Bengal have asked the Mamata Banerjee government to frame a comprehensive policy to ensure standard services at such hospitality facilities which mushroomed in the region in recent years. The demand was raised at an event hosted by the Association for Conservation & Tourism (ACT), a north Bengal-based organisation, here on Sunday as a part of the World Tourism Day celebrations. “There should be a proper rural tourism and homestay policy in Bengal and we urge the state government to mull over it. Many of us are first generation rural entrepreneurs who have stepped into tourism and a laid down policy with proper guidelines can help us improve the services,” said Bijay Thapa, a homestay owner from the Dooars and a member of the Jaldapara Offbeat Tourism Association. North Bengal has close to 3,000 homestays, most of which have come up in the past five-six years. The state tourism department provides financial assistance to them and there is also a provision of getting the properties registered with the department. But so far, the state has not come up with an exhaustive policy on how these accommodations should be run and also on ancillary issues pertaining to local tourism attractions. At the event organised by the ACT — named as Homestay Congress, the owners also pointed out that around 1,200 such accommodations did not have a no-objection certificate issued by the district land and land reforms departments. “This is because these accommodations have come up in tea and cinchona plantations and on the fringes of forests. As most residents do not have land rights, the homestays, too, could not get the NOC and are hence deprived of financial assistance and other benefits extended by governments. As land is a state subject, the state government should look into it,” said a homestay owner in Darjeeling district. Kinkar Roy, a homestay owner from the eastern Dooars and a member of Chilapata Porjoton Samiti, emphasised the need for a common marketing network for all homestays of the region. “The state tourism department is actively working to promote Bengal among domestic and international tourists. It should evolve a common marketing network through which all homestay owners can showcase their accommodations and attractions of their places. This initiative, we believe, can bring in more tourists to the homestays,” said Roy. The ACT hosted an event at Siliguri Town station — one of the oldest stations of north Bengal which used to be the terminus of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) toy train for several years — on Monday as part of the WTD celebrations. “Over the time, the station has lost its glory and is currently in a deplorable condition. We are trying to bring back the lost glory of the station which is a heritage place for us,” said Raj Basu, the convenor of the ACT. Members of the association urged the citizens to come forward and take the initiative to restore the glory of the station. Exhibitions, paintings and other cultural events were organised at the station on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||DHR authorities to come up with more joyrides from October 1||Authorities of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), a Unesco recognised world heritage, have decided to come up with more joyrides from October 1. Joyrides are the most popular toy train rides. DHR authorities have also lined up a three-week-long festival from mid-November to encourage conservation of the heritage railway and promote it among tourists. Senior officials of DHR and the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) made the announcements here on Monday. “To ensure that more tourist enjoy joy rides between Darjeeling and Ghoom, it has been decided to engage more coaches and add more rides along the route from October 1,” said Sanjay Chilwarwar, the additional divisional railway manager of the NFR in New Jalpaiguri. As of now, there are three joy rides in steam locos and an equal number of rides in diesel locos. “The plan is to introduce two more rides (one each in steam and diesel loco) and increase the number of coaches from two to four in each ride. This will help accommodate more tourists,” said a railway official. A couple of years back, for the first time in the history of DHR, the number of toy train passengers (joy rides and regular services) had crossed  one lakh in a year. But last year, toy train services  stopped owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. This year, DHR resumed joy rides from August 16 and regular service between NJP and Darjeeling from August 25. On the winter festival, railway officials said they had named the three-week event “Ghum Festival” after Ghoom, the highest railway station in India above sea level. “Ghum Festival will commence on November 13 and continue till December 5. There will be visits to the heritage railway museum, Tiger Hill (the famed sunrise viewpoint), performances of local bank and folk groups, a trekathon, mountain biking and tour of local tea estates,” said ADRM Chilwarwar. Tourists can also enjoy an exhibition of local food, handloom and handicraft products. “The idea is to popularise DHR and integrate locals and tourists so that they can contribute to its conservation and promotion,” the railway official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee govt to scrap active ration cards of dead||The Mamata Banerjee government is likely to cancel lakhs of ration cards in Bengal because of authorities’ assumption that the cards belonged to people who died in the past few years but free food grains were being collected against them. “The total number of active ration cards in the state is 10.44 crore. After the Duare Sarkar programme, the figure is set to touch 10.5 crore as 6 lakh more people have applied for cards. The figure is abnormally high considering the fact the total population of the state according to the 2011 census was 9.13 crore,” said a senior government official. Sources said a rough estimate of the government put the total number of ration cards in the state marginally less than 10 crore. “If 10.50 crore active ration cards are in place, it clearly suggests a huge number of ration cards of the dead beneficiaries were not cancelled,” a source said. If excess ration cards are in use, it costs the state exchequer dear as the government gives a handsome subsidy to run free food grain schemes for all. As the state government has launched several other welfare schemes like Lakshmir Bhandar which requires additional Rs 17,000 crore a year, various departments are trying to cut down expenditure by all possible means. “Right now, the state government spends nearly Rs 4,500 crore a year to run the free food grains scheme for all. If cards of a few lakh dead beneficiaries are cancelled, the government can save up to Rs 500 crore a year,” said a senior government official. The food and supplies department has already initiated several steps to identify active ration cards of dead beneficiaries. First, district authorities have been asked to ensure the registrars of birth and death play an active role in identifying the dead beneficiaries. Second, ration dealers were also asked to play an active role by sending lists of dead beneficiaries at a regular interval to food inspectors, who would verify the facts with the families of the deceased. The procedure would be adopted to identify dead beneficiaries in the past four-five years. Moreover, the authorities have been asked to collect the lists of Samabyathi — a scheme where the government gives Rs 2,000 for funerals of needy persons. Another instruction is that the authorities verify the voter list of a particular area to find out those whose names were deleted following death. “Moreover, the state government would launch an awareness programme across the state asking people to come forward and report in case any of the family members dies or has already died,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||CBI arrests four persons in coal pilferage case||The CBI on Monday arrested four persons in connection with alleged theft of coal worth hundreds of crores of rupees from Bengal. This is the first time that the CBI has made arrests in this case. The four, believed to be close associates of Anup Maji aka Lala, were arrested from parts of Asansol in West Burdwan and Bankura. The CBI said Narayan Kharka aka Narayan Nanda of Durgapur, Joydeb Mandal of Asansol, Nirod Mandal of Bankura and Gurupada Maji of Shaturi in Purulia had allegedly handled payments on behalf of Maji. The four will be produced in the CBI court in Asansol on Tuesday. “During earlier interrogation, we had found several inconsistencies in the statements of each of the four. It later emerged that the four would strike deals on behalf of Lala, fix rates for movement of pilfered coal and even decide on the mode of payments,” said a senior CBI officer. The arrests came on a day the Enforcement Directorate  sent a reminder to state law minister Malay Ghatak, asking him to appear for a round of questioning in the coal pilferage case. The ED has been probing into the money trail. The ED had earlier asked Ghatak to appear for a round of questioning at its New Delhi office but the minister had evaded it.  The ED had arrested Ashok Mishra, inspector-in-charge of Bankura police station, in this case. The investigations have revealed the four arrested on Monday by the CBI had been allegedly into the smuggling coal for decades. They used to work under Raju Jha — an alleged coal smuggler during the Left Front regime who joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly elections in May. Madan questioned The CBI interrogated former state minister and Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra at its office in the CGO Complex in Salt Lake City in connection with the I-Core ponzi scheme on Monday. The agency had also summoned Mitra’s son Swarup in the same case. Sources said Swarup would appear before the investigators on Tuesday. Mitra had earlier been grilled by the Enforcement Directorate in the same case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Sushmita Dev of the Trinamul elected to Rajya Sabha||Sushmita Dev of the Trinamul Congress was elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha on Monday in the absence of any rival candidate from the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly. Dev, 49, will be able to occupy the Upper House seat — vacated by minister Manas Ranjan Bhuniya after being elected as an MLA this summer — till April 2023. The daughter of Northeast Congress veterans, Santosh Mohan Dev and Vithika Dev, she had been an MLA and an MP of the Congress before. Dev is a Master of Laws from King’s College London.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 472 new infections and 15 deaths||Bengal on Monday logged a fall in its number of active Covid-19 cases, a day after it reported a rise by nine, in that total after 97 days of an unchecked drop. On Monday, Bengal’s active Covid-19 cases fell by 99 to 7,584. The state reported 472 new Covid-19 infections, 556 recoveries and 15 deaths. Bengal now has 2.65 per cent of India’s active cases, and remains seventh among states with the highest number of such cases. None of the state’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Calcutta logged 76 new infections on Monday and North 24-Parganas 72. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections. Fourteen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported two deaths and North 24-Parganas four. The state’s recovery rate rose to 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.78. Its daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.73 per cent on Monday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.67 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.4 lakh recoveries and 18,751 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Govt to put in place two bypasses to reduce congestion on DH Road||The state government will put in place two bypasses, a 3.5km-long one first and then a 3km-long one, to reduce congestion on the arterial Diamond Harbour Road (NH117) in South 24-Parganas. Officials across various departments in a meeting held in Calcutta last Friday on traffic snarls in the area, especially near Amtala market, resolved that the first proposed diversion would lead from Bishnupur police station and connect Diamond Harbour Road to Brahmachari Pole with connections at Pallishree (Baruipur road) and Khalpar. However, only small private vehicles and medium vehicles would be allowed on the proposed bypass, and they have to obey speed curbs. “Police outposts will be set up on the stretch to implement the curbs,” a transport department official said. This apart, the state government has decided to take up the parallel construction of another 3km stretch of bypass off Diamond Harbour Road, going via Kriparampur road to connect the arterial road to Nibran Dutta Road junction via Bansta and Jajoyrampur. The construction of the second bypass will however be taken up at a later stage. These decisions were taken by the state transport department in the meeting attended by transport minister Dilip Mondal. Senior officials of public works department, the National Highways Authority of India, public health engineering department, panchayat department, land and land revenue department, WBSEDCL, district officials, Baruipur police administration and local elected representatives were also present. “The state government is concerned and is trying its best to find a solution. The proposals for the construction of two bypass roads were accepted,” Mondal said. However, as an immediate response to the snarls, the PWD has formed a team led by an executive engineer for preliminary work at the earliest, including a survey and detailed project reports for allocation of funds, sources in the state administration said. Traffic snarls at Amtala, particularly on a 2km stretch on Diamond Harbour Road, is a nightmare for commuters. Local residents attribute the problem to illegal constructions encroaching on the road and its pavement. “The road is a chicken’s neck in Amtala market area. The road needs to be widened, but it is a tough job, so we are emphasising on the diversion of traffic through a bypass,” an official of South 24-Parganas district administration said. No-objection certificates from the NH authorities will be obtained before starting work on the bypass, he added. District magistrate P. Ulaganathan said: “PWD authorities have been advised to do a survey within two weeks, after which further action for administrative and financial approvals for the project will be initiated.” “A report will be submitted to the district administration with details of the road alignment, the land, the utilities (on the land) and their need for shifting, the trees, the encroachment and all traffic details,” the district magistrate added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Flooded coast in South 24-Parganas faces fresh worry||The possibility of a squall moving from the Bay of Bengal into land at Sagar and its adjoining areas in South 24-Parganas on Tuesday morning has forced the state government to embark on high-level preparedness and issue a red alert of heavy to very heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of Bengal. In its forecast, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a yellow warning about the likelihood of very heavy to heavy rainfall (7-11cm) at places in South 24-Parganas, and East and West Midnapore on Tuesday. The forecast stated downpour with a squall. The IMD has also issued yellow warning for Calcutta and south Bengal districts like Howrah, Jhargram, Bankura and Hooghly. The wind speed is likely to be 40-50 kmph in coastal areas of South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore. The possibility of a squall and heavy rain has left the administration of East and West Midnapore worried as large tracts of land in these two districts remain inundated following the recent depression-triggered downpours. “Wind is always a threat for coastal pockets as it damages embankments but this time the rainfall has come as a major threat as vast stretches are already waterlogged,” said a senior government official. He added that the state government had already cancelled leaves of all government employees till October 5 in view of the forecast. “We have evacuated 35,973 persons from villages in coastal areas of our district. Teams of the NDRF and district disaster management infrastructure are ready,” said P. Ulaganathan, South 24-Parganas district magistrate. The district administration had set up a temporary disaster monitoring centre at Kakdwip with a team of senior district officials and disaster management services. “We had camped in Kakdwip to monitor depression on Tuesday. The main threat is that the area has faced several downpours… the soil is saturated with water. We are fearing inundation if the rainfall matches the forecast,” said Ritwick Hazra, officer-in-charge of disaster management in South 24-Parganas. The forecast of heavy rain is a major threat for East and West Midnapore districts as vast areas of these districts are submerged with many embankments of Keleghai and Kapaleswari breached following rainfall earlier this month. Saumen Mahapatra, state irrigation minister, said his department had been asked to stockpile construction materials at vulnerable points. At least 500 villages of Patashpur and Bhagawanpur in East Midnapore and Sabang and Pingla in West Midnapore are underwater and there is already a shortage of shelters. Over a lakh people are in relief centres and the administration is struggling to identify fresh centres in these districts. “We have alerted grassroots officials and opened control rooms in all 25 blocks of our district,” said Mrityunjay Haldar, district disaster management officer in East Midnapore. Tourists in Digha and Mandarmani in East Midnapore and Bakkhali and Sagar in South 24-Parganas have been evacuated. Hotel bookings in Digha, Mandarmani and other  coastal hubs have been cancelled for three days Tuesday. Bishnupada Roy, the block development officer of Ramnagar I under whose jurisdiction Digha falls. Guards have been deployed in the coastal areas to keep an eye on anyone trying to access beaches. Amid the preparations, the body of one of the two tourists who went missing near Talsari on Sunday was recovered on Monday. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Rava development council unveils alphabets, numbers in Koch script||Representatives of the Rava and Koch communities in north Bengal came up with alphabets and numbers written in Koch, their traditional language, for the first time on Monday. At an event hosted at the Rava Development Council office in Uttar Mendabari under Kalchini block of Alipurduar district, representatives of the council and the Koch Rava Development Council unveiled the alphabets and numbers in Koch script. “In all, around 12 lakh people in India speak Koch but so far, there was no alphabet or number in the language. That is why we thought of developing a Koch script so that it can also be  a medium of instruction in schools for children of communities that speak the language,” said Bijnath Rava, president of Rava Development Council. According to him, most of the 12 lakh people who speak Koch live in Bengal and the Northeast states. “We have been working on the script for two years. There are 10 numbers and 34 alphabets, which include 27 consonants and seven vowels. We will now take up the initiative to popularise the script so that people who speak Koch can also start reading and writing in this language,” said Rava. Day Chand Rangag, who has developed the script, said: “At primary schools, our children face a genuine problem as they study in Bengali which they don’t speak at home. Now they can study in their mother tongue as the script is ready. We are also planning to come up with books in Koch for primary classes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
28-09-2021||West Bengal||Assembly bypoll: Ban crowds on vote day in Bhowanipore, says BJP ||The BJP on Monday urged the Election Commission of India to impose Section 144 of CRPC, which prohibits assembly of four or more people, in the entire Bhowanipore Assembly segment during the bypoll on September 30 to ensure free and fair voting. Chief minister Mamata Banerjere is contesting the by-election and the BJP has fielded Priyanka Tibrewal. In their meeting with poll panel officials in Calcutta, BJP representatives led by Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta also sought monitoring of the entire poll process through webcasting and CCTVs and deployment of central forces at all booths. The three demands, BJP sources said, were rolled out as part of an attempt to create a narrative that the situation in Bhowanipore was not conducive to polls. The party has put forward these demands before the Chief Electoral Officer, West Bengal, after two of its MPs — Dilip Ghosh and Arjun Singh — were manhandled while they were campaigning in Bhowanipore on Monday. Although Dasgupta took care to explain the reasons behind placing the three demands, some BJP leaders, including Ghosh, had earlier sought complete suspension of the Bhowanipore bypoll, claiming there was no scope to hold free and fair voting at the moment. Sources in the BJP said the two different sets of demands from the saffron camp — barely 60 hours before the by-election — exposed the chinks in the party, which got a drubbing in the Assembly polls held in March-April. “Some senior state leaders met at the Hastings office on Monday evening and the decision to send a delegation to the poll panel was taken there,” a source said. This person added that while it had initially been decided that the party would demand “complete suspension” of polls, as voiced by Ghosh, the national leadership swatted the idea. “Delhi was absolutely against the decision. It would have been yet another face loss for us if we had demanded suspension of the by-poll three days ahead. This is why there was a change of mind, which evidently Dilipda was unaware of,” this source said. Monday was the last day of campaigning for the bypoll. The Midnapore MP was allegedly attacked by Trinamul supporters during his door-to-door campaign at Jadubabur Bazar in Bhowanipore. Ghosh had entered a vaccination camp organised by the CMC. When he emerged from the camp, some people started shouting “Go Back!” slogans at Ghosh. After a point, the brawl went out of hand and a scuffle followed and two BJP workers received serious injuries — one was bleeding from the head. The injured were first treated at the SSKM Hospital and later transferred to a private nursing home. Several local people said the situation became critical only after two of Ghosh’s guards had pulled out their guns to scare the crowd away. Earlier in the day, the BJP sources claimed, Barrackpore MP Singh was also heckled in front of Sitla Mandir in the same ward. The BJP alleged that the attackers were “goons of Shri Madan Mitra”. “In both the instances, there was a complete absence of Calcutta police again raises the issue of the partisan attitude of the DC South Division, Shri Akash Magharia,” BJP’s letter to the CEO alleged. The delegation demanded removal of Kamarhati MLA Mitra from the area and Magharia from all administrative duties till the polls. Sources said a BJP delegation would meet ECI officials in New Delhi on Tuesday and inform them about the incident. The Trinamul Congress denied all allegations of the BJP. The official twitter handle of the party criticised how “Ghosh’s security guard audaciously took out his gun, pointed it at the people and started threatening them”. State’s Minister Firhad Hakim said: “The common people are outraged by the nonsense spoken by BJP leaders and hence, they have protested. There is no question of stopping them.” The Election Commission had sought a report from the state government over the incident, sources in the poll panel said. The source added that a report had been received but refused to share details BJP leaders in Delhi Bengal BJP president and Blurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar, his predecessor and Midnapore MP Dilip Ghosh and the state unit’s general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty reached Delhi on Monday night. The trio will meet top leaders, including president J.P. Nadda and national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh. “We will be discussing issues related to Bengal and how to go about in the state in future,” Ghosh told journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
28-09-2021||North East||Bypolls to 5 Assam assembly seats to be held on October 30||By-election to five assembly constituencies of Assam will be conducted on October 30, the Election Commission of India said on Tuesday. Counting of votes will be undertaken on November 2 and the entire polling process will be completed by November 5, it said. With the announcement of the election dates, the model code of conduct in the districts where polling will be held would come into immediate effect. By-polls to Gossaigaon and Tamulpur have been necessitated due to the death of the sitting MLAs, while the incumbents of Bhapanipur, Mariani and Thowra resigned to join the ruling BJP. The last date for filing of nomination is October 8, with scrutiny of the papers to be done on October 11, and October 16 is the deadine for withdrawal of nomination, the EC said. In the House of 126 seats, the ruling BJP has 60 MLAs, which includes the seat held by Union Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who was on Monday elected to the Rajya Sabha. Its allies Asom Gana Parishad and United People's Party Liberal have nine and five MLAs each, respectively. The Congress has 27 legislators, AIUDF (15), Bodoland People's Front (3) and CPI(M) has one. There is one Independent MLA as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
28-09-2021||North East||I have high esteem for judiciary, says Biplab Kumar Deb||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Monday said he held the judiciary in the “highest esteem”. The Trinamul Congress had accused him of being a “disgrace to the nation” for mocking the judiciary at an event organised by the Tripura Civil Service Officers’ Association in Agartala on Saturday. In a statement posted on Facebook on Monday, Deb said his speech at the event was being “twisted” to “project disregard” to the judiciary and judicial institutions. “I firmly and unequivocally clarify that I hold all the judicial institutions in highest esteem and also am duty bound to uphold the majesty of the judiciary.  I have not told the officers or even remotely intended to convey any message to disregard courts or disrespect court orders as reported. My words have been published out of context,” the chief minister said. The trigger for Deb’s reaction was Trinamul national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s blistering attack against him on Sunday for exhorting officials in his speech not to be worried about contempt of court. Abhishek had tweeted: “@BjpBiplab is a DISGRACE to the entire nation! He shamelessly mocks Democracy, MOCKS the Hon’ble JUDICIARY and seemingly gets away with it! Will the SUPREME COURT take cognizance of his comments that reflect such grave disrespect?” Along with the tweet, the Trinamul leader had also posted a video of Deb in which he is purportedly referring to officials’ reluctance to take decisions citing contempt of court. State Trinamul leaders, including Subal Bhowmik,  went on the offensive flagging Deb’s unbecoming remarks. Trinamul is trying to emerge as an alternative to the BJP in the 2023 Assembly polls and have been assiduously campaigning since May to gain ground among voters. While the ruling BJP had responded within hours, accusing the Opposition Trinamul and the CPM of spreading falsehood after having failed to gain ground in Tripura, Deb’s response came on Monday. The BJP also said the clip was first posted by the CPM which was unseated by the ruling party in 2018. The video of the speech he gave purportedly shows him saying: “Nowadays, a section of officers are scared of contempt of court. They don't touch a file saying there will be trouble. Tell me how many people have gone to jail for contempt? I am there. I will go to jail before you. It is not that easy to go to jail. To go to jail you need the police.  Police are with the chief minister.” “Court can’t serve notice (without the police). The police will say we have not found him (those facing contempt). But officers will keep saying there will be contempt of court, as it was a tiger. I am the tiger. Power is in the hands of those who run the government...” Backing the chief minister, Sanjay Mishra, the officer on special duty to Deb, tweeted: “You must listen to the full speech before spreading your fake propaganda....” BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee told The Telegraph that the chief minister wanted to convey to the officials that they should not stop working or taking decision fearing contempt of court and that the government was there to serve the people and he was there to protect them if there is any trouble. “That is why the chief minister said he will go to jail before any of the officials,” Bhattacharjee said. The issue reached the high court on Monday after two advocates made a mention of Deb’s remark, citing as a contempt of court, before a division bench headed by Chief Justice Akil  Akil Kureshi and Justice S.G. Chattopadhya, “However, the honourable court was satisfied with the chief minister’s statement. After hearing our side, the bench decided not to take the matter forward,” advocate general S.S. Dey told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
28-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Brute uniform||The police superintendent of Darrang — he happens to be a sibling of the chief minister of Assam — has stated that the force exercised ‘restraint’ during a violent eviction drive that led to the death of two civilians in Dholpur, which is primarily populated by Bengali-speaking Muslims. The sordid ground reality belies his claim. Of the two casualties, one was a young boy who, reportedly, got caught in the violence; the other victim was fired upon by the police in ‘self-defence’ and, later, his body was stomped upon in a diabolical act by a photographer accompanying the policemen. Some sorry inferences can be drawn from the tragedy. First among which is the police’s willingness to violate standard operating procedure. Instead of overpowering and arresting the man, a gun was aimed at his chest and he was assaulted after he had fallen, both by the police and the photographer who has now been arrested. This wanton disregard for protocol can be attributed to poor standards of training in the force. But that is only a part of the problem. The beastly conduct of the cameraman signifies a singular moral blot that threatens citizens and State personnel alike. This pertains to a sense of real or imagined impunity to perpetrate violence on minorities — be they religious, caste or economic groups. The viciousness is the fruit of the sustained injection of a communal, immoral discourse into the body politic of the nation by the political and ideological proponents of Hindutva. The depravity of the police should not deflect public attention from another, equally grave, problem. The flare-up is a manifestation of an issue endemic to Assam — occupation of land. An interim report by the Brahma Committee appointed by the Sarbananda Sonowal government alleged that 63 lakh bighas of government land had been encroached upon, even though the veracity of the exact volume of territorial encroachment remains ambiguous. The encroachers need not be ‘migrants’ on every instance: indigenous communities have been known to occupy government land, especially in Tinsukia and Dibrugarh. The festering tension between settlers and indigenous communities has been fanned by divisive political rhetoric. Encroachment is a serious problem in Assam that has been magnified by larger socio-economic-historical conditions such as political upheavals, vagaries of the environment and displacement.  It requires patient, objective, inclusive examination and effective rehabilitation. Gunning down those being evicted, justly or otherwise, cannot be a solution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
28-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor:  American withdrawal from Afghanistan||Repeated folly Sir — Joe Biden had once criticized Donald Trump’s immigration policies saying, “it violates every notion of who we are.” His government has now deported hundreds of Haitians fleeing political turmoil and natural disaster. Biden may not wear his emotions on a red cap or send out midnight tweets that set the halls of diplomacy abuzz, but when it comes to foreign policy, he is not much different from his predecessor. American withdrawal from Afghanistan was proof of this. He is no more likely to ‘Make America Great Again’ than Trump was. Rishi Anand,New Delhi Same pitch Sir — In a welcome move, the Marylebone Cricket Club — the sole authority vested with the power to draw up the Codes of Laws that govern cricket since 1787 — has adopted the gender-neutral terms ‘batter’ and ‘batters’ in place of ‘batsman’ and ‘batsmen’ (“Howzat for equality”, Sep 25). This change in nomenclature shows that the cricket fraternity is finally acknowledging the need for gender equality within the sport. However, as the editorial rightly points out, the rechristening means little if women’s cricket continues to suffer from a lack of funds as well as opportunities. The annual retainership of female cricketers is still a fraction of their male counterparts. For a long time, formal communication in all fields assumed the subject to be male. While feminists have opposed androcentrism in language for a long time, it is only recently that institutions are taking note of this criticism. While a change in terminology may not seem significant in practical terms, it will nonetheless go a long way in recognizing the presence and contribution of women in the public domain. Hopefully, other institutions will follow suit. Ashok Kumar Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — At a time when several institutions are adopting greater measures to empower women, the decision of the MCC to use the term batter instead of batsman in all official communication does not come as a surprise. Men’s cricket has always dominated the public imagination. But the last few years have seen a surge in interest for women’s cricket. This decision by the MCC is a step in the right direction. But there is a long way to go before women cricketers receive the same opportunities and benefits as the men’s team. M. Pradyu,Kannur Open dialogue Sir — Every year, September 26 is observed as World Contraception Day. Under international human rights law, states must provide sexual and reproductive health services, including modern forms of contraception and education on family planning, to citizens. Yet, unplanned pregnancies, especially among teenagers, continue to be a major cause for concern. It is absolutely essential that schools as well as parents have a transparent and comprehensive discussion about sex and contraception with their wards. Yashi Bairagi,Ujjain Sir — Sex continues to be a major taboo in India. Most people lack basic knowledge about safe sex. Schools are guilty of teaching children about sex using outdated analogies. Proper sex education and the use of contraception will not only prevent unplanned pregnancies, but will also keep sexually transmitted diseases at bay. Mira Solanki,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
28-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Selling a mirage||The markers of assessing Indian democracy are, evidently, undergoing a transformation. Speaking at the United Nations General Assembly, the prime minister — typically — cited his own example as proof of the robust nature of India’s democracy. But Narendra Modi is not the only politician from an ordinary background to have gone on to occupy the prime ministerial chair. From Lal Bahadur Shastri to H.D. Deve Gowda, Indian democracy has elevated many a leader with humble roots to the highest echelons of power. Neither is Mr Modi going to be the last of such inspiring examples as long as democracy retains its original, heartening, Indian characteristics. But will it? That is the principal question. There is mounting concern, in India and around the world, that the democracy project in the country is experiencing unprecedented strain under Mr Modi’s watch. The evidence is indisputable. There has been an unambiguous crackdown on dissenters; institutions that are tasked with protecting the democratic edifice are allegedly being hollowed out from within; then, there is the predation by an overarching Centre on the ambit of the states, weakening India’s federal set-up; civil liberty as well as pluralism — the cherished dream of the founding fathers of the nation — is being threatened. This deterioration has caught the attention of the international fraternity. India, with Mr Modi’s government at the helm, has performed poorly on credible indexes on press freedom and religious tolerance while, in its annual report, the V-Dem Institute described India as an ‘electoral autocracy’. What must be mentioned is that both the president and the vice-president of the United States of America reiterated the importance of democracies upholding the ethos of democracy and the assurances that come with it. Could it be that the two leaders were making an oblique reference to India’s performance under Mr Modi in this context? When it came to his turn to speak, the prime minister, expectedly, waxed eloquent on India’s democratic traits, warning — many Indians would find this ironic — against the threats posed by “regressive thinking” and an ‘anti-scientific temper’. It is clear that the prime minister’s homilies on the state of Indian democracy are being met with scepticism. The possibility that Mr Modi may no longer be the face of a vibrant, functional, durable democratic polity is gaining momentum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
28-09-2021||Opinion||Cash is still king||Digital payments seem to be ubiquitous in India now, from local kirana stores to cabs. Every place appears to have one of those small stands with QR codes. Now this might lead you to believe that India is turbo-charging its way towards becoming a digital-first economy, and you would be right. However, in spite of the progress that India has made on the digital front in the past decade, cash is still king here and, according to a McKinsey report, accounts for 89 per cent of all transactions. Systemic challenges like extreme dependence on cash, low access to finances, a lack of a digital identity for the masses and the absence of a robust inter-operable financial network had made the initial transition a Herculean task. But it was the ‘JAM Trinity’ — an abbreviation for Jan Dhan Yojana, Aadhaar and mobile number — that provided a solid foundational framework to nudge the digital transformation. The launch of the unified payments interface and the subsequent demonetization of 2016 combined with the rise in the penetration of both the smartphone and the internet further amplified the adoption of digital payments. By the end of 2020-21, according to a report by the National Payments Corporation of India, the total number of digital transactions stood at over 37 billion. In spite of the tangible rise in digital payments, the use of cash has remained high. The currency in circulation which helps understand the use of cash in a country is at a high of 13 per cent compared to the post-demonetization low of 8.7 per cent. Although this increase may have partly been on account of the lockdown, with the masses resorting to holding cash to meet uncertain medical needs, it still underlines the fact that digital payments are not yet seen as a perfect substitute for cash. Further, much of the user base making digital transactions is still concentrated in urban areas. A typical user of these services is literate, comfortable with English and has access to a smartphone with a stable internet connection. Unfortunately, the majority of India’s demographic does not fit this bill. Moreover, the dominance of cash is fuelled by shortcomings of digital payments on the supply side, like complex dispute redressal procedures, transaction failures, a paucity of comprehensive instructional and awareness programmes and an overall lack of accessibility in rural areas. These factors, coupled with socio-economic hindrances, have contributed significantly to the problem. While government schemes like the direct benefit transfer scheme have encouraged people to access their bank accounts and decreased leakages, they have failed to reduce the conversion to cash, with the majority of the DBT beneficiaries choosing to withdraw the entire credited amount in cash. Widespread instances of fraud and a lack of trust, especially among the demographic with lower literacy, have amplified the aversion to digital payments. Poor unit economics and operational challenges have deterred banks and other financial institutions from expanding to remote parts of the country. This unviability is also evident in digital transaction services like the Aadhaar Enabled Payment System; several banks have limited the number of AePS transactions to one per day to reduce cost to service providers. Other supply-side complications — server downtime, mismatched biometrics — have increased the average transaction failure rates and discouraged usage. India is heading towards a digital revolution, but the rural and semi-urban populations, especially those people at the bottom of the pyramid, still remain largely untouched by the effects and benefits of a digital transformation. The next tranche of digital products needs to be more accessible and inclusive. Innovations like voice-based payment systems and the newly launched e-Rupi are a step in the right direction. However, a lot is still left to be done to transform India into a digital-first economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
28-09-2021||Opinion||A shift in focus in NREGA||The Centre is running the rural employment guarantee programme as if it is a compulsion without recognizing its enormous potential to deal with the ongoing rural economic crisis. Numerous civil society organizations and social activists have urged the Centre to run it in accordance with the true spirit of the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and not merely as a government scheme. Yet, successive Central governments have approached the NREGA half-heartedly, diluting the possibility of rural employment generation. The NREGA was envisaged to ensure employment generation in rural India and to make sure that the rural workforce contributes towards building assets and infrastructure to boost livelihood opportunities. However, since its inception, the discourse on the NREGA has shifted to the debate on asset creation versus employment generation. An asset-centric focus helps the bureaucracy. The government can also shrug off its responsibility towards protecting workers’ rights.  Consequently, the idea of public investment to create rural job opportunities has taken a blow, limiting the NREGA to a scheme-based, supply-driven programme. The NREGA machinery must act efficiently if assets are to be created and sustained in the long term. There has hardly been any value addition in the last 15 years in terms of strengthening the programme to offer rural citizens adequate employment and a dignified income. The NREGA’s mandate is to plan and implement schemes in a decentralized manner, honouring traditional knowledge and participatory decision-making. However, it has been centralized and bureaucratic control over the programme has demolished the spirit of a public, demand-based, employment-guarantee programme. Workers are routinely denied work and unemployment allowances are seldom paid to eligible candidates. This has led to the genesis of a contractor-led system, defeating the very idea of guaranteed employment against demand. The need for and benefits of the programme are unquestionable. But poor implementation and policy inertia have led to stagnation. The government has projected the NREGA to be an asset-creation machine. The focus on the technicalities of asset creation by non-profit entities has also deflected attention from workers’ rights even though workers are not paid on time, work applications do not receive timely allocation and worksite facilities are made unavailable. The ‘convergence’ efforts by the government have also weakened the programme’s foundation: the NREGA has been integrated with a number of other schemes, reducing the scope of additional income. Convergence works best when it aims to create different assets for a specific set of households. Inter-departmental convergence in the NREGA’s case results in the violation of the Act since most other schemes run on a contractor-based delivery mode. The target-based focus on asset-generation is leading to further damage. Nowadays, even budget allocations are made based on the number of targeted assets in different states. The irony is that the quality of assets has not improved in the absence of robust monitoring and grievance redress strategies. In fact, the asset-centric focus is a cleverly crafted strategy by the bureaucracy to ignore workers’ rights and turn the NREGA into a target-driven programme that is easy to control without being accountable for the gross violations of the law. The key issues — inadequate allocations, centralized payments, long delays in wage payments and non-payment of wages — have been brushed aside even though they have damaged the NREGA. The NREGA wage rates are ridiculously low. In most states, they are even lower than those of the agricultural minimum wage. The pandemic has underscored the importance of the NREGA in generating employment in rural India. Instead of an asset-centric approach, the Centre should encourage proper budget allocations, dignified wages and their timely payment, decentralized planning as well as social audits to promote transparency and accountability of the local administration. Debmalya Nandy is associated with NREGA Sangharsh Morcha and has worked with the tribal population of Jharkhand and Odisha for a long time||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
28-09-2021||Opinion||Sticky wicket||This month has turned out to be a tough one for Pakistan cricket. On September 17, the New Zealand cricket team called off their tour of Pakistan just minutes before the first one-day international was to start, citing security concerns. New Zealand was to play Pakistan this month after a period of 18 years. The tour comprised three ODIs in Rawalpindi and a five-match T20 series in Lahore. “[F]ollowing an escalation in the New Zealand Government threat levels for Pakistan, and advice from NZC security advisors on the ground, it has been decided the Blackcaps will not continue with the tour,” read New Zealand’s statement. The prime minister of Pakistan, Imran Khan, talked to his New Zealand counterpart, but could not convince Jacinda Ardern. Following this abrupt cancellation owing to a security threat that was not shared with the Pakistan government or the Pakistan Cricket Board, the England tour was also cancelled a few days later. The England and Wales Cricket Board said that the “mental and physical well-being” of its players and support staff remains a highest priority and thus the tour could not take place. England’s men and women’s teams were scheduled to play in Pakistan next month. As Najam Sethi wrote in his Friday Times editorial last week, “If NZ had shared intel in time, or postponed the matches by a few days pending further investigations, we might have been able to prove the authenticity or otherwise of the threat, enabling us to continue the matches or cancel them without acrimony. The decision of the ECB is even more infuriating. The excuse they have made makes a mockery of the rules and rigours of the sporting game. It betrays a lack of decent reciprocity and overdose of arrogant unaccountability. Both decisions have naturally evoked bitter memories of colonialism and racism among Pakistanis and triggered conspiracy theories involving Big Three injustice and Indian hegemony at the ICC.” It has not been easy to bring back cricket to Pakistan after the 2009 attack on the Sri Lankan cricket team. Pakistan had to play at neutral venues because of teams refusing to come to Pakistan. We launched the Pakistan Super League after a lot of hard work by Najam Sethi and the PCB. The PSL is now one of the best cricketing leagues out there. It took many years and a lot of effort by the PCB and the Pakistan government to bring back cricket. In May 2015, Zimbabwe toured Pakistan. In March 2017, the PSL final was played in Pakistan. In September 2017, a World-XI played in Pakistan. Then, more PSL matches were held in Pakistan, West Indies came to Pakistan and so on and so forth. Finally, New Zealand and England agreed to come to Pakistan this year. But they both cancelled. And what a disappointment it has been. Australia and West Indies are scheduled to play here soon. We hope that both teams will not follow New Zealand and England’s unceremonious decisions. Pakistan has always made sure that the security provided to visiting cricket teams is top-notch and ‘presidential level’ of safety protocols are followed. Cities were practically shut down in order to ensure the safety of visiting teams and players. The people of Pakistan did not complain, even though it has not been easy to shut down businesses and face mobility problems. But our people understood that this was necessary in order to bring back cricket to Pakistan. We are very emotionally invested in cricket — it unites us even in the most polarizing of times. It makes us feel happy or sad (depending on the results), but at the end of the day, we come together and we celebrate the game of cricket. Now this has once again been taken away from us. The PCB will take the matter to the International Cricket Council but this will take time. All our efforts of the past few years were undone by a threat that may not even have been credible, according to the government. Pakistan toured England and New Zealand under the strictest Covid-19 protocols. It was not easy for our players either but we still went ahead and did it. Our players have been through the toughest of times in the past decade after the attack on Sri Lanka and the spot-fixing scandal that rocked our team in 2010. Our players have stayed away from their homeland and families for months on end. They have faced so much at a personal level apart from the stress of the game. It must be said that Pakistani players have played in the toughest of circumstances and still managed to bring a smile to our faces. It has not been easy for the Pakistani cricket fans either. To not be able to cheer for their team at international matches in their own country. It was very tough. We felt helpless, but the past few years made things better. Now we don’t know what the future holds. We just hope that these incidents do not shape the future and do not have an impact on the morale of our cricket team. As a cricket fan, I am disappointed at what transpired this month. But I also know that we have faced such pressures in the past and that this, too, shall pass. As a cricket-loving nation, it makes us angry, frustrated and disappointed to see our cricket team go through this but we have full faith in them to move forward and prove to the world that they will overcome this too. Prime Minister Imran Khan recently met our men’s cricket team and told them to inculcate team spirit. Coming from a prime minister who is one of the cricketing greats of all times, it surely means a lot for our boys. And for our cricket. Mehmal Sarfraz is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Jaguar officer killed in encounter||Deputy commandant of Jharkhand Jaguar (JJ) Rajesh Kumar succumbed to bullet injuries he suffered during an encounter with an extremist group in Nawagarh forests of Latehar district on Tuesday afternoon. He was 41. One of the rebels, affiliated to a CPI(Maoist) splinter group, Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad (JJMP), may have also died, police sources said. Many rebels were injured, he added. JJ is an assault force of the state police. According to sources, the encounter occurred around 3.30pm. Kumar, who was grievously hurt, was airlifted to Ranchi’s Medica hospital for treatment in the evening. He succumbed to injuries later. ADG operations of the state police Sanjay Anand Lathkar confirmed the news about the encounter. Deputy commandant Kumar was from Munger in Bihar and belonged to the BSF's 84 battalion. He was on deployment in Jharkhand Jaguar, also known as special task force (STF), since 2018. “Latehar police were tipped off about a large number of JJMP rebels assembling in Nawagarh jungles and that they were planning something big. Based on the information, an operation was launched jointly by JJ, district police and CRPF. The rebels open fired, thereby forcing security forces to launch a counter offensive in which a deputy commandant was injured (he succumbed to injuries later in hospital). But our boys also managed to kill one naxal,” said an official of JJ, who was waiting for the chopper carrying Kumar at the mega sports complex in Hotwar. He added that the security forces recovered several arms and ammunition including an AK-47. The incident occurred two days after Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting of all naxal-affected states to take stock of the situation. At the meeting, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren mentioned that extremism was on the wane, limited to certain pockets of the state. He also demanded more funds from the central government for left wing extremist areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 4 killed in 2 separate accidents in Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur: Four persons, including a woman, were killed in two separate road accidents in Jamshedpur, the police said on Tuesday morning. Two people were killed in one of the accidents that took place at Bhadohi village along Bodam-Tata road, while the othe two lost their lives in another mishap that took place near Haludbani CRPF Camp along the Patamda-Tata road. Those killed in the two mishaps have been identified as Lagan Majhi (60), Minti Murmu (40), Niranjan Singh (20) and Satyendra Singh (24). While talking to The Telegraph Online, Shankar Lakra, OC, Bodam police station said, “About 14 labourers, including six women were in the van which was on its way to Jamshedpur. The driver lost control of the speeding vehicle, which made it overturn. Two labourers, including a woman, were killed on the spot, while eight others were injured.” According to him the injured were rushed to the MGM medical college hospital where all the eight persons, including three women have been admitted. The Bodam OC said, “First accident took place at 10:30 am, while the second took place at about 11.30 am, in which a 20-year-old youth, Niranjan Singh, was killed on the spot. The pillion-rider identified as Satyendra Singh was seriously injured.” Kumud Jenamani Hazaribagh: Lightening claimed lives of two children in Gajedih village which falls under Satgawan block in Koderma on Tuesday evening. Incident took place at around 4PM when the downpour began. Fourteen-year-old Dolly Kumari, her brother Satyajeet Kumar (8) and their cousin Ajeet Kumar (14) were on their terrace enjoying the rain, when a thunderbolt struck them. Villagers rushed the trio to Satgawan community health centre, where Dolly and Ajeet were declared brought dead. Satyajeet, who was critical, has been referred to Koderma sadar hospital by the doctors. Vishvendu Jaipuria Dhanbad: Passes for auto rickshaw operation in six different routes earmarked by the district administration were distributed to around 500 drivers today at the District Transport office. The beneficiaries were also allotted unique codes for their respective routes in order to help them get identified easily by the passengers as well as the law enforcement agencies. The pass distribution however, is likely to continue for the next two or three days to complete the allotment to all 1500 auto rickshaw drivers. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Om Prakash Yadav said, “We will complete the distribution of passes as well as codes to 1500 auto rickshaws selected for plying on six routes within two-three days after which the regulations will be strictly followed although the entry of auto rickshaw not selected for the six identified routes has been banned since September 20 itself when the new regulations into the force” “We are at the same time in process of allotment of stoppages for auto rickshaw and putting up signage, distance charts and speed limit boards are also being carried out by respective departments,” said Yadav. To improve the infrastructure a massive load testing cum repair work of the Bank More Flyover, which serves as the lifeline of the district connecting Dhanbad town suburban areas will also be carried out from October 1 to October 3 for which ban on movement of vehicles on flyover will be imposed from 12 am to September 30 to 7 am to October 4. Some residents of the district however expressed concern over parking of a large number of trucks near the FCI godown of Barmasia on Barmasia road. Yadav, however maintained that the diversion would be done for only three days to carry out repair of the flyover for which all efforts would be taken to regulate traffic in proper manner. Praduman Choubey Chatra: Chief Minister Hemant Soren will be inaugurating Chorkari power sub grid on October 1 instead of September 29, as it was earlier announced. According to sources, Hemant will first inaugurate the power grid and transmission line and will then address the people there. Deputy commissioner Anjali Yadav and superintendent of police Rakesh Ranjan have been asked to take care of the preparations. The officials not only visited the venue but also inspected the temporary helipad. They have passed instructions to have the road from the helipad to the venue to be repaired in order to ensure a smooth passage for the CM’s cavalcade. They have also taken care of the dais and sitting arrangements for VIPs as well as other guests, including the general public. Separate entrance and exit gates for VIPs and public have been asked to be made. Yadav has asked the officials to ensure drinking water facility at the venue and maintenance of Covid protocol as well. Labour minister and Chatra MLA Satyanand Bhokta will also remain present in this inaugural function, along with Chatra MP Sunil Kumar Singh and Simaria MLA among other invitees. Vishvendu Jaipuria||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Kantatoli flyover plan reworked to make it longer ||The Hemant Soren government scrapped Ranchi’s Kantatoli flyover project initiated by the former BJP government led by Raghubar Das on Tuesday, only to agree on a new plan to build a much longer, and therefore more expensive, flyover. This decision was taken at meeting of the state cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of chief minister Hemant Soren. The meting also cleared a number of proposals concerning mining, industries, transport and  urban development. Cabinet coordination secretary Vandana Dadel said, “The Kantatoli flyover project has been terminated. Now, after amendments in its structural design, a longer flyover has been proposed via Kantatoli between Bahu Bazar and Kokar. The cabinet has agreed to spend Rs 224.94 crore for this project, setting a two-year timeframe for its completion.” The foundation stone for the Rs 192 crore Kantatoli flyover, measuring about 1250 meters, was originally laid by President Ram Nath Kovind in November 2017 and was to be completed by 2020. However, the project suffered myriad hurdles right from  start because issues with land acquisition and  faulty design. The incumbent government, after coming to power in 2019, found the design of flyover to be inadequate to address traffic issues at the key entry point to the city and began reworking it. “The size of the flyover now will be about 2.4km,” said Dadel. Plans for promotion of mining and industries were also taken up. The cabinet agreed to set up the state’s own mining and exploration corporation, 100 per cent subsidy on electricity duty for captive power plants for a period of five years, appointment of Ernst & Young for the upcoming Dubai International Expo 2020 to showcase the state’s investment potential. Delayed because of the pandemic, the expo is now scheduled to take place from September 30 to October 6. To tackle issues of malnutrition, the cabinet also passed a proposal to set up a programme management unit (PMU) at the state level to roll out distribution of fortified rice on a pilot basis to PDS beneficiaries in a  phased manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||After court rap, Jharkhand to launch mobile forensic laboratories ||Jharkhand is set to launch at least 25 mobile forensic laboratories in a bid to ensure speedy investigation of crimes following a high court observation that the Forensic Science Lab (FSL) in Ranchi was in “primitive” stage and forensic facilities in the state were in dire need of an upgrade, sources in the Home, Prison and Disaster Management Department of the state said on Tuesday. The mobile forensic labs, equipped with the latest technology and facilities, will be made operational in all 24 districts and report to the Forensic Science Laboratory in Ranchi, officials said. State Home Secretary Rajeev Arun Ekka admitted that his department was planning to upgrade the infrastructure for forensic science in the state, but refused to divulge details. According to a highly-placed source in the home department, the mobile forensic labs will be set up in SUVs and will have facilities like ballistic kit, blood sample kit and photography kit. These vehicles will go to a crime spot and collect evidence for further study, the source added. Equipping the mobile forensic laboratories with the latest gadgets and technology will not only speed up investigation in crime cases but also increase the efficiency of the results drawn through the various forensic tests conducted in these vans. While hearing a case related to the death of Dhanbad district court judge Uttam Anand, who was hit by an autorickshaw as a part of an alleged conspiracy on July 28, the Jharkhand High Court observed that the Forensic Science Lab in Ranchi did not have equipment to conduct urine and blood tests of the accused. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the case, informed the court that the sample of urine and blood collected from the accused had to be sent to New Delhi for forensic studies. Following this, the court had directed the Home Secretary and FSL director to be present in the next hearing of the case via online medium. “We have considered it very seriously that when the urine and blood testing facility of the accused is not available in the F.S.L., Ranchi, the capital of the State of Jharkhand, then for what purpose this department is functioning. Even after more than twenty years from the date of its creation, the State F.S.L. Ranchi appears to be still in primitive stage,” the court order of August 25 read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||A fresh low-pressure system to trigger heavy rain in Jharkhand, Bengal||After cyclone Gulab, a fresh low-pressure system originating from the Bay of Bengal is expected to result in heavy to very heavy rain over isolated areas in Jharkhand and neighbouring Bengal during the next 24 hours. IMD officials said on Tuesday afternoon that under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over northeast and ast-central Bay of Bengal, a low-pressure area had formed over northwest Bay of Bengal and coastal areas of West Bengal. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre issued a forecast of light to moderate rain or thundershowers at several places over Jharkhand on Tuesday. It also issued an alert of heavy rain at isolated places over southern and north-eastern parts of the state. Heavy to very heavy rain is expected at isolated places over southern and central parts of Jharkhand on Wednesday. This trend is likely to continue on Thursday when central and western parts of the state are expected to experience heavy rain. Officials at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said in Bengal there were possibilities of heavy rain in East and West Midnapore, South 24 Parganas,  Bankura , Calcutta, Jhargram and East Bardhman till 8.30 am on Wednesday. They forecast heavy rain due to the low-pressure area _ it is expected to intensify further on Wednesday _ in West Midnapore, Jhargram, Bankura, Purulia, Calcutta, Howrah, Hooghly, North and South 24 Parganas. No alerts have been issued for South Bengal on Thursday. However, some parts of western Bengal are expected to witness heavy showers on Thursday too, weathermen at IMD's Calcutta office warned. The IMD forecast also suggested rainfall in Bihar, Odisha and neighbouring Chhattisgarh for the next 48 hours or so. Notably, the monsoon has gathered pace in September due to a couple of back-to-back cyclonic circulations and low-pressure systems. IMD officials in New Delhi said a cyclonic circulation over northeast Arabian sea was also extending upto 1.5 km above mean sea level. Satellite pictures indicated an east-west trough which on Tuesday was running from north Konkan to a cyclonic circulation over Telangana and adjoining areas of Marathawada and Vidarbha extending up to 5.8 km above the mean sea level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||At inauguration of Deoghar airport road, blame game||The inauguration of several infrastructure upgrades for the Santhal Pargana region by way of new trains and an approach road for the newly developed Deoghar airport on Tuesday led to political mudslinging between the BJP and the Congress. While inaugurating the Narendra Modi Airport Approach Road, BJP leader and former chief minister Babulal Marandi called it a gift from the party to the residents of Santhal Pargana. He claimed the road had come up without any support from the state government. “The state government is not at all concerned about development of Jharkhand. Those who are at the helm of affairs believe in the development of their own family," he said in the presence state BJP chief Deepak Prakash, Godda MP Nishikant Dubey and Deoghar MLA Narayan Das. “The Deoghar Airport, despite being ready since long, is awaiting launch of flight services due to lack of an approach road. It is because of the utter apathy of the state government that it could not acquire land for the road. At the behest of BJP workers led by Dubey, local residents donated funds for completing the road," said Marandi. He also blamed the Congress, saying that despite ruling the country for more than 60 years it didn’t pay any heed to developing roads   due to which majority of the villages remained unconnected. He gave credit to the Centre and local MP Dubey for introducing new trains that would now ensure Santhal Pargana remained connected to the rest of the country. These new trains would connect the region to Pune, Ahmedabad, Goa and Ranchi. Later, Marandi and Prakash boarded the Jasidih Vasco Da-Gama train which was flagged off on Tuesday from Deoghar at 1.15 pm. The train was scheduled to reach Ranchi at 8.55 pm. On Monday, Jamtara Congress MLA Irfan Ansari blamed the Godda MP for apparently insisting that the new Godda-Ranchi train go via Bhagalpur which was a detour. "As Dubey belongs to Bhagalpur, he is favouring Bhagalpur by ignoring Godda residents. We won't allow the train to be flagged off on its inaugural journey on Wednesday," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand girls in national squad for friendlies in UAE and Bahrain||Two women footballers from Jharkhand have found spots in the 23-member Indian squad which will play friendly matches in the UAE and Bahrain. Gumla girls Sumati Kumari and Astam Oraon are part of a preparatory camp for the AFC Women's Asian Cup to be held in India from January 20 to February 6 next year. The training is being held at the Flatlet ground in Jamshedpur. Both Sumati and Ashtami are making steady progress and have impressed chief coach Thomas Dennerby. The duo have come a long way, after registering impressive runs in the India under-17 team which led to them being called up to the senior camp. The hail from poor families. Parents of Sumati and Astam are daily wagers. Seventeen-year-old forward Sumati had the Indian women’s football world at her feet when she put the ball in the net an incredible 17 times in five games during the Junior Girls’ National Football Championship 2019-20. She has earlier worked with Dennerby at the under-17 level. Defender Astam (16) has also shown a lot of promise and makes a strong presence in the backline. The national team will travel to the UAE for two friendly matches against the United Arab Emirates on October 2 and the Tunisia national team two days later. The squad will then head to Bahrain, where they will play two friendlies against the country's national team on October 10 and the Chinese Taipei national team on October 13. "Friendly matches will help us to gauge how far the girls have progressed during the training camp. The squad will be pitted against some tough opponents," Dennerby said. The team will travel to New Delhi on September 29, from where they will travel to the UAE. Squad: Aditi Chauhan, Maibam Linthoingambi Devi, Shreya Hooda (Goalkeepers), Dalima Chhibber, Sweety Devi, Ritu Rani, Ashalata Devi, Ranjana Chanu, Michel Castanha, Manisa Panna, Astam Oraon (defenders), Sangita Basfore, Indumathi Kathiresan, Sanju, Martina Thokchom (midfielders), Dangmei Grace, Anju Tamang, Sandhiya Ranganathan, Soumya Guguloth, Manisha Kalyan, Sumati Kumari and Pyari Xaxa, Renu (forwards).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Three workers dead in accident at ESL Steel Plant in Bokaro||Three labourers died in a major accident that took place on Monday evening in Vedanta, ESL Steel Limited (ESL) located in Chandankyari block of the district. Confirming the incident, DC Bokaro Kuldeep Choudhary said, "On Tuesday, a team of disaster management would go inside the Vedanta ESL steel plant to investigate the incident." According to Chandankyari MLA, Amar Bauri, the incident took place in Blast Furnace 2 of ESL Steel Plant. Three workers were doing elevator maintenance work when the mishap took place. "As told by the workers, this incident happened due to safety lapses. We demand a high-level inquiry from the district administration on this." said the MLA. It is being said that the names of the labourers who died in the incident are Mohammad Osama, Mohammad Akram and Mohammad Sultan. These people are residents of Ranchi. Shilpi Shukla, Head of Corporate Communication, ESL Steel Limited said, "3 employees of Thaisenkrup Elevator (Lift) Company had come to work in our plant. They died this evening in a tragic accident that happened while they were working on a lift. We extend our deepest sympathies to the families of the deceased workers. We will cooperate with the family members of the workers in every way possible and this matter is being investigated with complete impartiality. Till the truth is not fully revealed, we request everyone to cooperate with us and pray for the peace of the departed souls". It is mentioned that ESL is a 1.5 MTPA capacity steel plant of Vedanta Group situated in Siyaljori village of Chandankyari. ESL was acquired by the Vedanta Group through the bankruptcy resolution process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Active cases down, 1.80 lakh get jabs in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand vaccinated nearly 1.80 lakh residents against Covid-19 on Monday, while the active caseload  dropped to 79 as Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the state, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine to as many as 1,14,058 residents, taking the total count of such residents who have received at least one dose of the vaccine to above 1.34 crore, which is more than 50 per cent of the total vaccine beneficiaries in the state. The second jab was administered to at least 63,858 beneficiaries. More than 23,000 residents were vaccinated in Ranchi, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, while almost 20,000 beneficiaries got vaccinated in East Singhbhum. Dhanbad administered vaccines against Covid-19 to 18,000-odd beneficiaries. At least five Covid recoveries against four fresh cases of coronavirus infection brought the active caseload of Covid-19 down in the state, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. Ranchi reported two of the four Covid cases, while Bokaro and Khunti reported one case each. The remaining 20 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection on Monday. Jharkhand on Monday tested swab samples of as many as 41,796 residents and 0.01 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. As per NHM data, the state has so far reported 5,133 Covid casualties but no fresh fatalities were reported in the past fortnight, indicating that the virus was gradually losing its strength in Jharkhand, health officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand tribes council to memo President on Sarna code ||Chief minister Hemant Soren chaired the second meeting of the Tribes Advisory Council (TAC) on Monday and resolved to send a formal proposal to President Ramnath Kovind for inclusion of a Sarna code column in the forthcoming national population census. During the meeting, which lasted for around five hours, the council decided to set up a five-member sub-committee to probe dubious land deals of tribals and the alleged land grab of Adivasi land. The idea is to take corrective steps, grant recognition to all such places where Adivasis have been worshipping since ages. Sharing details about the meeting at a news meet on Monday night, council vice chairman Champai Soren said, “The first and foremost important resolve of TAC is to send a proposal to the President through the governor to include Sarna code in the upcoming census. If required, TAC members will also visit Delhi in person to press for the demand.” Last year, the state government had sent a similar proposal to the Union home ministry after passing a resolution on it in the state assembly. “GOI must include a separate column for Sarna followers in the census. Followers are Sarnas have distinct religious practices and need distinct identity of their own,” said Soren. On other decisions he said, “To probe  issues of land grab of tribals, a committee has been formed. The members include MLAs  Stephen Marandi, Chamra Linda, Dipak Birua, Bandhu Tirkey and Bhushan Tirkey. This apart, tribals often face issues in obtaining caste certificates.  It was decided that the tate personnel department will come up with a notification that once a caste certificate is made it should be valid for life.” He added, “We also agreed to work towards giving jobs to dependents of those who fought for the creation of Jharkhand.This apart, TAC has agreed to work out ways to ensure industrial development helps in the overall upliftment of tribals.” Opposition BJP boycotted the meet for the second time to register its protest against new TAC Rules-2021 enacted in May this year. The new rules empower the chief minister to nominate members to the council against the earlier system of the Governor doing so. BJP has  dubbed the amendments " unconstitutional".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
28-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to host national junior women’s hockey championship||Jharkhand will host national junior women’s hockey championship next month. “The 11th edition of national junior women’s hockey championship will be held at Astroturf Stadium in Simdega during October 20-30,” Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh said, adding preparations for the same were going on. “I along with our vice-president Dharmendra Singh met chief minister Hemant Soren last week to request him to inaugurate the national event and he gave his consent for the same,” Singh further informed. Hockey India officials will also be present during the event, he added. The event will witness participation of 31 teams representing different states and Union territories of the country, he said, adding the national junior women’s team would also be selected during the Simdega event. “Hockey India selectors will be present during the national meet for judging the performances of the players and select the national team from among them,” Singh said. “Preparations are going on in full swing for the event and we all are trying our best not only for making the stay comfortable for the guests and the players but also to provide an opportunity to the hockey-loving people of the area to view the matches smoothly,” Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi said when asked about the preparations. “Yes, the chief minister is also expected to lay the foundation stone of another astroturf stadium here that was proposed earlier,” he said when told that Hockey Jharkhand president Singh had already announced it. “Simdega, as you know, is the nursery of hockey in the state and another astroturf stadium would help promote local talents,” Konbegi argued in favour of the proposed stadium. If so, many players from the villages of Simdega can represent the state and eventually the country at international events, including the world cup and Olympics, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
