29-09-2021||Business||India's external debt rises 2.1% to $570 billion||India's external debt rose modestly by 2.1 per cent year-on-year to $570 billion as of March-end 2021, notwithstanding the Covid-19 pandemic, according to the finance ministry. External debt to GDP ratio rose marginally to 21.1 per cent from 20.6 per cent as at end-March 2020. Reserves to external debt ratio, however, increased to 101.2 per cent from 85.6 per cent during the same period, thereby consolidating the country's position as a net creditor to the world, as per the status report on India's external debt released by the ministry. The sovereign debt at $107.2 billion rose higher by 6.2 per cent over its level a year ago, mainly because of an increase in external assistance more than compensating the fall in FPI investment in government securities (G-Secs), it said. The augmented external assistance reflected larger disbursement of Covid-19 loans from multilateral agencies during 2020-21. The non-sovereign debt, on the other hand, grew 1.2 per cent on a yearly basis to $462.8 billion. Commercial borrowings, NRI deposits and short-term trade credit account for 95 per cent of the non-sovereign debt. While NRI deposits grew 8.7 per cent to $141.9 billion, commercial borrowings at $197.0 billion and short-term trade credit at $97.3 billion shrank by 0.4 per cent and 4.1 per cent, respectively. At March-end 2021, long-term debt (with original maturity of above one year) was at $468.9 billion, recording an increase of $17.3 billion over the year-ago level. US dollar-denominated debt remained the largest component of India's external debt, with a share of 52.1 per cent as of March-end 2021, followed by Indian rupee (33.3 per cent), yen (5.8 per cent), SDR (4.4 per cent) and the euro (3.5 per cent). "Over the years, policy on external debt has enabled the private sector to access foreign debt in a calibrated manner. As at end-March 2021, the level of non-sovereign debt was more than four times that of sovereign debt, compared to half as at end-March 1991," it said. Given its relative size, typically in a normal year, it is the relative rise in non-sovereign debt that influences the dynamics of India's external debt, thereby supplementing domestic savings to fund larger investments as the economy expands, it said. On the contrary, in the pandemic year, it was the relative rise in sovereign debt that accounted for a larger share in the overall growth of foreign debt (2.1 per cent), it said, adding this increase was due to the Covid-19 loans. On the other hand, within the non-sovereign debt, the growth-sensitive commercial borrowings and import-sensitive short-term trade credit shrank. Therefore, the pandemic disrupted growth-dependent constituents, though overall external debt level rose, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Influencer Vikram Sambyal stresses on creating opportunities for oneself||Of the many things that garnered people's attention and turned their heads, the emergence and the rise of many young professionals across fields and sectors, especially the digital space, made the most headlines. The way youngsters of today create opportunities for themselves, instead of only waiting for the right ones, take them towards their definition of success and help them achieve even what may seem as unachievable. One of the reasons why the younger brigade is doing so well across industries is because they follow their gut and instinct and believe in their dreams and potential. Serving as one such fearless professional, an actor and influencer is Vikram Sambyal, originally from Jammu. Ask him what drove him towards the idea of becoming an actor and influencer, and the youngster quickly replies, saying, "I always knew I was a creative soul. Just like any other kid in India, who is highly influenced by the movies and Bollywood, I was too. I wish to make my mark as an actor and influencer, and for that, I am all excited and elated." The pandemic changed many things for many across the world; for Vikram Sambyal, too, it changed his life as he rose as an Instagram influencer. Had he also lost hope and given up as many others did, he wouldn't have reached a position to influence others through his prowess on Instagram. He highlights that tough times also offer people hidden opportunities, which they must recognize and act on. He did the same, which led him to become the Instagram influencer he is today. Talking about his journey during the pandemic, Vikram Sambyal says that he took out time to concentrate on the workings of Instagram. He learned the "its and bits" of the influencer niche, understood algorithms, and honed his creative skills to create more engagement. This helped him reach more people, increase his following and great visibility. Vikram Sambyal has also been giving his best to hone his skills as an actor, expand his knowledge and improve his craft. Here's wishing Vikram Sambyal all the luck for his journey as an actor and influencer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Markets tumble after record highs||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 254 points on Wednesday following losses in index majors HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank. The 30-share BSE benchmark closed 254.33 points or 0.43 per cent lower at 59,413.27. Similarly, the NSE Nifty declined 37.30 points or 0.21 per cent to 17,711.30. HDFC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 2 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Asian Paints, UltraTech Cement, HDFC Bank, HUL and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, NTPC, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma, SBI and Titan were among the gainers. Domestic equities witnessed brisk recovery from intra-day lows, led by strong rebound in metal, pharma, and PSU banks, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the surge in the benchmark US 10-year yield to 1.546 per cent spooked global equity markets, with US benchmarks witnessing cuts of above 2 per cent in S&P 500 and Nasdaq in the previous session. "It is too early to conclude that this is a trend reversal for markets. But at the present elevated valuations, the risk is high. Investors may watch for consolidation in markets," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended with heavy losses, while Hong Kong turned positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.57 per cent to USD 77.90 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Supertech moves SC, seeks partial demolition of 40-storey tower||Supertech Ltd has moved the Supreme Court seeking modification in its direction to raze the realty firm's twin 40-storey towers in Noida, saying it would partially demolish 224 flats of one tower along with its community area on the ground floor to conform with the building norms. Due to the proximity of Tower-17 (Ceyane) with the other residential towers, it cannot demolish the building by blowing through explosives and it would have to be done brick by brick, Supertech said. "The underlying basis of the proposed modifications is that if the same are allowed, it would save crores of resources from going to waste inasmuch as the applicant has already put materials worth crores of rupees in the construction of the Towers T-16 (Apex) and T-17 (Ceyane)," it said. The firm said it was not seeking review of August 31 order. It said the construction of the towers has consumed steel and cement in huge quantities apart from various other materials including human labour amounting to several crores of rupees which shall be rendered to complete waste in the form of scrap. "The proposed modification will also be beneficial for the environment inasmuch as the scrap will have no beneficial use except from disposal inasmuch as most of the debris from the demolition will have to be only dumped at landfill sites which are already overburdened. The same will add to the existing environmental issues which are already being faced by the said landfill sites thus further increasing the existing carbon footprint," it said. The firm sought modification of directions given on August 31 by the top court in its verdict for part demolition of Tower-17 and a status quo with respect to twin towers at Emerald Court project in sector 93A of Noida, Uttar Pradesh, till final orders are passed on its application. "The minimum distance between any part of T-1 and any part of T-17 after the partial demolition will be at least 16 metres. Tower T-16 is any case at about a distance of 43 metres from T-1," it said. The company further said that it would provide a landscape green area on the demolished portion of T-17 which would be larger than the garden in front of T-1 originally contemplated in the 2006 sanctioned plan. The flat owners who opted to keep their apartments will be allotted apartments in the revised building T-17, it said, adding that the finding rendered by the top court qua compliance of fire safety norms; violations of Noida Building Regulations-2006, 2010 and National Building Code, 2005 will stand complied with. Supertech said it has approached both architects and structural engineers who have suggested that a part of the T-17 towers which falls in front of T-1 (224 flats and the community area at the ground floor) can be demolished in a manner which will achieve the minimum of 16 metres and maximum of 40 metres between T-1 and T-17. "It is submitted that the proposed modification if allowed shall have the effect of complying with not only the statutory scheme but also the findings of this court. In these circumstances, it would be most equitable and just to protect such part of the buildings which do not violate the building norms," it said, adding that if a part of illegality can be severed so as to protect and preserve the legal part, the same would be allowed in order balance all the competing equities. The company said that proposed modification shall cater to the requirements of the residents of T-1 as well as the Residents Welfare Association (RWA) inasmuch as the same will allow a larger landscape area in the plot part from complying the legal requirements of maintaining a minimum distance of 16 metres distance between the two towers at all the points. On August 31, the top court had ordered the demolition of Supertech Ltd's twin 40-storey towers under construction within three months for violation of building norms in "collusion with NOIDA officials, holding that illegal construction has to be dealt with strictly to ensure compliance with the rule of law. The Noida authority had received a rap on its knuckles as the top court pointed out multiple incidents of collusion of its officials with the Supertech Ltd in the Emerald Court project and violations of norms by the realty major in construction of the twin towers. The top court had directed that the entire amount of home buyers be refunded with 12 per cent interest from the time of the booking and the RWA of Emerald Court project be paid Rs 2 crore for the harassment caused due to the construction of the twin towers, which would have blocked sunlight and fresh air to the existing residents of the housing project adjoining the national capital. The top court noted that the two towers together have 915 apartments and 21 shops. According to Supertech data given to the court earlier, of the 633 people who booked the flats initially, 133 have moved out to other projects, 248 have taken refunds and 252 home buyers still have bookings with the company in the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Sensex plunges over 500 points on global selloff||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped over 500 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid heavy selloff in global markets. The 30-share Sensex was trading 501.74 points or 0.84 per cent lower at 59,165.86. Similarly, the Nifty declined 135.05 points or 0.76 per cent to 17,613.55. ICICI Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding nearly 2 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, Maruti, Bajaj Auto, Infosys and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Tata Steel, Sun Pharma and Nestle India were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 410.28 points or 0.68 per cent lower at 59,667.60, and Nifty declined by 106.50 points or 0.60 per cent to close at 17,748.60. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,957.70 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the surge in the benchmark US 10-year yield to 1.546 per cent spooked equity markets in the US with cuts of above 2 per cent in S&P 500 and Nasdaq. The rise in US bond yields triggering correction in equity markets has been a known threat for some time now. But what triggered this sudden spike in bond yield was the Fed chief Jerome Powell's statement that inflation may persist for a much longer time, he said. Further, he noted that the rise in the dollar index to 93.7 levels indicate profit booking in stocks and safe-haven buying into the dollar. It is too early to conclude that this is a trend reversal for markets. But at the present elevated valuations, the risk is high. Investors may watch for consolidation in markets, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with heavy losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.51 per cent to USD 77.17 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Balmer Lawrie plans to expand in Bengal||Diversified public sector enterprise Balmer Lawrie is planning to expand in Bengal. The company plans to scale up its warehousing capacity at its existing facility on Hyde Road in Calcutta. The miniratna PSU owns container freight stations and depots in Calcutta, Chennai and Mumbai covering 175,000 square feet of warehousing capacity and another 181,000 square  feet in a multimodal logistics hub in Visakhapatnam. The expansion in Calcutta will add an extra 40,000 square feet of space to its warehousing capacity. The company expects growing demand for warehousing from its existing customers, including e-commerce players “We are investing around Rs 6 crore in our facility in Calcutta.  The sales of existing customers are going up and we are scaling up to meet their demand,” said Adika Ratna Sekhar, Balmer Lawrie chairman and managing director (additional charge) after the company’s annual general meeting on Tuesday. “Logistics is expected to grow exponentially and we are expecting more private companies to make their base in India,” said Sekhar. The company is aiming to become a one stop logistics solution service provider. Balmer Lawrie also has three cold chain units in Hyderabad, Haryana and Maharashtra and is planning to add one more in Bhubaneswar during 2021-22. The PSU plans to diversify its chemicals business from leather chemicals to textile  and agro chemicals, where it is focusing on emulsifiers in the emulsifier segment. The customers are mainly tea gardens, and the company has finished the trials there. “Barring travel and vacation, all other business verticals are expected to do well. We are targeting a turnover of around Rs 1,770 crore approximately in this year from Rs 1,592 crore. The capital expenditure in FY22 is estimated at around Rs 43 crore,” Sekhar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Life Insurance Corporation seeks to appoint chief financial officer||State-backed Life Insurance Corp of India (LIC) is seeking to appoint a chief financial officer, according to a notification on its website, ahead of an initial public offering slated before the end of the fiscal year. The move to hire a CFO follows a decision to re-designate LIC’s top job to chief executive officer from chairman earlier this year. LIC is currently undergoing a valuation exercise for an IPO that could be India’s biggest ever as the government seeks to raise around Rs 90,000 crore by selling 5-10 per cent stake in the company by the end of the fiscal year that runs through March. Recently, the government appointed 10 investment banks, including Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and SBI Capital Market to handle the offering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||Ban on international commercial flights extended till end of October||The ban on international commercial flights has been extended by civil aviation regulator DGCA till end of October. The extension of the ban during the festive season is likely to further impact the finances of the airlines, which have suffered badly during the pandemic. However, the restriction doesn’t apply to international all-cargo operations, the official statement released by the DGCA said. Besides, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case to case basis. In a bid to control the spread of Covid-19 the government suspended the international commercial flights in March, 2020. Special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air bubble pacts with 28 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special flights can be operated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||American Airlines and IndiGo enter into codeshare agreement||American Airlines and IndiGo on Tuesday announced that they have entered into a codeshare agreement which allows the former to sell seats on the Indian carrier’s flights operating on 29 routes. “The codeshare, which will require US and Indian governments’ approvals, is expected to begin in October, as American launches new service between New York (JFK) and Delhi on October 31 this year and between Seattle  and Bangalore on January 4, 2022,” the joint statement mentioned. The one-way codeshare agreement will place American’s code on 29 of IndiGo’s domestic routes, providing a convenient option for American Airlines customers to travel within India after landing in Bangalore or Delhi. Once the one-way codeshare agreement comes into force, American will be able to sell seats — on its distribution system — of IndiGo flights on the 29 selected routes. In a two-way codeshare agreement, each airline on its distribution system can sell seats of other’s flights. IndiGo at present has a two-way codeshare agreement with Turkish Airlines and a one-way codeshare partnership with Qatar Airways. Vasu Raja, chief revenue officer, American Airlines, said: “Whether our customers are travelling for business or pleasure, this new partnership makes it easy to reach all four corners of India.” “Today we’re adding 29 new routes to our map as a result of this agreement, providing customers with even more options,” Raja said. IndiGo is India’s largest airline by number of passengers carried. With its fleet of 275+ aircraft, the airline operates more than 1,100 daily flights, connecting 70 domestic destinations and 24 international destinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||NCLT offers breather for Future Retail||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on Tuesday allowed Kishore Biyani-led Future Group firms to hold meetings of its shareholders and creditors to seek approval for the sale of assets to Reliance Retail Ltd. A Mumbai-based two-member NCLT bench comprising Suchitra Kanuparthi and Chandra Bhan Singh dismissed the application filed by e-commerce major Amazon opposing the scheme of merger of the Future group companies, sources close to the development said. Confirming the development, a Future group firm through a regulatory filing informed that the NCLT has passed an order, allowing the company to hold meetings of its shareholders and creditors to seek approval for the scheme. “The NCLT has further rejected the intervention application filed by Amazon,” said Future Retail adding “The order was pronounced in open court and a copy thereof is awaited”. An Amazon spokesperson said: “We are yet to receive a copy of the NCLT’s order and will decide our next steps thereafter.” Amazon had filed an application objecting to the NCLT considering the scheme pending completion of its arbitration proceedings against Future Retail. The NCLT dismissed Amazon’s application on the ground that it was premature, the sources said. Moreover, no prejudice is caused in conducting shareholders and creditors meetings for considering the scheme since it will be open to Amazon for raising objections when the scheme is filed for NCLT’s final approval after the shareholders and creditors give the go-ahead, the sources added. The NCLT also pointed out that the Supreme Court had only restrained it from pronouncing the final order approving the scheme. Now, it will be open for Future Group to obtain all preparatory approvals from shareholders and creditors. Future Group may be able to save at least 6-9 months time for the implementation of the scheme in the scenario of it winning the arbitration, the sources added. The scheme of arrangement between Future and Reliance Retail entails the consolidation of Future Group’s retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets into one entity — Future Enterprises Ltd — and then transferring it to Reliance Retail. In August last year, Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd  had said it will acquire the retail and wholesale business, and the logistics and warehousing business of Future Group for Rs 24,713 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
29-09-2021||Business||India pitches for sovereign rating outlook upgrade at Moody's meet||Finance ministry officials and representatives of Moody’s on Tuesday discussed economic growth prospects, during which India pitched for an upgrade in its sovereign rating outlook. Sources said the meeting was attended by chief economic adviser K.V. Subramanian and other officers from the department of economic affairs and Moody’s analyst. The meeting is a precursor to Moody’s annual sovereign rating action. Officials highlighted the upward trajectory of growth in the June 2021 quarter and  fiscal deficit and borrowing numbers. Sanyal on economy The country has enough fiscal resources and monetary space left for intervention, principal economic adviser Sanjeev Sanyal said on Tuesday. “Given how well revenues are doing currently, we can perhaps press the accelerator somewhat stronger on expenditure to accelerate the economy. But the way we will spend will be through capital expenditure,” Sanyal said at a CII organised event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
29-09-2021||Business|| Centre likely to announce Air India winning bid next month||The Centre is likely to announce the winning bid for national carrier Air India by the middle of the next month, a senior government official said. The financial bids submitted by Tata Sons through its subsidiary Talace Pvt Ltd and a consortium led by SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh is likely to be opened on Wednesday. The Tatas are favoured to take over Air India. An inter-ministerial group would soon meet to take a call on the final reserve price, the officials said. The government had appointed RBSA Advisors to recommend the reserve price. The financial bids will be evaluated against the undisclosed reserve price. The bid will be initially examined by the transaction advisor before the recommendation is sent to the cabinet for its approval. Under the current terms of the sale, the bidders will quote an enterprise value (EV) which is their estimate of the combined value of AI’s equity and debt. The winning bid will be decided on the basis of the highest EV value. At least 15 per cent of the value need to be paid in cash while the rest can be taken on as debt. The Centre is offering to sell its 100 per cent stake in Air India and Air India Express and its 50 per cent stake in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd. The state is also likely to offer indemnity to successful bidders from lawsuits filed by foreign companies such as Cairn against AI to recover arbitration awards from the Indian government. Air India is contesting these claims. The stake sale process, which began in January 2020, faced delays because of the pandemic. In April 2021, the government asked potential bidders to put in financial bids for the carrier.. The successful bidder will bag control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots, as well as 900 slots at airports overseas. With previous attempts since 2017 to sell the carrier failing to generate any significant interest, the government in October last year sweetened the clause on the transfer of Air India's huge debt. Instead of taking a fixed debt of Rs 23,000 crore, the bidders were given the flexibility to decide on the amount of debt they want to absorb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
29-09-2021||Business||Spike in crude prices can pressurise on Modi govt to cut excise duty||The spike in crude prices to about $80 per barrel could put pressure on the Modi government to cut excise duty as state-owned oil firms increased petrol prices by 20 paise per litre and diesel by 25 paise. Motorists in Calcutta have to pay Rs 101.87 for a litre of petrol and Rs 92.67 for a litre of diesel. This is the first price increase in petrol in more than two months and the fourth in case of diesel. Brent was trading at $71.59 a barrel on September 1. This rise is on the back of supply concerns about Opec’s ability to meet the rising demand. Goldman Sachs has raised its forecast for Brent prices to $90 per barrel from $80 by year-end. The forecast has been revised due to faster fuel demand recovery in the global economy. In case the price of crude does reach the level predicted by Goldman Sachs, the government will have to take a call on whether it wants to reduce the excise duty collected or continue to earn a higher amount in revenue to meet its fiscal targets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
29-09-2021||Business||Sebi relaxes delisting rules for acquirers of a company||Sebi on Tuesday relaxed the delisting rules for acquirers of a company, while tightening the ones on related party transactions (RPTs). The regulator also had some good news for start-ups when it eased the net worth requirement governing superior voting rights or SR shares. If a listed firm is acquired and in the process an open offer is triggered, the acquirer holding in the company can go above 75 per cent or even up to 90 per cent. However, current rules say the acquirer will have to first bring the stake down to 75 per cent. This created difficulties in the takeover of listed companies particularly when the acquirer wanted to delist them after the takeover. The Sebi board has now decided that if the acquirer wants to delist the target company, it must propose a higher price for delisting with suitable premium over the open offer price. The market regulator said if the open offer leads to the acquirer owning more than 90 per cent in the target company — the delisting threshold — all those who tendered their shares in the open offer must be paid the delisting price. If the acquirer owns less than 90 per cent after the open offer — the delisting threshold — the takeover price will be valid for those who tendered their shares. Rules have been laid out in the event an acquirer holds more than 75 per cent after the open offer but fails to get delisted. A period of 12 months from the date of completion of the open offer will be given to the acquirer to make another attempt to delist the company using the reverse book building mechanism. If the acquirer still fails to get delisted, it will have to bring down its holding to 75 per cent. Vikram Raghani, partner, J. Sagar & Associates, said the delisting reform takes away a big hurdle in merger and acquisitions which until now disallowed the new owners to seamlessly delist a target company In another step, the board tightened the provisions governing related party transactions. Sebi has now widened the definition of related party to include all persons or entities forming part of promoter or promoter group irrespective of their shareholding. It includes any person or entity holding equity shares to the extent of 20 per cent in the listed entity, either directly or on a beneficial interest basis at any time during the immediately preceding financial year. This will be further tightened to 10 per cent with effect from April 1, 2023. Sebi said that the definition of related party will include transactions between the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on one hand and a related party of the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on the other hand. It will also cover the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on one hand, and any other person or entity on the other, the purpose of which is to benefit a related party of the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries. This rule will be applicable from April 1, 2023.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
29-09-2021||Business||SEBI clears framework for a gold exchange||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Monday took the first step towards unlocking the value of the huge gold hoard in the country. The regulator cleared the framework for a gold exchange where the yellow metal will be traded in the form of an instrument called the electronic gold receipt (ECR). At its board meeting, the market regulator also gave the green signal to silver exchange traded funds (ETFs) which will be like the gold ETFs that are traded on the bourses. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced during her last budget speech that Sebi will be the regulator for the proposed gold exchange, responsible for the operations of the vaults to store the gold, determining the amount of gold in an item (assaying) as well as setting quality and delivery standards. The electronic gold receipts represent the underlying value of gold. They have perpetual validity, meaning the holders can keep the instrument for as long as they want. The receipts will also have trading, clearing and settlement features similar to other securities. According the mechanism proposed by Sebi, the depositor or the owner of the gold should deliver it to a vault manager who will record the information in a common interface and create the receipts that can be traded. The holder at his or her discretion can also withdraw the underlying gold from the vaults after surrendering the receipts. The regulator said the vault manager should be a body corporate registered in India and should have a net worth of at least Rs 50 crore. The entity will be registered and regulated as a Sebi intermediary to provide vault services for the gold deposited to create EGRs. The gold receipts will be made “fungible” and “interoperable between vault managers”, which lower the costs associated with withdrawal of gold from the vaults. Sebi had proposed electronic gold receipts of 1 kg, 100 grams and 50 grams denomination for trading on the exchanges. Receipts of smaller denominations should also be allowed — 5 grams and 10 grams — that will lead to a greater retail participation.  The details will be known once Sebi  notifies the rules on the gold exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
29-09-2021||Business||NPOs and FPEs can now plug into capital markets||Non-profit organisations (NPOs) and for-profit social enterprises (FPEs) — entities wedded to social causes — will now be able to plug into the capital markets. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has permitted these charitable entities to raise funds through the flotation of equity, tap mutual funds and issue a variety of bonds including zero-coupon zero principal bonds and development impact bonds. The regulations relating to these new instruments will need to be framed. These enterprises will also be permitted to raise funds through social impact funds that will operate under Sebi (Alternative Investment Funds) Regulations. The social impact funds will need to have a corpus of Rs 5 crore. The board of the market regulator also cleared plans to establish a social stock exchange (SSE) where these entities will be listed. The SSE will be a separate segment of the existing stock exchanges. In a media release issued after the board meeting, Sebi said the social enterprises would have to engage in activity out of a list of 15 eligible social activities to be approved by the regulator. The move comes at a time when the financial system is awash with funds as a result of an accommodative monetary policy. The entities will have to demonstrate social intent by working with underserved or less privileged populations and regions and display impact on the ground. The social enterprises will need to immerse themselves in work related to eradicating hunger, poverty, malnutrition and inequality and promoting health care, including mental health, and sanitation. Other areas include making safe drinking water available; promoting education, employability and livelihoods; furthering gender equality, empowerment of women and LGBTQIA communities; and ensuring environmental sustainability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
29-09-2021||India||With 'Get Well Soon' placards, Congress workers protest outside Kapil Sibal's house||Hours after he raised questions over the functioning of the Congress, senior party leader Kapil Sibal on Wednesday came under attacks from several quarters with party workers also protesting outside his house here.  In the wake of several Congress leaders quitting the party and its Punjab unit in turmoil, Sibal demanded that an immediate meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) be convened and wondered who in the party was taking decisions in the absence of a full-time president.  Sibal, a member of the 'Group of 23' which last year had written to Congress President Sonia Gandhi, said at a press conference that the grouping is "not a Jee Huzur 23" and will continue to put forth the views and will continue to repeat the demands.  Carrying 'Get Well Soon Kapil Sibal' placards and raising slogans against Sibal, Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) workers protested outside his Jor Bagh residence, saying they were "hurt" by his remarks.  "The workers went there on their own accord as they felt hurt by Sibal's remarks. They just expressed their disappointment over the remarks," a senior DPCC functionary said on condition of anonymity.  The protesters raised slogans against Sibal asking him to "leave the party".  Several leaders hit out at Sibal for what they said was questioning the leadership from which he had earlier "benefitted".  Youth Congress chief Srinivas B V said on Twitter, "Listen 'Ji-Huzoor' :- The 'President' and 'Leadership' of the party are the same, who always ensured your entry in Parliament, made you a 'minister' during the good times of the party, when in opposition, ensured your entry into Rajya Sabha, always rewarded with responsibilities in good and bad times. And when the 'time' came for struggle, then..."  Congress general secretary Ajay Maken and Chhattisgarh minister T S Singhdeo hit out at Sibal for his remarks.  Delhi Congress leader Alka Lamba also slammed Sibal, alleging that she kept requesting him in the 2020 assembly elections to come to Chandni Chowk and campaign but he did not come.  "The workers whom Sibal called for a meeting at his home ahead of the polls, they joined Aam Aadmi Party the next day.... Will the Congress run on these people's strength?" Lamba said on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
29-09-2021||India||'Right to be forgotten' depends on how far it has to be stretched, says Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court Wednesday sought replies from the Centre, Google and India Kanoon on a plea seeking removal of a judgement and an order in connection with a 7-year-old FIR under Right to be Forgotten', and asked how far this rule can be stretched.  Justice Rekha Palli issued notices asking them to respond to the petition while listing the matter for further proceedings on December 1, when several similar petitions are also fixed for hearing.  The court orally observed that the right to be forgotten' depends on how far it has to be stretched.  'Right to be forgotten' depends on how far it has to be stretched. Tomorrow, people who defraud the banks will come and say 'please remove the judgment'. We have to balance the rights," it said.  The court was hearing a petition by one Sukhmeet Singh Anand seeking removal of a judgement and an order passed in 2015 and 2018 in connection with an FIR registered against him in 2014 by the Economic Offences Wing here.  The FIR was registered against the petitioner and other persons in 2014 pursuant to a complaint by Samsung Gulf Electronic FZE, Dubai.  The plea, filed through advocate Tarun Rana, said merely by typing Singh's name on Google, the web page takes visitors directly to the links of the orders.  In August 2018, the petitioner had challenged the non-bailable warrants issued against him and the plea was dismissed by the high court.  Thereafter, he filed another plea seeking directions to the high court registry to block search engines from assessing the orders in the matter, which was also dismissed in May 2019.  The plea referred to an interim order passed by the high court in April this year, directing removal of the judgement from the search results regarding the petitioner in that case.  It said the petitioner sent a notice to Kanoon Software Pvt Ltd to withdraw the orders from its system; however, it refused to remove the orders on the pretext of website policy.  The petitioner also sent notices to the Centre and Google to take necessary steps for removal of the two orders from being viewed through the web portal. Google also showed inability to do anything in this regard, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
29-09-2021||India||Remnants of Cyclone Gulab might generate another cyclonic storm||After remnants of cyclone Gulab that hit the eastern coast of the country brought torrential rains to central Maharashtra, a senior IMD official said on Wednesday that we are witnessing a rare occurrence as the weather system might generate another cyclonic storm.  Dr Jayant Sarkar, head of the regional meteorological department of the India Meteorological Department, said such phenomenon does not happen very frequently, "though it is known among our fraternity." "It did bring excess showers over Maharashtra and put most of the regions such as Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada into surplus precipitation category, he told PTI.  A cyclone starts with a `depression'. Generally, a cyclonic system loses its severity once it hits the land, because the supply of moisture goes down. Cyclone Gulab hit the land between Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam on the eastern coast. But despite losing moisture supply, the system kept moving on westwards and brought intense showers over Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and later Gujarat in the last three days, said Sarkar.  The weather system received some moisture and it accelerated towards the Arabian Sea and it is expected to leave the land from Saurashtra region. With more moisture it would get intensified from depression to deep depression to cyclone," he said.  "At the same time, it will take away moisture from the coastal areas and reduce the rainfall over Gujarat's Saurashtra region as well as north Madhya Maharashtra and Konkan region, he said.  If it transforms into a new cyclone, it will be named `Shaheen', he said. Cyclonic storm Gulab made landfall on Sunday evening between Gopalpur in south Odisha and Kalingapatnam in north Andhra Pradesh, a few hours after two tourists from Bengal drowned in Balasore while bathing in an already turbulent sea. The storm’s impact was felt in the Odisha districts of Gajapati, Rayagada, Koraput and Malkangiri. Srikakulam district of Andhra has also been affected. Further rains pounded several parts of Telangana on Monday, even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned that heavy rains are expected at isolated places in different districts of the State. The downpour caused waterlogging on some roads and low-lying areas. The cyclone, which crossed the Bay of Bengal coast near Kalingapatnam on Sunday night, weakened into a depression and caused widespread rains in several districts of Andhra Pradesh on Monday and also left a trail of destruction, as the death toll rose to two with a woman's death. Heavy rain in catchment areas of the Manjara dam forced authorities to open all its gates for water discharge on Tuesday, leading to flooding in some villages of Maharashtra's Beed district and neighbouring Latur, while an alert was sounded in other neighbouring districts of the Marathwada region, officials said. The local administration opened all 18 gates of the Manjara dam and 11 gates of the Majalgaon dam early Tuesday morning, resulting in discharge of 78,397 cusec 80,534 cusec water from them, respectively, officials said. The discharge of water from the Manjara dam led to flooding in villages under Kaij and Ambajogai talukas of Beed district, Ambajogai tehsildar Vipin Patil said. Heavy rains were witnessed in 65 circles of Nanded, 30 in Latur, 29 in Beed, 17 in Hingoli, 13 in Jalna (13), 10 in Aurangabad and six in Parbhani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
29-09-2021||India||Fighting wave of misinformation, YouTube bans false vaccine claims||YouTube is wiping vaccine misinformation and conspiracy theories from its popular video-sharing platform. The ban on vaccine misinformation, announced in a blog post on Wednesday, comes as countries around the world continue to offer free immunisations for Covid-19 to a somewhat hesitant public. Public health officials have struggled to push back against a steady current of online misinformation about the Covid-19 shot since development of the immunisation first got underway last year. YouTube's new rules will prohibit misinformation about any vaccine that has been approved by health authorities such as the World Health Organization and are currently being administered. The platform had already begun to crack down late last year on false claims about the Covid-19 vaccine. YouTube, which is owned by Google, will delete videos that falsely claim vaccines are dangerous or cause health issues, like cancer, infertility or autism a theory that scientists have discredited for decades but has endured on the internet. As of Wednesday, popular anti-vaccine accounts, including those run by Robert F. Kennedy Jr., were kicked off YouTube. We've steadily seen false claims about the coronavirus vaccines spill over into misinformation about vaccines in general, and we're now at a point where it's more important than ever to expand the work we started with Covid-19 to other vaccines, YouTube said in a prepared statement. The new rule will apply to general claims about vaccines as well as statements about specific vaccines, such as those given for measles or flu. Claims about vaccines that are being tested will still be allowed. Personal stories about reactions to the vaccine will also be permitted, as long as they do not come from an account that has a history of promoting vaccine misinformation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
29-09-2021||India||Delhi restaurant that denied entry to saree-clad woman shut for lack of licence||A south Delhi restaurant that allegedly denied entry to a saree-clad woman last week has been shut after civic authorities issued it a closure notice for operating without a trade licence, officials said Wednesday.  South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) mayor Mukesh Suryan confirmed that the restaurant has been closed.  "The Aquila restaurant was operating without a proper licence. It has now been shut after we issued a closure notice. We are also exploring other actions including imposing a penalty in accordance with the DMC (Delhi Municipal Corporation) Act against the eatery as it was functioning without approval from the civic body," Suryan told PTI.  SDMC officials said Wednesday a closure notice was issued to the Aquila Restaurant located at Ansal Plaza in Andrews Ganj on September 24 for operating without a valid licence.  The closure notice said the area public health inspector found during a check on September 21 that the facility is running without a health trade licence and under unhygienic conditions. It also flagged alleged encroachment on public land.  "The public health inspector again inspected the site on September 24 and found that the trade is running under the same condition. You are directed to close the trade within 48 hours of the receipt of this notice failing which suitable action including sealing will be taken without assigning further notice," the SDMC notice issued to the restaurant-owner said.  In his response on September 27, the owner said, "I have closed-down the above said trade immediately and I shall not run the same trade without SDMC Trade Licence under insanitary condition from health point of view and create nuisance."  In a social media post last week a woman had alleged she was refused entry in the south Delhi restaurant because she was wearing a saree.  The woman had also posted a short video of her argument with the restaurant staff, alongside a couple of pictures of herself in the saree.  Later, the restaurant claimed that the incident was "misrepresented".  In the SDMC House meeting Wednesday, Congress councillor from Andrews Ganj Abhishek Dutt raised the issue and moved a proposal demanding a fine of Rs 5 lakh be imposed against any restaurant, bar or hotel that denies entry to any person wearing traditional Indian attire.  "The Aquila restaurant was running illegally without licence. The notice was issued to the eatery only after I raised the issue. Now, the authorities have informed that the restaurant has been shut. It is a matter of probe that how the restaurant was running without a licence," he told PTI  Taking cognisance of the case, the National Commission for Women (NCW) had on September 23 had asked the Delhi Police to probe the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
29-09-2021||India||Abhishek advises Congress to hit streets against BJP||Trinamul Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee today advised the Congress to hit the streets against the BJP instead of indulging in "armchair politics". The advice comes days after the Trinamul MP criticised the Congress for allegedly failing to put up a credible fight against the BJP. If the Congress cannot fight the BJP, the TMC will and defeat the party, Abhishek Banerjee said. "The Congress has to leave its armchair politics and social media politics and hit the streets," he said. The bonhomie between the Congress and the TMC was strained recently after the Trinamul mouthpiece "Jago Bangla" claimed that party chief Mamata Banerjee, and not Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
29-09-2021||India||Defence ministry approves procurement of military hardware worth Rs 13,165crore||The defence ministry on Wednesday approved the procurement of military platforms and hardware worth Rs 13,165 crore that includes 25 indigenously-developed ALH Mark-III helicopters. The cost of acquiring the helicopters has been estimated at Rs 3,850 crore, while a batch of rocket ammunition will be procured for Rs 4,962 crore, the defence ministry said. The procurement proposals were approved at a meeting of the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) that was chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Out of the total procurements, equipment and platforms worth Rs 11,486 crore will be sourced from domestic entities. "The DAC accorded Acceptance of Necessity (AoN) for capital acquisitions proposals for modernisation and operational needs of the Indian Armed Forces amounting to approximately Rs 13,165 crore. "Of the total amount approved, procurement worth Rs 11,486 crore (87 percent) is from the domestic sources," the ministry said in a statement. In addition, the DAC also approved a few amendments to the Defence Acquisition Procedure 2020 as a part of "business process re-engineering to ensure further ease of doing business for the industry as well as measures to enhance procurement efficiency and reducing timelines", the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
29-09-2021||India||Kapil Sibal demands immediate Congress Working Committee meeting, says 'G23' not 'Jee Huzur 23'||With several Congress leaders quitting the party and its Punjab unit in turmoil, senior party leader Kapil Sibal on Wednesday demanded that an immediate meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) be convened and wondered who in the party was taking decisions in the absence of a full-time president. Addressing the media, he said a senior member of the 'Group of 23' has written to Congress President Sonia Gandhi for convening the CWC meeting immediately to discuss the party affairs and the exodus. Sibal said the grouping is "not a Jee Huzur 23" and will continue to put forth the views and will continue to repeat the demands. He said the Congress needs to be strengthened as a strong opposition to take on the government and once again reiterated the demands of the group for holding elections to the Congress president, the CWC and the central election committee. He expressed anguish over the developments in the party in Punjab and the recent exodus of party leaders, saying all such issues need to be discussed at a party platform. "In our party at the moment there is no president. So we don't know who is taking these decisions. We know and yet we don't know," Sibal said. "I believe one of my senior colleagues has written to the Congress president to immediately convene a CWC. So that at least some things that we can't speak publicly, we can have a dialogue in the CWC as to why we are in this state," he said. Sibal said, "We are not 'Jee Huzur 23'. We will continue to put forth our views and will continue to repeat our demands." In an apparent attack on the party leadership, he said there is no monopoly in the power structure of any country or political party. He also quoted the words of Mahatma Gandhi to say that no school of thought can claim a monopoly of right judgment and we are all liable to err and are often obliged to revise our judgements. "In a vast country like this there must be room for all schools of thought, and the least therefore that we we owe to ourselves as to others is to try to understand the opponents' viewpoint. And if we cannot accept it, respect it as fully as we expect him to respect ours. It is one of the indispensable tests of healthy public life. "So, listen to our point of view. If you don't accept it, fine, but at least listen. We respect your point of view, but have the space to respect ours. Allow us that dialogue. There are no monopolies. No monopolies should be created in the power structures of any country or a party," Sibal said. Noting that they are not the ones who will leave the ideology of the Congress party and go anywhere else, he said it is ironic that those who were considered closest aides of the party leadership have left them and those who they thought were not close to them are still with them. "This is the irony of the Congress party. In such a situation, every Congress man has to think how to take the party forward and strengthen it. I would also say that those who have left us should come back, because Congress is the only ideology which cab sustain. It is the Congress alone can save this republic because the present dispensation is destroying the very foundations of our republic," he said. "So what do we need, We need open dialogue. We need conversations. We need to understand each other's point of view," he said, refusing to discuss the developments in Punjab, where the Congress party had changed its chief minister and installed a new state Congress president who also quit. Sibal said what is happening to the Congress in Punjab gives an advantage to Pakistan and the ISI. He said one knows the history of Punjab and the rise of extremism there and how forces across the border exploit the situation to create an atmosphere of uncertainty. "It is these forces that are the biggest threat to our country. The Congress should make sure they remain united. If someone has an issue it should be discussed and the conversation must take place from the senior-most member of the party. The organisational structure must be strengthened. "That will take place if there is an elected president, an elected CWC, an elected Central Election Committee, if the structure is strengthened bottom up," the senior Congress leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
29-09-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav promises caste census in UP if voted to power||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday promised to go in for the caste census in Uttar Pradesh if voted to power. He made the promise alleging that the BJP-led central government is fighting shy of conducting it, fearing that the caste census in the country will lead to the backward classes of people demanding their rights and due respect after this. "The BJP government at the Centre does not want to conduct caste census as it knows that backwards will demand their right and due respect after it. This is the biggest demand of backwards and Dalits," Akhilesh Yadav said in a statement here. Promising caste census in Uttar Pradesh if his party is voted to power in 2022 assembly polls, Akhilesh said, "We will ensure that backwards get their rights." Alleging that the crime rate in UP has grown exponentially, Akhilesh Yadav said, "The chief minister lies on the matter of crime and does not have any information on the NCRB data. The highest number of crimes against women is committed in UP, he asserted. He also reiterated his charge that veteran SP leader Azam Khan is being kept in jail in false cases. "Azam Khan has been kept in jail in fake cases, he said, adding maximum custodial deaths in the state have occurred during the present BJP regime. The CM visits his home district Gorakhpur regularly but crime is rising there, he alleged, adding police beat up a Kanpur businessman, visiting there, to death. Even saints are not safe in UP where over 40 sadhu and saints have been killed," he said. Terming the governance in UP a complete failure", Akhilesh said, "Common men are not heard. The BJP MLAs and MPs have to face the people's opposition in their own areas." He said the Centre is on a privatisation spree and if everything will be privatised, there will be no need of implementing reservation. On the Covid vaccination drive, he asked, "Why do the vaccination certificates not carry the photograph of the national flag?" He said the government should withdraw three farm laws as it would help business houses take away farmers' land. "The farmers will teach a lesson to the BJP in the coming assembly polls," he predicted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
29-09-2021||India||Actress Esha Jhanji Has A Special Message For All Her Fans aka Eshians||Esha Jhanji is a well-known social media influencer and actress. She grew up watching Bollywood movies and realized that it is her dream to be an actress. During her school days, Esha would participate in school plays and dramas. Acting in plays boosted her confidence and made her realized that she can accomplish her dreams. With the inception of the internet, especially social media, today's generation can show their talent to the world. Esha Jhanji started blogging and sharing content on TikTok and Instagram reels. Her content received a huge response and made her popular among the masses. Esha's popularity showed good growth in no time. About witnessing success as a social media influencer, the aspiring actress says, "I recall looking through my 'for you' page one day and seeing a fan page with my name on it. I was ecstatic, astonished, and delighted. I looked up my name right afterwards, and there were a handful more. That was the day I realised I was truly making progress, and my goal began to take shape in front of my eyes." Esha Jhanji's fans address themselves as Eshians. The actress has a sweet message for all her fans. Esha Jhanji shares, "I am thankful to all the Eshians for the love they shower on me. You make me smile with their cute video and picture edits. I promise that I will keep working hard and make you and myself proud. I also hope all your dreams come true and get surrounded by people like you to encourage your passion." https://www.instagram.com/esha_jhanji_/?hl=en On Instagram, she has more than 753k followers. Esha is known for her travel blogs, elegant pics, and her entertaining reels. Her posts receive more than thousands of likes and shares in just a few hours. The actress is hopeful that her reels will reach a filmmaker one day, and she will soon sign a dream project - a music video, commercial or a movie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
29-09-2021||India||Dipal Patrawala continues to inspire the young generation with her success story in network marketing||A society is said to be developed when everyone has equal opportunities, But there are very few people who push others for success, Dipal and Nilesh Patrawala, The couple who made fortune for themselves and now helping other for financial freedom are now a name that almost everyone in the Network Marketing Business in India is aware of. Dipal patrawala has proved to the people of the world that success is not very far when working with passion and support from life partner. Success is always a team effort and not an individual’s glory. Both Dipal and Nilesh come from a very humble background but have worked really hard as a team to make it big in the world of Network Marketing through Vestige Marketing Pvt Ltd. This new business model has been a boon for India’s economy and is often credited to have given birth to several prolific entrepreneurs. Dipal Patrawala and her husband Nilesh Patrawala are also the product of this concept. The couple, like any other middle-class Indian family, also dreamt of having a well-to-do life and owning a luxury car of their own. Having a degree in Commerce, Nilesh always had sharp business acumen and a deep understanding of the latest marketing trends. Channeling his business skills and marketing understanding and sensing the vast potential of the Network Marketing business in India, Nilesh decided to enter the world of Chain Marketing Business, popularly referred to as Network Marketing. The phrase- “A king can’t be a king without the support of his queen,” holds very true in the success story of the Patrawala couple as Nilesh, throughout his journey, was accompanied by his wife, Dipal. She joined him in the entrepreneurial journey and through her sheer dedication and hard work, Dipal has established herself as a well-known businesswoman. She is now a big name in the vast Vestige family and an entrepreneurial force to reckon with. The journey of the Patrawala couple towards success has never been a cakewalk. They had their fair share of struggles throughout the journey. Dipal, being a mother and a housewife had to look after her son and the house and never shied away from her responsibilities. Despite sincerely carrying out her role as a mother, she always had the passion and the zeal to do something on her own, to make a name for herself. She decided to enter the world of Network Marketing through ‘Vestige Marketing Pvt Ltd.’ Both husband and wife worked as a team towards achieving their dream of having a good life and owning a car. And as they say, ‘Luck favors the brave,’ the entrepreneur duo reached the pinnacle of success within a short span of a few months. With immense hard work and sharp business skills, Dipal and Nilesh purchased their own luxury car- Mercedes Benz within a span of mere 13 months after joining Vestige Marketing Pvt Ltd. The journey from riding a scooter in the streets of Mumbai to proudly sitting in a luxury Mercedes Benz is all because of the team effort that both Dipal and Nilesh have shown. With the passing time, the power couple has established themselves firmly in the domain of Network Marketing. More than 50%  of Vestige’s total International Business Globally is generated by this smart business couple in countries like India, Bangladesh, Nepal and . Not only are they generating revenues for Vestige but they are en mass helping people who aspire to be self-reliant and become an entrepreneur. They constantly support and guide people in taking up their dream and starting something on their own. Patrawala couple is now working and focusing on expanding their network in tier 2 and tier 3 cities across India and abroad. Both Dipal and Nilesh have proved to the world that if you can dream it together, you can definitely achieve it together. You may connect with Dipal via their official Facebook page on  https://www.facebook.com/DipalPatrawala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
29-09-2021||India||Priyanka holds one-on-one- meet with party leaders to fix UP poll strategy||In her ongoing bid to fix a strategy for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday had one-on-one meetings with her party leaders and workers at the UPCC headquarters here. Gandhi, currently on a five-day visit to the state capital, held one-to-one meetings and discussed the election strategy with party leaders and office bearers, UP Congress' media convenor Lalan Kumar said. On the third day of her visit, she also met doctors and health workers and thanked them for their services during the corona pandemic. Gandhi said doctors and health workers served people round the clock during the corona crisis. Several young doctors also remained connected with UP Congress' helpline 'Hello Doctor', Lalan Kumar said, adding she discussed several health issues of the people. The Congress leader also appealed to young doctors to give their suggestions on the issues relating to health services in the state, Kumar said. Later during the day, she would be holding meetings with party secretaries and other leaders at the Kaul House where she is staying, he added. This is Priyanka Gandhi's second visit to Uttar Pradesh this month, the first one being between September 8 and 13. The Congress had fought the 2017 state assembly polls in alliance with the Samajwadi Party but had managed to win just seven of the 114 seats it had contested with a vote share of 6.25 per cent. This time, the Congress party has decided against having any poll alliance with any big party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
29-09-2021||India||Amarinder meets Shah in Delhi, says they discussed farm issues||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh met Union Home Minister Amit Shah at his residence here on Wednesday, raising speculation over his future in politics. Later, he tweeted that he discussed the farmers' protest with the Union home minister and urged him to repeal the contentious farm laws. Amarinder's media adviser Ameen Thukral said too much was being read into the visit, reported ndtv.com. Singh arrived in the national capital on Tuesday, days after he quit as the chief minister of Punjab. The meeting assumes significance as Singh had not opened his cards but had claimed that he had not quit politics and would fight till the end. The veteran Congress leader had also launched a scathing attack on his bete noire, Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was appointed as the party's Punjab unit president. Sidhu quit as the Punjab Congress chief on Tuesday. As regards his political future, Singh had said there were several options before him. Sidhu had on Tuesday abruptly sent in his resignation from the post of Punjab Congress president, days after the party removed entrenched leader Amarinder Singh as chief minister following a tussle between the two. Sidhu’s sudden decision not only intensified the problems of the ruling Congress in poll-bound Punjab, it also caused deep embarrassment to Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra as they had taken a huge risk by bulldozing all hurdles to project him as the supreme leader in the state. The majority of senior leaders in the high command structure had not been in favour of promoting Sidhu but Rahul and Priyanka appeared to have been swayed by his popularity in their effort to retain Punjab in the next election. Sidhu wrote in his resignation letter: “The collapse of a man’s character stems from the compromise corner. I can never compromise on Punjab’s future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab. Therefore, I hereby resign as the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. I will continue to serve the Congress.” He posted the letter on Twitter without clearance from the central leadership, sources said. The sources said that while Sidhu was upset because he wanted to become chief minister after Amarinder’s exit, his anger boiled over when new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi made appointments without his approval. But the dominant sentiment in the party is hostile towards Sidhu with most leaders condemning his “immaturity” as “unpardonable betrayal”. The sources claimed that even Rahul was livid. While Amarinder asserted that Sidhu was not a “stable personality”, most other senior leaders said Sidhu should have considered the risks Rahul and Priyanka had taken for him. They believe the Congress should persist with the pro-Dalit narrative in the aftermath of Channi’s elevation by discarding Sidhu and immediately appointing someone else as the state unit chief. These leaders are of the opinion that dilly-dallying will further complicate the web that the party looks stuck in. A senior leader told The Telegraph: “Sidhu is now raking up small issues without realising the overarching goal of winning the election. The main issue is that he feels the chief minister is not willing to be a puppet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
29-09-2021||India||Maha survey indicates 75% Covid patients were overcharged by hospitals||As many as 75 per cent of Covid-19 patients were overcharged by private hospitals, a survey carried out in Maharashtra has found. “Nearly half of these patients died during treatment,” said Dr Abahy Shukla of the Jan Aarogya Abhiyan, an umbrella group of activists working in the healthcare sector. “We surveyed the cases of 2,579 patients, spoke to their relatives and audited the hospital bills. Ninety-five per cent of them were admitted to private hospitals,” he said. “We found that 75 per cent were overcharged. On average, the amount that was overcharged ranged between Rs 10,000 to Rs 1 lakh,” said Dr Shukla. Most of these patients were hospitalized during the second wave of the pandemic. There were at least 220 women among these patients who shelled out between Rs 1 lakh to 2 lakh more than the actual bill, while in 212 cases, the patients or their relatives paid more than Rs two lakh in excess, Dr Shukla claimed. “Though the Maharashtra government had announced that the rates of treatment of COVID-19 at private hospitals will be regulated, the official instructions were not heeded,” he said. “Many of these patients or their families faced a financial crisis, were forced to sell off jewelry, borrow from relatives or even take out loans from money lenders to settle the bills,” he said. As many as 1,460 (56 per cent) of the patients or their relatives faced this situation, as per the survey. “Seema Bhagwat, who lost her husband to mucormycosis, a fungal infection which some COVID-19 patients contracted,” said he was in hospital for 38 days and they were presented a bill of Rs 16 lakh. “Still, I paid three EMIs of the bank. There was insurance cover for the bank loan, but because I approached them late, they are denying my claim. How can they expect me to submit my husband's death certificate the day after he died?” she asked. “I am not begging for help. But the hospital bill should be audited and if I have been overcharged, the difference should be refunded to me,” she said. Shakuntala Bhalerao, convenor of the Abhiyan, said what is lacking is a law to regulate hospitals. “A draft of the clinical establishment bill which seeks to create a regulatory mechanism is gathering dust,” she added. “We fought two cases in Pune recently and the hospitals returned Rs 83,000 and Rs 90,000. They even admitted that they had overcharged. But we cannot fight each and every such case. There has to be some state mechanism to protect patients,” Bhalerao said. Mukund Dikshit, a senior activist, recounted that a police complaint had to be filed in Nashik because a hospital refused to hand over a patient's body over unpaid bill. “After intervention by the police and some activists, the body was handed over, but the hospital faced no action,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
29-09-2021||India||Drones dance at first of its kind exhibition in India||Botlab Dynamics, a start-up incubated at IIT-Delhi and the Drone Federation of India, put up the country’s first drone display and it had about 80 small drones dancing about and creating intricate multi-coloured formations in the skies above IIT-Delhi. Here are the videos:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
29-09-2021||India||Punjab CM reaches out to Sidhu||Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday reached out to a miffed Navjot Singh Sidhu and offered to resolve issues through talks, a day after the former cricketer resigned as the Punjab Congress chief. Channi also said the party is supreme and the government follows the party's ideology. "I have spoken to Sidhu sahab over the telephone today. Party is supreme and the government accepts the party's ideology and follows that. (I told him that) you should come, sit and talk, he told reporters on the sidelines of a cabinet meeting. The (state) president is the head of the party. The head has to sit among the family," he said, adding that Sidhu had agreed to meet. Sidhu, who had abruptly put in his papers plunging the Congress into a fresh crisis, on Wednesday broke his silence, questioning the appointments of the director-general of police, state's advocate general and tainted leaders. Channi, however, defended the appointments, saying he had acted on the basis of feedback from the party members. "I have no objection or any ego in anything," he said, indicating that he was ready to review the decisions. Asked what was Sidhu's response to his offer to talk it out, Channi said that Sidhu told him that he would give the time for the meeting. "We will sit with him and talk," he said. To a question, Channi said Minister Pargat Singh and some other leaders went to meet Sidhu. Asked if Sidhu had done the right thing, Channi said he could not comment on it. "I will never deviate from the issues of the people of Punjab," he asserted. He said, "Whatever feedback we got from colleagues and others and whosoever can be appointed, we appointed. But the decisions will be taken according to the will of the people of Punjab."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
29-09-2021||India||NHRC to Centre: Sanitary workers to be treated as ‘frontline health workers’||The NHRC has issued an advisory to the Centre and the states, calling for fixing of responsibility in cases of death of sanitation workers due to manual scavenging, including hazardous cleaning, officials said on Wednesday. It has also advised that sanitary workers should be treated as "frontline health workers" for all purposes and made several recommendations to provide security cover and ensure protection of human rights of persons engaged in such hazardous work. In the advisory, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), headed by Justice Arun Kumar Mishra, calls for "fixing responsibility and accountability of local authority and contractor/employer, jointly and severally in case of any death that occur due to manual scavenging including hazardous cleaning". In a letter through its Secretary General Bimbadhar Pradhan to the secretaries of Union ministries and departments concerned, and the chief secretaries of states and administrators of union territories, the commission has asked for the implementation of its recommendations in the advisory and sought an action-taken report within three months, the panel said. These ministries include the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment and the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, and the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis, the rights panel said. The advisory has focused on various key areas which include ensuring proper safety gear for sanitary workers, use of technology, responsibility of hiring agencies or employers, authorities concerned, strengthening infrastructure for providing sanitary services, awareness, sensitisation, ensuring access to justice and rehabilitation of manual scavengers, it added. The NHRC has recommended that all sanitary workers entering or cleaning septic tanks or sewer lines must be provided helmets, safety jackets, gloves, masks, gumboots, safety glasses, and torchlights, along with oxygen cylinders. "Use of duly acknowledged and recognised technological equipment eg, Bandicoot, Swere Crocs, KAMJET GR, Mobile Septage Treatment Unit (MSU), etc be encouraged by stakeholders," another recommendation read. A nationwide database for rehabilitated and trained or skilled manual scavengers for providing required assistance, and ensuring proper identification of persons engaged in manual scavenging are other recommendations made by the NHRC. All officials in departments concerned at the Centre and in state and local bodies are to be sensitised, and measures should be taken to sensitise the public, besides monitoring of implementation of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation (PEMSR) Act, 2013, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
29-09-2021||India||Take me back to my mother: Pakistani terrorist captured by India asks handlers||A Pakistani terrorist captured alive by the Indian Army during a live encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Uri sector has asked his handlers in the neighbouring country to take him back to his mother. "I appeal to the Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) area commander, the ISI and the Pakistan Army to take me back to my mother just like they sent me here (India)," Ali Babar Patra, the teenage terrorist from Pakistan, said in a video message released by the Army here on Wednesday. Patra was nabbed by the Army during a live encounter in the Uri sector on September 26, when he asked for his life to be spared. Another Pakistani infiltrator was killed in the nine-day operation that began on September 18. In the video message, Patra said the Pakistan Army, the ISI and the LeT were spreading lies about the situation in Kashmir. "We were told that the Indian Army is carrying out a bloodbath, but everything is peaceful here. I want to tell my mother that the Indian Army has taken good care of me," he said. He also said the behaviour of the officers and jawans of the Indian Army with the locals who visit the camp where he was lodged was extremely good. "I can hear the azaan (call for prayers) on the loudspeakers five times a day. The behaviour of the Indian Army is completely opposite to that of the Pakistan Army. This makes me feel that there is peace in Kashmir," Patra said. "On the contrary, they take advantage of our helplessness in Pakistani Kashmir to send us here," he added. Giving details of his initiation into terror ranks, Patra said he lost his father seven years ago and had to drop out of school due to financial constraints. "I took a job in a garment factory in Sialkot where I met Anas who used to recruit people for the LeT. Due to my situation, I went with him. He paid me Rs 20,000 and promised to pay another Rs 30,000 later on," he added. Patra also shared the details of the weapons training he underwent with the Pakistan Army and the ISI at Camp Khyber Delihabibullah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
29-09-2021||India||Taliban-controlled Civil Aviation Authorty asks India to resume commercial flights||The Taliban-controlled Afghanistan Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) has written to Indian aviation regulator DGCA to resume commercial flights between the countries. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is yet to take a decision in the matter. The last commercial flight between India and Afghanistan was operated by Air India on Kabul-Delhi route on August 15, the day Kabul fell to the Taliban. Afghanistan airspace was declared "uncontrolled" by the CAA on August 16. In a letter dated September 7, 2021, CAA's Acting Minister Alhaj Hameedullah Akhunzada requested the DGCA to permit commercial flights of Ariana Afghan airline and Kam Air between India and Afghanistan. Akhunzada stated in his letter: "As you are well informed that recently the Kabul airport was damaged and (left) dysfunctional by American troops before their withdrawal." With the help of technical assistance by Qatar, the airport became operational once again and a NOTAM (notice to airmen) in this regard was issued on September 6, he noted. "The intention of this letter is to keep the smooth passenger movement between two countries based on signed MoU and our national carriers (Ariana Afghan airline and Kam Air) aim to commence their scheduled flights," he said. "Therefore, Afghanistan CAA requests you to facilitate their commercial flights," Akhunzada noted. "The civil aviation of Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan avails its highest assurance," he added. "As a neighbour of Afghanistan, India is naturally concerned about the recent changes in that country and their implications for the region," Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had said on September 20. He demanded that Afghan territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
29-09-2021||India||CBI report on use of toxic materials in firecrackers very serious: SC||The Supreme Court Wednesday said the CBI report on use of toxic chemicals in manufacturing of firecrackers is very serious and "prima facie", there has been violation of the court's orders on use of barium and labelling of fireworks. A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said the CBI has found harmful chemicals such as barium salts in the seized items. The apex court noted that manufacturers such as Hindustan Fireworks and Standard Fireworks purchased barium in huge quantities and used these chemicals in the fireworks. The bench granted one more opportunity to the manufacturers to put forward their case with respect to the report of the Joint Director, CBI, Chennai and directed that a copy of the preliminary inquiry report of the CBI be served to all the concerned counsels by Thursday. The top court said that everyday there is a celebration in the country but it has to look at other factors as well and cannot allow people to suffer and die. The matter is listed for next hearing on October 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
29-09-2021||India||Rahul accuses PM of breaking bridges between Indians||Congress MP from Wayanad Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of breaking the relationships and ‘bridges’ between the people and claimed that this was leading to ‘shattering’ of the idea of India. Rahul Gandhi, in Kerala for a day, also alleged that it was ‘arrogance’ on the part of the Prime Minister to claim that only he knows or understands India and no one else, especially when he was making the claims without finding out about the culture, language, way of life and problems of the people of the various states and religions. The Congress leader, while speaking at the inauguration of a dialysis centre in Malappuram district of Kerala, said that India was not just a geographical territory, it was the people living here and the relationships they have with each other. “My problem with the Prime Minister is that he is breaking these relationships. If he is breaking the relationships between people of India, then he is shattering the idea of India. That is why I oppose him,” he said. “When he (PM) breaks the relationships between Indians, it is my duty, my job, my commitment to repair the bridges between the people. Every time he uses hatred to break bridges, it is my duty to repair them with love and compassion,” he added. The Congress MP further said that he cannot build the bridges without understanding the different traditions, ideas, religions and cultures in the country and for that one needs to visit the various states and religious places in the country with humility and the willingness to understand. "If I go to these places with arrogance, then I am a fool. How can I go to people of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, who have a history of thousands of years, and claim to know them. I have to go there with humility. Otherwise, how can I define what India is?" "Imagine the arrogance of that person who claims -- 'I know what India is. I know what people of Kerala need. I know what people of Tamil Nadu need'. Imagine the arrogance of such a person who claims that only he knows what India is and what people of India need. This is another problem that I have with Prime Minister Modi. He is convinced nobody understands this land like he does," the Congress leader said. Therefore, the fight here is between humility and arrogance, between temper and compassion, between self-interest and welfare of others, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
29-09-2021||India||Low-pressure belt in Gujarat likely to intensify into cyclonic storm: IMD||A well-marked low-pressure area over south Gujarat was likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm, the IMD said on Wednesday, and asked fishermen not to venture into the Arabian Sea off the state coast and suggested total suspension of fishing activities till October 2. It also asked fishermen who were out in the sea to return to the coast by Wednesday evening. Several parts of south Gujarat and Saurashtra region received heavy rainfall on Tuesday and Wednesday, and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted more widespread showers in the state in the next two days. A few places in Amreli, Bhavnagar, Rajkot and Jamnagar districts of Saurashtra, as well as Anand, Bharuch, among others, likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rainfall during the next two days, the IMD said in its latest forecast. In a special bulletin issued in the afternoon, the IMD said the remnants of cyclonic storm 'Gulab' lay as a well-marked low-pressure area over south Gujarat region and the adjoining Gulf of Khambhat at 8.30 am on Wednesday. "It is very likely to move west-northwestwards, emerge into the northeast Arabian Sea and intensify into a depression by Thursday. It is then very likely to move further west-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. Thereafter, it is likely to continue to move west-northwestwards towards Pakistan Makran coast, moving away from the Indian coast," it said. The IMD warned fishermen not to venture into the north Arabian Sea off Gujarat coast from Wednesday to Saturday and suggested total suspension of fishing activities there during the period. It also asked fishermen who were out in the sea to return to the coast and move to safer places by Wednesday evening. Gujarat has so far received 90 per cent of its average annual rainfall, the state's Special Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) said. In the 24-hour period ending at 6 am on Wednesday, Surat's Umarpada taluka received 218 mm rainfall and Palsana got 192 mm rain. Several parts of Dangs, Valsad, Narmada, Ahmedabad, Anand, Tapi and other districts also received very heavy showers on Tuesday, the SEOC said. In six hours since 6 am Wednesday, heavy rainfall was recorded in parts of Bharuch and Navsari districts in south Gujarat, and Amreli and Bhavnagar in Saurashtra, as per the SEOC data. Bharuch taluka of the district received 95 mm rainfall, Rajula in Amreli recorded 78 mm, and Jafrabad in Amreli district 69 mm rainfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
29-09-2021||India||TMC doing the same thing in Goa as BJP did in Bengal, says Congress||All India Congress Committee's Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao on Wednesday claimed that the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC was doing the same thing in Goa what the BJP did to it in Bengal. The remarks came days after former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro resigned as Congress MLA, ahead of the state polls due next year. Faleiro is set to join the Trinamul Congress (TMC) in Calcutta on Wednesday in the presence of the party president and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Talking to PTI, Rao said the TMC was doing exactly the same thing that the BJP did to Mamata Banerjee in Benga". Notably, TMC leader Derek O'Brien recently said that his party would be contesting the Goa Legislative Assembly elections due in February next year. "Trinamul means grassroot, Mamata has worked at the grassroot level and has come up. But, where is the grassroot here (Goa)? This looks like a BJP strategy...of coming to Goa in chartered aircraft, offering bags to people, telling them that we will fund your election if you join us," Rao said. "This is like trying to do what Mamata Didi alleged the BJP (of doing) in Bengal, what they were doing to form government (before the Bengal polls earlier this year), getting ministers, MLAs to defect, she is doing the same thing here," he said. With the Congress's strength reduced to just four MLAs in the 40-member Goa Assembly, Rao denied that the party had left space for others to enter the coastal state. "In 2017 (polls), the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came to Goa. It was more in news that time compared to what Mamata is in the news today. But it is not as simple as that. The Congress had won 17 seats (in the 2017 Goa polls)," Rao said. On the exit of Luizinho Faleiro from the party, Rao termed it as "good riddance". "Not many people have gone with him, not many people have joined him. If you look at response on social media and from the party cadres, everyone is saying good riddance. Good for the party. That is the response we are getting," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
29-09-2021||India||IAF helicopter rescues three from Latur village amid floods||A day after heavy water discharge from the Manjara dam caused flooding in some places of Maharashtra's Marathwada region, an IAF team on Wednesday rescued three people stranded at an inundated village in Latur with the help of a helicopter, a district administration official said. Following heavy rains in Marathwada over the last few days, the NDRF was mobilised and helicopters were deployed to rescue people stuck in some of the flooded places in the region. On Wednesday morning, a helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) rescued three people, Nagorao Kisan Tikanare (50), his wife Rukmabai (45) and son Chandrakant (11) from Poharegaon village in Renapur tehsil, where they were stranded in the flood, the official said in a release. After heavy showers over the last few days, rains subsided in Latur on Wednesday. Heavy water discharge from the Manjara dam on Tuesday following heavy rains led to flooding in some villages of Beed, Latur and Osmanabad districts in Marathwada, officials earlier said. On Wednesday, 12 out of the total 18 gates of the dam were closed, which reduced the water discharge from the reservoir. In the last two days, at least 13 people died in heavy showers, floods and lightning in parts of Maharashtra with the Marathwada region bearing the major brunt of rain fury, while more than 560 people were rescued after the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was mobilised and helicopters were deployed, officials said on Tuesday. Besides, more than 200 cattle perished or were washed away and a number of houses were damaged in torrential rains that lashed Marathwada over the last few days, causing havoc in a region which is considered a perennially drought-plagued area, they said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday forecast 'extremely heavy rains' at a few places in Marathwada in the next 24 hours. The Marathwada region in central Maharashtra which faced the rain fury comprises eight districts - Aurangabad, Latur, Osmanabad, Parbhani, Nanded, Beed, Jalna and Hingoli.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
29-09-2021||India||'Deshbhakti' floods new curriculum of Delhi schools||Starting the class with five minutes of "deshbahkti dhyan", maintaining "deshbhakti diary", Flag Day activity and exploring why "India is glorious but still not developed", are among the main features of Delhi government's ambitious patriotism curriculum which will be rolled out in its schools. The curriculum for classes nursery to 12, which was launched at a mega event at Chattrasal stadium on Tuesday, will not have any textbooks. According to officials, the 40-minute classes will be conducted every day for classes six to eight and twice a week for classes nine to 12. "Each class will begin with a five-minute activity called deshbhakti dhyan. During the mediation, students will chant the lines 'I bow before my country and I respect Bharat Mata' through their minds," explained an official of the Directorate of Education (DoE). "The children will then be asked to take a vow to honour their country and preserve its respect. In the end, the students will be asked to think of five people who they consider patriots and thank them in their minds," the official said. The students will be asked to maintain a new notebook or diary as "deshbhakti diary" which will be a reflective journal to document learnings, thoughts and feelings along the journey of the Deshbhakti Curriculum and will have notes related to the homework. The topics include taking responsibility towards the country and its progress, constructive criticism, respect for and harmonious coexistence with others, critically thinking about issues confronting the country, comprehensive conception of patriotism, linking patriotism to the lived realities and everyday actions of students and working for the country's development with pride and honesty. Some of the chapters are: 'My India is glorious but why not developed', 'Deshbhakti: My country my pride', 'Who is a Deshbhakt' and 'India of my dreams'. "Facilitator's handbooks have been designed for three cohorts -- nursery to class five; classes six to eight and classes nine to 12 -- and these will be used to inculcate patriotism among the students through simple activities," the DoE official added. The facilitator's handbooks for two cohorts -- classes six to eight and nine to 12 -- and 100 stories of freedom fighters and patriots were also unveiled at the launch event by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Describing the homework activities students will be asked to do, the DoE official said, "Students will ask the key question of the chapter to three people older that them- one from their family and two outside of their family. The activity is intended to help children to seek views and opinions of people around them -- adults and acquaintances." "It will encourage them to listen to different views and thoughts of the people around them about the country, enhance the expanse of discussion and broaden student perspective," the official added. The students will also participate in Flag Day activity as part of the curriculum. "The activity is aimed to establish a connect between students' behaviours and the country. The idea is to make students realise that every act of theirs makes the country's flag happy or sad. Each student will make his or her own flag at the start of the curriculum," the official said. The teachers' handbooks come with a set of "dos and don'ts" for conducting these classes they have been instructed not to criticise children's answers to which they do not agree and not to present their personal thoughts or opinions as the correct answer; not to stop children from asking questions or cut them off and to listen to them with patience; not to stop discussions on sensitive topics or present their own views and let children form their own thoughts through the discussion. The chief minister had announced the plan for Deshbhakti Curriculum on the 73rd Independence Day celebrations in 2019. The curriculum has been prepared by Delhi government school teachers, with inputs from NGO partners and experts. Sisodia said at the launch event on Tuesday that since this is the first year (of the curriculum) and "we are celebrating the 75th anniversary of Independence, we are including 100 patriots". "Next year onwards, we will include 100 more and then another hundred after that. This would go on and on. Right from nursery to class 12, a child will be able to witness at least 700-800 stories and 500-600 patriotic songs and poems," he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
29-09-2021||India||Day after quitting abruptly, Sidhu questions appointment of Punjab DGP and advocate general||Breaking his silence a day after abruptly resigning as the Punjab Congress chief, Navot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday raised questions over the appointments of the director-general of police and the state's advocate general. Plunging the Congress into a fresh crisis months ahead of the assembly elections in the state, Sidhu put in his papers on Tuesday shortly after the allocation of portfolios to the new ministers of the Charanjit Singh Channi cabinet. Taking to Twitter a day later, Sidhu said his objective had always been to improve the lives of people and to make a difference. "My fight is for the issues and an agenda of Punjab," he said in an over four-minute video clip shared on his Twitter handle. Apparently referring to senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, who has been given the additional charge of the director general of Punjab Police, Sidhu said, "When I see those who gave clean chit to Badals six years back such persons have been given the responsibility for delivering justice." Sahota was the head of a special investigation team formed in 2015 by the then Akali government to probe the sacrilege incidents. Sidhu also apparently questioned the appointment of A P S Deol as the state's new advocate general. "Those who secured blanket bails, they are advocate general," he said. Deol is a senior advocate of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and has been a counsel for former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini. He had been representing the ex-top cop in various cases against him. "My fight is issue-based and I have stood by it for a long time. There can't be any compromise on a pro-Punjab agenda. I can never misguide the high command nor allow it to be misguided," Sidhu further said in the video. "I will make any sacrifice to stand by principles. I don't need to think much for it. I broke the system where tainted ministers and officers were accommodated. Now tainted ministers and officers can't be appointed again. I oppose such appointments," he added, before saying that he won't accept the induction of tainted ministers in the Punjab cabinet. Sidhu’s sudden decision to resign not only intensified the problems of the ruling Congress in poll-bound Punjab, it also caused deep embarrassment to Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra as they had taken a huge risk by bulldozing all hurdles to project him as the supreme leader in the state. The majority of senior leaders in the high command structure had not been in favour of promoting Sidhu but Rahul and Priyanka appeared to have been swayed by his popularity in their effort to retain Punjab in the next election. Sidhu wrote in his resignation letter: “The collapse of a man’s character stems from the compromise corner. I can never compromise on Punjab’s future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab. Therefore, I hereby resign as the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. I will continue to serve the Congress.” Sources said that while Sidhu was upset because he wanted to become chief minister after Amarinder’s exit, his anger boiled over when new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi made appointments without his approval. Sidhu’s supporters said the cabinet too wasn’t formed with his full consent and certain other appointments were seen by him as a compromise with corruption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
29-09-2021||India||Court's power of contempt cannot be taken away even by legislative enactment: SC||Observing that the court's power of contempt can't be taken away even by legislative enactment, the Supreme Court on Wednesday held the chairperson of an NGO guilty of contempt for not depositing Rs 25 lakh for "scandalising and browbeating" the court. "We are of the view that the contemnor is clearly guilty of contempt of court and his action to scandalise the court cannot be countenanced," the top court said. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said the chairperson of NGO, Suraz India Trust, Rajiv Daiya has been "throwing mud" at all and sundry including the court, administrative staff and the state government. "The power to punish for contempt is a constitutional power vested with this court which cannot be taken away even by a legislative enactment," the court said. The top court issued notice to Daiya and directed him to be present on October 7 for hearing of the sentence. With regard to recovery of money, the bench said it can take place as arrears of land revenue. The top court had issued contempt notice to Daiya as to why he should not be proceeded against and sentenced for his endeavour to scandalise the court. Daiya had told the bench that he did not have the resources to pay the costs imposed by the apex court and would approach the President of India with a mercy plea. The apex court was hearing an application filed by Daiy seeking recall of the apex court's 2017 judgement by which it had imposed costs of Rs 25 lakh on it for filing 64 PILs over the years without any success and "repeatedly misusing" the jurisdiction of the top court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
29-09-2021||India||Locked  up in my house again, says Mehbooba Mufti||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday claimed that she has been put under house arrest again as she had planned to visit Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir. The former chief minister had on Tuesday alleged that Army personnel had thrashed a family in Tral town of Pulwama and injured a female member. Mufti said she was going to meet the family on Wednesday. "Locked up in my house today yet again for attempting to visit the village in Tral allegedly ransacked by army. This is the real picture of Kashmir that visiting dignitaries must be shown instead of GOIs sanitised & guided picnic tours," Mufti tweeted. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief also posted a picture of a security forces vehicle allegedly blocking the main gate of her residence on Gupkar road. On Tuesday, Mufti had tweeted: "Army from Yagwani camp in Tral ransacked homes & ruthlessly thrashed a family last night. The daughter owing to her serious injuries was admitted to hospital. Not the first time that civilians from this village have been beaten up by army in this area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
29-09-2021||India||India logs 18k Covid cases, active caseload lowest in 194 days||The daily rise in coronavirus infections remained below 20,000 for the second consecutive day with 18,870 fresh cases recorded in a single day, while the active cases declined to 2,82,520, the lowest in 194 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,37,16,451. The death toll climbed to 4,47,751 with 378 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.84 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.83 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 9,686 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 15,04,713 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 56,74,50,185. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.25 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for last 30 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.82 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 96 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,29,86,180, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 87.66 crore. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 378 new fatalities include 149 from Kerala, 64 from Haryana and 60 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,47,751 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,962 from Maharashtra, 37,763 from Karnataka, 35,526 from Tamil Nadu, 25,087 from Delhi, 24,810 from Kerala, 22,891 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,764 from Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
29-09-2021||India||Thane man goes for Covid shot, gets anti-rabies vaccine instead||A man was administered an anti-rabies medicine instead of COVID-19 vaccine at a medical centre in Maharashtra's Thane district, following which a doctor and a nurse of the facility were suspended, a civic official said. Local resident Rajkumar Yadav went to the civic-run medical centre in Kalwa area here on Monday to get a jab against the coronavirus infection. He stood in a wrong queue and after being vaccinated, he was informed that he was administered the vaccine against rabies, a spokesperson of the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) told reporters on Tuesday. The man panicked, but he is fine and has no complications, the official said. He later complained to authorities and based on a preliminary enquiry, a woman doctor, who was in-charge of the medical centre, and a nurse were placed under suspension for the goof-up, the official said. The medical centre, located in a slum colony of Kalwa, provides vaccination against various diseases to people in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
29-09-2021||India||Kanhaiya Kumar answers why he chose to join Congress||Kanhaiya Kumar, whose rousing call for “azadi” on the Jawaharlal Nehru University campus in March 2016 had catapulted him to the forefront of the ideological struggle in the country, joined the Congress on Tuesday with the assertion that it is the only party equipped to lead that struggle. “India today needs the valour of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, the equality of Babasaheb Ambedkar and the unity of Mahatma Gandhi,” Kanhaiya said, addressing a news conference at the party headquarters along with fellow youth leader Jignesh Mevani. “The Congress is the party that will take forward Gandhi’s legacy, Sarojini Naidu’s ideals, and follow the path of Ambedkar, Nehru, Ashfaqullah Khan, Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh and Maulana Azad. When we talk of equality, it is not limited to some individuals, it is the history of being an Indian and if there is any party that encompasses this within itself, it is the Congress,” he said. The entry of Kanhaiya, seen as the country’s most promising young politician, and firebrand activist Jignesh is a powerful political message that underlines the Congress’s credentials as the most formidable force that can stop the Sangh parivar juggernaut. Both Kanhaiya and Jignesh, who is an Independent MLA and a Dalit rights activist, have risen from the grassroots by the dint of their talent and sustained struggle against the State’s might. Out of 545 seats in the Lok Sabha, in 200 there is no party against the BJP other than the Congress, Kanhaiya said, adding that if the big ship drowns, so will the smaller boats. The Congress has to survive for the country to survive and for the aspirations of the youths to survive, he said. “Many of my friends have not correctly figured out the nature of the battle in their political imagination. They are still obsessed with protecting their political ‘showrooms’. When a mall is on fire, you don’t try to save individual shops,” he said, calling for the breaking down of narrow political walls in the bigger ideological battle. While he said this in response to a question about his decision to move from the Left to the Congress, it was a message for the wider Opposition. “The Congress is the oldest and most democratic party,” Kanhaiya said, daring the media to question him about dynasty, which no one did. The Indian identity, that of Buddha, Kabir and Nanak, and of the courage to question power in every era, is under threat, he said. Referring to the “dance on a corpse” in Assam, Kanhaiya stressed the urgency of saving the idea of India, the India of Gandhi’s, Ambedkar’s and Bhagat Singh’s dreams. Shouldn’t every organisation in the country have portraits of these three leaders, Kanhaiya asked. The Indian ethos was such that if there was a death in a village, the whole village would not eat. Now, after lakhs of Indians died of Covid, there was a celebration for the Prime Minister’s birthday, he added. “Who your friends are will get automatically decided once you choose your enemy. The people who are in power now are vitiating India’s intellectual tradition, its culture, core values, its history, its present and its future,” he said. Although his decision to join the Congress has created heartburn within the CPI and Left circles, Kanhaiya expressed his gratitude to the party he was “born” in. “They taught me, trained me, gave me the fighting spirit,” he said, but stressed that this was a time to shed differences and fight for the country and the Congress as the biggest Opposition party was leading the battle. “Everyone should come together because the country belongs to all of us.” Kanhaiya thanked the citizens who are fighting the ideological battle with friends and family in WhatsApp groups and at dinner tables. This is a time of urgency, he said, and called upon the youths not to sit on the fence wondering which way to go but to fight with all they had. “I was a member of the AISF (All-India Students’ Federation) till yesterday,” Kanhaiya said. “The inaugural session of the AISF in 1936 was addressed by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru,” he added, stressing that all youths fighting for India’s freedom had come together irrespective of their ideologies. “We are back to the pre-1947 situation.” An orator who combines historical perspective with clarity of thought and wit, Kanhaiya offered glimpses of this at the news conference. He thanked the media for at least questioning the Opposition so that people would remember that the job of the media was to ask questions. He also promised to answer every question “because I am not the Prime Minister”. Jignesh, who has not joined the party formally because he is an Independent MLA, declared that he was aligned with the Congress family and ideology and would fight the next election in Gujarat on a Congress ticket. “The entire nation has been witness to the havoc that originated in Gujarat. India never faced such a crisis; the Constitution is under attack, the idea of India is being demolished. There is a conspiracy to spread the poison of hate to break the society. “When I introspect what should be my foremost responsibility under these circumstances, the answer I get is to do whatever I can to save the Constitution. And where should I stand in this critical battle? With the party that led the freedom struggle,” he said. Although Rahul Gandhi was not present at the news conference, the former Congress president accompanied Kanhaiya, Jignesh and Gujarat working president Hardik Patel to garland the statue of Bhagat Singh in Delhi’s Shaheed Park on his birth anniversary. A large crowd was mobilised. No other leader in recent memory has been welcomed into the party with a special event like this. “In the empire of lies, it is truth that brings revolution. New and old comrades will have to together participate in this satyagraha,” Rahul tweeted in Hindi, posting a photograph from the Shaheed Park event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
29-09-2021||India||Sentinels call to fortify frontiers with Pakistan and China ||The top brass of the Border Security Force (BSF) and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have requested the Union home ministry to raise additional battalions to fortify the frontiers with Pakistan and China amid heightened tension along the two borders, sources in the two forces have told The Telegraph. ITBP guards the 3,488km Line of Actual Control with China while the BSF is deployed at the International Border with Pakistan and also at the Bangladesh frontier that runs through Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Meghalaya and Mizoram. Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. Indian security agencies are also concerned over infiltration bids from Pakistan and the spike in incidents of Pakistani drones entering Indian territory to drop arms, ammunition, drugs and money to fuel terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. “We need more battalions and have requested the Union home ministry to look into our proposal,” said a BSF official. Sources in the ministry said the two border-guarding forces felt that additional battalions were needed to ensure better patrolling in sensitive areas. Sources in the security establishment have hinted at a collusive threat from Pakistan and China amid the border standoff in eastern Ladakh. The latest intelligence report has suggested that Chinese troops were conducting joint patrols with Pakistan’s army in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, and Beijing is helping set up multiple surface-to-air missile launch sites and a missile defence system in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
29-09-2021||India||Punjab: Sidhu abruptly resigns as state Congress president||Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday abruptly sent in his resignation from the post of Punjab Congress president, days after the party removed entrenched leader Amarinder Singh as chief minister following a tussle between the two. Sidhu’s sudden decision not only intensified the problems of the ruling Congress in poll-bound Punjab, it also caused deep embarrassment to Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra as they had taken a huge risk by bulldozing all hurdles to project him as the supreme leader in the state. The majority of senior leaders in the high command structure had not been in favour of promoting Sidhu but Rahul and Priyanka appeared to have been swayed by his popularity in their effort to retain Punjab in the next election. Sidhu wrote in his resignation letter: “The collapse of a man’s character stems from the compromise corner. I can never compromise on Punjab’s future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab. Therefore, I hereby resign as the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. I will continue to serve the Congress.” He posted the letter on Twitter without clearance from the central leadership, sources said. The sources said that while Sidhu was upset because he wanted to become chief minister after Amarinder’s exit, his anger boiled over when new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi made appointments without his approval. Sidhu’s supporters said the cabinet too wasn’t formed with his full consent and certain other appointments were seen by him as a compromise with corruption. Channi said on Tuesday that he would meet Sidhu and sort out the matter. Even Sidhu’s aides were huddled with him to resolve the crisis, trying to persuade him to withdraw the resignation keeping in mind the larger picture, particularly the Assembly elections next year. But the dominant sentiment in the party is hostile towards Sidhu with most leaders condemning his “immaturity” as “unpardonable betrayal”. The sources claimed that even Rahul was livid. While Amarinder asserted that Sidhu was not a “stable personality”, most other senior leaders said Sidhu should have considered the risks Rahul and Priyanka had taken for him. They believe the Congress should persist with the pro-Dalit narrative in the aftermath of Channi’s elevation by discarding Sidhu and immediately appointing someone else as the state unit chief. These leaders are of the opinion that dilly-dallying will further complicate the web that the party looks stuck in. A senior leader told The Telegraph: “Sidhu is now raking up small issues without realising the overarching goal of winning the election. The main issue is that he feels the chief minister is not willing to be a puppet. “He was already feeling let down because of the choice of Channi. But he felt he could act as super chief minister and wanted to be projected as the next chief minister in the election. There were no signs of capitulation by the high command to this kind of blackmail. Rahul Gandhi was determined to give Channi a chance to prove his leadership.” Another leader from Chandigarh said: “Rahul Gandhi took a great decision by setting the electoral discourse. The anti-incumbency factor got wiped away and everybody was discussing the Dalit factor. Sidhu was rattled by that because he is driven by his overweening ambition. If the party tries to strike any compromise with him and runs the risk of undermining Channi’s authority, the whole atmosphere will get vitiated. We have to forget Sidhu and persist with the Dalit card.” Channi is Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister. There have been some resignations in solidarity with Sidhu but leaders prefer a courageous response to weather this storm. Cabinet minister Razia Sultana, whose husband Mohd Mustafa is Sidhu’s adviser, resigned along with some party office-bearers. Around six MLAs visited Sidhu’s residence but that is not being seen as a real threat to the Channi government. The majority of the MLAs support a tough line and a prompt decision to end the perception of instability. Asked about Sidhu’s principled stand on zero tolerance on corruption, a Congress MP said: “Isn’t Rahul Gandhi committed to fighting corruption? If Sidhu had some concerns, he could have patiently dealt with it. There was a strong momentum in favour of the Congress and he consciously derailed it. If he is sulking at the personal level, he can’t harm the party. Is he sitting in a comedy circus? Politics is a serious business and the central leadership cannot afford to give him a second chance.” Some leaders have already conveyed to the high command that Sidhu’s popularity had been severely dented over the past few days because of his perceived arrogance and ambition. “He has become a subject of ridicule. Even common people are saying he is not a serious politician. He is seen as disinterested in letting a Dalit leader flourish. The party must close this chapter and move ahead without losing a single day,” a young leader from Punjab said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
29-09-2021||India||Telangana and Meghalaya seek additional foodgrain for migrants||No state barring Telangana and Meghalaya has so far sought additional foodgrain from the Centre for providing free rations to migrant workers in pursuance of a Supreme Court judgment in June, an RTI reply has revealed. While the information need not mean migrants across the country are being denied grains — some states like Bengal are providing such help to the needy from their own resources — the lack of response does raise the question whether a bottleneck exists somewhere in the chain. According to RTI activist Anjali Bharadwaj, information obtained under the Right to Information Act from the department of food and public distribution of the central government shows that despite the Supreme Court order, no tangible provisions have been put in place to provide free rations to migrant workers who do not possess ration cards. On June 29, 2021, in a case the Supreme Court had taken up suo motu, it had issued several directives to ensure food security for migrant and unorganised sector workers. “Information accessed under the RTI Act shows that the central and state governments have failed to comply with these directions,” Bharadwaj told The Telegraph. She said she had filed the RTI application with the Centre’s food and public distribution department seeking the following information. ⚫  The names of states that have sought additional dry foodgrain from the central government for disbursement among migrant labourers. ⚫  Copies of the letters/ communication/ correspondence through which the foodgrain had been sought. ⚫  Details of the quantity of additional foodgrain allocated by the Centre to each state government in August 2021. The reply stated that only the state governments of Telangana and Meghalaya had sought additional foodgrain from the Centre for providing rations to migrant labourers in pursuance of the apex court judgment. According to Bharadwaj, the department refused to furnish the correspondence on grains for migrants, claiming such information was exempt under Section 8(1)(e) of the RTI Act that pertains to information held in a fiduciary capacity. She said this was a violation of the RTI Act. On her plea seeking details of the allocations made to the states and Union Territories, the RTI reply stated that “so far no additional allocation of foodgrains has been made by this department to any state government” other than those of Telangana and Meghalaya. Bharadwaj had filed another RTI application with the department seeking details of the steps taken to implement the directive of the Supreme Court regarding re-determining coverage under the National Food Security Act. The reply states: “...Any revision in the State/UT-wise coverage shall be possible after the data of next census.…” Bharadwaj said: “This means that the government is looking at any revision only in 2023-24 when the next census is likely to be published. This would defeat the very purpose of the judgment.” In June, the Supreme Court had directed the Centre and the states to ensure that the National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW Project), as well as various public distribution system schemes for unorganised and migrant labourers, are implemented by all means by July 31, 2021, including the policy of “one-nation-one-ration-card” for such beneficiaries. The court had also said the Centre must provide additional foodgrain to the states and Union Territories upon the latter’s demand for implementing the special schemes for the unorganised and migrant labourers. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan (since retired) and M.R. Shah had passed the following directives while disposing of a batch of applications filed by the NGO Bandhua Mukti Morcha and others seeking relief for unorganised sector workers and migrant labourers, who had borne the brunt of the pandemic: ⚫ The central government must develop a portal on the National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW Project) in consultation with the National Informatics Centre for the registration of unorganised labourers and migrant workers. The Centre as well as the states and Union Territories must complete the process of setting up the portal not later than July 31, 2021. ⚫ The registration of unorganised labourers and migrant workers is to be completed at the earliest, but not later than December 31, 2021. The states and Union Territories and the licence holders and contractors will have to cooperate with the central government to complete the process of registration so that the benefits of the welfare schemes reach the beneficiaries. ⚫ The Centre is to allocate additional dry foodgrain as demanded by the states and Union Territories for distribution among migrant labourers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
29-09-2021||India||Women lawyers complain to SCBA for being kept away from event||A group of 54 women lawyers on Tuesday complained to the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) that several female lawyers were kept away from the September 26 event organised by the “Lady Advocates of the Supreme Court” to felicitate nine new judges  recent elevated to the Supreme Court. Addressed to SCBA president Vikas Singh, the letter stated: “While we were all eagerly looking forward to meet the Hon'ble CJI and the new judges and especially the historic strength of lady judges and express our appreciation and welcome them all, most of us had no knowledge of such an event taking place. “This function has been videographed and circulated in several WhatsApp groups and YouTube and therefore available on social media and we also came to know about it from the same. It has also received wide publicity in print media…. This function was declared to be hosted by ‘Lady Advocates of Supreme Court of India’ and was graced by the Hon'ble Judges.” The letter added: “We are constrained to write to you in response to an observation by the Hon'ble Chief Justice of India where he says he was disappointed to see such a thin crowd and that he expected 200–300 lady advocates to be present…. Clearly, the Hon'ble CJI is well aware of the strength of the lady advocate members practising before the Supreme Court of India, and accordingly, he was rightly disappointed without being aware that most of the lady lawyers regularly practising in the Supreme Court had no knowledge of the event and were not even informed or invited by the organizers.” The letter urged Singh to clarify whether the felicitation had the patronage of the SCBA or the SCAORA (Supreme Court Advocates on Records Association) and whether information regarding this felicitation was circulated amongst its members or if it was a purely private event. “If it was a private event, it appears that an impression was conveyed to the Hon'ble Chief Justice of India and his brother and sister Judges by the host(s) of this function that this is an official function representative of ladies practising before this Hon'ble Court. The same is evident from the speech of the Hon'ble CJI and the hosts. “Please do indicate to us as to whether there are any guidelines with respect to such private functions masquerading as official functions… and whether such activities based on false representation to the Hon'ble Judges must be deprecated and what the SCBA plans to do about it. Will the SCBA watch silently while its EC members use their official position to carry out private activities to the exclusion of the bar members?” the letter asked. The signatories to the letter included advocates Indra Sawhney, Sushma Suri and Anil Katiyar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
29-09-2021||India||Gadkari advances 'Asia’s largest tunnel' deadline by two years ||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday advanced by two years the deadline for completion of “Asia’s largest tunnel” at Zojila, that will provide an all-weather road to Ladakh, apparently turning the project into a pitch for 2024 Lok Sabha polls amid allegations that the promise of development in Jammu and Kashmir has remained elusive under the BJP-led central government. “It is Asia’s longest tunnel and after reviewing the work (today), they (company engaged in its construction) have promised me that they are trying to complete the project by 2023-end, that is one-and-a-half years to two years earlier. This is not a commitment. This is a target,” Gadkari told reporters. The Union minister for road transport and highways was here on a two-day visit to review the progress of various development works. In a lighter vein later, the minister said the official target for Zojila tunnel is 2026 but seeing the progress he can say that the project can be completed by December 2023. “This is the target we have set because we have an election in 2024,” he said. Gadkari said they are trying to hasten the project “without compromising on the quality” and are using “world’s best technology” to complete the tunnel. Various central governments have set ambitious targets for high-profile projects in Jammu and Kashmir but they have rarely been met. The world’s highest railway bridge, being built at a height of 359 metres above the river bed, was originally planned to be completed in 2009 but 12 years later it remains incomplete. The government is constructing the strategically important Z-Morh and Zojila tunnels on the Srinagar-Kargil highway, which will provide all-season road link to Ladakh. The length of the Z-Morh tunnel is 6.5km. The National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation, which is constructing the twin tunnels, put the length of Zojila at 14.15km but the minister said it was 13.5km.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
29-09-2021||India||Debate over image of Bhagat Singh used in Delhi and Punjab govt ads||Archivist Chaman Lal, honorary adviser to the Bhagat Singh Archives and Resource Centre here, has rued the use of an “unreal painting” of the freedom fighter to mark his 114th birth anniversary on Tuesday. However, former Union minister and chief election commissioner M.S. Gill insisted that the use of the turbaned image was ideal to celebrate Singh’s legacy as the more recognised photo of the freedom fighter wearing a hat was merely a disguise to evade arrest. There are four known photographs of Singh, who was born in West Punjab’s Banga village in 1907 — him as an 11-year-old, as a 17-year-old in a turban at Lahore’s National College, in custody at Lahore railway police station in 1927 where he is seen with his hair tied in a bun, and in trimmed hair and wearing a hat. The last picture had been clicked at the studio of photographer Sham Lal in 1929 before Singh hurled a bomb at the Central Legislative Assembly. However, the Punjab and Delhi state governments have in advertisements commemorating Singh’s birth anniversary used a painting of him wearing a yellow turban. Lal said the painting had little physical resemblance to Singh. Several other versions, including one in which Singh brandishes a revolver, are widely used. “Till the 70s, the photo with the hat was the most popular. With the rise of identity politics in the 70s, the yellow turbaned image was popularised as an assertion of his Jat Sikh identity —something which Bhagat Singh himself never stressed on,” Lal said. “In fact, being from a Congress family, he and his kin wore white turbans and khadi clothes, which was the trademark of those in the national movement at the time. I don’t know why the Congress betrays its own legacy with its leaders now wearing the yellow turban in his memory,” the archivist added. The Bhagat Singh Archives and Resource Centre, which functions under the Delhi government, circulated a booklet among officials on Monday with three of the original photos. However, both the Punjab and the Delhi governments brought out ads on Tuesday with the portrait of Singh in a yellow turban. Assembly elections are due in Punjab next year and Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party has been promoting the yellow turban worn in the style of the painting with its MP Bhagwant Mann always sporting it in Parliament. The AAP is a key player in Punjab, ruled by the Congress. London-based Punjabi author Amarjit Chandan, also a scholar on Bhagat Singh iconography, said Congress chief minister Giani Zail Singh had unveiled a statue of the freedom fighter wearing the hat in Khatkar Kalan — Singh’s ancestral village — in 1973. A bronze turbaned statue now stands at the spot, a change Chandan attributed to Gill who was principal secretary to Akali chief minister Parkash Singh Badal from 1978 to 80. Gill said he had no recollection of the 1973 statue or replacing it. He objected to Youth Congress banners on Tuesday with the hat photo. “Bhagat Singh is a hat that fits all heads, from the Far Left to the Far Right. His ties to the Arya Samaj and work as a revolutionary are claimed by the Right wing, his Marxist writings by the Left, and his Sikh family heritage by the Sikh parties. An RSS man or a Khalistani may simply ignore Bhagat Singh’s Why I am an Atheist (written in Lahore Central Jail before his execution in 1931),” Chandan said. He added: “The turban controversy is absurd. All males in the Punjab — Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs — wore turbans before Partition.” Gill, who later became a Congress MP, was instrumental in establishing a museum in Khatkar Kalan in 1981 and acquiring archival material on the freedom fighter for the Punjab government as an IAS officer. He said he installed the first turbaned bronze statue of Singh at Ludhiana’s Bhandari Bridge in 1979. “All hell broke loose in Punjab after the statue was unveiled. The Arya Samaj-controlled press started screaming, ‘how can a bloody IAS officer play politics?’ Of course, I was playing politics…. ‘Ab Bhagat Singh ko pagdi baandh diya, jisko dum hai utaar ke dekho (I have draped Bhagat Singh in a turban, let anyone who dares remove it),’ is what I said,” Gill said. He added: “Arya Samajis projected him as a hat-wearing Bollywood-ish gunda. He was from a Jat Sikh Sandhu family that wore turbans. He is seen in photos with long hair and a turban. The hat was a disguise. Netaji (Subhas Chandra) Bose escaped to Kabul in the guise of a Pathan. Is he honoured as a Pathan?” Gill was also instrumental in canvassing support and ensuring the installation of Singh’s statue in Parliament in 2008. “It was mostly Sikhs who were sent to the Cellular Jail and mostly Sikhs who were hanged for the freedom struggle. I asked (then Lok Sabha Speaker) Somnath Chatterjee, how is it that no Sikh has a statue here?” The freedom fighter’s family complained that the turbaned statue, created by master sculptor Ram V. Sutar, at Parliament resembled a middle-aged man whereas Singh was hanged when he was just 23. Lal pointed out that contemporary images of other Punjabi freedom fighters Udham Singh and Kartar Singh Sarabha also don’t often resemble them as they are shown with beards. However, their photographs show them clean-shaven. Singh’s nephew and academic Jagmohan Singh chairs the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Centenary Foundation in Khatkar Kalan which recently installed statues of Bhagat Singh, Shivaram Rajguru and Sukhdev Thapar, who were executed for killing police officer John Saunders in 1928. “These statues celebrate the centenary year of the Naujawan Bharat Sabha, which was Bhagat Singh’s youth movement during which time he wore a turban. Those using either the hat image or the turbaned one must explain why they do so. Bhagat Singh was clear that his movement was to rise above divisions of caste and religion and bring about equality in society,” Jagmohan Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
29-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh’s 'personal' trip to Delhi triggers speculation||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s “personal” trip to Delhi on Tuesday triggered speculation over the possibility of the miffed Congress veteran embracing the BJP as his current party struggles to set its house in order in the election-bound state. The murmurs started in the morning, even before his arch rival Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned as Punjab Congress president. Many conjectured that Amarinder was in Delhi to meet Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda. With the claims not substantiated by hard facts, Amarinder’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tried to counter the “unnecessary speculation” but in the process ended up fanning the rumours by not putting out a firm denial. “Too much being read into @capt_amarinder’s visit to Delhi. He’s on a personal visit during which he’ll meet some friends and also vacate the Kapurthala house for the new CM,” Thukral tweeted. “No need for any unnecessary speculation,” he added. The BJP was tight-lipped but sources didn’t rule out a meeting of Amarinder with Shah and Nadda. “There is no such meeting scheduled but politicians keep meeting each other. What is big in it?” one BJP leader said. Internally, BJP leaders felt that the 79-year-old Amarinder may not be of much use to the party given its unofficial retirement age of 75 but could be valuable in terms of harming its principal rival, the Congress. “In Punjab we don’t have much strength as we had banked on the Akali Dal in the state. Amarinder can add some strength during the upcoming polls if he joins us,” a BJP general secretary said. The Shiromani Akali Dal, a long-time ally of the BJP, snapped ties last year over the farm laws. BJP insiders said Amarinder being an old guard, had good relations with many senior party leaders. Amarinder, old-timers said, had a close relationship with late Arun Jaitley. “I don’t know about his equations with Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi or Amit Shah but he had been meeting both of them as chief minister,” one BJP leader said. “His (Amarinder’s) deep dislike for Sidhu, however, can take him to any extent,” the leader added, hoping that Amarinder would try to join the BJP to strike back at Sidhu and also the new Congress leadership of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
29-09-2021||India||Bhubaneswar to focus on electric vehicle charging||The Bhubaneswar Development Authority (BDA) has planned to develop a robust charging infrastructure across the city in order to promote the plying of more electric vehicles (EVs) in the Odisha capital. At a virtual meeting held on Monday under the chairmanship of Sanjay Kumar Singh, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner-cum-chief executive officer of Bhubaneswar Smart City and BDA vice-chairman, market leaders in EV infrastructure in India and other senior officials from various stakeholders deliberated on the need of setting up EV charging infrastructure. The meeting discussed the EV charging stations to be built across the city to be used by the people and public transport vehicles in the near future. The priority on selection of locations will be given mainly to malls, public parking lots, hotels, residential complexes, workplaces and highways. The city is planning to add a fleet of electric buses to its public transport network. In the first phase, the city will have seven EV charging stations at KIIT area (one fast charger and one slow charger), SUM Hospital (one slow charger), near Esplanade Mall, Rasulgarh (one fast charger and one slow charger), D.N. Regalia (one slow charger) and Krishna Plaza CRP Square (one slow charger). Later, more such facilities will be added. During the meeting, different EV vehicle infrastructure adopted by other cities such as Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Jaipur were discussed. N. Mohan, general manager (EV and EV charging infrastructure), Energy Efficiency Services Limited, Sandeep Bangia, Tata Power Company Limited head (EV and home automation business), senior officials from the state energy and commerce and transport departments, M. Shenbagam, CEO, Tata Power Central Odisha Distribution Limited, engineer-in-chief-cum-principal chief electrical inspector, Santosh Das, and Bhubaneswar Smart City Limited general manager Kamaljit Das, were present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
29-09-2021||India||JDU airs grouse on special category status for Bihar||A key aide of Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has said that the Janata Dal United is “tired” of requesting special category status for the state and cannot keep raising the demand “indefinitely”. “We are not going to raise the demand any more. How long can we go on doing so? Hum log thak gaye hain (We are tired). We cannot go on raising the demand anvarat (indefinitely),” said Vijendra Yadav, a former state JDU president and a cabinet member, in reply to queries from journalists about the demand on Monday. He shrugged at questions that the stance might cause the JDU to face criticism from the Opposition, given Nitish’s proclaimed commitment to securing special category status for Bihar. The Congress lashed out at the JDU for the comment saying it exposed the “duplicity” of the party on the issue. “Now it is clear that special category status was just a political stunt for the JDU. It never meant business. We will expose the party before the people,” AICC media panellist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said. Nitish, an NDA ally, had raised many eyebrows when he had said before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls that he would support “any government” that promised to grant the status to Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
29-09-2021||India||The Cuttack Club elects woman president for first time in 156 years||The Cuttack Club, which was established in 1865, has elected a woman president for the first time in 156 years of its existence. After being elected president, Dr Sanjukta Mohapatra, former principal of Sailabala Women’s Autonomous College, Cuttack, said her focus would be to make the club more accessible to women and to create a healthy environment for the women members. The club has more than 1,700 members including judges of the Supreme Court, high court, senior bureaucrats, educationists, doctors and other personalities. Dr Mohapatra told The Telegraph: “I am excited on being elected as the president. The club was established by Britishers and no woman has ever occupied the post. The women come to the club as spouses and take either dinner and lunch and leave the club premises. Henceforth, we will engage them in different works. With my new team, I will try to bring in reforms in the club structure and will implement my vision for the development of the prestigious club. I will focus on ladies’ activities.” The former principal said she would create a separate directory for the members. On the other hand, the Bhubaneswar Club, considered the de facto power centre of Odisha, has elected Asit Tripathy, former chief secretary, chairman of the Western Odisha Development Corporation and adviser to the chief minister, as its president. The high-profile election saw Tripathy locking horns with Bijay Patnaik, former chief secretary, former principal secretary to the chief minister and a key member of the Naveen Patnaik government in 2010-13. Tripathy won by 278 votes. The election seems to have made it clear that Bijay, a part of the old guard, no longer enjoys the clout which he used to a decade ago. Vishal Dev, secretary, finance, and a key member of the state bureaucracy, has been elected as the secretary of the club. “Its understood that the election has the stamp of approval of the chief minister’s office. Without its support, these two members would not have been elected. We had felt the heat of the election which was more than that of a general election,” said a key member of the club. The Bhubaneswar Club, which was established in 1949, has more than 3,000 members and is affiliated to 180 clubs across the country. Tripathy told the media that he would work towards the dream of making it a multi-dimensional club. Elections were pending following the demise of the club’s former president, Priyabrata Patnaik, and the subsequent pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Ahead of bypoll, heavy rain leaves Bhowanipore waterlogged||Heavy rains lashed Calcutta on Wednesday, leading to waterlogging in parts of the metropolis that threw life out of gear, officials said. People had to wade through waterlogged roads even as public transport was few, causing immense hardships. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) pressed into service a large number of pumps to drain water from the submerged thoroughfares, officials said. The well-marked low-pressure area causing enhanced rainfall in the southern districts lay over western parts of Gangetic Bengal and neighbourhood, the weather office said. Rainfall was also reported from the districts of East and West Midnapore, Bankura, Jhargram and Purulia, besides Howrah, Hooghly, North and South 24 Parganas, East and West Bardhaman and Birbhum. Heavy rain is also likely to occur at certain places over Purulia, Bankura and West Bardhaman districts on Thursday, the weather office said. "Weather is likely to improve in most districts of south Bengal from Thursday," regional Met director GK Das said. The Bhowanipore bypoll, in which Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is a candidate, is scheduled on Thursday. Election officials said all arrangements have been made in case the rains continue. All polling centres were asked to arrange pumps to drain floodwaters, while police personnel deployed for the election were told to carry raincoats and umbrellas, they said. Several places in the Bhabanipur constituency were under water on Wednesday following the overnight rains, officials said. Waterlogging was also reported from Amherst Street, Thanthania, Central Avenue and Nayabad, among others. Several south Bengal towns such as Kharagpur, Haldia, Contai and Diamond Harbour also reported waterlogging. The port town of Haldia in East Midnapore district recorded the highest rainfall in the 24 hours till 8.30 am on Wednesday at 216 mm, the weather office said. Calcutta recorded 87 mm rainfall during the period, it said. Other places which recorded a high amount of rain are Mohanpur (192 mm), Kharagpur (171 mm), Midnapore (171 mm), Kalaikunda (167 mm), Sagar Island (152 mm), Diamond Harbour (150 mm) and Salt Lake (52 mm), it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore bypolls: Strict security in place, officials alert over rain forecast||Stringent security arrangements were in place in Bhowanipore with the deployment of 15 companies of central forces ahead of the Assembly by-election, a senior police official said on Wednesday. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC were also imposed within 200 m of the polling centres where voting will take place on Thursday, he said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is the Trinamul Congress candidate in the Bhowaniporeby-election in south Calcutta, while the BJP has fielded Priyanka Tibrewal, and CPI(M)'s Srijib Biswas is in the fray. Inside each of the 287 booths at 97 polling centres in Bhowanipore, half-a-section -- three jawans -- of the central forces will be deployed. Calcutta Police officers will be in charge of the security outside the booths. "Assembly of five or more persons within the periphery of 200 m of any polling premises will not be allowed. A ban has been imposed on anybody carrying stones, weapons, firecrackers and other explosive materials," the Kolkata Police said in an order. Police pickets were set up at 38 locations across Bhowanipore, the official said. On the day of the polling, 22 sector mobile, nine HRFS (Heavy Radio Flying Squad) teams, 13 quick response teams (QRTs), nine teams each of the static surveillance team, flying squad, and an equal number of striking forces from surrounding police stations will be deployed, he said. Besides, three sub-division striking forces will also be deployed, he added. One additional police commissioner along with four joint police commissioners, 14 deputy commissioners and an equal number of assistant commissioners have been deployed for the Bhowaniporeby-election, the official said. "We have also opened three additional control rooms. There will be arrangements for 141 special vehicles to escort the EVMs," he said. Two strong rooms to store the EVMs have been set up at the Sakhawat Memorial Govt Girls' High School on Lord Sinha Road, he said. All policemen have been asked to wear raincoats and carry umbrellas owing to the inclement weather conditions in the city. The Election Commission has also asked the Irrigation Department to be on alert owing to the weather conditions here, the official said. "All the polling centres have been asked to keep pumps ready to drain floodwater. We have also asked the Irrigation Department and Disaster Management Department to be ready in case of any emergency because of the heavy rainfall," he said. Strict security arrangements have also been made in Jangipur and Samserganj where Assembly polls will be held on Thursday, an election official said. There are 363 booths in Jangipur and 329 in Samserganj, he said. The votes will be counted on October 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta: Portion of old house collapses, one feared trapped||A portion of an old two-storeyed building in the northern part of the city's Ahiritola Lane collapsed on Wednesday morning in which one person is feared trapped under the rubbles, police said. A huge team of disaster management, fire department, police personnel from the local police station are at the spot, an officer of Calcutta Police said. "So far four persons have been rescued. We are trying to rescue two others still trapped under the rubbles. There is still a child and another person underneath," he had said, before the child was rescued. The portion of the building at 9 Ahiritola Lane, where two families have been staying, collapsed at around 6.45 am, he said. "One of the two families managed to get out of the rubbles through a big gap, but another family including a child got trapped under the rubbles. Our men have pulled out four and are trying to rescue others," he said. Locals rushed to the spot and informed the Jorabagan Police Station who along with personnel of the fire department and disaster management department rushed to the spot, the officer said, adding that those rescued have been taken to a nearby hospital. "The entire building is in a very bad shape and we have to conduct the rescue operations very cautiously otherwise there are chances of another disaster," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal bypolls to four Assembly seats on October 30 ||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday notified bypolls to four Bengal Assembly seats for October 30 with results on November 2, prompting objections from the BJP which criticised the polls in the middle festive season. In the early hours of Tuesday, the commission notified the bypolls to Dinhata, Santipur, Khardah and Gosaba — part of a list of 30 Assembly seats and three Lok Sabha segments around the country. “This is a time for festivals in Bengal. With Durga Puja and Lakshmi Puja, besides various other important occasions, before the bypolls, when does the campaign take place?” asked chief spokesperson for the state BJP Samik Bhattacharya. “There is Kali Puja on November 4. …. What was the need for the commission to show such a hurry, even in the conduct of the September 30 elections, we do not know,” he added. “The commission should first ensure the return of people who had to flee persecution for supporting the BJP. Without their return, the bypolls are meaningless.” In Dinhata and Santipur, victorious BJP candidates Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar resigned, respectively, in order to continue as members of the Lok Sabha. In Khardah, Trinamul Congress’s victorious candidate Kajal Sinha died of Covid-19 before the results, and in Gosaba, Trinamul winner Jayanta Naskar succumbed to post-Covid-19 complications in June. Trinamul welcomed the decision. “No constituency at the Assembly or the Lok Sabha level should be left vacant for too long. The decision was taken by the commission, we will abide by it,” said senior minister Firhad Hakim. “Obviously, we are confident of winning the three bypolls on September 30 and the four on October 30,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Illegal mining lens on Bengal government officials||The Anti-Corruption Branch of the Bengal government has found alleged involvement of some senior government and police officials in irregular sand mining, said sources in the agency. “Although no case has been filed yet, the wing has found a series of irregularities in the trade. Some senior officials, including a district magistrate and a police commissioner, have been transferred based on the preliminary reports of the wing,” said a senior government official. The development gives a clear indication that the chief minister is serious about getting rid of the complaints, which were coming up over the years. “The allegations of the ruling party’s involvement in illegal sand mining were tarnishing the image of the government and the chief minister appears to be in no mood to accept these in her third term. The chief minister would try to deal with the problem ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said a Trinamul insider. According to sources, the ACB has already raided offices and residences of police officers and senior officials of land department officials in Jamuria, Kanksa and Pandaveswar in West Burdwan and at places like Jalpaiguri, Dhupguri and Malbazar in Jalpaiguri and Raiganj in North Dinajpur. The wing has reported to the government that more mines than the number of permitted ones are being operated, more areas were being dug up in excess of the permissible areas and challans are being forged while sand is transported to several areas. “The officials were aware of the practice but they did not do anything. The government has removed a DM and CP from a south Bengal district to send a message to the officials,” said a senior official. A section of officials said taking action against the government officials alone would not solve the problem. “Officers are often forced to overlook the irregularities by powerful local ruling party leaders. So, action has to be taken against all those involved in the irregular practice,” said a source. The state government has already decided to bring in a new policy to control the entire sand mining centrally. “But the policy would be implemented across the state only by 2023 as lease tenure of a majority of the mines would be completed by then. But the government wants to rein in the irregularities from now on,” said a source. According to some officials, the ACB has already informed Nabanna about its findings and the wing is waiting for an instruction before it lodges formal complaints in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Showcaused by Centre, says news channel||The editor of Kolkata TV has said the Union ministry of information and broadcasting issued a showcause to the Bengali news channel, asking it to explain why permission granted to it under uplinking guidelines shouldn’t be cancelled following the home ministry’s denial of “security clearance” to the broadcaster. The channel is run by Calcutta-based RP Techvision (I) Pvt Ltd. Kaustuv Ray, the channel’s editor and the chairman of the company, said Vijay Kaushik, an under-secretary to the Union government, had sent the showcasue. “We have been asked to send in a reply within seven days.… I will not wait that long and will write to them seeking a clarification on what basis the security clearance was denied,” said Ray. “This is a question of the future of 300-odd employees,” he added. Ray said he would move court against the notice, if he had to, on Friday. According to Ray, the showcause is an example of how the Centre is trying to curb the freedom of press. “In June 2014, RP Techvision (I) Pvt Ltd took over the rights of Kolkata TV from SST Media Ltd following an order of liquidation by Calcutta High Court. Since then, at least 200 letters have been sent to the ministry to regularise the licence, which was in the name of SST Media Ltd previously. However, the applications have gone unheard.” “Now, we hear we have been denied security clearance,” Ray added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government advice on tea bonus impasse||The state government intervened on the deadlock over bonus between hill tea planters and workers’ unions on Tuesday, advising planters to give the bonus in two instalments in October. In the third bonus settlement meeting for the Darjeeling tea industry, held in Siliguri, the management again insisted on paying bonus to hill tea garden workers in two instalments. The eight hill tea unions, too, stuck to their stand of bonus at one go, which they said gardens in the Dooars and Terai had agreed upon. As the stalemate lingered, the state government intervened and “advised” the management to pay bonus in two parts on October 4 and 30. Sources said minister of state (independent charge) of labour department, Becharam Manna, who was not physically present at the meeting, intervened through official channels to work out a solution. As in the earlier two meetings, the management cited that with exports of Darjeeling tea hit amid the pandemic and subsequent lack of cash flow, bonus could be paid in two instalments, one before Durga Puja and the rest by March 31, 2022. The unions said bonus should be paid at the rate of 20 per cent of the workers’ total annual earnings (with a ceiling of Rs 15,500) at one go. The state advisory said the 20 per cent bonus is “to be paid in two instalments”, 15 per cent by October 4 and the rest 5 per cent by October 30. It was also stated that the practice of splitting the bonus, prevailing for three years in a row “shall be stopped from next year.” The bonus ceiling was agreed at Rs 15,500.A copy of a letter by Md Rizwan, additional labour commissioner, north Bengal zone, to the state labour commissioner, details the proceedings of the meeting. “Bonus talks are mostly settled between the union and management. This is probably the first time that the government has intervened with such a unique settlement,” said an industry veteran. A trade union leader who was part of the meeting said: “We protest this settlement.” If the government discards unions, what can we say? If workers accept 15 per cent as first instalment, what can we say?” There are 87 tea gardens in the Darjeeling Tea industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal records second rise in active Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Tuesday recorded the second rise, in three days, in its active Covid-19 cases after a 97-day streak of fall ended on Sunday. The state’s total number of active cases rose by two to 7,586, with 708 new infections, 693 recoveries and 13 deaths. A minister called this an aberration but said they were on high alert as festivals were coming amid fears of a nationwide third wave. Calcutta logged 137 new infections and three deaths.  North 24-Parganas logged 125 new infections and three deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure of new infections. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Bengal now has 2.66 per cent of India’s active cases, and is seventh among states with the most such cases. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, still fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.79 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.93 per cent on Tuesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.67 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes more than 15.41 lakh recoveries and 18,764 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Wednesday to be worse, say weather officials||Coastal South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, along with parts of the Gangetic Bengal, saw mild to heavy rainfall on Tuesday owing to  low pressure over northwest Bay of Bengal. Around 8.30pm, most places of the coastal belt of Bengal started experiencing a squall of 40kmph with heavy rain. Contrary to Monday’s forecast, much of Tuesday remained largely normal with no reports of major damage. However, the Alipore weather office issued a red alert on enhanced rainfall on Wednesday with thundershowers in coastal areas and parts of North 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Jhargram in south Bengal, coupled with a squall. The state government has geared upto combat any emergency in coordination with allied departments and disaster management wings. “The initial outcome of the depression appeared to be quite weak” a senior official of South 24-Parganas district administration said. “But the weather office has predicted a change in the situation from the night (Tuesday to Wednesday). It issued a red alert indicating heavy rainfall, so we are not showing complacence and our monitoring is almost round the clock,” he added. Around 40,000 people from vulnerable areas were shifted to safe shelters, he added. For much of Tuesday, coastal areas were also largely normal with mild rain and there was no turbulence in the sea, said East Midnapore’s Ramnagar BDO Bishnupada Roy. But heavy rain with wind began to lash coastal areas from around 4pm in both 24-Parganas and East Midnapore.  The worst hit were Sagar, Namkhana, and Kakdwip. On Wednesday, rain (from 7cm to 20cm) with intense spells of showers or thundershower with lightning are likely, an IMD official said. “Heavy rain is likely to batter coastal districts East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas, as well as West Midnapore and parts of south Bengal. The situation is expected to normalise on Thursday,” he added. Weather office sources said the squall might gain a speed of 40-50kmph over South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore on Wednesday and 30-40kmph over North 24-Parganas, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Calcutta, Howrah, Hooghly, East Burdwan and Bankura. BDO of Sagar in South 24-Parganas Sudipto Mandal said: “We spent the day training disaster management volunteers.” Heavy rainfall coupled with gusty wind in several areas of South 24-Parganas in the evening uprooted several trees and electric poles in Kultali and adjacent areas. The uprooting of electric poles led to power cuts in areas that include Raidighi hospital, as well as adjacent areas of Baruipur and Sonarpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Cloud on cash earned by felling ‘shade trees’||A senior leader of the Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, the tea trade union of the party, has written to the district magistrates of three major tea producing districts of Bengal — Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar — saying that a section of tea companies are selling shade trees and not utilising the proceeds for welfare of tea workers and their families like they should. Trees are planted intermittently to provide shade to tea bushes. “The shade trees save bushes from the scorching sun and help retain the quality of tea leaves,” said a tea expert. If any shade tree dries up or weakens, it is chopped off and a new sapling is planted. “To cut a tree, they have to obtain permission from the state forest department,” the expert added. This is where Prabhat Mukherjee, president of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union, who has sent the letters to the district magistrates, have accused a section of tea estates. “While obtaining permission, tea companies confirm that the sale proceeds of the shade trees will be used for the welfare of the tea workers and their families. But in a number of gardens, even 10 per cent of the proceeds are not used for workers,” said Mukherjee. The proceeds, he said, should be used for construction and repairing of workers’ quarters, clearing their old dues, among others. But according to Mukherjee, workers do not have any inkling as to how much money has been earned by selling the timber. “We have found that workers in some of the estates are disgruntled because of such practice of the management. That is why we sought an intervention from the district magistrates. They should evolve a mechanism to confirm total transparency,” the senior trade union leader said. Representatives of tea planters’ associations differed. “The guidelines of the state government are strictly followed while felling the shade trees. Tea estates need to show utilisation certificates of the money earned by selling trees to the state forest department to obtain permit to transport the timber,” said Sanjay Bagchi, secretary, the Dooars branch of the Indian Tea Association. A senior manager at a tea estate in the Dooars said the fund is used for various purposes, ranging from construction and repair of roads, bridges and crèche to purchase of materials for sports. “Such spends also come under workers’ welfare,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Malda homeless vent ire at officials||Angry residents of a village in Kaliachak-III block who lost their houses to erosion caused by the Ganga intercepted a vehicle of the Farakka Barrage Project Authority (FBPA) carrying a team of engineers and officials to the erosion-hit areas on Tuesday. Residents of Sarkartola village detained the team for three hours, demanding immediate rehabilitation. They also accused the FBPA of not carrying out anti-erosion work properly. Officials of the block administration and police had to intervene to calm  the villagers down, who eventually released the team in the evening. Since last Sunday, erosion has become acute in a number of villages under Birnagar-I panchayat of the block. In the past three days, around 300 families have become homeless in Sarkartola and its adjoining villages. The FBPA, responsible for checking erosion in these areas, has initiated some interim work in the past few days. “As of now, they are dropping sandbags on the bank to check erosion and have said appropriate anti-erosion work would be carried out only after monsoon is over and the water level recedes,” said an official of Kaliachak-III block. On Tuesday, around 2.30pm, as the FBPA team was crossing Sarkartola, residents, especially those who are homeless, stopped the vehicle. “We want the barrage authority to rehabilitate us. There are around 200 bighas of land available in Lakkhipur area (of Malda district) which they had acquired earlier. It is lying unused and we want them to give us land there so that we can build our homes,” said Sheikh Mustafa, one of the protesters Protesters alleged that the FBPA hadn’t drawn up any plan to check erosion by the Ganga when “ over 1,000 families” lost their homes. Some FBPA members tried to tell villagers about their helplessness, but in vain. As the news reached the district administration, officials from the local block and a large contingent of policemen rushed to the spot. Police spoke to protesters and managed to convince them to let the FBPA team leave. Around 5.30pm, the FBPA team was allowed to go. A meeting between the team members and protesters.was held at Baishnabnagar police station Because of erosion, Swadhin Sarkar, former BJP MLA of Baishnabnagar, is all set to become homeless again. In 2016, the Ganga had gobbled up a major part of his house in Sarkartola. Sarkar rebuilt it. “But in the past couple of days, the river has started eroding land again and is barely a few metres away from my house. I have started shifting my belongings and engaged workers to dismantle it so that I can use the bricks and rods and other items in due course,” said the former MLA, now spending nights at the home of his driver in nearby Bhimagram. “I don’t know where I will stay with my family as the house would be gobbled by the Ganga in another few days,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Calcuta HC declines to stall bypoll process for Bhowanipore ||Calcutta High Court on Tuesday declined to interfere in the Bhowanipore bypoll process but criticised Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi for “misleading” the Election Commission of India about the Covid-19 pandemic and flood situation in the state and stating that there would be a “constitutional crisis” in case the by-election was not held. In its order, a division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj came down heavily on Dwivedi for the letter he had written to the poll panel for the bypoll in the south Calcutta Assembly segment. “We record our strong reservation about the conduct of the Chief Secretary in writing a letter to the Election Commission stating that there would be ‘constitutional crisis’ in case by-election to the Bhowanipore Constituency is not held. He is a public servant, who is to discharge his duties in terms of provisions of law, whosoever may be in power. He is not to ensure that any particular person should come in power and in the absence there would be a ‘constitutional crisis’,” said the bench. The order raised questions about the conduct of Dwivedi by stating: “Be that as it may, the most offensive part is the conduct of the Chief Secretary, who projected himself to be more as a servant of the political party in power than a public servant, whereby he stated that there would be a constitutional crisis in case election to Bhowanipore Constituency is not held from where respondent No. 5 (Mamata Banerjee) wants to contest the election.” “How the chief secretary knew that the respondent number 5 (Mamata Banerjee) was to contest election from Bhowanipore constituency?” the court asked, referring to the letter he had written to the Election Commission requesting it to hold a bypoll at Bhowanipore. “He was not a party spokesman or returning officer,” the court further added. The judges said the chief secretary had misled the poll panel in his letter about the pandemic and the flood situation to expedite the poll process. “The information furnished by the Chief Secretary of the State to the Election Commission was contrary to the facts as in the State restrictions on account of COVID-19 pandemic had been extended up to September 30, 2021, vide order No. 753/IX-ISS/2M-22/2020 dated September 15, 2021,” the court said. Referring to the government’s decision of extending restrictions on people’s movement, the bench noted that the coronavirus situation was not under control. The other important question about the expenses incurred for the bypoll on a seat that already had an MLA wasn’t, however, settled in the order. The division bench kept the hearing of the case open and fixed it in November. Mukul case Calcutta High Court on Tuesday adjourned till October 7 the petition moved by BJP MLA Ambika Roy, who sought rejection of Bengal Assembly Speaker’s decision appointing BJP turncoat Mukul Roy as chairman of the public accounts committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati topper score: 200 out of 100||Visva-Bharati authorities on Tuesday evening withdrew an admission test merit list from its official website after it was found that four candidates scored more than the total, including one who secured 200 out of 100. Visva-Bharati insiders held the goof-up as an example of how standards have fallen in the varsity set up by Rabindranath Tagore. The merit list of the two MEd courses on the varsity website on Monday evening showed the first two candidates in the social sciences group as having scored 196 and 151 marks, respectively, out of 100 and their counterparts in the language group with 200 and 198 marks out of 100. “There is a central admission cell headed by VC Bidyut Chakrabarty as chairman, and departmental admission committees. How can such a blunder occur,” asked Sabuj Kali Sen, the former acting VC. The coordinator of the central admission committee, Nimai Chand Saha, and the officiating public relations officer Anirban Sircar did not take calls or reply to text messages from this paper. Sources said in the case of admission to Vinaya Bhavana, under which the education department falls, an applicant has to sit for a written exam comprising 60 marks and the 40 is calculated from the marks obtained in their earlier board or varsity exam. The central admission committee monitors and cross-checks the merit list before publication, with 30 teachers and officials engaged in the entire admission process. “We have no problem admitting a blunder and we had to withdraw it. But it was a technical mistake. It has harmed the reputation of the varsity,” said a varsity insider. Several senior teachers claimed the gaffe was the result of exclusion of experienced teachers from the system and induction of new faces according to the whims of vice-chancellor Chakrabarty. “The VC drove out good faculty from the admission cell... those experienced in handling such issues have been replaced with those who support his wrongdoings,” said Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the outspoken president of the Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association. No official connected with the admission system, along with the acting public relations officials, responded on the blunder and whether any action would be taken against those behind it. Kanhu Charan Sahoo, the principal of Vinay Bhavana, said, “I have no information in this regard. Only the head of the education department can speak on the issue.” However, head of the education department, Benudhar Chinara, refused to speak. A senior varsity official said authorities would seek a written explanation for such a blunder from the persons responsible for compiling the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Police look for BSF jawan for Raiganj firing||A BSF jawan has been identified as the principal accused of the firing that occurred at Sukanta More in the Debinagar area of Raiganj on Monday night. Police have arrested Jayashri Das, the jawan’s sister, and are in search of him and some others. Senior police officers are trying to find out how a quarrel between a former tenant and the landlord’s family led to the firing which left a woman dead and two others, including a police officer, injured. On Monday night, Sital Roy, who is a constable in the BSF, went to the house of Nikhil Krishna Majumdar, a retired deputy superintendent of police, along with some associates. “During preliminary investigation, we have come to know Sital Roy used to stay at the house as a tenant earlier and had some problems with the house-owner. We are trying to find out what was the dispute which made him fire at the house-owner’s family,” said Arsh Sharma, the additional superintendent of police of Raiganj police district. Sources said after reaching in front of Majumdar’s house, he called for the house owner. At that time, Rupa Adhikari, Debi Sanyal and Sujay Krishna Majumdar – the daughters and son of Nikhil Ranjan – were present at the house. They dwell in different localities of the town and had come to see him. Hearing Sital’s call, Rupa went out. Soon, they had a heated exchange of words which made Debi and Sujay to step out. Sujoy, who is a police officer posted in Dabgram armed police brigade on the outskirts of Siliguri, asked Sital to leave. “Suddenly, Sital and his associates took out firearms and fired indiscriminately at the sisters and the brother. All three of them suffered serious injuries and fell on the ground,” said a police officer. Locals rushed for help and took the trio to Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital where doctors pronounced Debi (37), dead. Later, Rupa was referred to Malda Medical College & Hospital. As police started investigation, they came to know that Jayashree Das, Sital’s sister, was also with him at the spot. She was soon arrested and on Tuesday, she was produced at a local court. “The court heard the case and has sent her in police custody for 10 days. We need to interrogate her to know what led to the incident,” police sources said. The police are also in search of Ripon Roy, another local youth, who is suspected to be involved in the incident. Sital meanwhile, has managed to escape. The police have sealed his house in Kashibati area of Raiganj. “We have come to know that he is posted in Punjab now. We have passed the information to his senior officers so that he is taken into custody in case he turns up at his workplace,” said Sana Akhtar, SP, Raiganj police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Birthday girl Richa with big bash in kitty||Richa Ghosh, member of the Indian women’s cricket team, turned 18 on Tuesday. For cricket enthusiasts of her hometown Siliguri, there are more reasons to rejoice than her birthday. Richa, who has consistently performed at the recent tour to Australia, will join Australia’s prestigious Women’s Big Bash League (WBBL) 2021 cricket tournament. Richa, who is now in Queensland to play a Test match against Australia, has signed for Hobart Hurricane, one of the franchises of the WBBL . She inked the deal just a day before her birthday. “We are delighted with her back-to-back achievements in Australia. All the people of Siliguri and all sports lovers are proud of her. A local girl after representing the national squad has been selected to play in WBBL. A dream for any cricketer,” said Manoj Verma, the cricket secretary of Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad, the subdivisional sports body of Siliguri. Verma, who is also secretary of Siliguri Cricket Lovers’ Organisation, hosted a birthday celebration for Richa at the Kanchenjungha Stadium here on Tuesday. The WBBL will begin from October 14 this year. Richa has joined the tourney with four other colleagues of the Indian team, but for other teams in the league. Shafali Verma and Radha Yadav will represent Sydney Sixer and Smriti Mandhana and Deepti Sharma have signed up for Sydney Thunder. “She (Richa) is a hard hitter in middle-order, which she has proved during the recent two ODIs by playing two crucial knocks for her team. Apart from that, her wicket-keeping abilities came as an added quality that helped her selection in the league,” said Jayanta Bhowmik, a cricket coach of the city. The Indian women’s team lost the recently concluded ODI series against Australia by 2-1. But in the first two matches, Richa scored 32 not out and 44, which helped her team to build a decent total against Australia. “After the Test match, the Indian women’s team will also play T20 matches. We hope to see some more fireworks from her bat then,” said Verma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Coal case: Court sends 4 to CBI remand||A special CBI court here on Tuesday remanded four persons arrested in connection with alleged theft of coal worth hundreds of crores of rupees into the central agency’s custody. The four were Narendra Kharka alias Narayan Nanda of Durgapur, Joydeb Mandal of Asansol, Nirad Baran Mandal of Bankura and Gurupada Maji of Shaturi in Purulia. They were accused of working as associates of Anup Maji, the prime accused in the multi crore coal smuggling scam. CBI counsel Rakesh Kumar told the court that the four persons were hiding information during interrogations whenever they had been summoned by the sleuths. “These four persons are closely attached to Anup Maji, the prime accused in the case. We need to take them into custody for further and proper information. They are hiding information and not cooperating with the investigating officials,” said Kumar. Judge Joysree Bandopadhyay later granted to the CBI remand of Joydeb Mandal till October 1 and the other three accused persons till October 4. A large police contingent was posted at the court compound.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||Hill’s Nisha Gurung smashes a glass ceiling||For Nisha Gurung, a hockey player from Darjeeling, it definitely is not a man’s world. The 23-year-old from Ging tea garden in Darjeeling has achieved the rare distinction of coaching a men’s hockey team. “In 2019, I coached the Darjeeling district men’s team  for the state hockey championships held in Calcutta,” Nisha told The Telegraph on the sidelines of an award ceremony organised by the Rotary Club of Darjeeling on Saturday. Women hockey coaches are not so frequently seen. Women coaches in charge of men’s teams are rarer, not just in India but across the world. A 2016 survey by US-based Women’s Sports Foundation, founded in 1974 by the legendary tennis player Billie Jean King, had found that in college sports only 3 percent of men’s teams were coached by women. The majority of those teams are minor or co-ed sports. In contrast, 57 percent of the women’s teams are coached by men. Nisha, currently pursuing a course with Hockey India and Asia Hockey Federation to qualify as a technical official, first made a mark as a player. “When I was in school (Nepali Girls Higher Secondary School), teachers asked me if I would play hockey. Without a second thought, I said yes,” said Nisha. There was no stopping Nisha thereafter. She started representing Bengal from 2010 and was the vice-captain of the state team at the Sub-Junior Girls National Hockey Championship held in Patna. She also started representing the state at the senior category and in 2013 her team stood third at the senior national hockey championship. “In 2018 I started working at Darjeeling Children House of Montessori (a Darjeeling school) and it is here I started coaching the boy’s team,” said Nisha. The very next year, she was asked to coach the district’s all men’s team. Did her wards listen to her? “It was difficult to coach boys as initially they would not listen to me. Things improved later,” Nisha smiled. Nisha was last year made the secretary of Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Hockey Association. Its president is also a woman, Kamlesh Rai, who has been a team manager in state and national level games. Although Nisha is working with the montessori, she plans to take a degree in coaching from the Netaji Subash National Institute of School. “I have been selected for a course to be a technical official by Hockey India and Asia Hockey Federation. Once I complete it, I want to complete a degree to be a certified hockey coach,” said Nisha. On Saturday, Rotary Club of Darjeeling awarded the Outstanding Youth Award to Nisha. “Her achievement made us sit up and take notice. It is not often that we come across women coaches for a men’s team,” said Gopal Khemani, president, RCD. The club also awarded Vocational Service Awards to Kamlesh Rai, teacher Sarita Pradhan and taekwondo coach, Rahul Gazmer. The Community Service Award was conferred to Vik-Run Foundation while journalist Gideon Lepcha was awarded The Lifetime Achievement Award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||West Bengal||SC notice to CBI on post-results violence||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notices to the CBI and others on Bengal government’s appeal against Calcutta High Court’s recent order that had directed the central agency to probe into alleged violent incidents following the publication of Assembly poll results in the state on May 2. The Supreme Court posted the matter for further hearing to October 7. Besides the CBI, the country’s top court has sought response of various private parties on whose PILs the high court directed the probe after obtaining a preliminary report from the National Human Rights Commission. After a two-hour long argument by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the Bengal government, a bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose, however, refrained from staying the CBI probe as urged by the state. Justice Saran, who headed the bench, said the CBI probe would be subject to the final order of the Supreme Court. Sibal assailed the high court order saying the same had been passed on the basis of a “biased” report submitted by a seven-member committee constituted by the NHRC. The lawyer said the panel members had affiliation in one way or the other with the BJP. Sibal argued that principles of natural justice were not followed by the high court which did not hear properly the state government’s views on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
29-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Please sit||Governments standing up for citizens’ rights is always welcome — even if it is for the right to sit. Tamil Nadu has become the second Indian state after Kerala to table a bill that makes it mandatory for business establishments to provide seating arrangements for employees who have to stand for long hours. This is a step forward, especially for those working in textile and jewellery showrooms or in the retail sector. Standing through the work day to attend to customers, often with no toilet or breaks for refreshment — a practice encouraged in service and hospitality — can lead to fatigue and other health problems. What this practice exposes is the insensitive work culture that massive numbers of workers in India’s informal sector are forced to comply with. Women, as always, are the worst sufferers. The denial of basic facilities — clean toilets, care time for infants, or separate changing rooms — discourage their participation in the labour force. But the problem runs deeper. The State and other stakeholders are often complicit in legitimizing exploitative practices. Large retail groups have been known to recruit girls and women from poor, rural backgrounds in Tamil Nadu on dubious contracts. Moreover, migrant workers remain undocumented: the newly launched e-Shram portal for online registration is still in its nascent stage. This makes it difficult to monitor whether they are being deprived of timely payment as well as of other benefits, such as health insurance and social security. Trafficking and sexual exploitation of female and child labourers mushroom on account of the absence of transparency. The lack of a robust regulatory mechanism is not constrained to India. The frequent accidents in garment factories in Bangladesh or the sweatshops in China bear testimony to this blind spot. A study found that 85 per cent of women and girls from marginalized communities employed in the home-based garment industry in India worked exclusively in supply chains for clothing shipped to the United States of America or the European Union. The government must push such corporations, profiteering off cheap labour in third-world countries, to adopt safety measures and provide better working conditions. But for this to happen, the first step would be to bring the informal sector and non-traditional businesses — suppliers to the booming e-commerce industry, for instance — into the formal fold. Guaranteeing employees’ rights would be futile without effective oversight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
29-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Samyukta Kisan Morcha's Bharat Bandh||Still strong Sir — It is uncharitable to say that the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers’ unions has caused ‘disruption’ or ‘inconvenience’ for the public since it is a question of survival for those who produce food for the entire nation. The spirit with which they are protesting reveals the intensity of their concerns over the three farm laws. The support extended by the Opposition parties should not be seen merely as an attempt to pander to the farmers, even though elections are around the corner in some states. The Opposition’s actions could also be read as a show of solidarity. The rhetoric employed by certain parts of the media betray their stand in favour of the government. The attempt to pit the protesting farmers against the ‘common citizens’ is eminently avoidable. One plausible explanation for the protests being looked upon with such callousness by the current dispensation is that as a right-wing, Hindutva-oriented party that represents the interests of upper castes, it is indifferent to the farmers’ lot. Yet, one would like to urge the Narendra Modi government to nurture some sense of empathy for the farmers and repeal the farm laws in national interest — after all, the term, ‘nation’, is bandied about by the Bharatiya Janata Party. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — It is ironic that the prime minister who boastfully declared India to be the ‘mother of all democracies’ at the United Nations was welcomed back to the country with a national strike against the anti-democratic stance of his government. The Bharat Bandh could have been avoided had the government been committed to healthy democratic traditions — the issues that led to the strike could have been resolved by means of peaceful discussions with the stakeholders. Moreover, the labour code, rising prices, the monetization scheme and other important issues that merit discussion were not given enough time in Parliament. Although the Opposition must bear some blame for the  state of affairs in Parliament, the primary responsibility of ensuring discussion lies with the treasury benches. The space for the expression of opposing voices is shrinking. Elections are losing their sanctity on account of money power. All this points to the fact that one can, of course, claim that India is the ‘mother of democracy’, but one cannot assert that she is well taken care of. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The stalemate between the Centre and the farmers has now continued for a year. The latter’s call for a Bharat Bandh reveals their determination to take the fight against the government further. The farmers have demanded that the laws be repealed and have stated that they will not accept a compromise. They also have the support of six state governments; Kerala, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Delhi and West Bengal have passed resolutions against the farm laws. It remains to be seen which side blinks first. Gundu Maniam,Ghaziabad Sir — The Centre’s indifference in the face of the crisis faced by the farmers is chilling. If it indeed has the interests of the farmers in mind, there is no reason for it to be adamant on not repealing the laws that the farmers are fighting against. Shashank Gupta,MumbaiWell done Sir — Iceland almost became the first nation to have a female-majority Parliament. Sweden, too, has a rather balanced legislature with 47 per cent of women parliamentarians. Gender-based reservations have paved the way for this. If developed countries need reservation to give women their due, how can India expect to achieve equality when the women’s reservation bill is yet to be passed in Parliament? Yashi Bairagi,Ujjain Sir — Iceland must be lauded for sending a record number of women to Parliament. Zeba Akhtar,Pune  Old tricks, new tools Sir — Indians may lack many skills, but imagination is not one of them. Several candidates taking the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers were found using ‘Bluetooth chappals’ — slippers with Bluetooth devices connected to an earpiece — in a bid to qualify for a job in a government school. Some of these slippers may even cost two lakh rupees a pair. Amusing as it may seem, the incident underlines the threat that such practices pose to education in India. One shudders at what kind of lessons such candidates will impart to their students if they do succeed in becoming teachers. Rajib Sanyal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
29-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Count all||The Centre, as is often the case, has tied itself up in knots. Narendra Modi’s government has informed the Supreme Court that the socio-economic caste census data cannot be used because of their unreliability. Yet, some years ago, the registrar general and census commissioner of India had vouched before a parliamentary standing committee on rural development that 98.8 per cent of the data on caste and religion were free of error. This discrepancy has, naturally, enabled the Opposition to corner the government for its double-speak. Interestingly, the demand for the enumeration of other backward classes is being spearheaded by Nitish Kumar whose party, the Janata Dal (United), is an alliance partner of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Bihar. The Centre’s stubborn denial to allow the enumeration of OBCs could have political implications. This is because the BJP has been one of the foremost gainers electorally with its unique social engineering formula that helped the party make inroads into lower caste groups ignored by traditional, caste-based parties. This enabled the BJP to create a formidable alliance that straddles a diverse range of communities. Its refusal to encourage an examination of the socio-economic conditions of castes that are not listed in the census exposes its hypocrisy and makes it vulnerable to sharpened political diatribe. Yet, it must be recalled that successive dispensations at the Centre have been remarkably indifferent to the cause of a socio-economic census of castes. Even the United Progressive Alliance, which touted an inclusive welfarism, conceded to the demand only after a furore. The Justice Rohini Commission, which was constituted to examine the anomalies of inequalities created by reservation, is yet to publish its report. There is no denying that India needs fresh data on its diverse caste groups. The absence of reliable data makes designing targeted interventions to reach the most disadvantaged castes impossible. Caste data would also enable policy-makers to evaluate the impact of reservation. A ‘creamy layer’ among underprivileged castes, allegedly, has been the principal beneficiary of India’s affirmative action. This imbalance can only be rectified with the help of enumeration tailor-made for poorer caste communities. The Centre has cited the need for harmony among caste groups to stall the exercise. Perhaps the resistance can be attributed to the fear of exposure. After deriving political benefits without facilitating representative empowerment, political parties of all hues are nervous about their lies getting nailed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
29-09-2021||Opinion||Helping vocational education||If the first National Democratic Alliance government led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee is remembered for anything, it is the push that it gave to universal elementary education through the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. The programme aimed to bring children in the age group of 6-14 years under the fold of formal education by 2010. The scheme resulted in an increase in enrolment of 89 per cent at the primary and the upper primary levels — from 15.66 crore in 2000-01 to 29.66 crore in 2011-12. In 2009, the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan was launched to provide access to secondary-level education for all children in the age group of 15-16 years. Subsequently, in 2018, these two schemes along with a couple of other Centrally-sponsored programmes were integrated with the National Education Mission. Eventually, the focus on universal elementary education got lost and the issue of quality pre-secondary education remains unaddressed. According to the latest report (2018) of the ministry of education, the gross enrolment ratio in India has declined from 99.2 per cent at the primary level (up to fifth standard) to 92.8 per cent at the senior primary level (sixth-eighth standard) and, further, to 80 per cent at the secondary level (ninth-tenth standard). Public education is almost free in most states and students are often promoted irrespective of their progress. What, then, has led to a drop-out rate of nearly 6.4 per cent at the upper primary level and almost 20 per cent at the secondary level? Why, also, is the enrolment of the girl child higher than that of boys in primary and upper-primary levels? Studies have shown that the drop-out rate at the upper primary level is high among first-generation learners with parents with low socio-economic and educational status. At the secondary level, those who find the curriculum difficult prefer to drop out. The GER was 56.2 per cent at the senior secondary level (standard eleven-twelve) and 24.5 per cent for higher education at the national level. These percentages would appear to be satisfactory if we were to accept the principle that only those who are meritorious should go for higher education. It is good enough if, in a nation, one out of every four students joins higher education. But the remaining three should have the option of joining vocational streams in order to get a skilled job. Have we done enough to create the infrastructure in vocational streams to absorb, say, three-fourths of the 1.70 crore students who pass secondary-level examinations annually? There are an estimated 16,000 Industrial Training Institutes in India. About 25 lakh students are enrolled in these centres. Nearly 85 per cent of these are privately run and they train students in more than 125 trades. The existing infrastructure in vocational training needs to be raised by at least 10 times if we are to absorb the vast mass of students in employment or trade. The southern states, Gujarat and Punjab have done well in consolidating vocational education but many others are yet to do so. Unesco’s State of the Education Report for India, 2020 focuses on vocational education and says India’s demographic dividend is hinged on “skilling, upskilling and reskilling” of the youth. The National Education Policy highlighted the urgency of integrating vocational education with mainstream education. Even the Kothari Commission of 1966 and the Education Policy of 1986 recommended the introduction of different vocational streams as separate subjects at the secondary and the higher secondary levels. Yet, in an estimate about a decade ago, the Planning Commission found that less than 5 per cent of the workforce in the age group of 19-24 years had actually received vocational education. Higher Secondary schools have neither the infrastructure nor the orientation to impart vocational training. The stakeholders — students and parents — perceive vocational courses to be inferior when compared to mainstream courses. This mindset can change if separate and parallel infrastructure is developed for vocational education. The propensity to opt for vocational training may increase when students and parents realize that such institutions can help the latter find respectable livelihoods. The unit cost of vocational education and training is higher than that of mainstream education as the capital cost of equipment is involved in creating infrastructure. An overwhelming majority of vocational centres are run by private entrepreneurs. Whether an average student can afford to pay for such an education is an important issue. Herein lies the role of the State. The government needs to design attractive loan-scholarships for students interested in joining vocational streams. In the last budget, the Centre had proposed to spend Rs 99,300 crore for the education sector out of which a meagre sum of 3,000 crore was earmarked for skill development. If the present regime succeeds in giving a push to vocational education just as the Vajpayee government did in respect to primary education, there will be a paradigm shift in India’s education sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
29-09-2021||Opinion||Philosopher’s stone||Annie Besant — she died in September 1933 — is venerated, globally, as one of the leading proponents of Theosophy. The Theosophical Society was founded in 1875 with the objective of disseminating the wisdom of the Theosophists — thinkers whose roots go back to the Neo-Platonic philosophical tradition — who propounded the ideal of universal brotherhood through the fusion of diverse philosophical thoughts, including Vedanta, Buddhism and Sufism. Besant’s association with the Theosophical movement has somewhat clouded her pioneering role in distinctly earthly spheres. She was an advocate of Self Rule (for Ireland and India) and passionately endorsed freedom of thought, union mobilization, birth control. These accomplishments may not have receded completely from public memory. But what is often forgotten is another seminal, secular imprint left behind by this remarkable woman: Besant started India’s first course in print journalism, over one hundred years ago, at the National University at Adyar, Madras. The course may not have lasted for long, but journalism education continues to thrive in India, with an estimated 900 institutions of unequal repute offering degrees and programmes in print, television and, now, digital media. The importance of pedagogy in journalism as a discipline has been reinforced — ironically — by the crises that plague modern media. The challenges vary across media platforms. Print media remains locked in an existential crisis brought about by the drain of revenue in favour of such new avatars as digital news outlets as well as social media masquerading as providers of news. Television journalism in India — wedded to pageantry — is contending with the paucity of serious, cerebral content. Digital news, meanwhile, is having to battle State encroachment, as is evident from the legal challenges mounted in defence of free speech against the tentacles of the predatory Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. Some of the threats, however, are common to all segments of the media fraternity. Economic gloom, the grovelling by the ‘free press’ at the feet of authoritarian regimes — Hungary, Russia and India remind us that this ignominy has come to pass — and the triumphant march of that other pandemic — disinformation — have eroded the media’s credibility. But none of these challenges, Ian Hargreaves reveals in his excellent book, Journalism: Truth or Dare, is new. Some of these threats, Hargreaves writes, germinated in the 1990s but the media and their stakeholders — proprietors, investors, editors, journalists — are yet to find a way to neutralize them. The tenacity of the crises, the Unesco said recently, reinforces the need to recalibrate the module of journalism education. Hopefully, journalism schools, in India and around the world, are striving towards this goal. This column, though, isn’t about journalism’s meta-crises. It concerns itself with seemingly mundane dilemmas that confront human beings in general but print journalists in particular. These predicaments that scribes would relate to, Eric Weiner demonstrates in his witty and erudite The Socrates Express, are not as trivial as they appear: they have engrossed some of the world’s foremost philosophers on account of their deep moral underpinnings. No journalist worth his/her salt is a morning person. The trouble with getting out of bed — Philosophy’s Great Bed Question — has stirred the philosophical hornets’ nest, with Marcus Aurelius, the Roman philosopher-king, David Hume, the enlightened Scottsman, Jean-Paul Sartre, the surly Frenchman, dwelling on the horrors of the rise-and-shine dictum. The bed, they say, offers the fleeting promise of repose and shelter from the harshness of reality. Strikingly, in this context, the end — for journalist and philosopher — is the same: to rouse the sleepy soul out of this comforting cove. The difference lies in the means that they employ: the philosopher gets us up and running by reminding us of the ticking clock called mortality; the intrepid reporter hauls readers up with the, albeit increasingly rare, riveting story. Apparently, the human attention span has now fallen to a mere eight seconds. This corresponds to the sordid reality of factual howlers that get printed or are aired as news. Help, once again, is at hand for the somnolent, distracted or overworked editor. The trick, says Simone Weil, mystic, philosopher and activist, is to imagine attention not as a technique, a mere cognitive mechanism, but to perceive it as a virtue, a tool for empathy. René Descartes, Weiner writes, had settled the debate earlier, elevating attention to an “intellectual divine rod” that sieves clear ideas from dubious ones — in our world and that of the editor, that would imply the critical task of filtering the false from the true. Popular culture’s prototype of the journalist may be a pretty face in pin-stripes thrusting a dictaphone in front of a startled respondent at every given opportunity. But real, as opposed to fictive, journalistic work involves, at least for the occupants of the lower echelons of newspaper production, back-breaking, relentless, usually underpaid, almost invisible, and inevitably repetitive labour. The minions — say, the subeditor — may, at times, go unnoticed by the higher-ups but Friedrich Nietzsche had spotted them alright: his concept of the Eternal Recurrence of the Same, in which life recurs infinitely in a loop, seems to mirror and — most importantly — dignify the life and labour of those who bring a newspaper to life every single day. And how should the embattled newspaper personnel — owner, editor, reporter, subeditor et al — endure this sameness? They could try reading Epictetus. For Stoicism, the philosophical school that Epictetus belonged to, reminds us, in Weiner’s words, “[m]uch of life lies beyond our control but we command what matters most: our opinions…” In these tumultuous times of dipping revenues, formidable commercial rivals, a surveillant State and the pandering to Untruth, this could well be philosophy’s most important gift to journalism. Annie Besant — that philosopher-journalist? — would agree. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||Nandankanan vets give tips to help Dalma’s captive jumbo to deal with arthriti||Champa, one of the two captive elephants lodged at the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary, is suffering from seline arthritis and is unable to sleep by folding its legs. After the 52-year-old pachyderm's condition deteriorated, the Dalma wildlife sanctuary authorities engaged a team of vets to treat her. From Wednesday, Champa is getting infrared rays in her affected legs so that the arthritic syndrome can be subsided and she can get a fresh lease of life. One of the vets, Rajesh Kumar Singh, who attends to Champa regularly, said they started giving infrared rays to the elephant after video-conferencing with the vets of Bhubaneswar-based zoological park "Nandan Kanan." "Having taken tips from the vets in Nandan Kanan, we have started not only giving Champa the infrared ray, but also indigenous oil massage besides certain vitamins. We hope the elderly elephant will recover soon from the sickness," said Singh to The Telegraph Online. Champa is lodged along with an adult elephant Rajni at Makulakocha village in the foothills of Dalma about eight kilometres away from the heart of the steel city. Divisional forest officer, Dalma wildlife sanctuary, Abhishek Kumar said that the remarkable difference between Champa and Rajni is that while Rajni can sleep by folding its four legs in the night, Champa keeps on standing. "Champa has not slept with folded legs since the past one year. She has to sleep by standing only as she cannot fold her legs due to arthritis. As a result of it, Champa has become very weak," said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The DFO said an average life span of an elephant is 60 years. He pointed out as Champa is now 52 years only, they are trying their best to make the captive elephant complete its lifespan. Elderly people are more susceptible to disease, syndrome, injuries and sickness than the adults. The same phase happens to come to the animals, including jumbos.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||BJP, Cong engage in war of words as Godda -Ranchi train embarks on debut journey||Congress and BJP engaged in a bitter war of words over new infrastructure upgrades in Santhal Pargana during the launch of Godda Ranchi Express, which was flagged off today from Godda Railway station by local BJP MP Nishikant Dubey in the presence of Amit Mandal, BJP MLA Arun Arora, general manager of Eastern Railway and Yatendra Kumar, Divisional Railway Manager of Malda. The train which began its journey at around 1.15 pm will pass through Bhagalpur, Kiul, Jamui, Jhajha, Jasidih, Dhanbad, and Bokaro Steel City before reaching Ranchi at 5.45 am after completing a journey of around 16 ½ hours. Jamtara MLA of Congress, Irfan Ansari besides other residents have questioned the logic behind the longer route of the train via Bhagalpur. Ansari while talking to the media in Jamtara on Monday went to extent of saying that the Godda MP, Nishikant Dubey has impressed upon the Central Government to fix the longer route for the train (via Bhagalpur) as he (Dubey) is favouring Bhagalpur at cost of Godda. Ansari continued his attack on Dubey over other development projects and alleged that in various projects like the airport development at Deoghar as well as in AIIMS, employment is being provided only to Bhagalpur residents. He said, “We will not tolerate this favouritism. I have summoned AIIMS directors and will seek an explanation in this regard.” In a related development district administration of Deoghar claimed that the approach road for Deoghar Airport road is being carried out by ‘certain people’ in Deoghar has not been carried out as per laid standards. The communiqués further stated that the development of roads would be carried out by the government as per the laid standards and norms after completing land acquisition. Godda MP, Dubey however, ridiculed the communiqué and said that the approach road has been developed as per the standards and norms of Airport Authority of India. Meanwhile, Dubey while addressing the gathering at Godda railway station said, “All kinds of accusations are being made over the long route of train but the detractors are ignoring the fact that that the common residents would be able to make cheaper journey (Rs 160) to Ranchi instead of Rs 500 or Rs 700 which they earlier had to dish out for visiting Ranchi in Buses or Rajdhani trains.” He then left no opportunity to target Congress. He said, “Despite providing almost 40 % revenue to the railway in terms of mineral transport the Congress had ignored the Railway Network Development for Jharkhand. The Railway line development for Santhal Pargana was taken up by the Central Government only at the initiative of the state government led by Arjun Munda.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||Water levels of Maithon and Panchet dam rise following heavy rain||Congress and BJP engaged in a bitter war of words over new infrastructure upgrades in Santhal Pargana during the launch of Godda Ranchi Express, which was flagged off today from Godda Railway station by local BJP MP Nishikant Dubey in the presence of Amit Mandal, BJP MLA Arun Arora, general manager of Eastern Railway and Yatendra Kumar, Divisional Railway Manager of Malda. The train which began its journey at around 1.15 pm will pass through Bhagalpur, Kiul, Jamui, Jhajha, Jasidih, Dhanbad, and Bokaro Steel City before reaching Ranchi at 5.45 am after completing a journey of around 16 ½ hours. Jamtara MLA of Congress, Irfan Ansari besides other residents have questioned the logic behind the longer route of the train via Bhagalpur. Ansari while talking to the media in Jamtara on Monday went to extent of saying that the Godda MP, Nishikant Dubey has impressed upon the Central Government to fix the longer route for the train (via Bhagalpur) as he (Dubey) is favouring Bhagalpur at cost of Godda. Ansari continued his attack on Dubey over other development projects and alleged that in various projects like the airport development at Deoghar as well as in AIIMS, employment is being provided only to Bhagalpur residents. He said, “We will not tolerate this favouritism. I have summoned AIIMS directors and will seek an explanation in this regard.” In a related development district administration of Deoghar claimed that the approach road for Deoghar Airport road is being carried out by ‘certain people’ in Deoghar has not been carried out as per laid standards. The communiqués further stated that the development of roads would be carried out by the government as per the laid standards and norms after completing land acquisition. Godda MP, Dubey however, ridiculed the communiqué and said that the approach road has been developed as per the standards and norms of Airport Authority of India. Meanwhile, Dubey while addressing the gathering at Godda railway station said, “All kinds of accusations are being made over the long route of train but the detractors are ignoring the fact that that the common residents would be able to make cheaper journey (Rs 160) to Ranchi instead of Rs 500 or Rs 700 which they earlier had to dish out for visiting Ranchi in Buses or Rajdhani trains.” He then left no opportunity to target Congress. He said, “Despite providing almost 40 % revenue to railway in terms of mineral transport the Congress had ignored the Railway Network Development for Jharkhand. The Railway line development for Santhal Pargana was taken up by the Central Government only at the initiative of then state government led by Arjun Munda.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain alert for northern Jharkhand ||The low-pressure area originating from the Bay of Bengal resulted in rain at many places across Jharkhand and neighbouring Bengal since last evening. Districts close to Bengal, like Sahebganj, Jamtara, Ramgarh, Giridih and Ghatshila in East Singhbhum, witnessed a good spell of rain. Rajmahal in Sahibganj recorded over 50 mm rain while Giridih and Ghatshila experienced around 45 mm rain. Jamtara, Ramgarh, Jamshedpur and several other places in Kolhan recorded around 30 mm of rain. Bokaro, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Jamtara, Godda and several other districts recorded moderate rain. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre issued a forecast of moderate thunderstorms, accompanied by lightning, along with gusty wind (30-40 kmph gusting to 50 kmph), at isolated places over Jharkhand during the next 24 hours. A forecast of heavy rain was also issued for isolated places over western and northern parts of Jharkhand on Thursday, September 30. Wednesday's satellite pictures indicated the well-narked low-pressure area over western parts of Gangetic West Bengal and the associated cyclonic circulation extending upto mid-tropospheric level. The east-west trough was on Wednesday running from the cyclonic circulation associated with the well-marked low- pressure area over south Gujarat region and Gulf of Khambhat to the cyclonic circulation associated with the low-pressure area over western parts of Gangetic West Bengal and across Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand and extending upto 5.8 km above mean sea level. The India Meteorological Department on Wednesday also predicted heavy rainfall in neighbouring Bihar between Thursday and Sunday. Weathermen said the current rain spell will help in reducing the deficit rain of Jharkhand which on Wednesday stood at four per cent. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said formation of another tropical cyclone in Arabian Sea would prolong monsoon's stay in Jharkhand and its neighbouring states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||IIM-Ranchi to move to permanent campus after Dussehra||The Indian Institute of Management (IIM) in Ranchi will move to its permanent campus in Dhurwa by mid-October after functioning from a temporary facility at Suchna Bhawan for more than a decade, officials from the premiere B-school said on Wednesday. While the administrative office of the institute will be fully-operational in the permanent campus, only about half of the 1,000-odd students will be able to attend classes in the new campus and the remaining students will continue to attend classes at Suchna Bhawan, IIM-R Director Shailendra Singh told The Telegraph Online. “The hostels that have been constructed so far in the main campus can accommodate about 400 students. The students who stay in these hostels will attend classes in the main campus, while the remaining ones will attend classes at Suchna Bhawan,” said Singh. At present, IIM-R is using a government-facility in Khelgaon as a hostel for its students, who travel by bus from Hotwar to Suchna Bhawan on Kanke Road every day to attend classes. Half of the students will continue to stay at the temporary hostels in Khelgaon even after classes begin in the permanent campus. The institute currently runs at least six courses, including PhD and integrated MBA, and has students from places as far as Kerala and Rajasthan. It also offers executive management courses for working professionals, who mostly attend classes online. IIM-R, the ninth IIM in India, was established in December 2009, and has been functioning from a temporary campus since then. Initially, the government’s attempts at finding land for the institute’s permanent campus were marred by protests by land owners. Eventually, the government finalised an over 60 acre plot in Dhurwa for IIM-R’s permanent campus. The IIM-R director admitted that the struggle to find a land for a permanent campus and eventually shift to it has been a long and challenging one. He said that the new campus is now ready with at least 10 classrooms, the director’s chamber, the administrative building, dining hall and faculty quarters. However, the lack of space in hostels continues to be a stumbling block in shifting all operations to the permanent campus. “We even looked for places around the new campus which could accommodate about 600 students, but we failed to find any such property. So, the students staying at Khelgaon will have to attend classes at Suchna Bhawan for now,” said Singh. “We will positively start operating out of the main campus soon after Dussehra,” he added. In December 2020, then Rajya Sabha MP Parimal Nathwani inaugurated the institute’s first building in the permanent campus, a fully air-conditioned auditorium spread over 40,000 square feet of area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||Two die of Covid, fist casualties in Jharkhand since September 4||Two Covid patients died in Jharkhand on Tuesday after zero Covid casualties in Jharkhand during the past three weeks, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. East Singhbhum and Dhanbad reported one Covid death each, taking the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 5,135. The last Covid casualty in Jharkhand was reported on September 4. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 76 as the state reported at least 12 Covid recoveries against 11 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection. However, the count of active cases jumped to 46 in Ranchi as the district reported six Covid cases against three recoveries. At least four fresh cases of Coronavirus infection against one recovery took the active caseload in East Singhbhum to six. Deoghar reported one Covid case, while 21 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not report fresh cases. Jharkhand on Tuesday tested swab samples of 56,217 residents and 0.01 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-COV-2. So far, over 3.48 lakh residents have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand and 98.50 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of them could not survive. Jharkhand on Tuesday vaccinated more than 1.05 lakh residents against Covid-19, according to the state health department. As per provisional figures released by the NHM, the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 65,482 residents, while the second dose was administered to at least 40,792 beneficiaries. East Singhbhum vaccinated at least 13,000 residents, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand, while over 11,000 beneficiaries were administered vaccines against Covid-19 in Ranchi. Dhanbad vaccinated about 6,000 beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||First tribal university of Jharkhand to come up near Jamshedpur||The first tribal university of Jharkhand will come up near Jamshedpur, a minister has said. “The state’s first tribal university will be established near Jamshedpur. The land has been finalised and construction work will commence soon. This would be the one of its kind state-owned tribal university in the eastern region,” said Champai Soren, tribal affairs minister and vice-chairperson of the newly constituted Tribal Advisory Council (TAC). The issue of the tribal university was discussed at the second meeting of the newly constituted council chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren late on Monday evening at Ranchi. “The objective is to conserve and develop tribal language and culture and also promote tribal scholars. The government will soon bring out an ordinance and constitute the university through an act,” the minister said. Sources in the chief minister’s office (CMO) said that over 20 acres of land have been identified near Galudih, around 35km from Jamshedpur city, for the university. “It has been the request of Ghatshila MLA Ramdas Soren who had given a proposal to set up the tribal university in a plot of over 20 acres of land between Galudih and Ghatshila. The land is close to NH33 — linking Jharkhand with Bengal and Bihar — and would be ideal for tribal scholars from all the three states,” said an official preferring anonymity. Odisha has a private tribal university but a state-owned varsity is yet to be set up in either Odisha, Bengal, Jharkhand or Chhattisgarh, which have significant tribal population. The nearest state-owned tribal university is in Madhya Pradesh. The nearly four-hour-long meeting on Monday also decided to send a proposal on inclusion of a separate religious code for Sarna followers in the 2021 census to President Ram Nath Kovind through governor Ramesh Bais. The state Assembly had passed a resolution in November 2020 about the inclusion of the Sarna religion code in the 2021 census but it was apparently sent directly to the President without going through the governor. The meeting also constituted a sub-committee under the chairmanship of MLAs Stephen Marandi, Deepak Birua, Bandhu Tirkey, Bhushan Tirkey and Chamra Linda to suggest facilitating the availability of loans, including agricultural, home and education loans, to the tribal people from banks. The meeting also decided including in the school curriculum those who had laid down their lives in the struggle for a separate state. A committee led by chief minister Soren was also constituted to review cases of trafficking and suggesting suitable action against the perpetrators. A committee was also constituted to probe into the alleged illegal transfer of tribal lands across Jharkhand and submit a report to the council at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
29-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government launches 60 'Vaccine Express' vehicles ||The Jharkhand government on Tuesday launched 60 “Vaccine Express” vehicles under the joint initiative of Care India and the health department to speed up the Covid-19 vaccination campaign. The 60 vehicles would be distributed among all 24 districts based on their size and vaccination rate and would function under the respective deputy commissioners and civil surgeons. After flagging off the vehicles in Ranchi, chief minister Hemant Soren said: “The objective is to reach out to vulnerable people residing in inaccessible areas and those persons who are still left out of the vaccination campaign. The Vaccine Express would provide vaccine to targeted populations at their homes itself.” Praising the health department’s vaccination campaign, Soren said: “Till now more than 1.70 crore people across the state have received the first dose of vaccine and over 40 lakh have also received the second dose. We have been constantly devising new campaigns to vaccinate a maximum portion of the population as it is the only way to fight against Covid infection.” The chief minister appealed to the people to abide by Covid-appropriate behaviour despite a decrease in cases across the state, as the danger of a third wave is still present. Care India state programme manager Abhay Bhagat said each of the 60 “Vaccine Express” vehicles would have two ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwife — a village-level female health worker) and one data entry operator and would be used by respective district administrations to reach out to those areas which have reported low vaccination rates so far. “It (Vaccine Express) is especially for vulnerable groups like migrant workers, vendors who are frequently on the move and do not go to vaccination camps and also for elderly and disabled who are not mobile-savvy to register for slots for vaccines,” said Bhagat. The programme was also attended by health minister Banna Gupta and additional chief secretary-cum-principal secretary, health, Arun Kumar Singh. The state had rolled out a mobile vaccination campaign for urban areas in May this year but it could reach an area only if the targeted location has more than 20 beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-34
