30-09-2021||Business||Government hikes gas price by 62 per cent, CNG rates may go up||The government on Thursday hiked by 62 per cent the price of natural gas that is used to produce electricity, make fertilisers and turned into CNG to use as fuel in automobiles and cooking gas for household kitchens.  This is the first increase in rates since April 2019 and comes on back of firming benchmark international prices but does not reflect the spurt in spot or current price of liquefied natural gas (LNG) witnessed during the last couple of weeks.  The oil ministry's Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) said the rates paid for gas produced from fields given to state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and Oil India Ltd (OIL) will be USD 2.90 per million British thermal unit for the six-month period beginning April 1.  Simultaneously, the price for gas produced from difficult fields such as deepsea, which is based on a different formula, was hiked to USD 6.13 per mmBtu from the current USD 3.62 per mmBtu.  This is the maximum price that Reliance Industries Ltd and its partner BP plc are entitled to for the gas they produce from deepsea blocks such as KG-D6.  The increase in gas price is likely to result in a 10-11 per cent rise in CNG and piped cooking gas rates in cities such as Delhi and Mumbai, industry sources said.  It will also lead a rise in cost of generating electricity but consumers may not feel any major pinch as the share of power produced from gas is very low.  Similarly, the cost of producing fertiliser will also go up but as the government subsidises the crop nutrient, an increase in rates is unlikely.  At the last revision in April this year, rates paid to ONGC were left unchanged at UD 1.79, while the deepsea gas price was cut from USD 4.06 per mmBtu to USD 3.62.  A USD 1 increase in gas price results in Rs 5,200 crore revenue for ONGC on an annualised basis. After accounting for taxes and other levies, it translates into Rs 3,200-3,300 crore in EBDITA for the company, sources said.  Gas prices were last raised in April 2019 and have since only fallen due to a drop in global benchmark rates.  While the government sets the price of gas produced by ONGC from fields given to it on a nomination basis, it bi-annually announces a cap or maximum price that operators who won exploration acreage under licensing rounds can get.  The operators are supposed to do a market price discovery by seeking bids from users but that rate is subject to the price ceiling announced by the government, sources said.  Reliance-BP had in the recent price discovery for new gas from their Krishna Godavari basin block, got rates of over USD 6 per mmBtu.  "The price of domestic natural gas for the period October 1, 2021, to March 31, 2022, is USD 2.90 per mmBtu on Gross Calorific Value (GCV) basis," PPAC said.  Similarly, "the price ceiling" for gas produced from "discoveries in deepwater, ultra-deepwater and high pressure-high temperature areas" is USD 6.13 per mmBtu, it said.  Natural gas price is set every six months -- on April 1 and October 1 -- each year based on rates prevalent in surplus nations such as the US, Canada and Russia in one year with a lag of one quarter.  So the price for October 1 to March 31 is based on the average price from July 2020 to June 2021.  The sources said gas prices had fallen when the pandemic broke out but recovered later as demand picked up.  The recent spurt in rates will get reflected in prices that become effective from April next year.  The gas price fixed in the last couple of years was unremunerative for producers as it was way below the cost of production.  ONGC, the sources said, had posted a Rs 4,272 crore loss on gas business in 2017-18, which widen to over Rs 6,000 crore in fiscal April 2020 to March 2021.  ONGC had been incurring losses on the 65 million standard cubic metres per day of gas it produces from domestic fields shortly after the government in November 2014 introduced a new gas pricing formula that had "inherent limitations" as it was based on pricing hubs of gas surplus countries such as the US, Canada, and Russia.  The sources said ONGC in a recent communique to the government has stated that the break-even price to produce gas from new discoveries was in the range of USD 5-9 per mmBtu.  The Congress-led UPA had approved a new pricing formula for implementation in 2014 that would have raised the rates but the BJP-led government scrapped it and brought a new formula.  The new formula takes into account the volume-weighted annual average of the prices prevailing in Henry Hub (US), National Balancing Point (the UK), Alberta (Canada), and Russia with a lag of one-quarter.  The rate at the first revision, using the new formula, came to USD 5.05 but in the subsequent six-monthly reviews kept falling till it touched USD 2.48 for April 2017 to September 2017 period.  Subsequently, it rose to USD 3.69 in April 2019-September 2019 before being cut in subsequent rounds to USD 1.79.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Reserve Bank's new auto debit rules in place from tomorrow||With the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) extended deadline coming to an end, there will be no automatic recurring payment for various services including recharge and utility bill as the additional factor of authentication (AFA) will become mandatory from Friday. On December 4, RBI had directed all banks including RRBs, NBFCs, and payment gateways that the processing of recurring transactions (domestic or cross-border) using cards or Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) or Unified Payments Interface (UPI) under arrangements/practices not compliant with AFA would not be continued beyond March 31, 2021. As part of risk mitigation measures, RBI announced this step to bolster safety and security of card transactions. However, non-readiness of some of the players forced the RBI to extend the deadline on recurring payment such as utility bills, recharge of phone, DTH and OTT, among others, till September 30. Under the new norms, banks will be required to inform customers in advance about recurring payment due and transaction would be carried following nod from the customer. So the transaction would not be automatic but would be done after authentication from the customer. For recurring payments above Rs 5,000, banks are required to send a one-time password to customers as per the new guidelines. Most of the banks including State Bank of India (SBI) have informed their customers about the new rules. HDFC Bank in a bulk message to customers said as per RBI guidelines on e-Mandate on cards, the bank will decline non-compliant recurring transaction at merchant web or app on your Credit/Debit Card from October 1, 2021. "Alternate Solution - Retry regular payment on Merchant Web/App authenticated via OTP or Pay via AutoPay in BillPay on our NetBanking for your Electricity /Water/Gas/ Landline/Postpaid mobile/Broadband/Insurance billers," it said. In August 2019, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had issued a framework for processing of e-mandates on recurring online transactions. Initially applicable to cards and wallets, the framework was extended in January 2020 to cover Unified Payments Interface (UPI) transactions as well. RBI had said the requirement of AFA has made digital payments in India safe and secure and the primary objective of the framework was to protect customers from fraudulent transactions and enhance customer convenience. In the interest of customer convenience and safety in use of recurring online payments, the framework mandated use of AFA during registration and first transaction (with relaxation for subsequent transactions up to a limit of Rs 2,000, since enhanced to Rs 5,000), as well as pre-transaction notification, facility to withdraw the mandate, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 287 points in closing trade||Sliding for the third straight day, equity benchmark Sensex dropped 287 points on Thursday amid losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and ICICI Bank as monthly derivatives expired. After a volatile session, the 30-share BSE index ended 286.91 points or 0.48 per cent lower at 59,126.36. Similarly, the NSE Nifty declined 93.15 points or 0.53 per cent to 17,618.15. PowerGrid was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, Bajaj Auto, SBI and M&M. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, NTPC, Sun Pharma and HUL were among the gainers. According to traders, expiry of monthly futures and options (F&O) contracts induced volatility during the session. "Indian markets started mixed following mixed Asian markets cues as China official data shows unexpected contraction in factory activity. During the afternoon session, markets scaled back to trade in green due to buying in consumer durables, realty and telecom stocks," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. Further, traders took solace from Commerce Minister's statement that India and the US should engage in a much bigger way and New Delhi is ready to expand the economic partnership with the US, Solanki added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended with gains, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red. Exchanges in Europe were largely trading with gains in the afternoon session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.24 per cent to USD 78.28 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 150 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank amid sustained foreign fund outflow. The 30-share Sensex was trading 178.60 points or 0.30 per cent lower at 59,234.67. Similarly, the Nifty declined 49.15 points or 0.28 per cent to 17,662.15. Reliance Industries was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, Kotak Bank, Maruti, Bajaj Auto and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Tata Steel, L&T, NTPC, Bharti Airtel and HUL were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index closed 254.33 points or 0.43 per cent lower at 59,413.27, and Nifty declined 37.30 points or 0.21 per cent to 17,711.30. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,896.02 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were trading with gains, while Hong Kong and Tokyo in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.27 per cent to USD 77.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Birla Corporation decides to scale up production||Birla Corporation, the MP Birla group flagship, has decided to scale up production to 30 million tonnes despite the din around the company’s ownership and management. Addressing shareholders at the 101st annual general meeting of the company, Harsh Vardhan Lodha, chairman of Birla Corp, said: “After commissioning the Mukutban plant which will take our capacity to 20mt, we will embark on the next phase of growth. “We had earlier stated that your company is looking to scale up its production capacity to 25mt by 2025. Plans are afoot to grow further and keep a target of 30mt by 2027 without compromising on the financial prudence as has always been our policy.” Birla Corporation’s present production capacity stands at 15.6mt, which will go up to almost 20mt by the end of the current fiscal year, when its greenfield 3.9mt plant at Mukutban, near Nagpur, is commissioned. Lodha’s comment indicates Birla Corp would be cautious in taking on fresh loans to fund the next phase of expansion, the details of which would be announced after the company’s board approves it. Mukutban’s expansion will cost more at Rs 2,744 crore (against Rs 2,450 crore estimated originally) because of Covid-related delays. Some of the adverse impact will, however, be blunted by the reduction in the interest cost. Birla Corp took advantage of a lower interest cycle to refinance and renegotiate loans worth almost Rs 1,800 crore, bringing down the borrowing cost from an average cost of 9.26 per cent to 7.83 per cent. This substantial reduction of 143 bps, coupled with a cut in the gross borrowings, has helped the company maintain a healthy net debt to EBITDA ratio, Lodha said. The AGM, which took place in the virtual mode,  barely lasted 90 minutes. While nearly all shareholders praised the Lodha-led board and the management, there was only one discordant note. The resolutions put to vote included one to ratify the appointment of Arvind Pathak as the managing director and CEO of the company. Shareholders were also asked to vote on a resolution to appoint Rameshwar Singh Thakur as a director on the board. The Lodha-led board has strongly recommended voting against Singh’s resolution, put forward by The Punjab Produce and The Trading Co Ltd, a promoter group entity which is now under effective control of the committee of administrator pendente lite (APL Committee). The committee, which was appointed to oversee the estate of Late Priyamvada Devi Birla, wife of late Madhava Prasad, had pushed similar proposals in three other companies of MP Birla Group. They were all subsequently defeated. Voting results of Birla Corp AGM will be known on Thursday. The crossfire over resolutions underscores the challenges before Birla Corp and M.P. Birla Group to continue with the business as usual, when the ownership and control continue to be debated and challenged in the courts of law. Lodhas took reign of the Group after Priyamvada bequeathed her asset to late Rajendra Singh Lodha, Harsh’s father, by a will in 2004. Birla family has challenged the will and the two sides are in constant state of legal war ever since, with the AGM’s opening another front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Investor buzz lifts Vodafone Idea scrip||Shares of Vodafone Idea (VIL) on Wednesday ended higher on reports that the company may induct a strategic investor as part of a fund raising plan which could see the participation of its promoters as well. The VIL scrip on Wednesday settled at Rs 11.25 on the BSE — a gain of 2.46 per cent over Tuesday’s close. The rally came on reports that the promoters could support the proposed fund raising exercise — indicating their confidence in the future prospects of the telco, particularly after the Centre announced a major relief package for the sector. Last year, VIL had announced that it will raise up to Rs 25,000 crore from investors. However, the fund mobilisation plan was delayed because investors were concerned about the impact of the Supreme Court order on adjusted gross revenues (AGR). Ravinder Thakkar, CEO of VIL, has now reportedly said that the promoters had earlier invested Rs 1.9 lakh crore in the business, which was used to build assets worth Rs 4 lakh crore by the company. Thakkar has now hinted at the possibility of the promoters again coming forward to support the company. Certain strategic investors may be inducted as well, though developments here may be premature, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Reliance defends appointing Saudi Aramco chairman on its board||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) on Wednesday defended its move to appoint Saudi Aramco chairman Yasir al-Rumayyan on its board as an independent director, saying that the proposal is not linked to the likely investment by the Saudi oil company in its oil-to-chemical (O2C) business. This rare endorsement by the oil-to-telecom giant comes amid a burst of shareholder activism where managements are getting pilloried on issues such as choice of senior people and director pay. More recently, two large investors in Zee Entertainment Enterprises asked the company to hold an EGM for the removal of its MD& CEO. In the case of RIL, the California State Teachers Retirement Fund (CalSTRS) has decided to vote against the resolution pertaining to the appointment of the Saudi Aramco chairman. Its decision was based on the recommendation of global proxy advisory firm Glass, Lewis & Co, which has raised concerns about al-Rumayyan being designated as independent director. The voting to confirm al-Rumayyan’s appointment for a period of three years will end on October 19. The proxy advisory firm had reportedly said that al-Rumayyan serves as the governor of the Public Investment Fund, an entity within the Saudi Arabian government. The firm said given his connection with the Saudi Arabian government and the proposed business relationship between Aramco and RIL, it will classify him as not being independent at this point of time. Reliance said the domestic laws (Indian Companies Act, 2013) and the regulations prescribed by Sebi lay down stringent criteria for independent directors, and al Rumayyan satisfies all of this criteria laid down in the law and regulations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Invesco approaches NCLT to oust Punit Goenka from Zee Ent||Invesco has approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to oust Punit Goenka from Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. The US fund has sought the NCLT’s intervention to force Zee to hold an extra ordinary general meeting (EGM) with the agenda to remove Goenka and the appointment of six independent directors. Invesco along with OFI Global China Fund LLC are the largest investors in Zee holding around 17.88 per cent. Goenka is the managing director and chief executive officer  of Zee. The fund had first sent a letter to Zee on September 11 seeking the EGM for reconstituting its board. This was received by the company on the following day. More recently, it reiterated the call through a second letter after Zee announced a mega merger with Sony. The NCLT will hear the matter on September 30. Invesco and OFI Global China Fund are being represented by Dhruve Liladhar & Co. Trilegal is representing Zee in the case. “The board of the company remains committed to act within the framework of law and is focused towards enhancing the company’s growth and shareholder value,” a spokesperson for Zee said. “It is in the process of taking the required steps within the statutory period. The company does not wish to comment on any impulsive or premature steps taken by Invesco Developing Markets Funds and OFI Global China Fund, LLC,” the spokesperson for Zee said. The decision to move the NCLT took investors by surprise: Invesco had first called for the EGM on September 11, meaning Zee had till October 2 to announce the date. The meeting itself must be held within 45 days of Invesco’s initial demand. If Zee does not announce the date by October 2, Invesco can call for such a meeting which has to be held within three months at company expense. Invesco filed the petition in the NCLT under Section 98(1) and Section 100 of the Companies Act, 2013. Section 93 (1) of the Act empowers the tribunal to order such a meeting. In its second letter addressed to the Zee board which came only a day after the board gave its in-principle approval to the proposed merger with Sony, Invesco alleged that the announcement is “symptomatic of the erratic manner in which important and serious decisions at Zee have been handled at the company’’. It added that the call for an EGM is to protect shareholder value and in the exercise of its statutory rights as an ordinary shareholder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Cabinet approves Rs 4,400-crore capital infusion in ECGC Limited||The cabinet on Wednesday approved a Rs 4,400-crore capital infusion in state-owned credit insurance provider ECGC Limited and its listing through an initial public offering. Commerce minister Piyush Goyal said the funds would be pumped into ECGC over a five-year period from this fiscal to 2025-26. He said Rs 500 crore would be infused in this fiscal and another Rs 500 crore in the next financial year. The rest would be need based. “Listing may enable ECGC to mobilise fresh capital from the market either through the same IPO or subsequently through a follow-on public offer (FPO) and thereby help in increasing the maximum liability cover for it,” a government release said. The capital infusion would increase the ECGC’s capacity to underwrite risks up to Rs 88,000 crore. This will enable ECGC to issue covers that can support additional exports of Rs 5.28 lakh crore till 2025-26, the release said. The government also approved the continuation of the national export insurance account (NEIA) scheme and infusion of Rs 1,650 crore grant till 2025-26. The capital infusion in NEIA Trust will help tap the huge potential of project exports in focus markets. NEIA will be able to support exports worth up to Rs 33,000 crore. The fund infusion in NEIA will help create 2.6 lakh jobs, including around 12,000 in the formal sector. “While ECGC takes care of short term credit, the increase in corpus of NEIA will benefit medium and long term credit rolled out by the Exim Bank,”  A. Sakthivel, president of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), said. “Similar leveraging ratio of 1:20 will support project exports worth Rs 33,000 crore at a time when huge opportunities are unfolding for the sector with gradual opening of economies,” the FIEO president said. Scheme extended The finance ministry on Wednesday expanded the scope of the Rs 4.5 lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) to support micro, small and medium enterprises facing liquidity issues because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The validity of the scheme has been extended by another six months till March 31, 2022, the ministry said in a statement. The last date of disbursement under the scheme has been extended to June 30, 2022, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||Business||Piramal group acquires Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd||The Piramal group has completed the acquisition of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) by paying Rs 34,250 crore to the creditors of the housing finance company. This marks the first successful resolution of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code in the financial services sector. In value terms, the transaction is amongst the largest resolution in the country. The creditors will get Rs 14,700 crore in cash and Rs 19,550 crore in the form of non-convertible debentures (NCDs) that will be paid over 10 years at an interest rate of 6.75 per cent per annum payable half-yearly. They will also be entitled to Rs 3,800 crore from the cash balance available with DHFL. In January, 94 per cent of the creditors of DHFL had voted in favour of Piramal’s resolution plan over competitor Oaktree Capital. Piramal group firm Piramal Capital and Housing Finance Ltd will merge with DHFL. The entity will be called PCHFL. The merged entity will be 100 per cent owned by Piramal Enterprises Ltd. Ajay Piramal, chairman, Piramal Group, said the merger will take place in the next couple of weeks. Most of the 70,000 creditors of DHFL would get back 46 per cent of their dues, Piramal said. “This accelerates our plans to become a leading digitally oriented, diversified financial services conglomerate that focuses on serving the financial needs of the unserved and undeserved customers of our country,’’ he added. The merged entity will combine Piramal group’s financial strength with DHFL’s geographic footprint and distribution network of 301 branches and 2,338 employees catering to close to 10 lakh customers across 24 states. Piramal said the transaction will not only grow the retail book to nearly five times but also lead to diversification. It will create a platform focused on the affordable segment with average loan of nearly Rs 17 lakh even as close to 38 per cent of the retail loans will be Rs 10 lakh or below. The merger will lead to a reduction in weighted average borrowing cost by nearly 130 basis points. The company will now offer services such as used cars and two-wheeler loans, education loans for vocational and online courses, small builder finance to meet construction finance requirement, unsecured business loans, personal loans and loan against securities. Over the next three or four years, the company plans to be present in 1,000 locations and hire at least 1,000 more people in the near- to mid-term. Shares of Piramal Enterprises on Wednesday closed 1.45 per cent higher at Rs 2,641.35 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
30-09-2021||India||Sidhu likely to stay as Punjab Congress chief, party to set up coordination panel   ||Navjot Singh Sidhu will continue as the Punjab Congress chief and a coordination panel is likely to be set up, which is expected to be consulted before any major decisions by the Punjab government in future, party sources said on Thursday. The decision was reached after a meeting at the Punjab Congress Bhavan between chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Sidhu, who had resigned from the post of the state party chief on Tuesday. The panel may comprise the CM, Navjot Singh Sidhu and a representative of the AICC. The All-India Congress Committee (AICC) is expected to make an announcement in this regard, the sources said. It is still unclear how differences over the appointment of the DGP and the AG will be dealt with. Sidhu on Wednesday had raised a question over the appointments of the DGP, state's advocate general and “tainted” leaders. Besides Channi and Sidhu, the meeting was attended by senior Congress leader and central observer Harish Chaudhary, minister Pargat Singh and Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Nagra, the sources said. Minister Raj Kumar Verka, MLAs Inderbir Singh Bolaria, Avtar Singh Junior and PPCC working president Pawan Goel were in another room, they said. There was no press briefing after the meeting between Sidhu and Channi. Channi left the venue around 6 pm while Sidhu came out about half an hour later.      No party leader spoke to the media after the meeting concluded. Earlier in the day, Sidhu reached Chandigarh from Patiala to meet Channi. The meeting came a day after Channi reached out to him and offered to resolve issues through talks.     Just before his meeting with Channi, Sidhu attacked the state's new DGP, alleging that he wrongly indicted two Sikh youths in a desecration case and gave a clean chit to the Badals. The desecration of a religious text allegedly took place in Punjab's Faridkot district in 2015, whose investigation was handed over by the then Parkash Singh Badal-led government to an SIT led by current DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota.      Sahota was given the additional charge of the state's DGP by the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government. The development in the Punjab Congress comes on a day when former chief minister Amarinder Singh was in Delhi and said he will quit the Congress, which he asserted was going downhill with senior leaders being ignored. But Amariner scotched speculation of his joining the BJP. Former state party chief Sunil Jakhar also said there should be an end to attempts to undermine the authority of the Punjab chief minister time and again. Jakhar said “aspersions” being cast on the selection of the state's advocate general and state police head were actually “questioning the integrity of the CM”. Jakhar was obliquely referring to Sidhu who had raised questions over the appointments of the director general of police and the state's advocate general. “Enough is enough. Put an end to attempts to undermine the authority of CM time and again. Aspersions being cast on the selection of AG & DGP is actually questioning the integrity/competence of CM and Home Minister to deliver results,” he said. “It's time to put the foot down and clear the air,” tweeted Jakhar who was the front runner for the post of the chief minister.      But the party later chose Charanjit Singh Channi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||CWC will meet very soon, says Congress amid crisis||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) will meet “very soon”, the party said on Thursday, a day after senior leaders demanded the meeting amid multiple desertions and turmoil in the party. Chief spokesperson of the Congress Randeep Surjewala said the party president had indicated last week that a meeting of the CWC, the top decision-making body of the party, will be called very soon. “Before leaving for Shimla, Congress president Sonia Gandhi had already indicated that a CWC meeting will be called very soon. Accordingly, the CWC meeting will be held in the coming days,” Randeep Surjewala told PTI. On Wednesday, senior party leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Kapil Sibal, part of a group of 23 leaders (G-23) seeking organisational revamp, demanded that a meeting of the CWC be convened immediately to discuss internal party issues such as a spate of defections from the party and turmoil in many state units, including Punjab. Kapil Sibal had also raised questions on the decision-making process within the party in the absence of a regular president and demanded dialogue where all senior leaders would be heard. “In our party at the moment, there is no president. So we don't know who is taking these decisions. We know and yet we don't know... I believe one of my senior colleagues has written to the Congress president to immediately convene a CWC. So that at least some things that we can't speak about publicly, we can have a dialogue in the CWC as to why we are in this state,” he said. Azad has written to the Congress president demanding that a meeting of the CWC be immediately convened. The party should welcome suggestions and not suppress them, he said. While Azad and some other G-23 leaders are part of the CWC, Kapil Sibal is not. Hitting back at Sibal, Randeep Surjewala had said, "Every Congressman and woman must also seriously introspect whether by their words and actions they are attempting to weaken the Congress in the times of crisis." Kapil Sibal had said, “We are not ‘Jee Huzur 23’. We will continue to put forth our views and will continue to repeat our demands.” In an apparent attack on the party leadership, he said there is no monopoly in the power structure of any country or political party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||Prashant Kishor approached me, says Goa ex-chief minister||Former chief minister of Goa Luizinho Faleiro, who quit the Congress and joined the Trinamul Congress this week, told NDTV on Thursday that it was political strategist Prashant Kishor and his group I-PAC who approached him to switch to Mamata Banerjee’s party. “Of course, he had approached me. Just a few days back,” he said when asked if Kishor had reached out to him to join the party that the strategist helped win an exceptionally difficult election against the BJP in Bengal in May. “He didn't tell me to join the TMC but he did an analysis. People in Goa are angry with BJP. Mining has stopped. The economy is in a meltdown. There are no jobs. Goa is looking for an alternative. Didi is the only force. Despite the pressure, they abused her, used government agencies. The country needs a leader like Didi,” he said. Speaking at a press conference earlier in the day, Faleiro had said, “Believe it or not I never met them (Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek Banerjee). They are great leaders. They are not great leaders of Trinamul but great national leaders. But I did not meet them. I met I-PAC, I met Prashant Kishor of I-PAC (Indian Political Action Committee). I met him. Just before I took the decision, we had the interaction.” “It was a very, very difficult decision for me to leave Congress party. But finally, in the interest of Goa and in the interest of the country, to defeat the BJP, this is the only way for me to go forward and even now I am looking forward to help from I-PAC members. They are not from Bengal but different parts of the country,” he said. Faleiro’s revelation raises questions of conflict of interest over Mr Kishor's political role. Until recently, he is believed to have been engaged in talks with the Congress to revive its fortunes ahead of the next Lok sabha elections, but if Mr Faleiro is to be believed, Kishor is also approaching Congress leaders to cross over to the Trinamul, with whom his group I-PAC, continues to work with. Spurred, in part, by these high-profile crossovers from the Congress to the Trinamul, the past few weeks has seen a sharp rise in rhetoric between the two parties, with Mamata Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee saying "The Congress has to leave its armchair politics and social media politics and hit the streets" and that it "does not work, does not hit the street and loves to remain in the comfort of their homes". A day after joining the Trinamul, Faleiro said the party plans to contest all 40 seats in the next year's Goa Assembly polls on its own, without forging any alliance. The former Goa chief minister also said Mamata Banerjee will visit the state once the ongoing 15-day “pitru paksh” period, which is considered inauspicious for launching new projects, gets over. Faleiro joined the Trinamul on Wednesday in Kolkata along with nine other leaders. He addressed the news conference in Panaji in the presence of senior Trinamul leaders, including Derek O'Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Prasun Banerjee and Manoj Tiwary. “The party is scouting for fresh faces for the upcoming election in Goa... As far as the Trinamul is concerned, we would like to give 40 clean new faces," he said to a query on whether the party would consider those MLAs, who have defected from one party to another. When asked if the Trinamul plans to forge an alliance, he said, "We are going to go all alone." It is possible for the Trinamul to win the upcoming elections in Goa although the time left for the polls was very short, he added. The elections are due in February. Faleiro slammed the Congress saying that the party never wanted to form a government in Goa and therefore it did not stake a claim for it despite emerging as the single largest party after the 2017 elections. He said that I-PAC has been conducting a survey in Goa, the results of which would be available in the next 10-15 days, after which the detailed roadmap for elections in Goa would be prepared. He said the Trinamul would release a “charge sheet” against the BJP government in Goa, which would expose its “misdeeds”. In the last Assembly polls, the Congress had won the highest number of 17 seats, restricting the BJP to 13 seats. However, surprising the Congress, the BJP allied with regional parties and formed the government under the leadership of senior leader Manohar Parrikar. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has already thrown its hat in the ring ahead of the polls, with the party's national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announcing free power up to 300 units per month and 80 per cent jobs for locals if his party is voted to power during his recent visit to Panaji.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||Inadvertent error: Govt clarifies on allegations of vaccine certificate issued to dead on PM's birthday||The government Thursday dismissed as "baseless" allegations that dead people were issued vaccination certificates on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday, and clarified that there was a case in Madhya Pradesh due to an "inadvertent error" by a vaccinator as the beneficiary had registered for the inoculation when he was alive.  On Modi's birthday on September 17, a record was created as over 2.5 crore vaccine doses were administered in the country.  Responding to a question that in some states, it seems dead people were given vaccine certificates while in some, there was pending data entry which added to the numbers, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a media briefing, "That was an instance in Madhya Pradesh and we found that the registration was done when the person was alive, and on the date when the person was supposed to come for vaccination unfortunately the person died."  "There was an inadvertent error by the vaccinator in pressing the button in front of that name, so that error happened which has subsequently been corrected," he added.  On allegations that pending data entry was made which added to the numbers on Modi's birthday, he said they are baseless.  "The allegation of delayed data entry was made in respect of Bihar, We got it checked, and we found it to be absolutely baseless. Bihar on an average inoculates 3-5 lakh people a day, but it would be something totally unrealistic to say that they are not given digital certificates, they will not receive SMS and that data would not uploaded," Bhushan said.  "We have asked the channels and media houses which had done this story. If they could share specific details of villages and names of people, and we are still waiting for those details...," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||PLA transgressed LAC in Uttarakhand's Barahoti sector last month: Sources||Close to 100 soldiers of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) transgressed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Barahoti sector in Uttarakhand last month, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday. The transgression took place on August 30, and the Chinese troops returned from the area after spending few hours, they said. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel are deployed in the area. The people cited above said as part of a tit-for-tat strategy, Indian troops carried out patrolling. There was no official comment on the Chinese transgression. The incident comes amid a continuing standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in a number of areas in eastern Ladakh though both sides completed disengagement in two sensitive locations. The people cited above said minor transgressions have been taking place in Barahoti because of differing perceptions about the LAC by both sides. However, what surprised the Indian officials was the number of PLA personnel who transgressed on August 30. The Chinese side has also significantly ramped up infrastructure development along the LAC in the sector. India has been maintaining a strict vigil along the nearly 3,500-km LAC following the eastern Ladakh standoff. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year in eastern Ladakh following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area. Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in the Gogra area last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||Kannada TV actress Soujanya dies by suicide||A budding TV actress on Thursday allegedly died by suicide in her apartment at Doddabele near Kumbalgodu on the city outskirts, police said. Soujanya, 25, who had acted in a couple of serials and films like 'Chaukattu Fun' and 'Nanobbne Olleyavnu", hung herself from the ceiling fan in her room, they said. She has left behind a four-page suicide note expressing "sorry" for taking the extreme step. The woman wrote that the health issues were "killing" her and her mental state was not good. "I had promised I will never do such stupid thing in my life but I had no option. I was totally killed inside. Day by day I was going so low," the actress, who hailed from Kushalnagar in Kodagu district, said in the note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||UP polls: Congress to release first list of candidates soon||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday attended the meeting of the party's state election committee here and it was decided that the first list of candidates for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls will be released soon, a party leader said. On the fourth day of her state visit, Priyanka Gandhi met representatives of various communities, including Banjara, Rajbhar, and Nishad, and took note of the problems and issues being faced by them. Ahead of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, the Congress general secretary is on a five-day visit to Lucknow to review and discuss the party's preparedness for the polls. Since her arrival, she has been holding a series of meetings at the party office and Kaul House -- her residence-cum-office in the state capital. During one of the meetings, she discussed the setting up of "war rooms" at district levels to receive feedback and take prompt decisions as part of the election strategy. The party's proposed pratigya yatra' was finalised after its route was discussed and the booth management strategy for the polls was chalked out as well, a leader said. This is Priyanka Gandhi's second visit to the state within a month. She had earlier arrived on September 13 and stayed for five days. The Congress party had fought the 2017 UP polls in alliance with the Samajwadi Party. The grand old party had managed to win just seven of the 114 contested seats with a vote share of 6.25 per cent. This time, the Congress has announced that it would fight the polls without aligning with any big political party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||69% of adult population has got at least one dose of Covid vaccine, 25% both: Govt||Sixty-nine per cent of the country's adult population has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine and 25 per cent has taken both doses, the government said on Thursday. It also said that increased population density raises chances of Covid-19 spread and it will be prudent to avoid non-essential travel and observe festivity at low key. The government said that 64.1 per cent doses of Covid-19 vaccine has been administered in vaccination centres in rural areas and 35 per cent in urban areas. A total of 67.4 lakh doses (approximately 0.88 pc) have been administered at vaccination centres not tagged as rural/urban, it said. It said that 59.66 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases last week were reported from Kerala and the state has over one lakh active cases. The government also stressed that the number of Covid-19 tests has not reduced and 15 to 16 lakh tests are being done every day in the country. Eighteen districts are reporting weekly Covid positivity rate between five to ten per cent and 30 districts are reporting over 10 per cent weekly positivity rate, it said. On the Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine, the government said that ZyCoV-D is a three-dose needle-free vaccine and it will be priced differently than jabs being used currently. Talks are being held with the manufacturer on its pricing, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
30-09-2021||India||Need at least one medical college for PG education in every district: Modi||The government is making efforts to ensure each district of the country has a medical college or an institution for post-graduate medical education, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. He also said the gap in medical education and delivery of health services is being reduced and that the government's focus is on preventive healthcare as well as promoting ayurveda and yoga. In six years, more than 170 medical colleges have been completed and work on over 100 new medical colleges is going on at a fast pace, Modi said at a virtual ceremony to mark the foundation stone laying of four medical colleges and inauguration of the Institute of Petrochemicals Technology in Rajasthan. "The Centre is making efforts that there should be one medical college or institution for PG (post-graduate) medical education in every district," he said. Talking about the erstwhile Medical Council of India (MCI), he said that questions used to be raised on its decisions and there were allegations on its transparency. These had an adverse impact on quality of medical education and delivery of health services, the prime minister said. He said after efforts and many challenges, the government was finally able to bring reform by forming the National Medical Commission in place of the MCI. The impact of the commission is now visible, Prime Minister Modi said. Modi said when he became chief minister of Gujarat 20 years ago, there were many challenges in the areas of medical infrastructure, medical education and treatment facilities, but he accepted the challenges and tried to change the situation with collective efforts. He said the shortcomings in the health sector, which he felt as a chief minister, are now being removed in the country. The Centre worked on a national approach and a new national policy to transform the health sector, Modi said. "Health is a state subject and I know what difficulties are there, because I was also a chief minister. We worked on that. The problem here was that the health system was divided and there was a lack connectivity and collective approach at the national level," he said. "There was also a gap in traditional and modern medicine systems, and the shortcomings in governance also needed to be removed. Therefore, we started working on a new national health policy," he said. The prime minister said that from Swachh Bharat Abhiyan to Ayushman Bharat and now, Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, many such efforts are being made. Stressing on the need to spread the network of healthcare facilities across the country, he said be it AIIMS or medical colleges it is very important to spread their network rapidly to every nook and corner of the country. "Today we can say with satisfaction that India is moving from six AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences) to a strong network of more than 22 AIIMS," he said. In 2014, the total seats for under-graduate and post-graduate medical studies in the country was close to 82,000, which has now increased to 1.40 lakh, Modi said. "The success of the central government's free (COVID-19) vaccine campaign for all is a reflection of its efforts. Today, more than 88 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been administered in India," he said. The prime minister said that for many English has been a hindrance to get medical education. But the new education policy has paved way for education in Indian languages and those who did not get the chance to study in English-medium schools will also be able to become doctors and serve humanity, he said. Modi also said that every section of society should get opportunities and this is the main reason behind the OBC (Other Backward Class) and the EWS (Economically Weaker Section) reservations in medical colleges. Highlighting the significance of skilled manpower for the petrochemical sector, he said that a high level of skill will not only increase the strength of India but will also play a big role in realising the resolve of a self-reliant India. "Skilled manpower is the need of the day for one of the fastest growing petrochemical sector," he said. On Covid-19, Modi said that the biggest pandemic in 100 years has taught a lot to the health sector of the world and India has resolved to increase its capacity of self-reliance in this disaster. Prior to the address, Modi virtually laid the foundation stones of medical colleges of Banswara, Sirohi, Hanumangarh and Dausa and inaugurated the Central Institute of Petrochemicals Engineering and Technology's Institute of Petrochemicals Technology (IPT) in Sitapura, Jaipur by pressing a button on a remote. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla also addressed the function virtually while Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya was present in the function held at CIPET in Jaipur. Union ministers Gajendra Shekhawat, Bhupendra Yadav, Kailash Chaudhary, Arjun Meghwal, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, Jaipur MP Ramcharan Bohra and others also attended the programme through video conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Rujira Banerjee virtually appears before Delhi court in coal scam case||TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira Banerjee on Thursday appeared before a Delhi court through video conferencing in relation to a complaint filed by the Enforcement Directorate for allegedly refusing to join the probe in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma directed Rujira to appear before the court physically on October 12, while granting her exemption from the personal appearance for the day. In her plea seeking exemption from personal appearance, Rujira told the court that she was unable to travel with her child on short notice. The court had directed Rujira to appear before it on September 30. Her plea was opposed by ED's Special Public Prosecutor Nitesh Rana, who told the court that she had to appear before the court physically and seek bail since she was accused of evading summons. The judge granted the exemption for the day after noting that Rujira appeared through the video conferencing and her advocate Siddharth Aggarwal, who appeared physically, assured that she will appear before the court in person on the next day of the hearing. In its complaint, the ED alleged that she refused to appear before the agency here despite repeated summons issued to her. The couple had earlier approached the Delhi High Court seeking quashing of summons issued to them by the ED for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in Bengal, saying they are residents of Kolkata and should not be compelled to join the probe in the national capital. The plea is currently pending before the high court, which is scheduled to further hear it on Friday. Abhishek Banerjee, nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and his wife have challenged the September 10 summons and also sought to direct the ED not to summon them for their appearance in Delhi and thereby not compelling them to join the investigation in the instant case here. The 33-year-old MP represents the Diamond Harbour seat in Lok Sabha and is the national general secretary of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). The plea before the high court also said that a greater degree of protection is granted to a woman under Section 160 of the CrPC, which mandates that she shall not be required to attend any place other than where she resides. It claimed the repeated issuance of summons to Rujira Banerjee to appear before the ED was ex-facie illegal and mala fide and sought court's intervention before any coercive measures are resorted to by the agency. The ED lodged a case under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of a November 2020 FIR registered by the CBI that alleged a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol. Local coal operative Anup Majhi alias Lala is alleged to be the prime suspect in the case. The ED had earlier claimed that Abhishek Banerjee was a beneficiary of funds obtained from this illegal trade. He has denied all charges. Abhishek Banerjee said ED has repeatedly summoned him and his wife for examination in person in Delhi without supplying a copy of the ECIR (Enforcement Case Information Report) and without specifying whether they are being summoned as witnesses or accused, nor indicating the scope of the investigation being carried out. He said their examination may take place in Calcutta where ED has a functional and fully equipped zonal office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Delhi to be free of air, water and noise pollution in 3 years: Gadkari||The government will make the national capital free of air, water and noise pollution in the next three years, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday, observing that pollution is the biggest concern for the country. Addressing the annual session of industry body PHDCCI, the road transport minister said that his ministry has spent Rs 60,000 crore on road infrastructure development -- an effort that also helped in reducing air pollution in Delhi. "Air pollution, water pollution and noise pollution are major concerns for the country. We will make Delhi free of air, water and sound pollution in the next three years," he said. Gadkari said the road ministry is working on a proposal to shift all container depots and 1,700 godowns out of Delhi. "In the next 15 days, we will be discussing that proposal with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi Development Authority (DDA)," he said. Gadkari also said that the road ministry is also building logistics park of worth Rs 1 lakh crore. The minister said he has put forth his suggestion to Kejriwal to run only electric buses for the public transport purpose in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Sexually assaulted IAF officer says she was subjected to banned two-finger test||A 28-year old female Air Force officer at the Air Force Administrative College here who was sexually assaulted has levelled serious charges against the IAF authorities, including subjecting her to a banned finger test and also forcing her to withdraw the complaint against the accused Flight Lieutenant. The charges found place in the FIR registered by the police based on the complaint by the woman officer at the All Woman Police Station, after the IAF authorities including College Commandant failed to take action till September 20 on the incident which happened on September 10. The woman also alleged she was subjected to 'two-finger test' at the Air Force Hospital to ascertain rape, which was banned by the Supreme Court a few years ago. Police had arrested the accused Amitesh Harmukh on September 25 and he is in judicial custody. Both the rape victim and the accused, hailing from Chhattisgarh, were part of a training course and had attended a party in the officers' mess on the night of September 9. The woman officer in her complaint said the incident occurred in the wee hours of the next day when she was sleeping after taking medicine for her leg injury and was assaulted by the drunk officer, who had narrated the incident to two of her batchmates who recorded the conversation between the trio. She approached a wing commander on the incident and came to the room along with a woman wing commander, who 'advised' her to think about the future including the name and respect of the family, based on which she communicated to one of her friends that she was not going to lodge any complaint. However, as both the wing commanders again approached her and told her to either file the complaint or give in writing that the episode was consensual, she subsequently mustered courage and decided to file the complaint, amid the finger test in the evening in the hospital. The survivor further said she had handed over the mattress which had strains of semen to two women doctors, the FIR said. After cajoling by two senior officers, who informed that the test was negative, the commandant asked her to withdraw the case in writing saying if pursued, it will be flashed in the media and bring disrepute to the Air Force and herself, police said. However, she went to the city police commissioner's office on September 20 and from there the all-woman police station registered the case. When contacted, a senior IAF officer, on condition of anonymity, refused to comment on the issue as the matter was in court and sensitive. Meanwhile, the IAF had filed a petition in the court that local police has no right to arrest the officer and only the defence court is the jurisdiction where a court martial can be conducted and therefore hand over him the accused to the IAF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Police involved in 'very serious offences' to face dismissal, warns Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said illegal activities by police personnel are not acceptable and warned that those found involved in "very serious offences" will be dismissed. The CM's statement has come amid criticism of his government over law and order following the death of a Kanpur businessman at a hotel in his home district Gorakhpur. Manish Gupta, 36, died on Monday night after he was allegedly beaten up by some policemen, prompting the authorities to register a murder case against them. At a meeting with senior officials, the CM said in the recent past, there have been complaints of some police personnel indulging in illegal activities, according to a statement. There should be no place for such people in the Police Department and action will be taken against them as per rules, Adityanath said, asking officials to identify such people and provide a list with proof. Police personnel found involved in "very serious offences" should be dismissed, he said, stressing that people with tainted image should not be given important postings. Meanwhile, Opposition parties demanded a probe into the incident by the CBI or a sitting judge of the High Court. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav rushed to Kanpur to meet the family of the victim and said justice is not possible till a High Court-monitored inquiry by a sitting judge is not ordered. BSP Supremo Mayawati in a tweet also demanded a CBI probe. On Wednesday, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had attacked the state government, saying it is "soft" on criminal and "brutal" with common people. Priyanka also talked to family members of the victim over the phone, expressing grief and assuring them of help in ensuring justice, party sources had said. Manish Gupta died when some policemen raided a Gorakhpur hotel on Monday night. Earlier, police had said he received a head injury after he fell on the ground as he was drunk. Later, the authorities suspended six policemen and booked them on the charge of murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Utterly humiliated in Congress, will leave party, says Amarinder||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday scotched speculation of his joining BJP but said he will quit the Congress, which he asserted was going downhill with senior leaders being ignored. A day after meeting Home Minister Amit Shah which triggered speculation of his joining the BJP, Singh said he would leave the Congress as he had been "utterly humiliated" and was not trusted. "I will not join BJP (but) I will not stay in the Congress party," the 79-year-old leader said, adding that he was still thinking through his options in the interest of Punjab as security of the state was the predominant priority for him. Singh, who arrived in the national capital on Tuesday, also met National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Thursday. He had resigned as chief minister on September 18 after accusing the Congress of humiliating him. "I will not be treated in this humiliating manner...I will not take such insults," he said, adding that his principles and beliefs do not allow him to stay in the Congress any longer. Terming the senior Congressmen as "thinkers", who were critical to the future of the party, the former chief minister said the younger leadership should be promoted to implement the plans, which the senior leaders are best equipped to formulate. Unfortunately, the seniors are being "completely sidelined" which is not good for the party, he said in a statement. Singh's Twitter bio, which read "Army Veteran | Former Chief Minister Punjab | Continuing to serve the State", has no mention of the Congress party. However, sources said he has not resigned from the Congress so far. After Singh's statement, a source said the former chief minister may float his own outfit ahead of elections in Punjab which are to be held early next year. Singh was also the president of the All India Jat Mahasabha in 2013 when he was removed as PCC chief .There is also speculation that he may get actively involved once again with this body to help resolve the farmers' issues. Slamming Navjot Singh Sidhu, Singh said he was a mere crowd-puller and did not know how to carry the team along. The former chief minister also condemned the attack on Kapil Sibal's house by Congress workers only because he had chosen to express views that were not palatable to the party leadership. Expressing the hope that Punjab would vote for the future of the state, he said his experience showed that the people of the state tend to vote for a single party/force, irrespective of the number of parties in the fray. Misgovernance in Punjab would give Pakistan an opportunity to create trouble in the state and in the country, he said, adding that his meeting with Doval this morning centred around this issue. Singh had raised security concerns with Shah too, along with the farmers' issue, during his meeting with him on Wednesday. Taking a dig at those who undermine the growing Pakistani threat in Punjab, he said that such people were playing into the hands of anti-India forces by being in a denial mode. "They (Pak-backed elements) are killing our soldiers every day, they are pushing weapons into the state through drones. How can we overlook these dangers," he said. Singh had earlier accused Sidhu of being close to Pakistan and its prime minister Imran Khan and had alleged that he was "dangerous" for the border state. Reiterating his opinion about Sidhu, Singh said he does not know how to carry his team along. He said he has worked with many PPCC chiefs and he has himself been one, and he has always resolved issues amicably, without indulging in theatrics like Sidhu. The former chief minister was opposed to Sidhu being appointed as PCC chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Mutual trust despite different ideology pillar of democracy, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said mutual trust despite different ideologies is the strength of democracy. Responding to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's requests regarding a few projects for the development of the state during a virtual programme, Modi thanked the veteran Congress leader for having faith in him. "I was listening to the chief minister of Rajasthan. He has given a long list of projects. I thank the chief minister of Rajasthan that he has so much faith in me. His ideology, (political) party are different and my ideology, party are different but this friendship, trust and faith is a big strength of democracy," he said. Addressing the programme for the foundation laying of medical colleges in Banswara, Sirohi, Hanumangarh and Dausa districts and the inauguration of the Institute of Petrochemicals Technology in Jaipur, Gehlot requested the prime minister to approve a medical device park in Jodhpur and a bulk drug park in Kota. He also sought the Union government's support to revive drug-manufacturing company RDPL, which was a joint venture of the Centre and the state. Talking about the challenges in service delivery, Gehlot said due to distances, the service delivery cost, be it in the health or in the education sector, from district to district and village to village is high in Rajasthan as compared to other states. He also said 30 of the 33 districts in the state will have medical colleges by 2023. Fifteen medical colleges are already there and 15 more will be ready by 2023, the chief minister said. Gehlot urged the prime minister to take a decision regarding medical colleges in the remaining three districts of Rajsamand, Pratapgarh and Jalore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||Delhi High Court takes suo motu cognisance of Rohini shooting incident||The Delhi High Court Thursday took suo motu cognizance of the Rohini Court shootout that left three dead and said there was a need for proper and effective deployment of a sufficient number of police personnel in courts. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Delhi Police, Delhi government, and Central government as well as the Delhi High Court Bar Association and directed that suggestions in the form of an affidavit or a report be filed on the issue of maintaining security at courts. "We have taken suo motu cognizance of the incident which took place in Rohini court. This court wants valuable suggestions from respondents for security at all court complexes in Delhi," said the Chief Justice. The bench said that there was a need for a fool-proof entry system in courts, installation of metal detectors, under vehicle surveillance system, and proper training of police personnel. Jailed gangster Jitendra Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers were killed inside the Rohini courtroom on September 24 in a dramatic shootout that also saw the police fire bullets in retaliation, the officials had said. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. On September 24, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana had expressed deep concern over the shootout inside the crowded Rohini courtroom and spoke to the Delhi High Court Chief Justice in this regard and advised him to talk to both police and the Bar to ensure that the functioning of the court is not affected. The matter would be heard next on October 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||After meeting Amit Shah, Amarinder Singh meets NSA Ajit Doval||Congress leader Amarinder Singh on Thursday met NSA Ajit Doval, a meeting which comes a day after he met Home Minister Amit Shah amid speculation over his future move after resigning as Punjab chief minister. The former Punjab chief minister told ndtv.com that he cannot stay in Congress anymore. Singh met Doval at his residence here. The meeting between the two lasted for around 30 minutes. After the meeting, the National Security Advisor (NSA) left for the residence of Shah. Singh's meeting with Shah on Wednesday had added another dimension in politics in Punjab where no party is being seen as a clear favourite in the polls, expected to be held early next year. The politically significant meeting, which came days after Singh resigned as chief minister after accusing the Congress of humiliating him, raised speculation over his future plans ahead of the polls in Punjab with some political analysts viewing it as an indication that Singh may be seeking the support of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sources close to Singh had said the former chief minister is learnt to have also discussed the internal security situation in Punjab with Shah. With the farmers' protests also seen to be affecting the BJP's prospects in western UP, the Modi government may intensify efforts to end the stir. Uttar Pradesh and Punjab are among the five states going to the assembly polls early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||India-China border incidents will continue until agreement is reached: Army||Border incidents between India and China will continue to occur till a boundary agreement is reached between the two countries, Army Chief General M M Naravane said on Thursday. Recent developments in Afghanistan "have definitely been the focus" of the Indian Army that continues to evaluate threat perceptions and formulate strategies accordingly, the Army chief added while addressing a gathering at the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Discussing China, he said, "... we have an outstanding border issue. We are again well prepared to meet any misadventure that may occur as we have demonstrated in the past." "Such kinds of incidents will continue to occur till such time that a long-term solution is reached, and that is to have a boundary agreement. And that should be the thrust of our efforts so that we have lasting peace along the northern (China) border," he stated during the annual session meeting of the industry body. Referring to Afghanistan, he said the Indian Army "or the armed forces for that matter continue to carry out periodic evaluation of threat perceptions". Based on those evaluations, the Indian Army formulates strategies and doctrines that are needed to meet future threats, he noted. "This is a continuous process that never stops,"" he added. Kabul fell to the Taliban on August 15. Expressing its concerns about the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, India had on September 20 had said the country's territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts. As far as the terrorist threat is concerned, the Indian Army is ready to meet all challenges, Naravane said. "We have a very dynamic counterinsurgency and counterterrorist grid in Jammu and Kashmir. It is a dynamic grid and it is based on threat perception and the escalating levels of attempts by our western neighbour (Pakistan) to push in more and more terrorists," he said. "Based on ups and downs, we also recalibrate our levels of operations," he added. The current border standoff between the Indian and Chinese armies erupted in May last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area. Both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. The row escalated after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 last year. Twenty Indian Army personnel laid down their lives in the clashes that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades. In February 2021, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes with the Indian Army though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the disengagement process in Gogra area last month. In February, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC (Line of Actual Control) in the sensitive sector. In 2017, Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction which even triggered fears of a war between the two nuclear-armed neighbours. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
30-09-2021||India||“gintaa”- India’s first complete patented social e-commerce||On 1st October 2021 a new start-up is all set to change the dynamics of the eCommerce business with young Soham Jaiswal’s vision. He is well on his way towards establishing a brand that aims higher than any of the online retailing brands in this part of the hemisphere.  Elaborating on his vision, Chairman & MD Laxman Jaiswal says, gintaa is based on the pristine Indian value of GIVE & TAKE, gintaa, the social eCommerce platform with B2B, B2C, C2B, C2Cselling, buying,auction,and exchange shall cover almost every conceivable aspect of e-Commerce and beyond.  gintaa is aimed at cashing in on the growing eCommerce business in India with a steady growth of 50-60% over the years.  According to CEO Soham, gintaa shall offer an in-built mechanism which shall have a unique rating system for its sellers, service providers, buyers as well as end users, thereby negating any possibility of fraudulent usage of the platform. gintaa is backed by a retinue of features such as a logistics partner in India Post thereby ensuring reach to the farthest corners of the land, insured deliveries thereby providing a guarantee of safety for its users, constant system upgradation to minimise possibilities of technical glitches, and a dedicated team providing a complete 24x7 SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats) analysis thereby giving it a platinum edge.  gintaa shall provide solutions for gintaa makes a difference Four easy and secure ways to use gintaa: gintaa shall truly be a revolution in eCommerce and will change the way of selling goods and services online at www.gintaa.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Gulam Ashraf has Well-Earned the Title as ‘King of Kolkata Port’||Establishing a name for yourself is never easy. However, building empires while carrying forward the legacy left behind by your father is even more difficult. Gulam Ashraf, a successful entrepreneur, has achieved what many consider a path full of thorns. Managing Director Gulam Ashraf of Phonex Traders Private Ltd. states that the company aspires to be the top logistics provider of the country. There are about three thousand employees and ten sister companies under the supervision of Mr. Gulam. In addition to his logistics operations, Gulam handles all the imports and exports of the Bengal port. He is considered the ‘King of Kolkata Port’ by the locals and the businesspeople. Another astonishing fact is that he is the first from Kolkata Port to become the president of a national level club called ‘Mohammedan Sporting Club’. The company, so far, has expanded to Vizag, West Bengal, and few other states in the northeast. In addition, they have worked with companies from Bangladesh, Singapore, and some other nations. Despite his youth, he has made significant contributions to the performance of the company. He took over the business after his father's demise. He has done the enterprise justice leading it to success. Gulam has a strong sense of empathy for the needs of others and is well-aware of his environment. He stands out among other start-ups in the business industry as he not only guides them but funds them as well. He is bringing sustainability into people’s lives, especially the youth, by sorting out their unemployment crises and providing them jobs in the Port. Since his adolescence, the desire to help others has been ingrained in him. He recalls his father devoting only half of his wages to the house and the rest to helping others in need. To this day, he is carrying on his father's legacy. He helps the needy and downtrodden. For the development of society and its citizens, he operates the One Unity Social Welfare Association. He is dedicated to his principles and strives for success. Today, when many people help others for the sake of popularity and self-promotion, Gulam considers social action to be a duty. He aims to help the youth prosper and flourish. Maintaining a well-built reputation is challenging enough, and going above and beyond people's expectations is not for everyone. His outstanding services and competence have changed the entire ambiance and atmosphere for the youth and emerging start-ups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||MAKAUT heralds a distinctive name as a hallmark academic and research institution in bengal||The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, West Bengal (MAKAUT, WB) heralds a distinctive name as a hallmark academic and research institution in West Bengal. During the past 20 years of its quintessential existence, it has truly poised itself as a premier flagship centre of higher learning. The university has made powerful forays into new emerging domains of engineering and technology, science and management, socio-cultural and heritage initiatives, eco-environmentalism, travel-tourism and corporate social responsibilities – which is truly a phenomenal leap ahead and a cut above the other technical universities of India and abroad. As a Technology University of the state, it provides affiliation to over 200 colleges spread across the State, that offers a wide plethora of UG/PG programmes in classical, neo-classical and contemporary branches of Engineering and Technology, Pharmacy, Architecture, Management, Applied Sciences, in conjunction with non-AICTE programmes of B.Sc., B.B.A. and B.C.A. courses in leading subject domains. The University has started various professional courses in some affiliated colleges since 2018 in line with the directives of A.I.C.T.E. and the U.G.C. The courses are in Information Technology, Computer Science, Bio-technology, Bio-informatics, Material Science & Technology, Forensic Science, Food Science & Technology, Pharmaceutical Science and Technology, Business Analytics, Digital Health, Geo informatics, Waste Management and Social Entrepreneurship, Travel and Tourism, Media Science, Virtual Reality/Augmented Reality, Robotics etc. With active patronage and support of the Department of Higher Education, Govt. of West Bengal, the University has constructed its sprawling new academic campus over an area close to 40 acres in Haringhata, Nadia - that garners the rarest distinction of ‘green, clean and environmentally smart campus’. Here from, all academic and administrative machinery are centrally managed and co-ordinated to effective implementation. The University is ambitiously expanding its in-house academic portfolios by launching a large number of new courses, with thrust on professional and vocational ones, setting up of new laboratories in advanced and emerging disciplines, constituting new Schools, Centres and Departments, embarking upon training and consultancy, initiating off-campus and satellite campus programmes, thereby pushing the student enrolment to maximum possible extent. MAKAUT strongly emphasizes adoption of digital technology and use of available digital/online resources by faculty members and students. Application of Learning Management Systems, Flipped Learning and Mobile Learning are the tools in classroom teaching. The University has prepared a repository of online courses culled from different online subject platforms for its affiliated colleges. The courses are assigned with credits and allowance of credit transfer for intending students. The University has adopted Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) ahead of other universities. The University delves to foster ‘academic niche′ on modern learner-centric pedagogy, digital initiatives and entrepreneurship development as path-breaking endeavours and essence of its epistemology. ‘Systems concept and thinking’ occupies the centre-stage here in understanding of dynamism, holism and perturbations of teaching-learning process. It will really be a tryst with destiny to embrace the mentorship of MAKAUT for young aspirant minds, and rich posterity, to the trail blazing path and footprints of glory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Highways can't be blocked perpetually, says SC on farmers protest||How can highways be blocked perpetually, the Supreme Court wondered on Thursday while referring to road blockades by farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three farm laws passed last year, and said it is the executive's duty to implement the law laid down by the court. The top court allowed the Centre to file a formal application to make farmer unions party to the plea seeking opening of road blockade at Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at UP Gate here. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M M Sundresh said, "The redressal of problems can be through judicial forum, agitation or through Parliamentary debates. But how can the highways be blocked and this is happening perpetually. Where does this end? The top court was hearing a plea of a NOIDA resident Monicca Agrawaal, who has sought removal of blockade saying that earlier it took 20 minutes to reach Delhi and now it is taking over two hours and people of the area are facing hardships due to protests at the UP Gate on Delhi border. At the outset, the bench asked Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj what is the government doing in the matter. Nataraj said that they had convened a meeting with the protesting farmers and details have been mentioned in the affidavit. The bench said, We may lay down a law but how to implement the law is your business. The court cannot implement it. It is the executive who has to implement it . Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that it is the duty of the executive to implement it. The bench said, When we lay down the law, you will say it is encroachment and we trespassed into the domain of the executive. This has ramifications but there are also grievances which need to be addressed. This cannot be a perpetual problem . Mehta said that when it is invited then it will not be encroached upon. He said that at the highest level a three-member committee was formed to address the grievances but the farmers' representatives who were invited refused to join in the discussions. Mehta said the court should allow the petitioner to make the farmers union party to the petition, so that later they don't say that they were not made parties in the matter. The bench told Mehta that it is he who will have to move an application for making farmers representative party as the petitioner, a private individual may not know who their leaders are. "If you feel that someone is to be made party, you will have to make a request. You move a formal application giving details about the steps taken to resolve their grievances and how the impleadment of representatives of farmers will help in the resolution of the dispute," the bench said, while listing the plea for hearing on October 4. Mehta said that they will file the application by Friday. On August 23, the top court had said that the Centre and Delhi's neighbouring states should find a solution to road blockades on the national capital's borders due to farmers' protest. It had told the Centre why the government can't find a solution to this problem as though farmers have the right to protest but at the designated places and due to the protests, inflow and outflow of traffic cannot be disrupted. The top court had said that this will have an impact on toll collection as well because vehicles will not be able to pass through due to the blockades. It had then ordered, Solution lies in the hands of the Union of India and the concerned state governments. They have to coordinate to find a solution that when a protest takes place, roads are not blocked and traffic is not disrupted to cause inconvenience to the common people . The Solicitor General had said that if the court is willing to pass some orders then two farmers unions can be made parties and he can give their names. The top court had said that tomorrow another two unions will come forward and say they represent the farmers and this will go on. On March 26, the top court had issued notice to Uttar Pradesh and Haryana on the plea. The Uttar Pradesh government has said in its affidavit that continuous efforts are being made to remove the blockade at the Delhi-UP border and there at present about 141 tents and 31 langars' around the area, and the protestors have installed a platform on the flyover from where the leaders give speeches, a media house has also been made below the flyover. Similarly, the Haryana government also told the top court that protesters staging 'dharna' at Singhu border have been camping on about 6 kilometres stretch of lanes of NH-44 since November 27, last year. The farmers are protesting against passage of three laws-Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. Initially, the protests started from Punjab in November last year and later spread to Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and some other parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu to meet Charanjit Channi at 3 pm today||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu said he will be meeting Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi for talks on Thursday. The move comes a day after Channi reached out to Sidhu and offered to resolve issues through talks. "Chief Minister has invited me for talks will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh at 3:00 PM today, he is welcome for any discussions," Sidhu, who had on Tuesday resigned as the state Congress chief, said Sidhu on Wednesday had raised questions over the appointments of director general of police, state's advocate general and tainted leaders. The Punjab unit of the Congress is in turmoil after Amarinder Singh was removed as chief minister and its chief Sidhu resigned from his post ahead of the crucial assembly elections in the state early next year. Factionalism in Punjab Congress has come to the fore over recent appointments of the new cabinet and other top officials. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Channi had said, "I have spoken to Sidhu sahab over telephone today. The party is supreme and the government accepts the party's ideology and follows that. (I told him that) You come, sit and talk". "If you (Sidhu) feel there is anything wrong, you can point it out," he said. When asked what was Sidhu's response, Channi had said the leader told him that he would sit and talk, and would give him time for a meeting. Channi said his government will set up a team under a special prosecutor for fighting cases in courts. "We are setting up a team of a special prosecutor and 10 members, and it will handle our (state government) important cases," he said. "A special team will be appointed. Therefore, there should not be any doubt on me. Everything will be transparent," he further said. He said, "Whatever feedback we got from colleagues and others and whosoever could be appointed, we appointed. But the decisions will be taken according to the people of Punjab." "I have no objection or any ego in anything. I am very clear. If anything sends wrong message to people, I will not be rigid on it," he said in an apparent reference to recent appointments. The CM had said that he would never step back on issues for which he had been fighting, apparently referring to delivery of justice in the 2015 desecration cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Supreme Court collegium recommends 16 names for elevation as judges at 4 HCs||The Supreme Court collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana, has recommended 16 names for elevation as judges of the high courts of Bombay, Gujarat, Orissa and Punjab and Haryana. In its meeting held on Wednesday, the collegium approved the proposal for elevation of 16 names -- six judicial officers and 10 advocates as judges of these four high courts. As per the statements uploaded on the apex court website on Thursday, the collegium has approved the proposal for elevation of four judicial officers -- A L Pansare, S C More, U S Joshi-Phalke and B P Deshpande -- as judges of the Bombay High Court. Similarly, the collegium has recommended names of advocates Aditya Kumar Mohapatra and Mruganka Sekhar Sahoo and judicial officers Radha Krishna Pattanaik and Sashikanta Mishra for their elevation as judges of the Orissa High Court. For the Gujarat High Court, the collegium has approved the proposal for elevation of seven advocates -- Mauna Manish Bhatt, Samir J Dave, Hemant M Prachchhak, Sandeep N Bhatt, Aniruddha Pradyumna Mayee, Niral Rashmikant Mehta and Nisha Mahendrabhai Thakore -- as judges there. The Supreme Court collegium in its meeting held on September 29, 2021 has approved the proposal for elevation of Sandeep Moudgil, advocate, as judge in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, said one of the statements. Besides the CJI, the three-member collegium which deals with the appointment in high courts includes Justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar. The collegium has been taking steps by recommending names to fill up a large number of vacancies in higher judiciary in the country. After assuming charge as the CJI in April this year, Justice Ramana has recommended nearly 100 names for appointment to different high courts, besides filling up nine vacancies of judges in the Supreme Court in one go. The 25 high courts in the country have a combined sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges and on May 1, 2021, they were functioning with 420 judges only. In a historic decision on August 17, the collegium had recommended nine names, including three women, for elevation as judges of the Supreme Court. The names were cleared with significant pace by the Centre leading to the swearing-in ceremony on August 31 when the new judges were administered oath of office as apex court judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Low pressure area in Gulf of Kutch likely to intensify, says IMD||The remnant of cyclone Gulab has turned into a depression, moved into the Gulf of Kutch and is likely to further intensify into a cyclonic storm in the Arabian Sea, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. Due to this weather system, heavy rains were witnessed in Gujarat's Saurashtra region in the last 24 hours. The IMD has predicted heavy rains in the state's coastal districts over the next two days. "Yesterday's well-marked low pressure area over south Gujarat region and adjoining Gulf of Khambhat moved west-northwestwards and emerged into the Gulf of Kutch, concentrated into a depression and lay centred there at 5.30 am today," an IMD release said. "It is about 50 km east-northeast of Devbhoomi Dwarka (Gujarat), 90 km east-southeast of Naliya (in Kutch) and 340 km east-southeast of Karachi (Pakistan)," the release said. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and intensify into a deep depression over northeast Arabian Sea off north Gujarat coast during the next 12 hours, the weather department said. "It is then very likely to move further west-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. Thereafter, it is likely to continue to move west-northwestwards towards Pakistan-Makran coasts, moving away from the Indian coast," the IMD said. Heavy rainfall is expected for the next two days in the coastal districts of Jamnagar, Porbandar, Dwarka and Kutch, it said, and asked fishermen not to venture into the sea. Due to the present weather system, Junagadh, Amreli, Dwarka, Jamnagar and Rajkot districts received heavy rains in the last 24 hours, the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) said. In the 24-hour period ending at 6 am on Thursday morning,Visavadar taluka in Junagadh district recorded 292 mm, Lilya in Amreli district received 141 mm downpour, while Khambhaliya and Kalyanpur in Devbhumi Dwarka distric got 140 mm and 135 mm rainfall, respectively, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||India logs 23k Covid-19 cases, active caseload further declines||India recorded a single-day rise of 23,529 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking its infection tally to 3,37,39,980, while the count of active cases dipped to 2,77,020, the lowest in 195 days, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll due to the disease has climbed to 4,48,062 with 311 daily fatalities being recorded, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has declined to 2,77,020, comprising 0.82 per cent of the total infections the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.85 per cent, the highest since March 2020, it added. A decrease of 5,500 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 15,06,254 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the country on Wednesday, taking the total number of such examinations done so far to 56,89,56,439, the data showed. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.56 per cent. It has been below three per cent for 31 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.74 per cent. This figure has been below three per cent for 97 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,30,14,898, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative number of coronavirus vaccine doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide inoculation drive has exceeded 88.34 crore. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The country surpassed the grim milestone of two crore infections on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 311 new fatalities include 155 from Kerala, and 49 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,48,062 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,011 from Maharashtra, 37,780 from Karnataka, 35,550 from Tamil Nadu, 25,087 from Delhi, 24,965 from Kerala, 22,892 from Uttar Pradesh, and 18,778 from Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," it said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Decision on Covaxin's emergency use deferred to October, says WHO||A decision on Bharat Biotech's submission seeking emergency use listing (EUL) for its Covaxin COVID-19 vaccine will be made in October, the World Health Organisation has said. The status of assessment for Covaxin is ongoing . Bharat Biotech had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) on April 19 for its vaccine. The latest Status of COVID-19 vaccines within WHO EUL/PQ evaluation process' guidance document dated September 29 on the WHO website said that the decision date for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is October 2021 . The WHO said it began rolling data of the vaccine on July 6. Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. According to the WHO, submissions to WHO for prequalification or listing under the emergency use procedure are confidential. If a product submitted for assessment is found to meet the criteria for listing, the WHO will publish the results widely. Duration of the emergency use listing process depends on the quality of the data submitted by the vaccine manufacturer and on those data meeting WHO criteria, according to the agency. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covishield are the two widely used vaccines in India. Bharat Biotech recently said it submitted all data pertaining to Covaxin to the WHO for EUL and is awaiting feedback from the global health watchdog. "#COVAXIN clinical trial data was fully compiled & available in June 2021. "All Data submitted for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) Application to World Health Organization in early July. We have responded to any clarifications sought by #WHO and are awaiting further feedback," Bharat Biotech had tweeted earlier this month. "We are diligently working with the WHO to obtain EUL at the earliest," the company had said on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||Centre renames Mid Day Meal Scheme as 'PM Poshan Scheme'||The Narendra Modi government on Wednesday decided to rename the school Mid Day Meal Scheme as “PM Poshan Scheme”, shocking public policy observers who suspected an attempt by the Prime Minister to claim credit for an old programme towards which his administration had adopted a miserly attitude. “Today, the CCEA (cabinet committee on economic affairs) cleared the PM POSHAN Scheme for providing one hot cooked meal in government and government-aided schools from 2021-22 to 2025-26,” said a release from the government’s publicity arm, the Press Information Bureau (PIB). “It’s mind-boggling to see the Prime Minister trying to take credit for a scheme he had undermined with massive budget cuts soon after he came to power in 2014,” economist Jean Dreze said. “To this day, the midday meal budget is much lower in real terms than it was seven years ago.” In 2014-15, Modi’s first year in power, the money released for the midday meal scheme was Rs 10,527 crore, down from the previous year’s Rs 10,927 crore. Over the next five years, the money released remained between Rs 9,096 crore and Rs 9,630 crore. In 2020-21, the government had to release Rs 12,883 crore with the pandemic-induced school closure forcing dry rations and money to be sent to families of all students covered under the scheme — unlike in the earlier years when not all students would have had the meal on all schooldays. The 2021-22 budget proposal for the scheme is Rs 11,500 crore. Nearly 11.8 crore students at 11.2 lakh schools now benefit from the scheme, which seeks to provide a nutritious meal to every child from Class I to VIII at government and government-aided schools on every day classes or exams are held. The expenses are split 60:40 between the Centre and the states. Ashok Rao, a social activist associated with the NGO Swami Sivananda Memorial Institute which supplies food to Anganwadi centres in Delhi, too questioned the name change. “This is a historic programme that was started by the Madras Municipal Corporation in 1925 for disadvantaged children who were not going to school. It was gradually expanded,” Rao said. Over the decades, several states individually adopted the scheme. In 1995, the P.V. Narasimha Rao government at the Centre adopted it nationally, naming it the National Programme of Nutritional Support to Primary Education and covering 2,400 of the country’s about 6,000 blocks. “In 2001, the Supreme Court directed all the state governments to provide the midday meal to every child and the MDM Scheme was started. The government should explain the purpose of the name change now,” Ashok Rao said. Wednesday’s media release said the scheme would be extended to children enrolled in the pre-primary sections or Bal Vatikas of government and government-aided primary schools. It did not say what the number of the additional beneficiaries would be. Preschool children are enrolled at Anganwadi centres and provided nutritional support under the Integrated Child Development Services. Some government primary schools in a few states have pre-primary classes, an education ministry official said, without giving figures. The PIB release said, without elaborating: “Special provision is made for providing supplementary nutrition items to children in aspirational districts and districts with high prevalence of anaemia.” An email sent to the education ministry seeking its comments on the concerns expressed by researchers and activists had evoked no reply till Wednesday night. Rao said that about 80 per cent of the schools cooked the midday meals at their kitchens before Covid struck, while centralised kitchens in towns and cities run by NGOs prepared and delivered the meal at about 20 per cent schools. He said the government needed to immediately stop the centralised kitchens, for preparation of the meals at the schools increased local involvement and awareness. “The purpose of the MDM Scheme is to provide nutritional support to the children and create awareness about the importance of nutrition. Its management should be given to local communities and not centralised kitchens,” Rao said. The Congress accuses the Modi government of renaming many of the UPA’s schemes with minor changes, from the Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account (now Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana) and the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (now Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) to the Accelerated Irrigation Benefits Programme (now Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana) and the National Manufacturing Policy (Make In India).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
30-09-2021||India||NHRC official aghast to find Modi photo and slogan in emails||A senior National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) official was aghast on Wednesday to learn that the Centre’s e-governance facilitator was appending to the rights watchdog’s outgoing emails a picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his “sabka saath” slogan, a move he said could affect perceptions about the organisation’s independence. The development comes days after the same agency, the National Informatics Centre (NIC), had received a rap from the Supreme Court for a similar embellishment of the top court’s outgoing emails without its knowledge or permission. The NHRC official said the apex rights organisation had been clueless about the matter, till this correspondent drew attention to it on Wednesday evening, since only the receivers of the mails and not their writers could see the footer with Modi’s picture and the slogan. Apex court sources had earlier made a similar point. “Now that you have brought the matter to us, we will take it up with our chairperson, Justice Arun Mishra,” the NHRC official, who declined to be named, told The Telegraph. The NHRC official said: “We had no idea that our forum was being used for such purposes by the NIC (which operates under the ministry of electronics and information technology). Our website and digital networks are handled by the NIC as a facilitator.” A media release emailed by Jaimini Kumar Srivastava, NHRC deputy director (media and communications), that this newspaper had received on Wednesday evening carried the footer with Modi’s picture and the slogan “Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas, sabka prayas (Together with all, development of all, trust of all and effort by all).” Even the moving band of graphics on top of the home page of the NHRC’s official website showed a photo of the Prime Minister, but with a different slogan, “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”, which promotes the official celebrations for the 75th anniversary of Independence. The NHRC official underlined that the central and state governments were the biggest litigants before the rights watchdog, which took up thousands of cases relating to human rights violations by the government and its instrumentalities every year. “In such a situation, using the NHRC portals to pedal government policies or its political personalities is certainly not acceptable,” the official said. The Supreme Court registry had on September 23 evening been alerted by some people that its outgoing emails were being appended with Modi’s photo and the “sabka saath” slogan. On September 24 morning, after the matter came to the attention of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, the NIC was told to remove the footer immediately and all its senior officials were pulled up, court sources had said. The NIC had obliged within an hour, they had added. An apex court source too had said that such a footer would damage perceptions of the court’s independence, particularly because the central government was the biggest litigant before the top court. The emailed media release this newspaper had received from the NHRC was about an advisory to the Centre and states towards fixing responsibility for the deaths of sanitary workers during hazardous tasks, and protecting the rights of manual scavengers and those engaged in hazardous cleaning jobs. The NIC was established in 1976 to provide technology-driven solutions to central and state governments in various fields. Its website says it “offers a wide range of services which includes multi-gigabit nationwide networks NICNET, NKN, National Data Centres, National Cloud, pan-India VC infrastructure, Command and Control Centre, multi-layered GIS-based platform, Domain Registration and Webcast. This plays a significant role in delivering citizen-centric e-services.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Cow milk during childhood can increase risk of type-1 diabetes||Research released on Wednesday suggests that drinking two or more glasses of cow milk daily during childhood can increase the risk of type-1 diabetes that is insulin-dependent and can strike the young. The findings presented online at the annual conference of the European Association for the Study of Diabetes bolster concerns that emerged 20 years ago that cow milk, although valued for its nutritional quality, may raise the risk of type-1 diabetes. The new study by researchers at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, while validating earlier findings that breastfeeding can protect children from type-1 diabetes, has also found that cow’s milk significantly raises the risk. Children who drank at least two to three glasses a day were about 78 per cent likelier to develop type-1 diabetes than those who drank less than two glasses. The researchers have cautioned that their findings should be considered preliminary observations and would need to be validated through more research before any dietary recommendations can be made for the general population. “It is a bit tricky — we know that cow milk has nutritional value but we also see this association between the consumption of cow milk and type-1 diabetes,” Anna-Maria Lampousi, a research scholar in nutritional epidemiology at the Karolinska Institute who led the study, told The Telegraph over the phone. “A thorough risk-benefit analysis is required.” Lampousi also underlined that the mechanism that might explain the observed association remained unknown. The finding comes amid concerns that the incidence of type-1 diabetes is increasing worldwide. The researchers said the count of type-1 diabetes in young people was rising annually by an estimated 3.4 per cent in Europe and 1.9 per cent in the US. In type-1 diabetes, the immune system destroys insulin-producing cells in the pancreas. A 2015 review had estimated that type-1 diabetes was increasing in India too at about 3 to 5 per cent per year with three new cases per 100,000 children aged under 14 years. The risk factors for type-1 diabetes remain unknown. Currently, no one knows how to prevent such diabetes, according to a document on diabetes by the US Centres for Disease Control. In contrast, the risks for type-2 diabetes, or adult-onset diabetes, include excess weight, a sedentary lifestyle and poor diet. “Learning more about the causes is the key to preventing type-1 diabetes,” Lampousi said. She and her colleagues reviewed 152 earlier studies that had examined different dietary components, including food eaten by the mother during pregnancy and the food taken in infancy or childhood, and the risks of developing type-1 diabetes. Children breastfed for six to 12 months were 61 per cent less likely to develop type-1 diabetes. But high consumption of cow milk and products such as butter, cheese, yoghurt and ice cream appeared to increase the risk of type-1 diabetes. Researchers at the University of Helsinki, Finland, had in 2000 reported that early exposure to cow milk appeared to increase the risk in infants who already had a relative with type-1 diabetes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||OUP to not print Indian edition of 'To Kill A Democracy'||Oxford University Press (OUP) has decided not to print the Indian edition of To Kill A Democracy: India’s Passage to Despotism, the book’s authors have said. “OUP has handed over the paperback rights to us and we hope to find an Indian publisher who will print and properly market our book here and make it widely available at an affordable price,” John Keane and Debasish Roy Chowdhury said in a joint statement to The Telegraph. The book and one of the authors, Roy Chowdhury, had been criticised in an article that appeared in the Organiser magazine that usually echoes the views of the Sangh. OUP India’s publicity manager Iti Khurana said: “We have come to an agreement with the authors recently that we will return the rights to publish this book in paperback in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, and Myanmar.” Khurana did not respond to the question from this newspaper why OUP had decided against publishing the book in India after having drawn up a detailed plan in April for its release here in the first week of July, a week after the global edition’s launch. There was no sign of the book till mid-September when the authors raised the alarm. Keane, co-author and Sydney University professor of political science, publicly questioned OUP about the delay on Twitter. Since last weekend, the book has been on offer on Amazon and Flipkart but the authors maintain that this is the global edition which is being imported. “Yesterday, after a suspiciously long delay, To Kill A Democracy appeared in India — stillborn,” Keane tweeted on Saturday. Earlier, while going public with the unexplained delay, he had wondered if OUP was intent on killing the book through censorship. On Tuesday, the authors said in their joint statement: “When we enquired with OUP about the progress of the Indian edition, after waiting for nearly three months for it following the global launch, we learnt that OUP India has decided not to print the book in India. The original agreement was to have a locally printed, low-price edition so that it could be read widely. Instead, OUP India chose to import a very limited number of hardcover copies of the book for sale in India. “That explains the long delays, the lack of publicity and the high price of Rs 995 instead of the originally agreed Rs 695. Since we do not believe that this is an appropriate mass-market price, we have taken back the rights for the paperback and translations. OUP has handed over the paperback rights to us and we hope to find an Indian publisher who will print and properly market our book here and make it widely available at an affordable price.” Last week, a spokesperson for OUP India had said the “sales team felt the content is provocative” and had, therefore, sent the book — already reviewed favourably by OUP Oxford — for a second review. The spokesperson had denied that the article in the Organiser had anything to do with OUP India sending the book for a second review, maintaining that it was standard policy. Till date, the authors have not been told why OUP decided against publishing the Indian edition. The delay in publication was initially attributed to the second wave of the pandemic in India and warehouse shifting. Neither were they given a satisfactory response on the need for a second review. The article in the Organiser was largely critical of Roy Chowdhury — a Hong Kong-based journalist — for his articles in Time magazine about the Modi government’s handling of the second wave of the pandemic. The article in the Organiser alleged that the book was written with a nefarious agenda although the OUP description of To Kill A Democracy states that “it rejects the belief that India was once a beacon of democracy but is now being ruined by the destructive forces of Modi-style populism. The book details the much deeper historical roots of the present-day assaults on civil liberties and democratic institutions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Adityanath fan ‘beaten to death’ by Uttar Pradesh police||An “admirer” of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath who had gone to Gorakhpur to see the “development work” done by the leader died after being allegedly beaten up by police in his hotel room for taking too much time producing his identity proof. Manish Gupta, a 36-year-old Kanpur-based real estate developer and father of a boy aged 5, was allegedly hit on the head repeatedly with a rifle butt. A case of murder has been registered against six policemen. The six suspects are on the run, the police said. The incident took place late on Monday night but came to light after Manish’s wife arrived in Gorakhpur and began a dharna on Tuesday night, claiming her husband had been an Adityanath “admirer”. After Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke to Meenakshi, Manish’s wife, over the phone and criticised the police for their “barbaric” behaviour, the six cops were booked for murder. The chief minister spoke to Meenakshi over the phone and announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for the family. The police had initially denied the allegations of assault and said Manish had been drunk and injured himself when he fell down during questioning. The police had entered the hotel room after receiving information that three “suspicious” people had been staying in a hotel room, booked under a false identity. Manish had checked into the Gorakhpur hotel on Monday morning with friends Harveer Singh of Mewat in Haryana and Pradeep Kumar of Gurgaon. All three are real estate dealers. Pradeep said: “We had checked into Hotel Krishna Palace on Monday and gone to see Ramgarh Tal, a huge pond that is a tourist attraction. We had planned to visit the Gorakhnath temple on Tuesday.” Harveer said: “We were sleeping in our room when some policemen barged in late on Monday night and demanded to see our identity cards. Pradeep and I showed them our IDs but Manish was taking some time finding his. The policemen began slapping and kicking him. “When Manish tried to call someone over the phone and begged with the police to spare him as he had come to Gorakhpur to see how it had developed, the policemen forcibly took him to Ramgarh Tal police station. They hit him on the head repeatedly with the butt of a rifle.” Harveer said he and Pradeep came to know after some time that Manish had been taken to the Baba Raghav Das Medical College Hospital. “When we arrived there, doctors said he had been brought dead,” Harveer said. According to records at Baba Raghav Das Medical College Hospital in Gorakhpur, Manish was brought there around 2.30am on Tuesday and declared dead on arrival. Adityanath is the mahant of the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur and represented the constituency in the Lok Sabha for several terms. Pradeep said the cops were heavily drunk and had refused to listen to them. “They assaulted us even more when we asked if they thought we were terrorists,” he said. Akshay Mishra, an inspector who was among those who entered the hotel room, said they had gone there “during the course of an inquiry”. “When we entered the room, Manish was drunk and he fell on the floor. Later, he died,” Mishra claimed. Later, the police said Mishra and the five other cops booked for murder were absconding. The police said that on Monday night, the Ramgarh Tal police had come to know that three people had checked into the Gorakhpur hotel on the ID of one Chandan Saini of Mahadeva Bazar. The cops grew suspicious and entered the hotel room where Manish and his two friends were staying. Meenakshi, her five-year-old son Aviraj in her lap, told reporters on Wednesday morning: “Tell me what I should say to my son when he grows up and asks me how his father died. His father was an admirer of Adityanath and had come to Gorakhpur to witness the development done by the chief minister. But the state’s police killed him. I will tell everybody that you will not return alive if you go to Gorakhpur.” She added: “Manish had spoken to Aviraj over the phone on Monday night. He had thought he would see how the chief minister’s hometown has grown but he has returned dead.” Meenakshi said there were “several injury marks” on Manish’s body. “There is a crack on his skull…. I have heard that some policemen have been suspended. Why has the chief minister not ordered their arrest? Does he support them?” she said after returning to Kanpur. Later, Adityanath spoke to her. Manish’s farther Nand Kishore, a trader, said: “My family is finished. The government, police officers — whom should I hold responsible for the murder of my only son?” Congress leader Priyanka, who was in Lucknow, spoke to Meenakshi over the phone on Wednesday and promised support, including legal assistance. Priyanka alleged the Uttar Pradesh police were “soft” on criminals and “barbaric” with common people. An hour later, Vipin Tanda, Gorakhpur senior superintendent of police, announced that six policemen, including inspectors Mishra and Jagat Narayan Singh, had been suspended. Later, six cops were booked for murder. On Tuesday night, Tanda had said that Manish, Pradeep and Harveer had behaved “suspiciously” and denied assault.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||G-23 accuse Rahul of not running the party in a democratic spirit ||The Congress dissidents, identified as G-23, on Wednesday appeared to accuse Rahul Gandhi of not running the party in a democratic spirit and trying to shut out those who differed with his views instead of allowing a conversation to strengthen unity. Kapil Sibal, who held a news conference, didn’t name Rahul or Sonia Gandhi. But he said: “In our party at the moment there is no president. So we don’t know who is taking these decisions. We know and yet we don’t know.” Sonia is the interim president. Asked if he was referring to Rahul, he said: “I am not. But we all know who is taking decisions.” He appeared to lay the entire blame on “them” for the Opposition’s weakness, for the exodus of “pampered” leaders and the absence of any attempt to harmonise differences. Sibal said a letter was sent by a Congress Working Committee member to call a meeting urgently to discuss all the issues. He pleaded for a conversation and a dialogue, quoting Mahatma Gandhi. “No monopolies should be created in power structures of a country, nor in the power structures of a party,” he said. Asked who they want to have a dialogue with, he said: “I don’t know.” The message was that there should be clarity on who is running the show. A large number of leaders have alleged that Rahul was taking all the decisions but not taking the responsibility of the organisation, telling appointment-seekers that he was not the party chief. Asked why they had timed this news conference now, to coincide with the developments in Punjab or the entry of youth leaders Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani, Sibal said there was no particular reason but that they had been waiting for long. Although Sibal declared that none of them would leave the party and said he would not comment on the Punjab developments, the timing of the news conference had been chosen to strike when the iron was hot. Former chief minister Amarinder Singh was in Delhi on Wednesday amid speculation that he would meet Amit Shah, which he did in the evening, and Navjot Singh Sidhu had quit as the state party chief. Although there is no threat yet to the state government, Sibal said chaos in the border state meant advantage to Pakistani troublemakers. One of the G-23 members told The Telegraph: “The Sidhu episode is probably the worst example of leadership failure in the history of the Congress and Rahul should now understand the importance of experience and collective decision-making.” The allegation of lack of internal democracy in the Congress came a day after Kanhaiya had described the Congress as the most democratic party. Many leaders, even those who welcomed the entry of young leaders, lamented that Rahul had not initiated any process of reconciliation with the disgruntled senior leaders. They also concede that the leadership crisis had lingered far too long and Rahul should have legitimised his authority long ago. Sources close to Rahul say a reconciliation was not possible because the dissidents were determined not to accept the transformation in the party which may end their eminence. The grapevine is abuzz with ambitious political plans of Sharad Pawar and Mamata Banerjee and some leaders have already started talking about the futility of Opposition unity. Sibal’s comments angered some in the party, with workers holding a demonstration against him. Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas tweeted: “The party’s president and leadership is the same that always reached you to Parliament. In the party’s good times, you were made a minister. In the Opposition, you were sent to the Rajya Sabha. In good times and bad, they always gave you responsibilities. And now when it is time for struggle, then....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Congress asks Punjab leaders to talk to Navjot Singh Sidhu||The Congress high command has asked its Punjab leaders to talk to Navjot Singh Sidhu instead of sending a high-level firefighting team to persuade him to withdraw his resignation, sending out a clear signal that it was for the mercurial leader to amend his mistake. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, some senior Punjab ministers and MLAs talked to Sidhu through the day without any concrete outcome. One leader explained the situation: “It is a closed chapter. If not for Sidhu, for the Congress.” He said the Congress would stand to lose by retaining Sidhu as state unit chief after this ugly drama. Even the chief minister didn’t appear unduly rattled. Sidhu didn’t show any sign of relenting, issuing a video saying: “I am ready to make any sacrifice but will stick to principles.” Local leaders sympathetic to him also concede he was overdoing the moral posturing and denting his own popularity by creating such a crisis for the party just before the election. Sidhu said in the video: “My fight is based on pro-people issues, truth and justice and I never had any personal agenda. I never hankered after posts and my fight is for the welfare of Punjab.” He also defended his resignation, saying he would neither misguide the party high command nor allow anyone to do so. He targeted the Channi government over the appointment of the advocate-general and re-inducting ministers facing allegations. Those very officers and the system that was responsible for all the misery in Punjab were back, he said. “Where have our promises gone? But I will continue to fight against the wrong,” he added. Sources said his rigidity is isolating him among the state leaders while Rahul Gandhi is already upset with his irresponsible act. Sources said Channi was ready to come to an accommodation with Sidhu but all the leaders were now worried about his next outburst, probably the selection of candidates, if he fails to have his way. “What will happen if he resigns again, closer to the election?” one leader from Punjab said, asking the high command to take a tough decision without any delay. While Channi will not mind if Sidhu is removed from the top post, he will also push deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa for the post of state unit chief because the presence of a strong leader in the government will always keep him on leash. Sources said the appointment of a new state chief could not be delayed beyond a point but the Amarinder Singh angle had given a new twist to the complex situation. While central leaders are surprised by Amarinder’s meeting with home minister Amit Shah, local leaders were expecting such a development. One leader said: “Amarinder has an entirely different image in Delhi. His joining the BJP or floating a new party will have little impact in Punjab. But the BJP will exploit his fauji image in the rest of the country to malign the Gandhi family,” another leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Amarinder meets Amit Shah in Delhi, calls it personal visit||Amarinder Singh called on Amit Shah on Wednesday evening as the political motives of the two appear to have converged, with both seeking to damage the Congress. Amarinder, 79, who found himself cornered in the Congress and had to quit as chief minister earlier this month, drove to the Union home minister’s Krishna Menon Road residence around 6pm. He left after nearly 45 minutes, exiting from a second gate to avoid the media. On Tuesday, as he left for Delhi from Chandigarh, he had denied speculation that he would be meeting top BJP leaders in the capital. Amarinder had said he was on a personal visit. On Wednesday, he tweeted: “Met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi. Discussed prolonged farmers agitation against farm laws and urged him to resolve crisis urgently with repeal of the laws and guarantee MSP, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification.” It will not be a surprise if Amarinder joins the BJP. After he quit as chief minister, the seething army veteran has said he had been “humiliated” and that his political options were open. Although he has not yet quit the Congress, he threatened to field a strong candidate against party colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu, making it clear he intends to hurt the party’s electoral prospects. For the BJP, sources said, the former chief minister who is seen as unpopular in Punjab may not be a big catch but he could serve their interest of damaging the Congress, the Gandhi family in particular. “It’s a convergence of Captain sahab and our political interests,” one BJP leader said while the meeting at Shah’s residence was on. The BJP on Wednesday accused Rahul Gandhi of hurling Punjab into instability. “Whatever is happening in Punjab is due to a colossal failure of Rahul Gandhi,” BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said, stressing that instability in the border state of Punjab was a matter of concern for the country. Amarinder and some critics of the party high command in the Congress too have been flagging the national security angle, a pet political tool of the BJP, and underlining that Punjab borders Pakistan. BJP-ruled Gujarat too is a border state that has had its chief minister changed suddenly. This month, heroin said to be worth Rs 21,000 crore was seized from Mundra port in Gujarat in the biggest such haul in the country. The biggest hurdle in the path of Amarinder embracing the BJP appeared to be the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm laws brought by the Narendra Modi government. “If Captain joins the BJP, he will face the anger of Sikh farmers who have been leading the farm protests,” a Punjab MP said. BJP insiders indicated that Shah was trying to explore a solution to the farmers’ agitation to give Amarinder some political heft and then use him in the upcoming Punjab polls. The BJP has been traditionally weak in Punjab and has been looking for a credible Sikh leader. The farmers’ protest has also got tied to Sikh pride and Amarinder will need to negotiate the issue if he plans to join the BJP and remain politically relevant in Punjab. There was also speculation about Amarinder exploring the possibility of floating his own party and splitting the Congress to pull down the government in Punjab with the help of the BJP. This project too serves the purpose of harming the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Kerala varsity drops books written by Hindutva ideologues||Kannur University in Kerala on Wednesday dropped five controversial books written by Hindutva ideologues from the post-graduation syllabus and agreed to instead introduce critical analyses of the works of the likes of M.S. Golwalkar and V.D. Savarkar. The state university, which had faced criticism for the course material of this section of the MA in governance and politics course introduced last year, has also decided to make the syllabus more inclusive. The varsity has accepted the recommendations of a two-member committee that reviewed a part of the syllabus and suggested that the five books by Hindutva ideologues Savarkar, Golwalkar, Deendayal Upadhyaya and Balraj Madhok be excluded. The segment, to be studied in the third semester, will now have four new topics to include Dravidian, socialist and Islamic perspectives in the course. The new topics are Muslims and Nationalism: Two Opposite Visions (Maulana Azad and Mohammed Ali Jinnah), Dravidian Nationalism (Periyar), Socialist Perspectives on Nationalism (E.M.S. Namboodiripad and Ram Manohar Lohia), and Hindutva and Hindu Rashtra by V.D. Savarkar and M.S. Golwalkar. The last topic will have books on the lives and works of Savarkar and Golwalkar. The university had appointed the committee, having as members academics Dr J. Prabash and Dr K.S. Pavithran, earlier this month to review the Hindu Nationalism segment of the third semester syllabus of the MA in governance and politics course after massive protests by students and academics who alleged saffronisation of the course content. The varsity’s board of studies had earlier approved the committee’s report in its entirety before it was considered by the academic council. The academic council has also approved a change in the title of Unit II of the third semester syllabus from “Rashtra or Nation in Indian Political Thought” to “Nation and Nationalism in Modern Political Thought — A Critique”. The syllabus for the third semester had originally included Hindutva: Who is a Hindu? by Savarkar, We or Our Nationhood Defined and Bunch of Thoughts by Golwalkar, Integral Humanism by Upadhyaya and Indianisation? What, Why and How by Madhok. All five books have now been removed from the syllabus. The books that have been retained are Nationalism by Rabindranath Tagore, Nationalism is Religion by Sri Aurobindo, Is Hatred Essential for Nationalism? by Mahatma Gandhi, Nationalism and Internationalism and What is Culture by Jawaharlal Nehru and Who Constitutes a Nation by B.R. Ambedkar. A university syndicate member who declined to be named told The Telegraph that the idea of the original syllabus was to provide students an opportunity to read up on different ideologies. “How would students know what Hindutva is without reading up on its ideologues and their works? That’s why we had cleared the original list of books,” said the member who belongs to a Left party. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had clarified that the Left Democratic Front government did not want to glorify the “regressive ideas” of those who had no role in the freedom struggle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Unvaccinated teachers will not be allowed to attend school||The Delhi government on Wednesday said unvaccinated teachers and non-teaching staff of state-run schools will not be allowed to attend school from October 15 and they will be considered as being on leave. The directorate of education has directed education officers and school principals to ensure that all teachers and school staff are vaccinated by October 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||India||Pipili Assembly by-election to test Naveen’s popularity||Odisha chief minister and ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) president Naveen Patnaik’s popularity will be on test once again when the by-election for the Pipili Assembly constituency takes place on Thursday. The bypoll will be followed by elections to the panchayat and municipal corporations early next year. The by-election in Pipili will be the last election for an Assembly seat in the state before the general elections in 2024. The bypoll in Pipili has been necessitated following the death of BJD veteran and former minister Pradeep Maharathy in October 2020. It is being held after being postponed twice, once on account of the death of Congress candidate Ajit Managaraj and again for the Covid-induced lockdown. As many as 10 candidates are in the fray for the bypoll. The main fight will be between the BJD, which has fielded Maharathy’s son Rudra Pratap as its candidate, and the BJP, which has fielded Ashrit Pattanayak, a Congress dissident. The Congress has brought in a new face Bishwokeshan Harichandan Mohapatra into the battlefield. Prominent BJP leaders, including Union minister Dharemendra Pradhan, Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi, former Union minister Pratap Sarangi and BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra had campaigned for the party candidate Ashrit. The Assembly seat is part of the Puri Lok Sabha constituency from where Patra had contested and lost last time. However, Naveen did not campaign for the BJD candidate this time and allowed his party leaders to canvass for Rudra Pratap by adhering to Covid guidelines. “The chief minister’s popularity is soaring day by day. No one can match him. His work for the development of women through Mission Shakti, and the welfare schemes for the poor, particularly the Biju Swasthya Kalyan card, will help the party win not only this by-election but the coming elections for panchayat and municipalities as well,” BJD general secretary Bijay Nayak told The Telegraph. The Pipili Assembly constituency, around 25km from Bhubaneswar, has been the fortress of the BJD since its inception in 1997. No Congress candidate has won the election since 1995. In the 2019 general election, BJD candidate Maharathy had won by securing 88,518 votes. Ashrit, the BJP candidate, had bagged 72,731 votes to finish second. The Congress could manage to secure 9,830 votes out of 1,74,875 polled. However, the BJP seems confident of making history this time. “People have been fed up with both the BJD and Congress. Earlier the constituency had witnessed a serious fight between the BJD and Congress for years together. But later their leader joined hands with the BJD. People won’t tolerate this kind of attitude,” state BJP general secretary Golak Mohapatra told this newspaper. He added: “The people have seen over the years that there has been no work done during the (BJD) regime. This time, they would give a chance to the BJP. The people have realised that the future of Odisha can be enriched with BJP’s work only. We will win the by-election by more than 20,000 votes.” Congress MLA Suresh Routray said: “Wait and watch. We will win the election. People are frustrated with the BJD and false promises of the BJP.” Around 2,29,998 voters of Pipili will decide the fate of the candidates on Thursday. Security has been beefed up to conduct a peaceful election with adequate deployment of police force. The counting will take place on October 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: CBI chargesheets 20 people in BJP worker's killing case||The CBI has filed a chargesheet against 20 people in a case related to the alleged killing of BJP worker Abhijit Sarkar in the post-poll violence in West Bengal in May, officials said on Thursday. They have been accused of murder, and also charged under IPC sections related to common intention and destruction of evidence among other offences, they said. Sarkar was brutally attacked by a mob on May 2 at his home in Calcutta, hours after curtains came down on the bitterly fought assembly elections with TMC recording astounding victory and the BJP emerging as the principal opposition in the state. He was taken to hospital where he had succumbed to injuries. Hours before his death, he had reportedly posted a video on social media narrating the violence at his home. Sarkar's family had refused to accept his body claiming it was beyond recognition. It was only after DNA test, ordered by a court, which showed it was Sarkar's body that family accepted it earlier this month. The CBI has filed its final report in the case before ACJM, Sealdah against 20 people: Sanjay Samanta, Samir Samanta, Sankar Das, Arun Dey, Rahul Dey, Sourav Dey, Sukhdeb Poddar, Amit Das, Arup Das, Biswajit Das, Sanjay Barik, Amit Das, Tumpa Das, Gopal Das, Papiya Barik, Sanjay Basak, Sufal Bose, Sanjay Dey, Abhijit Dey and Kajal Das. It was alleged that the accused had attacked the victim with sticks and also broke the household articles of his house, CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said. The agency has kept the probe open, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore records over 50% polling amid skirmishes, signs of nerves ||As the sun-kissed, bright day - marred by intermittent showers - in Calcutta neared the end on Thursday, workers of the Trinamul Congress seemed to behave in bizarre fashion, leaving many  wondering what the party that is confident of Mamata Banerjee’s victory by over a lakh votes was afraid of? Former footballer and BJP leader Kalyan Chaubey’s car came under an unprovoked attacked around 3.30 pm when he was on a tour of the constituency near the Padmapukur area. The damage was not major, the footballer-politician too was unhurt. But the  incident gave a peep into the  ruling Trinamul camp's worries. In some other areas, Trinamul workers managing camps chased away local residents. An unidentified youth, suspected to be a resident of Bansdroni, was caught near the polling booth at Khalsa High School on Puddapukur Road and later snatched away by a group. In a booth at ward 63, some CPM workers identified a resident of Cossipore in North Calcutta, managing the camp. Priyanka Tibrewal, the BJP nominee,  claimed the Bansdrdoni youth was paid Rs 500 to cast his vote for Mamata. “I have informed the election commission,” she said. Why the Trinamul needed “outsiders”, which the party has denied, is unexplained. “This is not democracy, this was an unprovoked attack. I will request the Election Commission to probe the reason behind this attack,” Choubey later said. "The BJP is making baseless allegations. Their candidate went inside booths with armed guards to create panic among voters," said Subrata Mukherjee, state minister. "BJP thought they would rig polls here like they did in Nandigram, bribe the Election Commission. Twenty per cent of the voters have either died or left. No arrangement was made for senior citizens. Yet we will win with a huge margin, more than what it was last time," said Firhad Hakim. State industries minister Partha Chatterjee sounded confident. "Voter turnout is in sync with the trend during a bypoll. Higher turnout would have been better. Seventy five per cent of the votes polled will go to Mamata," Chatterjee said. Trinamul leader Baishwanar Chattopadhyay claimed the opposition-BJP and CPM-could not give polling agents in more than 20-22 pee cent of booths. Till 5 pm at Bhowanipore, the polling percentage was  53.32 per cent, almost 10 per cent higher than September 2011 when Mamata first became an MLA to continue as chief minister. Around 44 per cent of the voters had turned out in 2011 _around 77 per cent went Mamata’s way giving her a victory margin of 54,213 votes. In the other two Assembly seats where elections were deferred till Thursday, Shamshergunj and Jangipur, both in Murshidabad, the turnout at 5pm was  78.60 per cent and 76.12 per cent. Since 2011, lesser number of voters in Bhowanipore have favoured any Trinamul nominee, be it Mamata or anyone else. While Mamata has been the undisputed Number One politician in Bengal, the record margin for any chief ministerial candidate is still held by her former bete noire Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. During the peak of his political career, Bhattacharjee had won by a margin of 58,130 votes from Jadavpur in 2006. Bengal’s favourite daughter at least on paper is nowhere near that margin. In the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, BJP was actually leading from the Bhowanipore Assembly segment of the Calcutta South Lok Sabha seat. In 2016, Mamata’s margin was reduced to 25,301 and continued to dip further stopping at 3,168 votes during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. This time, the polling having crossed the 50 per cent mark in the constituency of  2.06 lakh voters, would definitely bring some relief to Mamata, as it increases her chances of widening the victory margin. Though traditionally it is believed a higher turnout indicates anti-incumbency playing a role, in successive Assembly polls, the Trinamul under Mamata has defied the trend. In the Assembly polls held this year, the average statewide turnout was 81.33 per cent with the Trinamul winning 213 seats. However, Mamata’s own narrow defeat in Nandigram has exposed her electoral vulnerability. While Mamata would like to treat it as a once-in-a-lifetime blemish, the BJP is looking for an encore. The absence of Congress from the scene has ensured that the anti-Trinamul votes would go to the BJP. After 2011, this is the first time that the CPM has put up a nominee in the constituency, which it had reserved for alliance partner Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Voting in Bhowanipore largely peaceful amid tight security||Voting has largely been peaceful in the Bhowanipore assembly seat, where Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting, with 53.32 per cent turnout till 5 PM, officials said. A high voting rate at 78.60 per cent and 76.12 per cent was recorded in Murshidabad's Samserganj and Jangipur seats respectively, where polls had to be countermanded during the April-May Assembly elections following the death of two candidates. Sources told The Telegraph Online that Mamata cast her vote at Mitra Institution of the Bhowanipore constituency at 3:15 pm, while her nephew Abhishek Banerjee did the same around 2 pm on Thursday. A total of 6,97,164 voters are eligible to exercise their franchise in the three constituencies. Voting will continue till 6 PM. Mamata, who is also the Trinamul Congress supremo, is pitted against BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal and CPI(M)'s Srijib Biswas in Bhowanipore . Tibrewal claimed that TMC forcibly stopped the voting process at a polling booth in ward number 72, and that state minister Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee were trying to influence the voters in the constituency. The BJP has lodged a complaint with the Election Commission against Hakim and Mukherjee. Hakim, however, termed the allegations as baseless. "Does having tea at a roadside stall tantamount to influencing voters? The BJP knows it will lose the by-poll and are now making lame excuses," he said. A minor scuffle between supporters of the TMC and BJP was reported outside a booth in Bhowanipore over claims of the ruling party bringing fake voters inside the polling centre. Security forces present at the booth brought the situation under control. The TMC also registered a complaint with the EC, accusing Tibrewal of moving with an entourage of 20 cars and intimidating voters, a charge denied by her. The BJP later alleged that its polling agents were not allowed entry inside several booths. Hakim said such claims were politically motivated. "If they don't have the manpower to field polling agents, they could have told us. We would have provided them agents," he said. The chief minister, who lost from the Nandigram constituency in the assembly elections earlier this year, has to win this by-poll to retain the post. Votes will be counted on October 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
30-09-2021||West Bengal||28 trawlers rounded up in Digha||Police in Purba Medinipur’s Digha, acting jointly with the district administration, on Wednesday morning rounded up at least 20 vessels from deep waters and sent them to the shore for allegedly breaching the weather-related red alert that banned fishermen from entering the sea. A Coast Guard hovercraft despatched near Mohona later reportedly rounded up eight more vessels. In all, 28 trawlers were rounded up. Police speedboats, acting on reports from Mohona coastline that fishing trawlers had been spotted, began rounding up violators and ensured they were docked for the day. An indefinite red alert was in force from Monday evening in coastal Purba Medinipur in view of the weather. Sources on Wednesday said as the weather had improved on Tuesday night, fishermen possibly decided to try their luck on Wednesday. Representatives of the fishermen’s association, however, said the rounded-up vessels had been out  since before the red alert. Police on Wednesday rounded up trawlers from as far as 35km into the sea. Ramnagar-I BDO Bishnupada Ray and officer-in-charge of Digha (coastal), Satyajit Chanakya, were on shore where public address systems warned others from setting sail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Homes collapse in two south Bengal districts||A homemaker died and a couple was injured when their homes collapsed in two south Bengal districts during incessant rain since Tuesday evening that lashed major parts of south Bengal. In West Midnapore’s Chandrakona, homemaker Pratima Bag, 37, died on Tuesday night when the wall of her thatched house collapsed while she was asleep. At East Midnapore’s Ramnagar, Bimal Sheet, 48, and Sankati Sheet, 42, were critically injured when their thatched house caved in amid heavy rain early on Wednesday. The couple were rushed to the local hospital, but had to be shifted to a hospital in Calcutta after their condition deteriorated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 748 new cases, 14 deaths||Bengal, after two days of a rise in active Covid-19 cases since Sunday, recorded a fall again on Wednesday. The total of active cases fell by six to 7,580 on Wednesday, as the state reported 748 new infections, 740 recoveries and 14 deaths. Bengal now has 2.74 per cent of India’s active cases, and remains seventh among states with the most such cases. Calcutta logged 139 new infections and North 24-Parganas 123, the only two of the state’s 23 districts to report a three-digit figure of new infections in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta reported four deaths and North 24-Parganas five. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. The state’s recovery rate remained 98.32 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.81 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.73 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. “Some incisive measures are being put in place over the next few days so that our grip on the outbreak remains firm,” said a minister. “The situation must not get out of hand over the festive month ahead.” Bengal now has over 15.68 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was logged in March last year, which includes nearly 15.42 lakh recoveries and 18,778 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Three held with narcotics worth Rs 35 lakh in Malda||Three persons, including a resident of Bihar, were arrested after brown sugar worth around Rs 35 lakh and counterfeit Indian notes were allegedly seized from them in Malda on Tuesday night. Prashanta Debnath, the deputy superintendent of police (headquarters), said on Wednesday that a team of Englishbazar police had intercepted an SUV at a checkpoint at Katagar on Tuesday night. “The vehicle was on its way to Bihar from Kaliachak. As the SUV was searched, 350 grams of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, and fake Indian notes to the tune of Rs 1.20 lakh was found. The seized fake notes were all in Rs 500 denomination,” said Debnath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Prime Minister doesn’t trust Bengal people, says Babul Supriyo ||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo on Wednesday hit out at Narendra Modi for the first time since defecting to the Trinamul Congress on September 18 as he accused the Prime Minister of not having trust on people of Bengal. “In (my) seven years of journey in Delhi, (I’ve) somewhere felt that the Prime Minister doesn’t trust Bengalis. Let alone a cabinet minister, there has not been a minister with independent charge from Bengal in the past seven years,” Supriyo said. “I’m not talking about myself. (S.S) Ahluwaliaji is a senior member, he had come from Congress and even he wasn’t given an independent charge. Somewhere I felt that there is discrimination against the elected representatives from Bengal in the council of ministers,” he said, adding that he had joined Trinamul because he felt he would be able to work for Bengal under the leadership of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Supriyo, who was elected as a first time MP in 2014, was inducted by Modi into his council of ministers as a junior minister. He was dropped from the council of ministers after a rejig this July. Apart from Supriyo, 6 other BJP MPs from Bengal have been inducted into the Modi’s council of ministers in the last seven years. During his first tenure between 2014 and 2019, Modi made Surinder Singh Ahluwalia, the then Darjeeling MP, a junior minister. After returning to power in 2019, Debasree Chaudhuri, the Raiganj MP was made as a junior minister for Women and Child Development. She was dropped along with Babul in the latest reshuffle. Four other MPs from Bengal — Dr Subhash Sarkar, Santanu Thakur, Nishith Pramanik and John Barla — were inducted into the expanded council as ministers of states. BJP’s Barrackpore MP, a Trinamul turncoat, Arjun Singh took a dig at Supriyo by calling him a ‘traitor’. “Traitors always look for newer excuses to betray. Babul Supriyo is one such traitor. He isn’t even ashamed that he was made a minister the day after he started politics and he is now accusing someone like our Prime Minister,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt allows mining of minor minerals again from October 8||The Bengal government has green-lit the mining minor minerals — sand, pebbles and stones — from riverbeds of the state from October 8. For the past few months, extraction of such items from riverbeds had stopped following instructions of the National Green Tribunal. In July this year, the Mamata Banerjee cabinet came up with a new policy that centralised the auction system for mining such items. According to an order from state secretary H.K. Dwivedi, from October 8, mining of minor minerals can resume. Confirming this, Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said those intending to mine will have to procure e-challan or permission from the state. “Officials of transport department have been asked to train truck owners on how to obtain e-challan. It is mandatory,” she said. The order has come as a relief for lakhs of workers, who load and unload these basic construction items, and thousands of truck drivers and owners. “It is almost six months now that we have not found a contractor to hire our trucks to carry construction items. It is good if the state has finally decided to allow mining on riverbeds,” said Sanjib Ghosh, secretary of Jalpaiguri United Truck Owners’ Welfare Association. Under the old system, auctions of specific areas of riverbeds were done by district magistrates but under the new policy, it was decided that the West Bengal Mining Development & Trading Corporation, under the state industries department, will hold the auctions. The process will be monitored by the chief secretary and finance secretary. Ghosh, who is also the state vice-president of the Federation of West Bengal Truck Operators’ Association, said over one lakh trucks are engaged in transfer of these materials in north Bengal. “There are over five lakh workers who load and unload them. All are jobless,” he added. Earlier in the day, before the state order became known, protests by workers and truck drivers were seen in at least two locations of north Bengal. In Alipurduar town, they blocked a road on Chowpathi for over an hour. There was a similar protest at Tufanganj-II block of Cooch Behar on the banks of Raidak river. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar correspondents||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Former Congress chief minister of Goa joins Trinamul||Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, a senior Congress leader with four decades in the party, joined the Trinamul Congress in Calcutta on Wednesday. He switched to Trinamul, along with some other politicians and civil society members from Goa, after meeting chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The 70-year-old general-secretary of the AICC had severed his ties with the Congress and stepped down as the Navelim MLA two days ago. Mamata’s party wants to contest the February 2022 elections to the 40-member Goa Assembly. The tiny western state has barely 11.5 lakh voters. “I’ve met Didi.… I’m happy to have joined the Trinamul Congress today…. I had started my journey from the west coast of the country. Today, I’m on the east coast…. Only Didi was able to successfully stand up to the divisive forces of the BJP. We need strong leadership for the resurgence of Goa. You need a strong leadership to fight the BJP and Didi can provide that,” Faleiro said in the presence of Trinamul national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee and other party leaders Saugata Roy and Subrata Mukherjee at the Kshudiram Anushilan Kendra in the evening. Pramod Sawant of the BJP is the chief minister of Goa where the principal Opposition is the Congress.“I have been a Congressman for 40 years. Today, the Congress has fragmented into Trinamul Congress, YSR Congress, Sharad Pawar Congress (NCP)…. My aim is to bring the Congress family together,” Faleiro said. Besides Faleiro, Lavoo Mamledar of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and Goa’s Congress leaders Yatish Naik, Vijay Vasudev Poi, Mario Pinto De Santana, Anand Naik, and Rabindranath Faleiro switched to Trinamul. Litterateur Shivdas Sonu Naik, economic and environmental commentator Rajendra Shivaji Kakodkar and advocate Antonio Monteiro Clovis Da Costa also joined Trinamul. Before their induction, the Goa team met Mamata at the state secretariat where, according to Faleiro, they had a long discussion on how Trinamul would go about in Goa and what it planned to do to bring about the promised change. “It’s a matter of great pride for me to welcome Former Goa CM, 7-time MLA and stalwart Goan leader Shri @luizinhofaleiro to the Trinamool Congress family. Together we will stand up for every Goan, fight divisive forces and work towards ushering in a NEW DAWN for Goa…. I welcome all of them to our family!” tweeted Mamata later in the evening. Abhishek said Trinamul’s fight was not against the Congress, but his party would not sit idle while the Grand Old Party did nothing. “Trinamul is the only party that has defeated the BJP in the past seven years,” he said, accusing the Congress of being present only on social media, while the real fight was out on the streets. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha, accused Mamata of acting as a “Trojan horse” of the BJP to weaken the wider Opposition unity nationally. “What exactly happened at the ED (Enforcement Directorate) office that those who were trying to form a coalition with the Congress earlier are suddenly attacking us?” asked Chowdhury, apparently referring to the nine-hour grilling of Abhishek in Delhi on September 6, after which he and his aunt started bitterly criticising the Congress in public. Of Faleiro’s departure, Chowdhury said: “Paap bidaay holo (Good riddance to bad rubbish).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Bhowanipore byelection campaign echoes TMC’s pan-India aspiration||The Pegasus “snoopgate”, ownership of the PM-Cares Fund, “imperilled” democracy in the nation, National Monetisation Pipeline, demonetisation, state of the Indian economy, contentious farm laws of the Narendra Modi government, alleged inability of the Congress to lead the national Opposition space, law and order in BJP-ruled states and the “divisive” agenda of the saffron camp. The non-exhaustive list of national issues isn’t yet part of the draft of a manifesto from a key player in pan-India politics ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 2024, but they were the principal talking points of Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul Congress in the party’s extensive campaign for the Bhowanipore bypoll of September 30. The Bengal chief minister, seeking election to the Assembly that her party swept this summer, has pitched the battle for Bhowanipore as a stepping stone towards unseating the BJP from the Centre, less than three years from now. “B for Bhowanipore, B for Bharatvarsh, B for Bharat Mata,” said Mamata at the Ajanta Restaurant crossing in the constituency on Thursday. “This is a fight for the very idea India, a fight to the finish… a crucial battle which was won by Bengal in the Assembly election. Bhowanipore is another — smaller, but important — battle for that cause,” she said at Shakespeare Sarani on Saturday. The south Calcutta constituency, including some of the city’s most posh neighbourhoods as well as densely populated slums, does comprise over 2.06 lakh electors from various religious and linguistic communities, representing a wide range of socio-economic backgrounds. It has, understandably, been called a “mini India” by not only Trinamul but also its principal rival, the BJP, through the campaign. But Mamata’s apparent intention has been to turn the very local bypoll into an election of national consequence. “Every vote you cast in my favour is important, as every vote will go towards further strengthening our fight nationally… all of India is watching this closely. In the future, Bengal will show the way for the nation, protecting it from this nightmare of a regime at the Centre,” she said in Ekbalpore and Chetla, on Wednesday. The chief minister’s victory on her home turf ought to be a foregone conclusion, according to political scientists. The only real apprehension, said sources in Trinamul, is of a drastically reduced turnout — that might diminish her margin of victory — given the forecast of inclement weather for the three-way contest. Besides the BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal, the CPM’s Shrijeeb Biswas is also in the fray. Biswas, for one, is unwilling to subscribe to Mamata’s national spin for Bhowanipore. “One will not become the Prime Minister by winning Bhowanipore.… We have gone to the voters with pertinent issues,” he said. With her national pitch, Mamata participated in 10 public meetings or interactions, besides paying visits to places of worship for Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs and Jains. Mamata’s trusted lieutenants, such as Subrata Bakshi, Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Partha Chatterjee, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, Debashis Kumar, Aroop Biswas and Madan Mitra, besides her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, conducted a thorough campaign over weeks. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Chilli earns hill-district duo GI tag, honour for ‘Dalle Khursani’ belts ||Darjeeling and Kalimpong have got “hotter” as their famed “Dalle Khursani” or red cherry pepper chilli has earned a geographical indication (GI) tag from the Union department of industry promotion and internal trade. Among the hottest varieties in the world, the chilli got a GI tag for Sikkim last year. However, as the chilli is grown in Darjeeling and Kalimpong as well, the GI tag has now been extended to cover these two Bengal districts. A certificate by the registrar of Geographical Indications on September 14, 2021 included Sikkim, Darjeeling and Kalimpong. A GI is a name or a sign given to a product that relates to a specific geographical location or origin. The tag is part of intellectual property rights under the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property. R.P. Gurung, director, board of directors of North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Ltd, Sikkim, said it was logical to include Darjeeling and Kalimpong, and hoped it would help farmers. “Else Darjeeling would have to apply separately. Now, the most important issue is how do you use the tag for the benefit of the farmers,” said Gurung. Sikkim’s inclusion on the Geographical Indications Registry was based on an application filed by the Guwahati-headquartered North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Limited (Neramac) on behalf of the Himalayan state. But soon after reports of Dalle Khursani getting a GI tag in Sikkim spread last year, people from different walks of life started working to get the status extended to Darjeeling and Kalimpong as well, said Vikram Rai, assistant professor, St Joseph’s College, Darjeeling. “We worked out the genetic line of the chilli. However, we did not oppose Sikkim’s status,” said Mahadev Chettri, senior scientific officer, horticulture, Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. The chilli is known to have a Scoville scale at the range of 1,00,000 to 3,50,000 SHU (Scoville Heat Units). The Scoville scale is a measurement used to trace the spiciness of chilli peppers across the world. Many in the region swear by the distinct flavour of the chilli. “Dalle Khursani is known for its unique flavour and efforts must be made to retain this flavour. Perhaps cross-pollination has to be avoided,” said Gurung. Apart from its flavour the product is also high in vitamin A, vitamin E, and potassium, and low in sodium. One hundred grams of fresh dalle khursani will have 240 mg of vitamin C (five times higher than an orange), 11,000 IU of vitamin A, and 0.7 mg of vitamin E. The largest manufacturer of Dalle Khursani products is the Sikkim government-owned Sikkim Supreme, which alone procures around 50 tonnes of chilli annually. Small scale industries in Darjeeling and Kalimpong have also mushroomed. “Since Dalle Khursani can be preserved, I have not come across farmers going for distress sales. It fetches good prices even in the local market,” said Gurung.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||28 ‘defiant’ trawlers rounded up from sea in Digha||Police in East Midnapore’s Digha, acting jointly with the district administration, on Wednesday morning rounded up at least 20 vessels from deep waters and sent them to the shore for allegedly breaching the weather-related red alert that banned fishermen from entering the sea. A coast guard hovercraft dispatched near Mohona later reportedly rounded up eight more vessels. In all, 28 trawlers were rounded up. Police speedboats, acting on reports from Mohona coastline that fishing trawlers had been spotted, began rounding up violators and ensured they were docked for the day. An indefinite red alert was clamped from Monday evening in coastal East Midnapore in view of the weather forecast of heavy rain and squall. Sources on Wednesday said as the weather had improved on Tuesday night, fishermen possibly decided to try their luck on Wednesday. Representatives of the fishermen’s association, however, said the rounded-up vessels had been out at sea since before the red alert. Police on Wednesday rounded up trawlers from as far as 35km into the sea. Ramnagar-I BDO Bishnupada Ray and officer-in-charge of Digha (coastal), Satyajit Chanakya were on shore where public-announcement systems warned others from setting sail. “The red alert stands until further notification. We had told the association  and they should have ensured all fishermen knew the rules,” said assistant director of fisheries (marine) Surajit Bag. “If any vessel is seen, an FIR will be filed.” District officials said the fishermen's association would get  a notice in connection with errant trawlers on Wednesday. Fishermen insisted these trawlers were returning to the shore from a previous journey. “More than 200 are out at sea. A few were seen in Digha because of better weather, others are docked at Kakdwip,” said fishermen’s association secretary Shyamsundar Das. Vessel leak In South 24-Parganas, Raj Rajeswari, a reportedly unregistered fishing vessel, sprang a leak in turbulent waters near Jambudwip island. Sources said the vessel sailed last weekend. Sources said Fraserganj police took six hours to save its five occupants from drowning with the vessel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
30-09-2021||West Bengal||One dead as homes cave in amid downpour in West Midnapore||A homemaker died and a couple was injured when their respective homes collapsed in two south Bengal districts during incessant rain since Tuesday evening that lashed major parts of south Bengal. A low pressure, which formed over northwest Bay of Bengal and its adjoining areas, triggered the continuous rain. Areas of South 24-Parganas, particularly under Canning-II block, Hooghly’s Khanakul, North 24-Parganas, East Midnapore’s Patashpur, West Midnapore’s Sabang and Pingla bore the brunt of rain. In West Midnapore’s Chandrakona, homemaker Pratima Bag, 37, died on Tuesday night when the wall of her thatched house collapsed when she was asleep. Neighbours rushed her to the block hospital where she was declared brought dead. At East Midnapore’s Ramnagar, Bimal Sheet, 48, and Sankati Sheet, 42, were critically injured when their thatched house caved in amid heavy rain during the wee hours of Wednesday. The couple was rushed to the local hospital, but had to be shifted to a hospital in Calcutta after their condition deteriorated. “There has been an intense spell of heavy rain since Tuesday evening that left an impact on several areas of West Midnapore, East Midnapore, South 24-Parganas and Hooghly. Several trees, electric poles were uprooted as well as a few thatched houses collapsed as soil strength had weakened at the base,” said an official of the disaster management wing at state secretariat Nabanna. Weather department sources said till 6am on Wednesday, West Midnapore recorded 110mm rainfall followed by 80mm in East Midnapore. Among towns, Haldia recorded 216mm rainfall and Contai 103mm, leading to severe inundation in both municipal towns. Midnapore and Kalaikunda of West Midnapore recorded 148mm and 167mm rainfall, respectively. Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas received 150mm causing waterlogging in at least 10 wards of the town and prolonged power cuts. The situation in West Midnapore’s Pingla and Sabang has created serious concern for the state administration. “The intense overnight rain inundated several areas of Sabang that are yet to recover from the previous floods. According to an estimate, 42,000 houses have been damaged in the fresh inundation, even as 32,000 people remain camped at relief centres. We are trying hard to meet the demand of tarpaulins and other relief items but everything appears insufficient,” said Manas Ranjan Bhunia, water resources investigation and development minister and Trinamul MLA from Sabang. “About 23,000 hectares of paddy and betel orchards of around 1,400 hectares are devastated,” he added. West Midnapore’s disaster management officer Sandip Biswas said they opened new relief camps.” Senior officials monitoring the weather observed that the impact of the depression is comparatively low in coastal South 24-Parganas and parts of East Midnapore contrary to the IMD forecast in the absence of strong wind. But incessant rain waterlogged and flooded several areas. Intense rain prompted the district administration to open new relief camps in already flooded Pataspur, Khejuri-1 and Contai in East Midnapore. “We had to shift 500 people on Tuesday night following fresh flooding,” an official of the district administration said. Officials in Hooghly are worried about possible floods in Khanakul and Arambagh. “We are closely watching the situation and have evacuated 400 persons,” said Deepap Priya P, the Hooghly district magistrate. Ponds and water bodies are flooded at Sagar in South 24-Parganas. “Apart from the rain, we are anxious about the scheduled high tide on October 6,” Sagar BDO Sudipto Mondal said. With inputs from Anshuman Phadikar in Tamluk||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
30-09-2021||West Bengal||Pandemic curbs on India-Nepal border hurt business||Hundreds of traders in Panitanki, the hamlet on the India-Nepal border some 35km from here on the bank of Mechi river, which marks the international boundary, hit the streets on Wednesday, demanding the immediate opening of the border for movement of people among both the countries. Since March 24 last year, movement of common people across the border has been halted owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Only trucks carrying goods are allowed to cross the border. This border clamp has left around 2,000 traders of Panitanki in the lurch as their business is almost entirely dependent on residents of the neighbouring country. “Thousands would cross the Mechi river bridge to visit our shops, buy an array of products ranging from groceries and vegetables to garments, furniture and other household items. Since March last year, their entry has been stopped and we are bearing the brunt of it. We want the central government to immediately reopen the border or else it would be tough for us to survive,” said Ram Kumar Chhetri, an adviser of Panitanki Byabsayee Samiti. According to him, goods worth around Rs 1 crore used to be transacted every day at Panitanki before the onset of the pandemic. “The border movement has been closed for around one-and-a-half years now. One can easily assess the loss our members have borne during these months. Many of us find it tough these days to pay  monthly instalments of bank loans and are exploring other options to run families,” added Chhetri. Another senior trader  in Panitanki said that along with traders, rickshaw-pullers, van and e-rickshaw drivers are also in dire straits. In all, there are around 2,000 local vehicles which used to ply on the border. On Wednesday, a delegation of traders also submitted a memorandum to officials of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), which guards the international border. “Earlier, we had submitted a memorandum to the district magistrate of Darjeeling through the BDO of Kharibari block. But there has been no change in the situation. Hardly a few shops open at Panitanki these days, and a section of traders are in fact planning to sell their shops and shift to other places. The central government should consider our situation and take steps to reopen the border for people. Otherwise, the situation would only turn more grim in the coming days,” said a grocery shop owner. According to him, ahead of the pandemic, he used to sell goods worth around Rs 60,000 in a day. “These days, I can hardly make a sale of Rs 2,000. Only  local residents of Panitanki turn up at my shop these days,” he said. Sources in Darjeeling district administration said the decision to open the border has to be taken by the central government. “We are aware of the situation and have passed information to necessary quarters. But as this is an international border, it is the Centre that has to take the call,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
30-09-2021||North East||Assam govt pact for Nagaon and Cachar paper mills, staff||The six-year struggle of the employees of two defunct Assam paper mills is finally moving towards a resolution with the state government deciding to extend a Rs 570 crore relief package besides taking over the assets of the units spread over an area of 2,000 acres. The breakthrough came after a four-hour-long meeting on Tuesday night in Guwahati chaired by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and the representatives of Nagaon Paper Mill located at Jagiroad in Morigaon district and Cachar Paper Mill at Panchgram in Hailakandi district. Both mills are units of the Hindustan Paper Corporation Limited, a central government enterprise under the ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises. The mills presently have over 1,200 workers and employees. After the meeting, Sarma announced on Twitter: “Finally reached agreement with the workers and employees of Hindustan Paper Corporation to resolve long pending issues of their salaries and dues. Discussion lasted over 4 hours in my office and concluded at 2am...” The development assumes importance because the mill issue was a key poll plank in the 2016 and 2021 Assembly polls. Sarma said in Biswanath district on Wednesday that the agreement will be discussed and approved in the cabinet meeting to be held in Dhemaji on Thursday. “We have almost resolved the mill issue. After the cabinet meeting, we will share details. It is unlikely the paper mills will be revived but we have a plan.… There will be some industry there,” Sarma said. The struggle of the employees started after the Cachar mill stopped functioning on October 20, 2015, while the Nagaon unit shut down on March 13, 2017. The mills supported a population of over two lakh before they were closed. The non-payment of salaries for the past 57 months compounded their uncertainty, forcing the employees to stage protests and move courts seeking revival of the mills and payment of pending dues. Altogether 95 employees have passed away, of whom three committed suicide. The deaths have been attributed to health and financial crises. The reaction of the employees summed up their relief following the agreement. Manobendra Chakraborty, president of the Joint Action Committee of Recognised Unions (JACRU) for the two mills, expressing his gratitude to Sarma for trying to resolve the issue within four months of taking over, said the proposed package of “Rs 570 crore is actually a relief package for the rescue of struggling workers and employees”. Sources said both the chief minister and industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary are signatories to the agreement reached with the workers’ and employees’ unions and associations on Tuesday night. “Several central and state leaders committed to help us but only the incumbent chief minister delivered.… It is the first step towards a solution to our long-standing problems. The Rs 570 crore package will take care of 28 months’ salary and other dues but the government has assured it will not prejudice the claims of workers pending in courts,” Chakraborty said. The other salient features of the agreement included the state government taking over HPCL assets and disbursal of the relief package within two months after the clearance of the proposal by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) for taking over the mill assets. “The government will give a detailed proposal to the NCLT as per law about buying the assets and their utilisation in the future. We hope the government implements the package at the earliest,” Chakraborty said. The employees will have to vacate and handover the mill assets to the administration before the relief package is disbursed, sources said. However, Chakraborty said that “workers in distress would be allowed to stay at their respective quarters without any disturbance till the disbursement of relief is completed in full”. Chakraborty said a special recruitment drive will be carried out to absorb 100 employees, besides doctors and other health workers engaged by the mills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
30-09-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Sidhu resigns as Punjab Congress chief||Endless conflict Sir — Navjot Singh Sidhu’s abrupt resignation as the Punjab Congress chief sent shockwaves through the party (“Trust Sidhu to act like Sidhu”, Sep 29). This comes days after the removal of Amarinder Singh as the chief minister of Punjab, following a bitter tussle between the two. Singh had reportedly remarked that Sidhu is ‘unstable’ and cannot be entrusted with the task of running Punjab. At the same time, rumours emerged that Singh had arrived in Delhi to meet Bharatiya Janata Party leaders. Others are of the opinion that he is likely to meet the interim Congress chief, Sonia Gandhi. Either way, Punjab is facing a tremendous leadership crisis that must be resolved at the earliest. The upcoming days will be crucial in determining the Grand Old Party’s future in the state. M.R. Jayanthi,Kozhikode Sir — The reason cited by Navjot Singh Sidhu for his resignation — he claims that he is unwilling to compromise on the future and welfare of Punjab — is bogus. Whatever the real reason may be, it is a huge jolt for the Congress, which recently appointed Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister after the untimely exit of Amarinder Singh. Sidhu’s decision is not only ill-timed but also points to his erratic nature. The Congress high command should take swift and serious steps against him. The party must also try to mend fences with Singh and fight the forthcoming state assembly elections under his leadership. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Navjot Singh Sidhu’s actions seem to have been motivated by his ambitions. Whenever he feels that things are not going his way — it has been reported that at least two ministers in the Punjab cabinet were chosen without his approval — he takes such drastic steps. It could also be that the elevation of Charanjit Singh Channi did not sit well with Sidhu. It is well-known that he hopes to be the chief minister. A few months ago, the Congress had been scripted for an easy win in the assembly elections in Punjab. The contentious farm laws passed by the BJP had marginalized the saffron party as well as its former ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, in the state. But the infighting within Congress has complicated matters. Voters are likely to think twice before electing a party that cannot maintain peace among its members. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — The Punjab Congress seems to be in turmoil just months before the assembly elections. It was apparent to all that the resignation of Amarinder Singh as the chief minister of Punjab was the unfortunate outcome of his conflict with Navjot Singh Sidhu. But now Sidhu has vindicated his critics who have long-held that he is too unstable a politician to hold an important post. Charanjit Singh Channi seems to have emerged as the only victor. If the infighting continues, it is unlikely that the Grand Old Party will emerge victorious in the state polls. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai Sir — Had the Congress high command handled the conflict between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu with a firm hand, the situation in Punjab would not have deteriorated to this extent. The Congress itself is responsible for its troubles. Mitali Barua,Calcutta Sir — No one is surprised at Navjot Singh Sidhu’s resignation. Although Sidhu managed to elbow out Amarinder Singh from the chief minister’s post, his hopes of taking the seat himself were shattered with the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi. As such he has quit the post of the state party chief in what can only be called a tantrum. One hopes that the Congress high command realizes its mistake in supporting Sidhu and takes suitable action against him. He cannot be depended upon in the future. N. Mahadevan,Chennai  Unsafe everywhere Sir — The death of a woman in the United States of America, allegedly at the hands of her male partner, has raised concerns about violence against women. In July, a woman in Pakistan was beheaded by a male acquaintance. Clearly, developed countries are not much different from underdeveloped ones in this respect. According to the World Health Organization, one in three women experience violence at the hands of an intimate partner. It is difficult for victims to speak up in such situations. When they do, society and the justice system often fail them in order to protect the idea of a ‘happy family’.Rashika Gupta,Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
30-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Teutonic shift||It will not be an exaggeration to state that the real winners of the elections in Germany are the Greens and the Liberals. This is because although the Greens won 14.8 per cent of the vote and the Free Democrats 11.5 per cent, both parties have an opportunity to play the role of kingmaker: the Social Democrats — the SDP garnered 25.7 per cent votes — would need the support of the FDP and the Greens to beat its principal rival, the Christian Democrats, to form the government. There may be a bit of a haze hanging in the German political sky: with the SDP and the CDU now estranged, government-formation could well be a three-way race. But some things are abundantly clear. The decision by Angela Merkel, the former chancellor and CDU leader, to step down from the chancellorship before the elections hampered her party’s electoral fortunes considerably. Armin Laschet, who was expected to fill the vacuum, has not been a success. So much so that it is being speculated that Mr Laschet, an uncharismatic figure, torpedoed the CDU’s boat quite effectively. His rival and likely successor to Ms Merkel, Olaf Scholz, however, made a mark by pursuing an imaginative campaign that focused on people-centric issues such as affordable housing, higher taxes on the affluent and social inclusion. A globalized world order is likely to feel the ramifications of the possible change of guard in Germany. Of particular interest would be the direction that Germany takes on the European project along with France. In the wake of adversarial sentiments towards the European Union, a politically divided Germany — the far right has made gains electorally — may find it difficult to shepherd the EU along with France. India would be watching the developments in Berlin and New Delhi’s interests are likely to be concentrated along three areas — German assistance in respect to climate change challenges; its outreach to New Delhi on the turbulent Indo-Pacific; and, finally, a greater push to augment bilateral trade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
30-09-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Feet in the fire||The hissing attack against Amazon in Panchjanya, the right-wing, Hindi magazine published by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, raises some disturbing questions about how India intends to treat investors who commit a huge amount of funds to this country. The article slammed Amazon’s business practices at its e-commerce platform and went on to accuse it of resorting to shenanigans which were reminiscent of the infamous East India Company. The aggressive attempts to tar legitimate businesses owned by overseas interests are sending out wrong signals at a time when the Narendra Modi government has been assiduously trying to court foreign investment. Some weeks ago, the Union commerce minister, Piyush Goyal, took a sideswipe against the Tatas for opposing his plans to overhaul e-commerce regulations that would place unreasonable restrictions on companies looking to harness technological innovation that could potentially disrupt the country’s retailing landscape. It is time the government realizes that it cannot have it both ways: it cannot invite investors into the country and then make it extremely difficult for them to operate when they start to chew up competition. The attack against Amazon arose after a whistleblower apparently flagged bribery issues against the company. The accusation stems from excessively high legal fees that were supposedly routed through a bunch of lawyers and used to pay off unnamed officials in return for unspecified favours. If true, this needs to be aggressively investigated and the company as well as the recipients of the bribe must be exposed. This is just the sort of case that ought to have been referred to the Serious Fraud Investigation Office. There is no evidence that the government has initiated such a probe. Instead, the RSS mouthpiece has chosen to grab this opportunity to launch a smear campaign to further its own objectives. The Modi government has been trying to push a warped Make in India campaign that is designed to create home-grown giants who are being propped up by some egregious policymaking and regulatory high-handedness. Flipkart, Mastercard, WhatsApp, Google, Twitter, Cairn Energy and Vodafone Inc. all have stories to relate about how the system is being manipulated to hurt their interests. Amazon and Flipkart have been slammed for doling out massive discounts to lure customers. But when a reputed, home-grown behemoth muscled its way into the telecom industry a few years ago using similar tactics, nobody in the saffron brigade saw reason to protest. Companies like Cairn Energy, which have been looking to get out of the country for years, have had to wage costly court battles in India and abroad to recover their legitimate dues. Foreign investors have other options they can fruitfully explore. China, for instance, is laying out the red carpet for technology giants who may no longer be prepared to acquiesce to a brutal tax and regulatory regime in this country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
30-09-2021||Opinion||A world divided by time||A recent documentary on time on Wired — it invited my comment as an expert on Indian history — asked a provocative question: what if time zones didn’t exist? What if there is one Universal Time? In practice, this would mean that all the watches of the world would be synchronized to show the same time. Steve Hanke, an economics professor at Johns Hopkins University and a contributor to the documentary, advocated for a universal time zone. This would mean that people across the world would see the same time, leading to the creation of a homogenous time wherein the temporal notions of ‘am’ and ‘pm’ would change forever. All cell phones would then show the same time, and all watches would display it in the 24-hour format. To me, this sounds like a lot of reconditioning of human ideas of temporality. But the concept of a single time zone has been gaining traction. If the United Kingdom Greenwich Mean Time is taken as the UT, then 9 o’ clock schools and offices in India would open at 1.30 pm in summer when Daylight Saving Time is followed there or at 14.30 hours otherwise and people would go to bed at around 2.30 am in summer. However, life would always be geared towards the presence of sunlight and local seasons, so schools and offices would continue to open early in the morning. The official school opening time, though, would say 14.30 hours. This proposal would require a complete reconfiguration of our idea of clock time — 12 o’ clock could mean noon, morning or night depending on where one is in the world. There are many arguments in favour of a UT. People would follow their local sun time to suit their circadian rhythm, improving health and productivity. It would also ease globalized business and economic transactions. In fact, many global service providers like airlines, internet and international financial organizations use their own single time zones to avoid confusion, delays and clashes. While it is interesting, the proposal needs a serious reality check. This new time zone would confuse all of humanity, whose temporal sense and everyday activities have been cultivated according to the conventional clock time since at least the 16th century. Thus, 6 am means morning (theoretically, the arrival of sunlight) everywhere and 6 pm means evening (the arrival of darkness). Families spread across the globe would have to relearn the local time of their loved ones living afar. More important, whose time would be made the UT? If it is the UK’s time, would this not give it an advantage over the rest of the world? Further, the majority of our fiction, non-fiction, TV serials and so on has been written according to the current time zones with some local variations. Adapting to a UT would require us to constantly perform some mental arithmetic to make sense of any time mentioned. This means that all of us would have to become experts in timekeeping in order to create a time zone that would serve the first-world capitalists the most. It is true that the introduction of time zones created tensions locally, and time became embroiled in politics. Populations have been forced to shift from one time zone to another in places like North Korea, China, Russia, Venezuela, India and so on in the past. Time has been used by states to create a national homogenous time and to declare their sovereignty. Authoritative regimes have used the politics of time to demonstrate their power over citizens. Geographically large countries like India and China, each of which follows a single time zone, face internal pressures to follow varied time zones as per the local sun time. For instance, people from the Northeast have been pleading for a time zone that takes into account local daylight saving. The sun rises early in the Northeast compared to the northern and western regions of India — a variation of almost one to two hours — and daylight time is lost owing to a single time zone. Moreover, the sun sets way before it does in Delhi, leading to an overuse of artificial energy and loss of sleep. A single time zone, even within a geographically large nation, puts people from certain regions at a disadvantage in terms of undertaking their day-to-day activities and synchronizing their lived time (day, night, dawn) with the official national time. For India, the clock tower in Mirzapur decides the time (Coordinated Universal Time + 05.30 hours). We should aspire to a time that prioritizes the needs of the people, their sleep and their environment. The United States of America, for example, has six time zones. In the modern world, the State and capital control the management of time. When time zones were being planned towards the end of the 19th century, time became a sovereign entity. Until the modern period, each locality had its own time, which was exhibited through clock towers, churches, railway stations, mills, universities, dockyards and so on. Around the same time, the gongs at the clock towers, schools, prisons and factories became the most powerful tools to discipline people in a locality. It took 200 years for the human race to master this sense of time. To undo it and overlap it with a new idea of time would unleash an epistemic violence on the human mind, body, and memory. Arun Kumar is an Assistant Professor of British Imperial, Colonial and Post-Colonial History, University of Nottingham||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
30-09-2021||Opinion||The dragon’s dance||Since 1858, when the responsibility of running the British Indian Empire passed to the Crown, the defence of the frontiers dominated the strategic thinking of the Government of India. Throughout much of the late 19th century, this preoccupation was subsumed within the parameters of the Great Game, the romantic shorthand for the shadow-boxing that marked Anglo-Russian rivalry in Asia. For imperial strategists, the outer reaches of the influence of the British Indian Empire were imagined to extend from Singapore in the east to Aden and the Suez Canal in the west. An important element of this strategy was the creation of either a friendly or at least a non-hostile buffer zone that would separate India from the rival Big Power. The logic wasn’t specious. In 1846, there was a distance of 2,000 miles between British India and Russia. However, by 1885, the gap was less than 500 miles. What now sometimes appears as an idiosyncratic military mission by Colonel Younghusband to Lhasa in 1904 makes more sense when viewed as an important element of creating a buffer zone between India and China. The firm delineation of India’s frontiers — the Durand Line between India and Afghanistan and the McMahon Line between India and Tibet/China in the east — was an important part of the defence of India. There were two important changes after Independence in 1947. Firstly, the western frontiers of India were redrawn by the Radcliffe Line. This involved the loss of the buffer in Afghanistan and led to the creation of a hostile neighbour on India’s doorstep. The dispute over Jammu and Kashmir complicated the situation and ensured a state of permanent military preparedness within India. In the mid-1990s, Pakistan acquired greater ‘strategic depth’ through its control over Taliban-ruled Afghanistan, an advantage it has regained after a 20-year interregnum. An additional complication was created by Cold War strategists who favoured a pro-Pakistan tilt by the United States of America to offset what they felt was India’s partiality towards the Soviet Union. Consequently, the focus often shifted from the defence of India to India’s relative insignificance in the global chess game — a development that was also moulded by India’s inability to realize its own potential in the economic sphere. Secondly, China’s assumption of military control over Tibet in 1950 lost India its buffer in the east. The mistaken belief that China was a benign and friendly power prompted Jawaharlal Nehru to take his eye off the ball and roll back the Indian presence in Kashgar, Bokhara and Lhasa. It was more than just the closure of Indian missions that had existed during the high noon of the raj. The truncation of India’s influence in Central Asia was an aspect of Nehru attaching greater priority to personalized diplomacy over reinforcing India’s pre-existing strategic clout. Whereas China after the Communist revolution in 1949 embraced an assertive nationalism that had its origins in traditional Middle Kingdom doctrines, India repudiated the India-centric strategic thinking that was a hallmark of the raj after the 1880s. India tried to wallow in its ‘soft power’, not as an appendage to larger ‘hard power’ designs but as the mainstay of its approach to both the neighbourhood and the world. Even in hindsight, Nehru’s outright rejection of an American offer to replace the dispossessed Kuomintang regime in Taiwan with a permanent place for India in the United Nations Security Council makes no sense. Even S. Gopal — Nehru’s most sympathetic ‘official’ biographer — is harsh on Nehru’s astonishing woolliness: “[Nehru] hoped fondly that friendship with the new China would not only maintain peace in Asia but start a new phase in world affairs, with Asia giving the lead in a more humane... [and] sophisticated diplomacy. The Chinese took advantage of this and exploited India’s goodwill while placing little trust in her. The basic challenge between India and China, as China never seemed to forget and Nehru could not finally help recognizing, ran along the spine of Asia.” The 1962 military debacle in the Himalayas was a late wake-up call. Yet the defeat wasn’t accompanied by the requisite capacity building, particularly in the economic sphere. Thus, while China single-mindedly proceeded to overcome past disabilities and re-forge itself as a global power after 1979, India was painfully slow to get off the blocks. In a recent work on Indian diplomacy during the Bangladesh crisis of 1971 that draws on hitherto untapped sources, Chandrasekhar Dasgupta has revealed the huge reluctance of the external affairs establishment towards steps that would entail any solution to the crisis in East Pakistan outside the framework of a united Pakistan. It was the pig-headedness of President Yahya Khan and the preference for a military solution that tilted the balance in favour of an independent Bangladesh. The past 25 years have witnessed multiplying challenges to India’s national security. There are two dimensions to the threat. The first is the ideological challenge of radical Islamism that is intoxicated by the belief that its faith can prevail over sophisticated arms and the enormous material resources of the world’s big powers. The Taliban — or, for that matter, their more radical cousin, the Islamic State — are only nominally national movements. Radical Islamism has targeted Muslim communities, cutting across national boundaries, with the promise of a divinely-blessed good life. Its organizational structures may well be uneven but its potential to destabilize the whole of Central and South Asia, including India, is unlimited. The whole world is still grappling with the problem of how it can be defeated at the level of ideas. The second challenge — which, too, is a global phenomenon — facing India is the threat of Chinese hegemonism. If radical Islamism seeks to motivate people by invoking god, China is overflowing with its sheer audacity of vision. After the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917, the Soviet Union had given a call for world revolution and motivated a large number of people into believing in its possibility. China’s leadership isn’t too bothered with the ‘struggling masses’; it seeks to influence the political classes into reposing their faith in China’s ability to dole out credit and technology, buy influence and even offer military assistance in return for ‘concessions’ — incorporation into a China-controlled world economic order, the Belt and Road Initiative. China is creating a 21st-century version of the Middle Kingdom that involves vassal states acknowledging its hegemonism and allowing it unhindered passage in return for a role in the exercise. India has so far resisted the bait and, consequently, earned China’s displeasure in different ways, including military pressure and the encouragement of Pakistan, diplomatically and militarily. However, it is clear that this is a battle India cannot fight alone. Apart from the fact that China’s economy dwarfs that of India, Beijing is today a world leader in technology and international trade. An isolationist India that has retreated into its shell will suit China admirably. What will not suit it is an India that has entered into a strategic relationship with countries that have similar vulnerabilities. The Quad is as yet an untested investment in the future involving India, Australia, Japan and the US. It is Asia-focused and technology-focused, but will probably have an arms-length relationship with the Aukus military grouping that seeks to challenge China’s bid to control the Indo-Pacific. India is understandably cautious about over-committing itself to anti-China blocs because it is the only country with which China has a common and disputed border. The longer-term approach to national security must involve rapid capacity building on economic and military fronts. But additionally, it involves shunning mediocrity and relentlessly embracing the quest for excellence. The big challenge is to reconcile these challenges with preserving a vibrant democratic culture — something that China doesn’t want to know.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Incessant rain throws life out of gear in Dhanbad and Santhal Pargana||Incessant rains caused due to Cyclone Gulab threw life in out of gear in Dhanbad and several parts of Santhal Pargana, including, Deoghar, Dumka, Godda, Jamtara, Pakur and Sahibgang as several incident of house collapse; inundation in different residential colonies of Dhanbad and Deoghar; coal production disruption due to water entering into the mines at Dhanbad took place. One incident of subsidence in Rajput Basti, one of most subsidence prone zones of underground fire affected area around five km from Dhanbad also took place this morning during which a woman narrowly escaped getting buried alive in a crater developed in the incident. Meanwhile in Jharia more than a dozen muddy houses collapsed due to rains at Shamsher Nagar and Upperkulhi locality of Dhanbad and affected persons were rescued by local social workers. A PDS shop of one Baijnath Ram situated at his home also collapsed in Gadiwan Patti locality of Jharia due to which food grain stock was also spoiled. Rain also led to the collapse of several houses in different parts of Nirsa and particularly in Mugma area as the house of one Kalipado Kumbhkar collapsed today in Pithakiyari Panchayat about 35 km from Dhanbad district headquarters. Meanwhile rain water also entered Keshalpur colliery in area IV of BCCL this morning but as entry has been banned in BCCL underground collieries since yesterday no loss of life took of injury to anyone took place in the incident although the rescue team of BCCL reached at site to supervise the intensive dewatering work. Dhanbad recorded more than 280 mm of rains since yesterday out of which 62 mm of rain was recovered from 4 am to September 29 to 6 Pm while 220 mm or rain took place between 6 pm of yesterday to 11.30 am to this morning. Meanwhile rain also caused Maithon and Panchet dam to flow at highest ever level of September as Maithon level reached at 482.68 feet around 8 feet lower than highest level of 490 feet while Panchet level reached to 419.52 feet around 6 feet below the danger level of 425 feet. Rail services were also affected on Dhanbad Gaya Railway line due to a tree falling and damaging the overhead equipment on the Railway line between Herodih and Sharmatand in Koderma district this morning at around 4.45 am due to which several important train including 02302 New Delhi Howrah Special Express, 02314 New Delhi Sealdah Special Express and 02824 New Delhi Bhubaneswar Special Express were also delayed at Koderma and Herodih Railway station for 30 minutes to 2. 40 hours. Normal traffic resumed on the line after the completion of repair work of OHE at around 7.55 am this morning. Meanwhile railway cancelled a pair of trains including 02353 Howrah Lalkuan Express, 02354 Lalkuan Howrah Express passing through Dhanbad division due to inundation at Tikiapara near Howrah Railway station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-32
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: CBI takes both accused in Dhanbad judge case on remand again||Dhanbad: Central Bureau of Investigation probing, Judge Uttam Anand Murder case of Dhanbad today informed Ranch high court that the two arrested persons including, Auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma had been taken on remand for six days again since yesterday for further questioning. Notably the CBI on yesterday sought remand of 10 days through a petition in the court of Sub Divisional Judicial Magistrate of Dhanbad, Abhishek Srivastava but the court instead granted remand of six days after which the duo were taken into remand by CBI team and taken to their camp office at CIMFR guest of Dhanbad or further questioning in the case. The latest remand of six days was fourth time remand of duo as they were for first time taken into remand of six days on August 30 of state police, which carried out initial probe into the incident. The CBI again took them on remand for a second time on August 7 for five days and they were again taken into remand for a third time on August 11 for ten days during which their different medical tests including the Narco test were conducted at Gandhinagar in Gujarat. Notably, the CBI during the last review of the case progress on September 23 informed the high court that Judge Uttam Anand was hit death on July 28 intentionally and not accidentally. The investigating agency further submitted four different forensic reports before the court on the same day (September 23) and claimed that they were arriving at a conclusion in this case. The court, while reviewing the progress of the case, instructed the Jharkhand Public Service Commission and Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission to complete the staff recruitment process for the state Forensic Science Laboratory. Hazaribagh: 26-year-old youth Dileep Yadav died while performing a stunt on a moving bike in Koderma. The incident took place at Koderma-Giridih main road near Devipur Mor. Dileep, a resident of Kushmai village under Bachchedih panchayat. About four youths on three bikes were performing stunts while riding at high speed. The bike on which Dileep was doing the stunt hit a tree, injuring him grievously. Nawalshahi police station’s assistant sub-inspector Ashok Kumar reached the spot with his team after getting information about the mishap. Dileep was sent to a nursing home in Purnadih but he died later. Kumar cautioned youths for rash driving and not performing stunts. Vishvendu Jaipuriar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Three youths commit suicide in Jamshedpur||Three separate incidents of suicide were reported from three different sports occurred in as many places rocked in and around the steel city on Thursday morning. Dead bodies of two teenagers were found hanging in their residence in Jugsalai and Seraikela, the third dead body was that of a 20-year-old woman was found in a hanging position at her in-law’s house in Golmuri locality. Young woman has been identified as Sonam Parveen. A case of dowry murder has been lodged against her in-laws on the basis of her father Nurul Haque’s police complaint. A resident of Kapali near Mango, Nurul has alleged Parveen’s husband Safdar Khan, father-law, mother-in-law, sister-in-law and a brother-in-law to have hanged his daughter after poisoning her to death. “My son-in-law Safdar is away in the Gulf where he works, but his kin have poisoned my daughter to death for not bringing adequate dowry during the marriage which was solemnised in March 2020. Safdar is equally responsible for my daughter's murder,” Nurul has said in an FIR lodged by the bereaved father. The deceased is survived by an eight-month-old baby boy. OC of Golmuri thana, Arvind Kumar said, “Apparently it is a case of suicide, but as the deceased’s father has alleged her husband and in-laws have poisoned the young woman for dowry, we are compelled to register a case accordingly.” Kumar said that they would be arresting the accused only after carrying out an investigation. In another case, a 19-year-old youth, Sandeep Kumar Mahto, the only male member of the family committed suicide at his house in Rudra Prataap Colony in Seraikela. He was suffering from depression after his father and brother died a couple of years ago. In another locality of steel city, a 17-year-old boy, Sohan Kumar Sahu also chose to end his life at his home Kalisthan locality, which falls under Jugsalai thana area||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma foresters play Good Samaritan for daily wagers||Foresters of Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary are playing good Samaritan for daily wagers, who have not been paid their dues for the past six months. With the festive season being round the corner, 40-odd, daily wagers, are agitated since they have lost hopes of an early clearance of their dues. Besides the trackers, daily wagers are engaged in maintaining the accommodations and taking care of the two domesticated elephants as mahauts, while some work as cooks. Seeing their plight forest officials, including rangers, have taken on themselves to provide monetary help to the hapless daily wagers., some of whom are married with children. They are paid Rs 311.26 for their labour. The daily wagers work for about 26 days in a month. “We are living in a state of utter penury but are continuing with our work,” said Shristidhar Mahto, a watchman posted at the main entrance of the sanctuary at Makukakocha. He maintained that the workers can no longer wait for their pending dues to be cleared. “We have no option but to wait. Most of the daily wagers have started borrowing money on interest from lenders of different villages. The lenders are charging them a 10 percent interest rate on the loan. It is the festive season and we have to buy clothes for our family. We are already suffering from financial stress. We are under huge pressure to keep our family afloat,” said Dukhu Bhagat, a tracker. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said the daily wagers have not received their dues for the past six months (from April onwards). “We are helping them financially by giving them an advance. We have also requested some grocers to provide them groceries on credit. But this situation should not stretch further,” he added. The government usually allots money for payment of daily wagers every two-three months but now the limit has overstretched. “Daily wagers receive their dues after every two-three months. This system has been in place for a long time. But a six-month wait is way too much for them in this festive season,” a forester said on condition of anonymity. The last payment that the Dalma daily wagers received was in March this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi to host Smart City investors' meet on Saturday||The state urban development department is all set to host an investors’ meet in Ranchi this Saturday (October 2) to woo real estate developers and firms from various sectors to join the second edition of e-auction of plots for the proposed smart city project in the capital. According to officials on Thursday, the meet has been planned at BNR Chanakya where over two dozen companies are expected to participate, besides representatives of local trade bodies. Ranchi Smart City project CEO Amit Kumar maintained that they have invited a host of people from across sectors such as hospitality, education, real estate, among others, from within and outside the state for the meet. “The state government is soon going to put about 42 plots covering 218-acre under auction. However, before the meeting there will be an opportunity for potential investors to know about the offerings at this site. Also, it will be an opportunity for us to know their concerns or get any suggestions before we auction,” he said. He added that in the upcoming auction, plots of different nature will be put under the hammer. “The plots will be for education, commercial, public and semi-public utility and mixed use purposes,” he said. The first phase of e-auction was held between January and February when officials claimed that about nine big plots had been sold. Sources, however, said that the department has not received responses from enough bidders because of which the urban development department had planned the investors’ meet before finalizing the date for the next auction. Ranchi is among the 100 cities selected for India’s Smart City mission by the Centre. In 2017, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu had laid the foundation for the project in the state capital but work to set up basic infrastructure began only in 2019. The state urban development department has so far invested around Rs 800 crore for construction of facilities like drainage system, command and control system, convention centre among others. According to officials the smart city project is set up on 657 acres in the HEC area of which about 37 percent has been earmarked for greenery and open spaces as per the master plan. About 278.52 acres of land covering around 51 plots of various dimensions are initially being auctioned in various phases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||District hospitals in Pakur, Ramgarh, Khunti win Kayakalp awards for hygiene||Health minister Banna Gupta on Thursday gave away Centre-funded Kayakalp awards to as many as 67 government-run healthcare facilities in Jharkhand for maintaining hygiene and cleanliness, and lauded the efforts of public hospitals in keeping their premises infection-free even when Covid-19 wreaked havoc upon the state. The District Hospital in Pakur bagged the first position among district hospitals in all the 24 districts in the year 2019-2020, while district hospitals in Ramgarh and Khunti jointly won the first prize for maintaining cleanliness in the year 2020-2021. Giving away the awards, Gupta urged public hospitals to keep striving for better facilities and hygiene in their campus to ensure that patients are not reluctant to be treated there. “Hospitals should be sensitive not only towards the patients but also while handling their attendants. The environment at any public hospital should be welcoming so that patients do not have to think twice before getting admitted,” said Gupta, adding that hospitals have done a commendable job in treating Covid patients in Jharkhand at a time when the nature of the disease did not even allow family members of patients to come close to them. Besides the three district hospitals, at least 32 Public Healthcare Centres (PHCs), 28 Health and Wellness Centres (HWCs), and four Community Health Centres (CHCs) were awarded with the Kayakalp award at the function at National Health Mission (NHM) campus in Ranchi on Thursday. According to details shared by the health department, the winner in the category of district hospitals will be awarded a cash prize of Rs.50 lakh, while the winning CHC will get Rs 15 lakh and the runner up will get Rs 10 lakh. Rs 2 lakh will be awarded to the best performing PHC and Rs 1 lakh to the best performing HWC. The winners were decided on the basis of an assessment by the State Award Nomination Committee, which only nominated hospitals that got more than 70 per cent positive rating from patients, attendants and others. Jharkhand has been giving away the Kayakalp awards to hospitals since 2015. Gumla District Hospital won the award in 2015, followed by Deoghar District Hospital in 2016, East Singhbhum District Hospital in 2017 and Godda District Hospital in 2018. The state gave away awards for 2019 and 2020 on Thursday as most award ceremonies remained suspended due to Covid-19 since March 2020. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare launched the Kayakalp award scheme in June 2015 to encourage hygienic practices at public healthcare facilities as a part of the Centre’s Swachh Bharat Mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Nearly zero deficit rainfall in Jharkhand after four months of monsoon||Four months of the monsoon season ended on Thursday with Jharkhand recording a rain deficit of a meagre 1 per cent, the figure registering a dramatic fall from Wednesday's 4 per cent after incessant showers in the last 24 hours because of a cyclonic circulation originating in the Bay of Bengal. The monsoon is, however, yet to depart from the state, and is expected to stay on for some more time. In fact, the withdrawal of the monsoon, which usually begins in the third week of September from western Rajasthan, was yet to begin this year resulting in an extended monsoon. But, for the purpose of calculation of monsoon rain, the count of four months- June to September- is considered by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Thursday's Met statistics showed Jharkhand's actual rainfall to be 1043.4 mm against a normal of 1054.7, a deficit of one per cent which is as good as normal. Last year, (2020), the monsoon had ended with a deficit of 14 per cent. In 2019, the four-month rainy season had ended with an 18 per cent deficit while in 2018 the figure was 28 per cent. In 2017, the monsoon had ended with a 10 per cent deficit in Jharkhand. Meteorologists consider rain deficit up to 19 per cent to be normal. This year, the southwest monsoon had an early arrival. It entered two days in advance on June 13. The monsoon currents were strong, resulting in surplus rain in the first two months of June and July. However, August ended with a four per cent rainfall deficit even there were frequent downpours. The rainfall in the first two weeks of September was not up to the mark, and the deficit had shot up to nine per cent. But towards the end of September, Cylcone Gulab and a back- to -back cyclonic circulation and a low-pressure resulted in widespread, heavy to very heavy rainfall in Jharkhand which helped in reduce the deficit. Head of IMD’s Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said this year’s monsoon was impressive. “Rainfall during the four monsoon months was widespread. Rainfall in frequent intervals helped irrigation and agricultural activities,” he said. Met statistics revealed that capital Ranchi notched a 13 per cent surplus with rainfall of 1,213 mm against a normal of 1,074.6mm. Jamshedpur in East Singhbhum recorded excess rain of 19 per cent. The data showed Lohardaga topped the gainers’ list with 49 per cent excess rainfall. The district notched rainfall of 1,445.5mm against a normal of 971.9 mm. The other districts with surplus rain are Jamtara, Bokaro, East Singhbhum, Chatra, Dumka, Deoghar, Giridih, Hazaribagh, Ranchi and Ramgarh. Pakur topped the list of districts with rain deficit. Against a normal of 1,267.3mm, Pakur recorded rainfall of 809mm, a deficit of  36 per cent at the end of the four months. The other districts in rain losers list are Chatra, Godda, Gumla, Khunti and Simdega. The Ranchi Meteorological Centre has issued an alert of heavy rainfall at a few isolated pockets, especially in northern parts of Jharkhand, in the next 48 hours due to the impact of the low-pressure which apart from Jharkhand resulted in a good spell of rain in neighbouring West Bengal during the last couple of days. The low-pressure, which originated from the Bay of Bengal, was on Thursday hovering over northern Jharkhand and Bihar. An associated cyclonic circulation was extending upto 7.6 Km above mean sea level. Rain data of last 24 hours suggested light to moderate rain at most places across Jharkhand. Extremely heavy to very heavy rain also took place at some places. Life was affected in Dhanbad, Bokaro, Giridih and several other places which witnessed extremely heavy rain in the past 24 hours. The highest rainfall of 309 mm was recorded at Putki in Dhanbad. Bokaro was next to follow with 290 mm of rain while Jamtara recorded to 244 mm. Papunki and Maithon in Dhanbad recorded over 200 mm of rain. Giridih and Deoghar recorded over 110 mm of rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Daily vaccination count drops below 1 lakh in Jharkhand||The daily vaccination number against Covid-19 in Jharkhand dropped below the 1-lakh-mark for the first time in September on Wednesday as the state managed to administer jabs to about 82,000 residents, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine  to as many as 49,243 residents, while the second jab was administered to at least 32,067 beneficiaries. Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum vaccinated 10,000-odd residents, while Dhanbad managed to administer vaccine doses to hardly 5,000 beneficiaries. None of the remaining districts managed to vaccinate more than 5,000 residents. Sources involved in the immunisation drive said that many session sites failed to achieve their target of administering at least 100 vaccine jabs. Some of the session sites closed early after saturating the limited vaccine doses available in stock. At least six fresh cases of coronavirus infection against four Covid recoveries took the active caseload of Covid-19 in the state to 78, a separate bulletin from NHM stated. While Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported two Covid cases each, Giridih and Bokaro reported one fresh case of Covid-19 each. The active caseload rose to 47 in Ranchi and six in East Singhbhum as the two districts reported one Covid recovery each. At least 12 of 24 districts in Jharkhand did not have active cases of Covid-19 by the end of Wednesday, and Ranchi alone accounted for more than 60 per cent of the state’s active cases. Jharkhand on Wednesday tested swab samples of at least 45,447 residents and 0.01 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus. The state has so far reported more than 3.48 lakh Covid cases and 98.50 per cent of the patients have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Non-BJP parties in the state protest against Centre’s policies||Non-BJP parties staged protests at all 24 district headquarters of Jharkhand on Wednesday against the Centre’s new farm and labour laws, its failure to contain inflation and privatisation of government assets. In a show of unity, senior leaders of the Congress, JMM, RJD and Left parties took part in the demonstrations and submitted memorandums to the governor through respective deputy commissioners demanding repeal of farm laws, reduction in fuel prices, immediate stoppage of privatisation of government and public sector enterprises, compensation for families who have lost earning members due to Covid-19 and immediate release of political prisoners and human rights activists arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case. “We will be chalking out the future course of strategy taking into confidence all non-BJP parties. Memorandums were submitted in each of the 24 districts, while in Ranchi a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovid was submitted to governor Ramesh Bais,” said Congress spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad. The non-BJP parties in Jharkhand had earlier this month decided to come out on the streets to enforce the Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella outfit of farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the farm laws, and had called for protests across Jharkhand on Wednesday against the BJP-led central government. “Through the demonstration, we wanted to put up a united face against the wrong policies of the BJP-led central government and also create awareness among the masses about the misdeeds of this government,” added Prasad. “We wanted to show that Opposition parties are not going to be cowed down by the BJP-led central government’s misuse of CBI, income tax and Enforcement Directorate against our leaders and continue to raise voices against the wrong policies. At present the central government is functioning to make selected capitalists happy at the cost of masses,” said JMM central vice-president and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya, who also attended the protest in Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
30-09-2021||Jharkhand||Team Dheeraj Taneja sweeps FJCCI annual election||The team led by Dheeraj Taneja has swept the annual election of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), the apex trade body of the state, and will run the show for next one year. After the results were declared on Tuesday night, Team Taneja won 18 of the total 21 posts of executive committee members. Those elected will now select from among themselves the office-bearers of the FJCCI. While Taneja will be formally declared as the next FJCCI president, names of the new general secretary, two vice-presidents, two joint secretaries and a treasurer will be announced when the executive committee meets for the first time a few days later. Six regional vice-presidents — one each from North and South Chotanagpur, Palamau, Kolhan, Coal Belt and Santhal Pargana — were already declared elected unopposed as they were the only candidates from their respective regions. These office-bearers will run the affairs of FJCCI for one year till another body takes over after elections next year. “Now that things are limping back to normal, we expect to carry forward the work taken up and advanced by our predecessors,” Taneja replied when asked about his priorities. He said everything had come to a standstill during the lockdown and then slowly started to return to near normal during the various phases of unlocking. Taneja said the chamber was active for ensuring ease of doing business by working in close coordination with the government, besides demanding implementation of the single-window system and helping industrial promotion in the state. The trade body poll had no excitement this time because unlike previous years when two 21-member teams led by two prominent businessmen would take on each other, only one 21-member team led by Taneja was in the fray while 14 others fought individually. But the election saw something unusual when instead of a traditional single-day poll, the polling exercise continued for three consecutive days from Sunday and counting began after the polling was over on Tuesday evening. “The polling was held on three days in a staggered manner as we had to maintain Covid protocol,” said election committee chairman Lalit Kedia. He said that 3,480 member-voters were asked to cast their votes during their allotted time slots spread over three days. At the end of polling, it was found that 1,708 traders comprising 49.08 per cent of the total voters had exercised their voting rights. More voters would have perhaps turned up if the polling was done on Sunday alone as many found it difficult to come for voting on working days, some said, citing that 789 had voted on Sunday while 511 and 408 voted on the next two days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-33
