01-04-2020||News||Covid-19: Centre and states must work together | Opinion||As the crisis faced by India’s migrant workers has shown, the Union government’s centralised, command-and-control approach of managing the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) will not work. Recent steps, from the poorly-planned lockdown to the decision to shut down borders and use brute force against those wanting to go home, reflect an approach focused on controlling people, rather than developing systems, to control the spread of the virus.Once it became evident that migrants were leaving inhospitable cities and going home, crossing multiple state borders, we needed rapid coordination to enable movement, manage communication, and design processes to ensure safe passage, including building a contact database for testing and tracing. Coordination is the role that the Centre should have played. Instead, it chose to use the Disaster Management Act, command border closures without warning, and police those who didn’t comply. The inhumanity of these actions have been devastating.India needs to move away from command-and-control to coordination and genuine Centre-state collaboration. States are at the frontlines. Many have also been quick to respond and innovate. But, as the handling of migrant movement shows, states will also face collective action problems, for which central intervention will be essential. Cooperative federalism is imperative in this coronavirus war. States must be taken into confidence before major decisions, and responsive mechanisms for cooperation must be put in place. Going forward, three specific areas of cooperation are critical: Finance, procurement and supply chains.First, finance. While states have been quick to devise substantial relief packages, they lack financial resources. The Centre’s response was to link finances to its own specific schemes for states to implement rather than buttressing state efforts. However, implementation capacity varies widely across states and schemes. And the relief needs of states will differ. Thus the Centre ought to use its fiscal powers to ease their fiscal constraints. The states have already asked for the Centre to ease fiscal deficit targets. But more must be done.In particular, the Centre’s relief package (the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna) ought to be redesigned and enhanced as a block grant to states. The grant should have two windows: One for health care system preparedness, linked to the National Health Mission formula, which prioritises funds for poorer states with weak health capacity. The second should be for relief measures. This can be financed by bundling all central schemes for social protection into a untied emergency fund, which states can draw on to top-up their own relief programmes. The cost-sharing formula should be abandoned for the next three months, with the Centre providing 100% funding, freeing up state funds to be used for health-related activities. This must be adopted for the National Health Mission as well, where states are expected to contribute 40% to the budget.Second, financial management and procurement. One of the biggest inefficiencies in the administrative system is the inability to move funds, procure goods and make payments, at speed. The public finance management system relies on a labyrinth of paperwork and enforcement of audit queries that can be paralysing and leaves little discretion at the state and local level. Given the scale of infrastructure needed — personal protective equipment (PPE), ventilators, isolation wards — smoothening procurement and financial transfers is essential. This, as former Indian Administrative Service officer Santhosh Mathew argues, needs the Centre and states to work in tandem. The Centre can take charge of discretionary functions where leakages are high — standard-setting, price determination and supplier identification. But to procure fast, States must have full control over the actual transaction, including placing orders directly with vendors , quality checks at the point of receipt, and making direct payments.Finally, supply chains for essential commodities. While the focus thus far has been on smoothening movement for transportation of essential goods and services, it is important to recognise that the lockdown has affected all systems of production, circulation and distribution across the economy. For agriculture, April to June is a critical period both for rabi harvests and marketing, but also for next season’s kharif sowing. Labour, seeds, machinery, vehicles, storage, credit, markets — uncertain at the best of times — are now in different degrees of peril. As the lockdown progresses, local production and manufacturing units will need urgent economic assistance. This will require the Centre to make dedicated supply chain financing available. States will need to work with the Centre and with other states to identify mechanisms to extend and inject credit and ensure cross-border supply of labour and inputs before units and nodes shut down.Robust and responsive mechanisms for inter-state coordination are critical. Last week, for instance, Kerala sought urgent help from the Centre when Karnataka sealed off its border, cutting off essential supplies of food and medicine for the people of north Kerala. It is perhaps inevitable that the impulse to cut-off and isolate specific units (slums, districts and entire states) affected by an outbreak will override all other concerns. But leaving these zones to fend for themselves cannot be an option during their greatest distress. We urgently need an inter-state coordination mechanism. This can be done by reviving the now moribund inter-state council and using its secretariat to coordinate between states and the empowered action groups that have been set up by the Centre.Overcoming the extraordinary challenges ahead is going to need the government to put both faith in people and processes that support decentralisation and a greater commitment to collective action. This requires the Centre and the states to genuinely work together. It is often said that India’s future lies in getting federalism right. If there is one thing that the coronavirus pandemic has taught all of us, it is that the future is already here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-centre-and-states-must-work-together/story-UFuvvR18MU54lzsIF3FkYJ.html
01-04-2020||News||In times of Covid-19, take special care of children||Till a few weeks ago, senior citizens and others with pre-existing medical conditions were said to be more vulnerable to the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19). Later, reports showed that young adults too were victims. But all along, we were made to believe that children were more or less unlikely to get infected by the virus.However, there are now reports that children too are vulnerable, but mercifully to a lesser degree. We know have now information that children, including toddlers, have contracted the virus in India. Even though these are stray incidents, it does not, and cannot, mean that we can afford to lower our guard when it comes to protecting children. It is important to appreciate the magnitude of the problem and address it along with other challenges related to the pandemic. A report published by the ministry of women and child development in September 2018, with data collected as of March 2017, shows that there are 9,589 registered and unregistered child care institutions (CCI) that have 3,70,227 children in need of care and protection, and 7,422 children in conflict with the law. These include children of single parents, orphans, abandoned or surrendered children, sexually abused children and victims of child pornography, children who have been trafficked, homeless, mentally challenged and victims of child marriage.While only nine per cent of the CCIs are supported by the government, 91% are managed by non-profits. With the nationwide lockdown and the possibility of children getting infected by the virus, is enough being done to look after them, both by the governments and the non-governmental organisations? We must remember that these children have no voice; they are the silent victims of much trial and tribulation.Having visited a few CCIs in different parts of the country and having met dozens of activists who have provided assistance in multiple institutions, I found that the facilities in many of them are dismal. Rooms or dormitories are overcrowded; health and medical facilities are basic, if they exist at all. Like prisoners being released on parole or granted furlough, the over 7,000 children in conflict with law can and should be treated with compassion, and released to join their families keeping in mind that visits by parents are now impossible with a lockdown in place. If adult undertrial prisoners can be released, why not undertrial children? They are no less equal. Many children in need of care and protection, unfortunately, have no place to go. A CCI is their only home. We need to think of them with compassion and pay greater attention to their welfare.The world outside may not be much better for these children, lockdown or no lockdown. A November 2019 release of the Press Information Bureau tells us that the child protection services, which are centrally-sponsored schemes, support 1,752 homes, including CCIs and open shelters. These services are available to only about 72,500 children. There are a little over 1.35 million anganwadi centres across the country, but almost 25% have no toilet facilities; with even lesser having drinking water. So washing hands without water is not easy at all. There are complaints from anganwadi sevikas that they have not been given masks, gloves and sanitisers. The care of hundreds of thousands of children and their caregivers needs as much attention, if not more, than other sections of society.There are other collateral problems faced by children in these trying times. Their education has suffered. Not many in slums and rural areas can avail of online courses. There is also uncertainty about holding examinations. Unicef has flagged (among others) problems in immunisation of younger children. Executive director Henrietta Fore said: “The message is clear: We must not allow lifesaving health interventions to fall victim to our efforts to address Covid-19.” In other words, staying safe and away from the virus is only a part of the problem — there are larger issues of governance and management that also need to be addressed.There is no doubt that the establishment, institutions, NGOs and individuals are doing whatever is possible to tackle the health emergency. But, I feel it should not be treated only as a health issue in view of the wide ramifications that the coronavirus has on different aspects of life. To many, the issue is one of sheer survival, particularly for the poor and the migrant labour, and the lathi-wielding police must appreciate this. While factoring in the needs and requirement of the stranded millions, let’s also spare a thought for the children who need our care, protection and comfort.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-times-of-covid-19-take-special-care-of-children/story-pTUdk8eztdW9NfjyOm3y9J.html
01-04-2020||News||Covid-19: Why India doesn’t need to worry about investor-State dispute settlement claims||In order to halt the spread of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) and to boost the public health care system and preparedness, India has taken several regulatory steps. For instance, the government has banned the export of 26 active pharmaceutical ingredients and announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown. If the situation does not improve, the government might be constrained to take other regulatory measures such as ordering several manufacturers to let their production facility be used for producing ventilators or personal protective equipment (PPE) for health workers; issuing compulsory licenses for certain drugs made by foreign pharmaceutical companies; or even nationalising some of the industries for a limited duration.All these regulatory measures will disrupt supply chains, interfere in the contractual rights and may also restrict the property rights of foreign investors. When the dust settles, some apprehend, that foreign investors may bring claims against India for these regulatory measures, alleging the breach of different bilateral investment treaties (BITs). Investors would rely upon the Investor-State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) provisions in these BITs to bring these claims. Although India has unilaterally terminated several BITs, these treaties continue to bind the country due to the survival clause for the investment made before the termination.In case such ISDS claims are brought, India should be able to defend its regulatory measures for the following reasons.First, several Indian BITs allow the host State to deviate from the treaty obligations in situations of “extreme emergency”. Covid-19 has been declared a global pandemic and has already killed 25,000 people globally. Thus, the current situation falls in the category of “extreme emergency”. Furthermore, some Indian BITs specifically allow the host State to adopt measures for the protection of public health. India can use this provision to justify its Covid-19 regulatory measures. India will have to show that these measures were necessary to achieve the objective of public health. So, if the 21-day nationwide lockdown is challenged, to pass the necessity test, India will have to prove that the lockdown had a rational connection or a causal link with stopping the pandemic from spreading; and that there was no other less restrictive alternative measure reasonably available to achieve the objective.Since “social distancing” and “isolation” have been recognised globally as an effective and essential method to combat Covid-19, it will not be difficult for India to prove that the lockdown was necessary. In some situations, there may be an additional requirement to prove that the regulatory measure adopted was not excessive or disproportionate. Thus, India will have to show that the benefits of the 21-day lockdown or any other regulatory measures adopted to combat the pandemic outweigh the costs that these measures impose on foreign investment.Second, in case a claim of indirect expropriation is brought, India can make an arguable case that the measures adopted to combat the pandemic are a part of the State’s police powers. Many ISDS tribunals have held that states do not violate their BIT obligations when they act in the exercise of their police powers. For instance, in a case known as Philip Morris v Uruguay, the tribunal held that “[the] State’s reasonable bona fide exercise of police powers in such matters as the maintenance of public order, health or morality, excludes compensation even when it causes economic damage to an investor and that measures taken for that purpose should not be considered expropriatory.” Thus, India can argue that the 21-day lockdown or other regulatory measures are part of a bona fide exercise of India’s police powers to achieve an important health objective. In any case, indirect expropriation means substantial or total deprivation of investment, which none of these measures would cause.Third, the ISDS tribunals grant a margin of appreciation to host states while judging their regulatory measures on public health, environment, national security etc. As it was held by the Philip Morris tribunal, “the responsibility for public health measures rests with the government and investment tribunals should pay great deference to governmental judgments of national needs in matters such as the protection of public health”. Thus, expectedly, an ISDS tribunal shall be deferential to the Indian State in judging its Covid-19-related regulatory measures, especially given the severity and the scale of the disease.India need not worry about the ISDS claims in its fight against Covid-19. Still, it is important that the Indian executive – central and state governments - remain conscious of such a possibility and ensure that their actions are not arbitrary, discriminatory or disproportionate, and are adopted in good faith following due process.Prabhash Ranjan is a senior assistant professor at the South Asian University’s faculty of legal studies.The views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-why-india-should-not-worry-about-investor-state-dispute-settlement-claims/story-iV8VHHoQGxMrc7Hao3Jj7L.html
01-04-2020||News||What Covid-19 will change about us | Opinion||Every crisis changes us, as individuals and as a society. The coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) will also do so. It is too early to make defining predictions, but the initial days of the national lockdown have given us some indications. Here are 10 thoughts about what can potentially change.One, this experience is changing how we pray and worship. Sunday morning would unfailingly have found me in church. Yet, for two Sundays now I have missed out, as advised by bishops across India. I am praying at home, “doing church” at home. This is the period of Lent, leading up to Easter Sunday. In a season of enormous religious significance for Christians, I am not part of a congregation. My loneliness is shared by countless others — Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Buddhists. Faith is common. Will worship become individual?Two, many of us are beginning to appreciate and tell apart serious journalists from the usual motormouths, those who sit in television studios — and these days, in cosy drawing rooms — and hold forth before a camera or with tweets that have no relevance to real life. There is greater respect for reporters on the ground. We need less-pompous punditry. We need more of those who are diligently relaying facts as they unfold, especially the troubling scenes from the Delhi border; those who walk with the migrant families and tell their stories with feeling.Three, how do we view health professionals and doctors? In normal times, we may be critical of long waiting lines and costs. Today, we value our health professionals as frontline warriors. Yes, there have been unfortunate incidents of violence against doctors — by the odd policeman or by ignorant neighbours. But overall, doctors and nurses are our favourite people today. We should not forget them and their needs when this is over.Four, how much do we spend on public health? Take ventilators. In a country of 1.3 billion people, there are only 40,000 ventilators, and just 8,500 of these are in government or public facilities. The rest are in private hospitals. This is not tenable. Public health specialists are getting their moment in the sun; I trust their warnings will lead to something more lasting. Journalists on the health beat tell me that they are now being taken more seriously.Five, Indian federalism is being strengthened. State governments and chief ministers are being put to the test and, across party lines, they are performing. State governments as far apart as West Bengal, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab are rising to the lockdown challenge. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has written to her counterparts in 18 states seeking coordination.Six, how do we judge our public representatives? To lead by example is to be responsive and purposeful. Most critical has been driving home the message of social distancing. A chief minister walking around in a local bazaar, as she drew circles on the road with white chalk, to show how people should stand away from each other, was a powerful piece of communication.Seven, we are bonding as families. Four or five people cooped up in a flat, being forced to interact and engage multiple times a day — every family is coping with this. Children are doing online classes, parents are working from home. They all meet for lunch, which is far from normal, but welcome. Families are playing board games when they can. For those not having to worry about where their next meal is coming from, this period can be fun and fulfilling. I hope some of this survives the lockdown.Eight, we are learning of the hard life and enormous value of our guest workers. As per the Census 2011, 453 million Indians — 37% of the population — are internal migrants. Of these, about 10%, or 45 million, migrate for work and employment. Thirty million among this group are men, and nearly all of them are part of the unorganised sector. Twenty million migrants come from just two states: Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Ten million migrants go to just two cities: Delhi and Mumbai.Harrowing visuals of migrant workers suddenly out of a job and trying to get home — attempting to walk impossible distances of up to hundreds of kilometres — have shaken our collective conscience. These guest workers are a treasure; without them, our urban economy will collapse. This crisis must awaken us to their needs and vulnerabilities. Each host state owes them a lot.Nine, in the time of Covid-19 and the lockdown, perceptions about charity and doing good have changed. Charity is no longer about signing a cheque for a worthy, but abstract, cause. Charity is now much more do-it-yourself. Organise food for daily-wagers living in a nearby slum, buy more than you need from your neighbourhood grocery store only to ensure that the shop owner has some working capital respite. It’s simple really.Last, there’s a changing notion of privacy. Mobile phone signals are being used to track those in home quarantine. Three months ago, this would have begun a debate on privacy. Today, it is accepted as unavoidable. Phone numbers, addresses and passport details of 722 Delhi residents, recently returned from abroad, were made public on WhatsApp. The list included a one-year-old child. In the heat of the crisis, we may overlook all this. After it’s over, we need to calculate the cost-benefit ratio of privacy breaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-covid-19-will-change-about-us-opinion/story-0yWDiLRnD9bLSOoCHd2F9J.html
01-04-2020||City||Covid-19: CRPF deployed at 2 markets in Jalandhar||The district administration has deployed the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) at two vulnerable markets in the city.Officials said the CRPF has been deployed to supplement the commissionerate police at Dilkusha Market and vegetable and fruits market at Maqsoodan to ensure that only the authorised people could access these areas.Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the two markets have been opened to ensure supply of medicines at retail outlets and of vegetables and fruits through retail dealers.However, Bhullar said that people have been making beeline at these places thereby flouting the curfew norms. He added that it is a serious issue as the curfew has been imposed to check spread of Covid19 epidemic in the city. Both these places have now been sealed by the force and only people having passes would be allowed to enter these areas. The officials said that no loitering will be allowed at these places and strict action would be taken by the police and the paramilitary force against unauthorised persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-crpf-deployed-at-2-markets-in-jalandhar/story-qeP8DFlACbi4mcEu8KZPUM.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 cases double in Punjab in one week||The number of COVID-19 cases in Punjab has doubled in the past one week, with the state recording 23 more cases since March 24, taking the tally to 46.An analysis of the data released in media bulletins by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) of the health and family welfare department reveals that till March 23, out of total 251 samples tested across the state, 23 were found positive for the virus. And in the next seven days till April 1, the figure touched 46, with the state conducting a total of 1,260 tests so far.What could be termed as a relief for the government is the fact that whereas the first 50% cases came out from 251 samples, the next 50% came out from 978 samples taken between March 24 to April 1.“Things appear to be positive till date as the rise in the cases has not shown a clear-cut pattern. During four days after March 18, the state witnessed 26 cases, whereas in the next four days it recorded only nine cases. The number decreased to five in the next four days. It clearly shows that things are very much under control,” said Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, spokesperson of the health department for COVID-19.The first case of coronavirus was reported in Punjab on March 9. He was a Hoshiarpur resident, who has now recovered and has been discharged from the hospital.Notably, Punjab has also increased its testing capability in the past one week from 80 a day in two labs in Government Medical Colleges in Patiala and Amritsar to 360 a day. However, till date samples of only symptomatic patients are being sent to these two laboratories.In case of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, which tops the tally in the state with 19 coronavirus cases and has been marked among the seven Covid-19 ‘hotbeds’ across the nation, out of 361 samples tested during the past five days, none was found positive.The district administration has sealed 15 villages falling under Banga subdivision and has quarantined nearly 700 suspects who came in contact with Baldev Singh who died due to coronavirus and his other contacts.Out of 19 positive cases in SBS Nagar, 14 are family members of Baldev Singh, the first coronavirus casualty in the state who died on March 18, almost ten days after his arrival from Germany via Italy.Out of total 46 cases in the state, 27 are said to have got the virus from Baldev, his religious guru Gurbachan Singh and another associate Daljinder Singh. All three were together during their visit to Germany. The state has witnessed four deaths till date.According a senior official dealing with the treatment of Covid-19 cases, all cases undergoing treatment, including a two year from SBS Nagar, are stable and responding positively to treatment.“None of the Covid-19 patients is on ventilator at present. Some of the patients from SBS Nagar will complete 14 days of their treatment on Thursday and we will start taking their fresh samples,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-cases-double-in-punjab-in-one-week/story-MZEKqV5fzFc5xK2SWRCMcI.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||224 detained in open jails for violating curfew in Ludhiana||A total of 224 residents were detained by the police in open jails on Wednesday for violating the curfew imposed in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.The police have temporarily set up four open jails in the city-New SD School, 33ft Bahadur Ke Road; indoor stadium on Pakhowal Road; Guru Nanak Stadium; and Valmiki Bhawan in Moti Nagar- for detaining the violators of curfew.Police said 84 persons were detained in Guru Nanak Stadium, 90 in New SD School, 35 in the indoor stadium on Pakhowal Road, and 15 were detained in Valmiki Bhawan.The violators were released about five hours after they furnished bail bonds.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Gurpreet Singh Sikand said despite repeated requests to the residents to stay at home, many are moving freely on roads and violating the orders. “Therefore, they were detained for a few hours in these open jails,” he added.MEDIA PERSONS WARNED FOR SPREADING FAKE NEWSOn discovering that some news channels are posting fake news on social media which is causing panic among residents, the police took to Facebook to warn the said media persons.“We request and warn all such persons and entities to verify the doubtful news before putting them (the news) on public platform(s) including WhatsApp. The public believes the news to be true because of your position. Such unverified information can lead to disastrous results for some persons. Before releasing any doubtful news, you should verify it from the district public relations officer or from the concerned department. Your one act will go a long way in earning a good name for yourself and your news channel. Kindly help the administration in maintaining law and order in these testing times,” read the post on the Facebook page of the Ludhiana Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/224-detained-in-open-jails-for-violating-curfew-in-ludhiana/story-1bdRax1hems1M8Ejv6IkmM.html
01-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Five more test positive in Punjab count rises to 46||The count of coronavirus cases reached 46 in Punjab on Wednesday with five more persons, including a Padma Shri awardee former “raagi”, testing positive for the disease. Three fresh cases have been reported from Mohali district and one each from Ludhiana and Amritsar, a state government’s media bulletin said.In Mohali, two persons were infected after they came in contact with a Chandigarh couple from Canada who had tested positive earlier. A 45-year-old man, a resident of Jagatpura in Mohali, was infected after he came in contact with another coronavirus patient. A 72-year-old woman from Ludhiana residing in the neighbourhood of a 42-year-old coronavirus positive patient, who died in a Patiala hospital on Monday, tested positive. In Amritsar, Padma Shri awardee and a former “hazoori ragi” of the Golden Temple, has been tested positive for the virus, Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said.The 67-year-old “ragi” was referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) from Shri Guru Ram Das Hospital on March 30 after he showed Covid-19 symptoms. “He visited England in November. A health department team visited his house on March 3 after we got the information that two guests – his uncle and aunt -- from the US visited him. They were found asymptomatic. When the home quarantine period of the guests was over on March 17, they were found asymptomatic. The ragi then went to Chandigarh for a kirtan samagam on March 19 where over 100 people were gathered,” said Dr Johal.“A team of doctors checked him on March 20 but he showed no symptoms of the virus. A few days later, he went to Shri Guru Ram Das Hospital for routine check-up and was referred to GNDH on March 30 after he complained of breathlessness. He may have got infected in his trip to Chandigarh. We are working to trace his contacts,” she said.11 CLOSE CONTACTS ISOLATEDThe health department has isolated 11 close contacts of the ragi. “Singh’s two daughters, a son, driver, two sewadars, wife, two accomplices and his uncle and aunt, who returned from the US, have been isolated at the GNDH. Their samples will be tested soon”, Dr Johal said.Four doctors of Government Medical College, Amritsar, who attended to the coronavirus positive patient at GNDH, have been quarantined at the college hostel.72-YEAR-OLD NEIGHBOUR OF LUDHIANA’S CASUALTY TESTS +VE A 72-year-old woman living in the neighbourhood of Puja Rani, 42, the first Covid-19 casualty of Ludhiana, has tested positive for coronavirus.The elderly woman, Surinder Kaur, lives near Puja’s house and is learnt to have met her frequently over the past few days. She was admitted to the isolation at the local civil hospital on Tuesday night.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said that Puja’s daughter has tested negative.Puja died early on Monday and her test reports that arrived later confirmed that she was suffering from Covid-19.Forty-three of her direct contacts were kept in isolation but their samples have tested negative.The elderly woman’s condition is stated to be stable.According to area councillor Gurdeep Singh Neetu the elderly woman has no travel history.Ludhiana senior medical officer has sought an explanation from three medical officers and eight members of the nursing staff that why Puja was referred to the ESI hospital. In a letter, a copy of which is with Hindustan Times, Dr Ravi Datt has said the woman arrived at civil hospital from where she was referred to ESI hospital near Bharat Nahar Chowk from where she was again sent back to the civil hospital.She was then referred to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. The letter reads that the woman was a referred despite government’s directions which state that such patients should be treated in government facility on priority basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-five-more-test-positive-in-punjab-count-rises-to-46/story-GwHr3Eda0npmerNl1HAFTN.html
01-04-2020||City||Nizamuddin event: 15 Meerut residents among 20 quarantined in Punjab||Twenty persons, including four from Anandpur Sahib in Rupnagar district and 15 residents of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, who attended a gathering of Tablighi Jammat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin or have association with the seminary, were put under quarantine in Punjab.The four from the Anandpur Sahib area were home quarantined. They are residents of Nakkians, Bunga Sahib and Massewal villages. They had gone to Nizamuddin on March 13 and returned the next day.Rupnagar deputy commissioner Sonali Giri said they were asymptomatic and 14 days had passed since they returned homes. But they were home quarantined as a precautionary measure, she said. The reports of the samples of 19 persons in the district sent for testing have been found negative for coronavirus and there is no positive case in the district.The 15 Meerut residents were put in quarantine at a mosque in Muktsar on Wednesday. They were found asymptomatic of Covid-19, said cvil surgeon Dr HN Singh. Muktsar SSP Raj Bachan Singh Sandhu said they had arrived in the town on March 19 via Delhi. They have been directed to stay in quarantine for another 14 days, he added.“They are supposedly religious preachers and are associated with Tablighi Jamaat. As per their statements, none of them attended the recently held congregation at Nizamuddin. We are still verifying details,” said the SSP.A 69-year-old man from Malerkotla in Sangrur district, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat meet in New Delhi from March 10 to 13, was admitted to the isolation ward of Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala, on Wednesday.Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said he was referred from the Malerkotla civil hospital on Wednesday and was under observation since. “The patient has a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. We have taken his samples for coronavirus and sent it for testing,” he said.He said that the reports of six primary contacts of the 31-year-old positive Covid-19 patient from Patiala were found negative.The health department has kept them in quarantine as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nizamuddin-event-15-meerut-residents-among-20-quarantined-in-punjab/story-WAlMzL289VPggIGbhvJV5K.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar in NRI belt has nearly half of Punjab’s positive cases, making it the state’s Covid-19 hotspot||With 45% of the total coronavirus cases in Punjab and nearly 1,000 people quarantined in 15 villages sealed by the health authorities, Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar, earlier known as Nawanshahr, has emerged as the state’s Covid-19 hotspot.Coronavirus reached Pathlawa village with the return of a granthi (Sikh preacher) from Germany via Covid-hit Italy, Baldev Singh, 70. He landed in India on March 7 along with his religious teacher who heads a local dera, Gurbachan Singh, and another granthi, Daljinder Singh.Baldev Singh died after a heart attack at the civil hospital in Banga on March 18 after a brief illness. The next day, the result of his samples were received and it was found that he was suffering from Covid-19. His guru also tested positive and is in the isolation ward at the SBS Nagar civil hospital. But before they were diagnosed with Covid-19, they kept on meeting dera followers and relatives in nearby villages.UNAWARE, PREACHER KEPT VISITING PEOPLEBaldev Singh’s death triggered panic in the area and nearly 1,000 residents of 15 villages were quarantined.Since Baldev had returned via Italy, he had been advised avoid social gatherings for a fortnight but he kept visiting people.Deputy commissioner Vinay Bublani said till date 361 samples of suspected people have been taken from the 15 villages. Nineteen of them tested positive.“No patient has tested positive in past the five days. We are hopeful of shedding this tag of being a Covid-19 hotspot,” he said.SPREAD AND TALLYBesides Baldev those who tested positive for Covid-19 are his 14 family members, including two-year-old grandson, his guru and fellow granthi and sarpanch of Pathlawa village and the sarpanch’s mother.As Baldev also visited the houses of his relatives in villages situated in nearby districts of Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar, eight more of his close contacts were found positive.All three districts of Punjab’s Doaba region comprise the NRI belt.Nearly 800 residents in the four villages visited by Baldev in the two neighbouring districts have been quarantined.One of the close contacts of Baldev, Baba Harbhajan Singh, 68, died on March 29.Baldev is also termed as Punjab’s super-spreader as the total tally of the positive patients from his direct and indirect contacts is 27.Apart from the 19 cases in SBS Nagar, five from Moranwali village of Hoshiarpur district and four from Virkan village of Phillaur sub-division of Jalandhar district, all from Baldev’s contact, have tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shaheed-bhagat-singh-nagar-in-nri-belt-has-nearly-half-of-punjab-s-positive-cases-making-it-the-state-s-covid-19-hotspot/story-4mhAQtfGHJE32T5BPqlL2O.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Vegetable market near Jalandhar bypass closed till Friday||There is no relief for city residents in terms of vegetable supply as the main vegetable market near Jalandhar bypass would remain closed till Friday as the district administration is working out a plan to reduce the crowding in the area. As per information, no sale of vegetables and fruits would be allowed at the vegetable market and supply would be done at the ward level, and that too only through registered commission agents (ahrtiyas) and vendors.The market has been closed since Tuesday, a day after a huge rush of vendors was witnessed in the area, defeating the purpose of social distancing. The administration officials said that despite several warnings, the rush of residents and vendors was not receding due to which the market had to be closed to control the spread of the disease.While chairing a review meeting at Bachat Bhawan in mini-secretariat on Wednesday, deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said that to ensure regular supply of fruits and vegetables in the city, a new system is being developed.He said that a separate commission agent (arhtiya) would be deployed at each of the 95 wards of the city and the agent concerned would bring fruits and vegetables to an earmarked place in that particular ward, from where street vendors would collect the produce and then take it door-to-door for sale. He said that 20-25 street vendors would be allocated to each ward. The commission agents would be identified by the district mandi officer, while the sites and street vendors would be decided by the civic body.Agrawal said that as the administration is working to reduce the rush in the market, the supply would be done at ward level. “It would take two days to streamline the process and the supply in the city would commence through the vendors from Saturday. The administration is trying its best to ensure residents don’t face any trouble,” he said.The DC further informed that cooked food is being distributed to more than 1.5 lakh people in the city everyday and several NGOs, social, religious and industrial organisations are supporting the district administration in this.He assured that the supply of food packets being sent by the state government would also start in the district shortly. The DC said that the food packets have arrived and the distribution would start shortly.Agarwal further said that four ventilators from Ludhiana civil hospital have now been shifted to Christian Medical College and Hospital, where a separate ward has been set up for Covid-19 patients. He clarified that all shops selling essential commodities can carry out for home delivery, and even vehicles carrying essential commodities such as milk can operate. He urged the residents to apply for e-pass and assured that if their reason is valid, they would get permission within two hours. He also said that employees of all government departments do not need any separate curfew pass and they just need to carry their official ID card, that has to be presented whenever asked for.Residents will have to bear the brunt: Vendors bodyLudhiana Rehri Fadi association president Tiger Singh said residents will face shortage of supply for the next two days as vendors do not have adequate stock to supply the vegetables for the next two days. However, the step is necessary to check the virus from spreading, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vegetable-market-near-jalandhar-bypass-closed-till-friday/story-1PVqtGQGgyINuzuaRdOs3K.html
01-04-2020||City||EDMC steps up measures to contain infection at corona hot spot Dilshad Garden||New Delhi: The East Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday deployed two 9,000-litre tankers of disinfectant and over 100 workers to disinfect Dilshad Garden, one of the 10 Covid-19 hotspots in the country. The moves come after the corporation began intensifying its operations in Dilshad Garden and nearby Babarpur, where a mohalla clinic doctor had tested positive for the disease on March 25.There have so far been six confirmed cases of the severely contagious Covid-19 in Dilshad Garden — a 38-year-old woman, two of her relatives, a mohalla clinic doctor posted in the area who was diagnosed on March 21, his wife (the mohalla clinic doctor at Babarpur) and their daughter.The east civic agency on Monday received a list of nearly 1,000 people who come in close contact with the mohalla clinic doctor at Dilshad Garden.“We have got the list of the people and their phone numbers, but don’t know where they stay, yet. We are calling them to find out their location and have requested the Delhi government to provide locations of the area. As for Babarpur, we have got the mohalla clinic and the neighbouring areas disinfected,” said Ranen Kumar, deputy commissioner for Shahdara North zone, EDMC.A senior Delhi government official said, “We have provided the details to the civic agency. The list was shared a few days back.”Of the 97 Covid-19 cases reported in the national capital so far, 13 are from East Delhi — Six in Shahdara North and seven in Shahdara South zone of the EDMC.While all the six cases in Shahdara North are from Dilshad Garden, the seven cases in Shahdara South are from Anand Vihar, Shyam Enclave and Bahubali Enclave in Karkardooma, Kalyanpuri, Khichripur, Vasundhara and Mayur Vihar.To contain the spread of the coronavirus disease, the EDMC has identified around 1,600 flats, most of which are in J, K, L and R blocks of Dilshad Garden.Kumar said, “We are spraying disinfectant, and spreading awareness everywhere, but with a focus on these blocks in Dilshad Garden where the 38-year-old woman and her doctor and their respective families live.”The woman, who returned from Umrah, a pilgrimage to Mecca — tested positive for Covid-19 on March 18. The civic body said they are spraying disinfectant everywhere — roads, lanes, alleys and walkways. Kumar added, “We have earmarked around 1,600 flats here over an area of about 1.5 square kilometres, and are extensively spraying sodium hypochlorite, a sanitising solution. Not only are we spraying it on cars, building walls, but the colony park as well. Dust suppressants used during peak winter air pollution have also been deployed here now,” he said.The civic agency has pressed into service 17 tankers of 9,000-litre capacity across east Delhi to spray the disinfectant twice a day. A senior EDMC official said, “We will increase the number of tankers to 40 over the next few days.”The civic body is carrying out an awareness drive, informing people about the symptoms of Covid-19 and asking people to report if anyone has these symptoms.Around 100 domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) have been deployed, who are going to the 1,600 flats and asking residents if anybody has developed symptoms.Arun Kumar, spokesperson, EDMC, “Munaadi, a traditional method of creating awareness through drum rolls and loudspeakers conveying messages is also being used.”The first coronavirus positive patient from Delhi, known as “patient zero”, was from Mayur Vihar Phase 2, and has recovered now.With Dilshad Garden as a hotspot, EDMC commissioner Dilraj Kaur said the agency is following all the instructions given by the union ministry of health and family welfare and the Delhi government. “Special arrangements for garbage collection have been made here for quarantined homes. This garbage is not being mixed with the rest, and is directly sent for incineration,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/edmc-steps-up-measures-to-contain-infection-at-corona-hot-spot-dilshad-garden/story-SBSPvAoyH0n30LDgUWWiIJ.html
01-04-2020||City||Thane private hospital staff test negative for Covid-19||The 35 employees of a private hospital who were quarantined after a Covid-19 patient was found at the hospital have tested negative for coronavirus in the first test. Similarly, eight employee of another private hospital in Mulund have also tested negative. The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), however, will continue to keep them in quarantine as a precautionary measure.A civic official said, “All of them have tested negative in the first test. However, we have not opened the hospital and these people will continue to be in quarantine as a safety measure.”So far, 11 patients have tested positive for Covid-19 in thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-private-hospital-staff-test-negative-for-covid-19/story-dzXZYVyTtuvo5repEAiiQO.html
01-04-2020||City||Suspected Covid-19 death in Dombivli, 5 kin tested||Five of a family from Dombivli were taken for testing at Kasturba Gandhi Hospital in Mumbai, after a 46-year-old woman from Dombivli died showing symptoms of Covid-19 on Tuesday night.The woman, who had returned from Bangkok on March 10, suffered from fever, dysentery, vomiting and breathlessness since Monday. After she went for a check-up, she was asked to go to Kasturba hospital. However, she returned home instead, where she died on Tuesday. “Since she had symptoms of Coronavirus, we have sent five of her family members who were living with her for testing,” said a civic official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suspected-covid-19-death-in-dombivli-5-kin-tested/story-x5rMA5TqRrPFXgzokshhXM.html
01-04-2020||Gurugram||To avoid spread of Covid-19, Haryana bans sale of chewing gum till June 30||The Haryana food and drug administration department on Wednesday banned the sale and use of chewing and bubble gum in the state till June 30, on the suspicion that their use and disposal may lead to the transmission of Covid-19. As per the order, issued by the department’s commissioner Ashok Kumar Meena, as the coronavirus disease is transmitted through droplets, there is a possibility that chewing gum could carry and spread the virus. The decision under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006. Amandeep Chauhan, an officer in the district’s food and drugs control department, said, “It is a precautionary step to avoid transmission of coronavirus by a symptomatic patient through any of these items. People have the habit of spitting in front of others, which has to be avoided. To keep the situation under control at least for some time the prohibition has been imposed.” Likewise, the department has also been asked to implement the ban on gutka (chewing tobacco) and pan masala for a year. The state government in 2019, had imposed a ban on the sale and distribution of tobacco products. In the wake of Covid-19, the department has been directed to check the sale and distribution of scented or flavoured tobacco, gutkha, pan masala, and kharra (a powdered combination of tobacco, areca nut, lime (chuna) and katechu). “We will inspect shops and keep a check on the market to prevent the sale of any of these items for at least three months,” Chauhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/to-avoid-spread-of-covid-19-haryana-bans-sale-of-chewing-gum-till-june-30/story-UEj399Sdi2LXYaYPmyvvpO.html
01-04-2020||Delhi||Govt will give ₹1crore to corona warriors who die treating Covid-19 patients||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced a financial assistance of Rs 1 crore for families of doctors, health workers and sanitation workers who die while providing services to Covid-19 infected patients.“If anyone, irrespective of whether they are from the private or government sector, loses their life while serving coronavirus patients — be it sanitation workers, doctors or nurses, — their family will be provided Rs 1 crore as respect to their service,” said Kejriwal, who along with Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain, addressed health workers in the city through a video conference on Wednesday.Kejriwal equated health workers fighting against Covid-19 with the armed forces and pointed out how there is a similar financial assistant scheme in place for people in the armed forces who are residents of Delhi.He further said, in case any doctor, health worker or sanitation worker is affected by the virus, all expenses of his/her treatment will be borne by the government.Delhi has so far recorded at least 120 coronavirus cases and two deaths.Kejriwal said that his government is open to the possibility of having dedicated hospitals for treating virus-infected patients in case the numbers increase with time.The chief minister also maintained that Delhi has yet not slipped into the stage of community transmission – a stage in which the source of infection can no longer be traced.He said that more tests need to be conducted for a fair assessment of the scale of the spread of the virus, but admitted that there is a shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE) and testing kits in the city. He also admitted how multiple attempts to procure these essentials recently did not yield results owing to shortage in the market and logistical reasons.“Once again, I urge the Central government to provide us with more PPEs and testing kits. For people who want to donate in the CM relief fund, I also urge them to help us procuring testing kits and PPE,” said Kejriwal. He further said, “Security of hospitals is an issue. Patients and their relatives are angry. There is also certain stigma against people suffering from coronavirus because the disease is highly contagious. I have learnt about a patient trying to commit suicide in one of the hospitals. For security, I have already requested for more police deployment in hospital premises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/govt-will-give-1crore-to-corona-warriors-who-die-treating-covid-19-patients/story-YsAsPO0V5hJKnObKd2F6xN.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||49 distilleries in state get licences to make sanitisers||In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, 49 distilleries in the state have been given licences to produce hand sanitisers. The distilleries have a collective production capacity of over 4.5 lakh litres per day. After getting the licences, most of them started producing liquor-based sanitisers as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and started selling them at subsidised rates.Maharashtra has 119 distilleries which produce liquor and ethanol from sugarcane molasses they get as a by-product during sugar production. Since the production of liquor has been banned during the coronavirus lockdown, the central government had asked the distillers to produce sanitisers.As per directives by the Centre, the state excise department and food and drugs administration (FDA) has given licences to the distilleries for the production. Many leading distillers like United Spirits Limited, Jubilant Life Sciences, GM Breweries limited have started production of hand sanitisers. “We have given licences to 49 distilleries for the production of sanitisers to meet the increased demand. The highest number of licences have been issued in Maharashtra to ensure that there is no shortage in the market. The manufacturers are mandated to sell the sanitisers at the price fixed by the central government,” said Arun Unhale, FDA commissioner. Although the manufacturing units have started production, they are facing a shortage of packing bottles which are made in China. “After the central government’s directives, we gave them licences in the last eight days. Though they have started production, the manufacturing units are facing a shortage of packing bottles that are generally manufactured in China. Thus, the distilleries have started supplying the sanitisers in cans to hospitals to refill their containers,” said an official from the excise department.Ramchandra Mahuli, managing director, Rajarambapu Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana in Sangli, one of the 49 distilleries granted licences, said, “We are producing hand sanitisers in bottles of 100ml, 200ml and 1 litre and selling it in the market at the rates ascertained by the central government without earning much of the profit.”A spokesperson from United Spirits Limited said that they have started production in eight states, including Maharashtra, and it is being distributed free of cost to government hospitals as part of their CSR activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/49-distilleries-in-state-get-licences-to-make-sanitisers/story-FLpXdaju8CRx2XQeLbZXLI.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||SevenHills to be India’s largest Covid-19 facility||Within two weeks, Mumbai will have a 1,500-bed isolation centre at the recently-converted quarantine facility at SevenHills Hospital, in Marol. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which gave its final nod to the project on Tuesday, said this would be the biggest Covid-19 isolation centre in the country.With a growing number of reported Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, the BMC and state authorities are looking to set up large isolation centres, instead of smaller ones, to curb the possible spread of the Sars-Cov-2 which causes Covid-19. With 1,500 beds, Seven Hills Hospital will be the biggest isolation facility in India, said the BMC. “We already have 350 quarantine beds at the hospital and another 100 isolation beds. But in the next 10-15 days, we will extend the isolation bed facilities to 1,500 at the hospital itself,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health) BMC. Of the 1,500 beds, 100 will have ventilators.BMC also plans to hire 1,000 nurses to work at the centre and 500 nurses will work in three daily shifts once the centre is operational.HT had previously reported that the BMC had converted Seven Hills Hospital, which was shut down in 2018, into a 350-bed screening and isolation centre over 60 hours. It became operational as a screening centre on March 18. At present, 145 suspected patients are quarantined at Seven Hills Hospital, which also collects samples to send to Kasturba Hospital for testing. Dr Mohan Joshi, who has been in-charge of the hospital since it was re-opened in March, is among those quarantined.Mumbai currently has 2,000 isolation beds — 1,000 in civic-run hospitals and rest in private and the government-run hospitals. The BMC is working on a plan to expand these facilities too. “Due to cancellation of non-emergency services, several beds are vacant which can be used for isolation both in private and government sectors. In KEM alone, we have 2,000 isolation beds,” said Dr Avinash Supe, former dean of KEM Hospital.A tender to revamp the civic-run Kasturba Hospital will be floated in the next few days, said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. “We have two wards — 13 and 15 — which are exclusively used for the treatment of epidemic outbreaks. We will first redevelop ward 15 and then we will start with ward 13,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sevenhills-to-be-india-s-largest-covid-19-facility/story-hlHHdrEzImeiFPbmUSM7QO.html
01-04-2020||Noida||7 more test positive for Covid-19 in Noida; count now at 48||Seven more persons have tested positive for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS CoV 2) in Gautam Budh Nagar on Wednesday, taking the total number of such cases in the district to 48, health officials said on Wednesday. The district’s chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Anurag Bhargava, said that six out of the 48 patients who have been detected positive for the SARS CoV 2 have already been discharged. This means that the number of active cases stands at 42. “Apart from three cases detected Tuesday night, we have found seven new cases on Wednesday. Overall, 317 people are currently admitted in different isolation wards in the district, including 183 in Sector 39 district hospital, 97 in Dr BR Ambedkar SC/ST hostel in Gautam Budh University, 19 in Super-specialty Paediatric Hospital and Postgraduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI or child PGI), and 18 at Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS),” he said.Dr Bhargava further said that the district health department has put 2,046 persons on surveillance. “We have, so far, notified 1,353 persons having overseas travel record, out of which 1,235 have already been tracked. At least 460 of them belong to cases older than 28 days,” he said.The CMO also said that samples of 696 people have been collected and sent to different laboratories. “While 48 of them have tested Covid-19 positive, the reports of 445 have been found to be negative. Results are still awaited in 203 samples,” he said. On the other hand, GB Nagar district magistrate(DM) Suhas LY said the administration is leaving no stone unturned to trace the contacts of the positive patients. “We have formed well-equipped additional teams in this connection. The primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons will have to undergo isolation or home quarantine, depending on the situation,” he said.Claiming that the situation in the district is under control, he said that people will have to follow all precautions and safety measures to avoid the spread of the virus. “Those who are not maintaining social distancing will put the whole society at risk. The administration is making all efforts to minimise the difficulties of citizens during this 21-day lockdown,” he said.The DM further said that for lodging the doctors and paramedical staff, who are involved in tackling the pandemic in different hospitals of the district, the administration has also taken over three hotels, including Radisson Blu, Savoy Suites and Stellar Gymkhana in Greater Noida on Wednesday.Meanwhile, Noida MP Dr Mahesh Sharma, on Wednesday, has handed over 100-bed isolation ward at Kailash Institute of Naturopathy, Ayurveda and Yoga, which is being run by Kailash Group of Hospitals. While handing over the isolation ward to Narendra Bhooshan, CEO, Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA), Dr Sharma said that the group of hospitals will bear all the costs to run this isolation centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/7-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-noida-count-now-at-48/story-3SimCN8PdSX8FF6Fm1KYGJ.html
01-04-2020||City||Seventy-five who attended religious congregations quarantined in Ghaziabad||The district health department officials Wednesday evening said they have identified and quarantined 75 persons who had attended different religious congregations, including the one at Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March. The officials said 70 of these persons were sent to quarantine while five were sent to isolation as they showed symptoms of Covid-19.More than 2,000 people were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has now become a Covid-19 hot spot, with at least 53 who attended the congregation in Mid-March testing positive for the virus.Different states, including Uttar Pradesh. and Union territories are making efforts to identify, trace and quarantine people who attended the congregation at Nizamuddin.“Till 7pm Wednesday, we have picked up about 75 persons who attended different religious congregations. Some of the 75 persons may also include contacts of attendees. Five persons have symptoms such as cough and fever, and they were sent to isolation wards. The other 70 have been put in quarantine at a private college where we have set up a 100-bed quarantine facility. Our doctors are available there,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said.He said 75 persons picked up so far are from areas such as Masuri, Dasna, Sahibabad, Loni, among others. This number is likely to rise further, officials said.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond on the issue on Wednesday.Across the state, efforts are on to identify people who attended different religious gatherings.“In UPm we have found 569 persons who attended the Tablighi Jamaat and other such gatherings. The arrangements for their quarantine have been made in different districts and monitoring is done by respective district magistrates and superintendents of police. About 218 foreign nationals who had come to UP on tourist visas are also placed under quarantine. They had not given information upon their arrival at the local police station as they were mandated to do,” UP’s additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said during a press briefing in Lucknow.“As per norms, those who have come on tourist visas cannot attend programmes like the one held by Tablighi Jamaat and also cannot take up missionary activities. Their documents are also being verified and legal action will be taken against them,” he said.Meanwhile Amit Mohan Prasad, UP principal secretary (health), said there is no community spread of coronavirus so far in the state. He said the state saw two deaths (residents of Basti and Meerut) on Wednesday but they are trying to find out how the Basti resident was infected despite having no travel history to foreign countries.“As a result of social distancing and lockdown, the number of cases in UP is not surging. On March 28, we had 49 cases which increased to 68 on March 29 and further to 87 on March 30. On March 31, we reached 101 cases and 113 on April 1. So the quantum of increase is low over the past three days,” he said.The officials said he UP police, since the lockdown, has registered 6,594 FIRs in which 20,581 persons were booked and about 8.16 lakh vehicles were checked at 5,261 barriers on roads.“The UP CM has also directed that in order to intensify the sanitisation and fogging activities, fire tenders should be roped in. We expect that the activity will start by Thursday,” Awasthi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/seventy-five-who-attended-religious-congregations-quarantined-in-ghaziabad/story-iK5xvMxo8f2yg1ibBeUxvI.html
01-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: DTCP forms 10-member team to help construction workers, shares contact details for aid||To ensure that developers across the city take care of the large number of construction workers, who have not been able to earn due to the nationwide lockdown, the Department of Town & Country Planning (DTCP) in Gurugram has set up a coordination team of 10 officials. The department has also decided that in case workers are facing any problem or they are in need of something, they can contact district town planner RS Bhath, planning assistant Satinder Arya, or Satbir Singh, who is a senior draughtsman, on 9815531460, 9812923999, 9810350911, respectively.Bhath said that they have identified at least 85 locations of various project sites where the workers were working. “There are 21,000 workers who were engaged in construction work, as per a survey conducted by our team. Now all efforts are being made to ensure that cooked meals, dry ration, medicines and other essentials are made available to them as per the orders issued by the director, DTCP,” he said.The team members said that feedback is taken daily from the developers engaged in relief efforts and a report is sought, which is then sent to the headquarters in Chandigarh. DTCP officials also said that they had conducted a survey last week to assess how many workers have been engaged by developers and what were their requirements. “An assessment was made as to what their immediate requirements were. Also, the developers were asked that they should ensure that contractors paid the pending wages to them so that they have money in their pocket,” said Bhath.DTCP officials said that at the beginning of the lockdown, it was observed that while large builders were able to help workers, smaller firms were slow in taking these measures. “Our goal is to bring the entire relief effort on the same page so that all workers associated with the city’s real estate industry are taken care of,” said another official, requesting anonymity.Developers said that they were working hard to provide relief to the workers and are coordinating with the DTCP.Real estate major DLF said it will ensure distribution of about 27 lakh meals in urban slums, and among construction workers and migrants in Gurugram and other parts of the national Capital region. “We are also distributing medical supplies, ventilators and masks to help all affected people,” said a company spokesperson.Vatika Developers said that they are delivering food packets to construction workers and migrant labourers, along with other essential supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-dtcp-forms-10-member-team-to-help-construction-workers-shares-contact-details-for-aid/story-AYqJwnLiPaDUTxLU3fBP5K.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 92 FIRs for flouting lockdown orders||The Mumbai Police on Tuesday filed 92 FIRs for violation of the lockdown orders. While 46 FIRs were against those who gathered at a spot, 37 were for unnecessary use of vehicles, 2 against hotels, 1 against pan shop and six against other shops that stayed open.“Across Maharashtra, 10,505 FIRs have been registered for violating lockdown orders,” said Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police, law and order, Maharashtra.The Twitter handle - @MumbaiPolice – received 700 complaints on lockdown violations, social gathering and shops operating with partially closed shutters. In two cases, permissions were sought to attend the funerals of close kin, to which the police asked them to get in touch with their local police station. Those seeking approval to move out for medical emergencies were told to carry necessary documents. Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police, operations and spokesperson for Mumbai Police, said, “We received thousands of calls on 100, a majority of which are complaints about people not following lockdown orders.”Senior police officials across Mumbai Police claimed so far no police personnel has been home quarantined. However, the railway police confirmed that one of their personnel tested positive for Covid-19 and his colleagues have been sent for testing. The police are finding patrolling the vast and densely-populated slum pockets tough, even though they are distributing masks and making announcements urging slum dwellers to stay indoors.  Sudhakar Kamble, senior inspector of Powai police station, which has Tunga village slums under its jurisdiction, said, “Two areas have been sealed.” Sudhir Nigudkar, senior inspector of Meghwadi in Jogeshwari (E), said, “Two localities, Imampada and Premnagar, are sealed.” Three residential areas at Vakola, Santacruz (East) were sealed by the civic body after a Covid-19 positive patient found. Kailas Awhad, senior inspector, Vakola police station, said, “After migrants, we have now started identifying beggars and are sending them to shelter homes.”In Ramabai Nagar at Ghatkopar, police are briefing local leaders to ensure residents stay indoors. In Vikhroli (east), where new cases were reported, the police are trying to keep rumours at bay. “The area has been completely cordoned off,” said Sanjay Dalvi, senior inspector, Vikhroli police station.In Kurar village, Malad (East), the Jain Mandir area and Pathanwadi have been declared containment zones. “In Kalyan, on March 31, we seized 96 vehicles and registered 46 cases under various laws,” said Datta Karale, additional commissioner of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-92-firs-for-flouting-lockdown-orders/story-sqKA1Sw3swrs2MnpG2YRrM.html
01-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad police starts surveillance unit for verifying movements, contacts of Covid-19 patients||The health department, aided by the police, have started tracking down people who may have contracted Covid-19, using their call records, efforts which so far led to 17 people from a Noida firm and more than 15 who attended religious congregations across the country being traced.No new cases of the contagious disease were reported on Wednesday.Rajneesh Dube, UP additional chief secretary (medical education), had held a review meeting with Ghaziabad officials on Tuesday and had stressed on the need to use electronic surveillance to find suspected patients, with the help of their call records.Under the electronic surveillance measures, the police obtain CDRs of suspects, and can track their contacts and locations with the help of data obtained from cellular operators.Prakash Kumar, Ghaziabad superintendent of police (crime), was appointed as nodal officer of the district medical surveillance office (DMSO) on Wednesday.“We are cross verifying disclosures of patients using electronic surveillance, because many are disclosing incorrect information about their movement in questionnaires. Similarly, a Covid-19 suspect’s contacts can also be traced using their call detail records,” Kumar said.The questionnaires are handed to suspects or potential patients of Covid-19 to ascertain their travel history, trace their contacts, and determine if they or those around them need treatment.“Several people have not made disclosures about their travel history, and whether they came in contact with any Covid-19-positive persons. These steps are important to stop the spread of the coronavirus,” he said.Ghaziabad district has so far recorded eight positive cases of Covid-19, two of whom have been discharged. Two of the active cases are of a couple who were tested positive by a private laboratory. Both are currently under isolation.“After surveillance, we received a list from the Ghaziabad police of 19 other employees of Noida-based firm Ceasefire who are residents of Ghaziabad. Five of the 19 are not in Ghaziabad, while three of them have already been declared negative. Two of them are admitted in Noida hospitals, and the rest have been tracked,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.So far, 24 persons, employed or indirectly linked with the fire safety solutions firm have tested positive for the virus in Gautam Budh Nagar district alone. These 24 include 13 employees and 11 family members. The firm’s office was sealed on Tuesday.“All Ceasefire employees have now been located. We have informed the respective police and administration officials details of the whereabouts of the other five employees,” he added.Health department officials said two employees of the company, a 30-year-man and a 37-year-woman, are in isolation in MMG Hospital. They have passed on the infection to two more persons who are being treated in Ghaziabad.The woman’s husband also tested positive for the disease on March 28. The residents of Savior Park high-rise came in contact with about 93 persons in their society. All 93 are under quarantine and being monitored by the health department.The second employee from the Noida-based company, the 30-year-old man, came in touch with a man from Ghaziabad’s Duhai area who had contracted the disease. On Wednesday, Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad also called upon residents to inform police of potential patients or their contacts so that protocol may be initiated.“Any Covid-19 patient, and people who are their contacts, must inform the police or health department. Anybody who is aware of such information should also approach authorities. Anyone who has travel history in March must also disclose such information. In case of any laxity, legal action will be initiated,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-police-starts-surveillance-unit-for-verifying-movements-contacts-of-covid-19-patients/story-0vX1le9Plr9bzzP6HKx6qJ.html
01-04-2020||City||Autorickshaw driver on his way for mother’s funeral dies in mishap||A 55-year-old autorickshaw driver died after he lost control of the vehicle and crashed into the divider near Shahapur highway on Wednesday morning.He was going to Yavatmal for his mother’s funeral. Vijay Kose, a resident of Kashimira, was going in his own auto as there was no transport. The accident took place at 5am and there was no one on the road to help him and he lost a lot of blood. Shahpur police found him and took him to a hospital where he was declared dead.“We found his phone and contacted his family. We came to know that he was going for his mother’s last rites,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/autorickshaw-driver-on-his-way-for-mother-s-funeral-dies-in-mishap/story-CqP8Zk6zWNAUvppnSMUQXN.html
01-04-2020||Gurugram||Ex-Covid patient, who was accused of hiding travel history despite immediate action, urges people to not spread rumours||On March 17, 29-year-old Rohit Sharma had to rush back from Oxford in United Kingdom at a notice of a few hours as he was informed by his office that all international flights would be banned from entering India starting March 18 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Sector 83 resident had no option, but to reschedule his initial plan of flying out on March 19.“Even the thought of getting stuck in an unknown country is scary when each day you read about increasing number of Covid-19 cases and deaths,” said Sharma, a finance expert with a multinational company (MNC) who had been working in different cities across UK since January. On March 17, he took the first flight back to India via Dubai. He reached his residence around 6:30am on March 18 with clear symptoms of Covid-19, none of which were even vaguely felt even a day earlier. “I had no symptoms till the time I was in the UK. It is likely that I contracted the virus while I was at the Dubai or Delhi airport. The moment I landed in Delhi, I left the airport and reached home at 6:30am. I started to shiver and developed a high fever,” said Sharma, who immediately took an OTC drug and contacted the local doctor.“Knowing my travel history, the doctor advised me to get tested for Covid-19,” said Sharma, who immediately visited the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 to give his swab sample. “That day, I was just given medicines to see if the symptoms persist even after the medicine takes effect. Doctors asked me to visit the hospital the following day if there was no improvement in the health,” he said.Sadly for Sharma the fever and shivering did not abate for the entire day. His sample was taken on March 20 and the next day he was confirmed positive for Covid-19. “The moment I was told I was Covid-positive, I felt everything in my life slip out of my hand; my heart started beating faster. My parents, who stay about 3km away from me, were stunned and silent,” he said. However, the biggest scare was for Sharma’s wife with whom he had spent two days before being hospitalised. Her sample was also taken for Covid-19 testing. “She was alone at home and was immediately put under home quarantine; thankfully, she tested negative. Our neighbours used to drop groceries at the doorstep for her. She handled everything on her own while I was in the hospital,” said Sharma, who confessed that he was very scared when he first saw the isolation ward. “It became less scary for me when I saw two other patients in the isolation ward. They were siblings and lived in Palam Vihar. Our beds were at 1-2 metres apart. We introduced ourselves and spent time talking about the transmission of coronavirus and symptoms we had experienced. Twice a day, our vitals were checked. None of us showed any severe symptoms so we were allowed to use our phones. There was nothing else to keep myself occupied with so I used to talk to my wife for about four hours a day, checking on her. Never in my life have I seen so many entertainment series,” Sharma said.RUMOURS AND SOCIAL MEDIAAs Sharma and his wife spent their days cut off from the world, rumour mongering was in overdrive on social media, particularly WhatsApp groups. “It was disturbing to read rumours about us. People said things like we had hidden our illness, stayed in the society without any check-up for a week and put others in the society at risk. I had to finally write in one of the groups introducing myself and stating that if people have any queries, they should approach me instead of stigmatizing my family and I,” Sharma said, adding that stigmatized was not a solution and urging that people should not spread rumours. Asked when did he feel scared, if at all. Sharma said it was the day the other two patients were discharged. “That night was scary. I was the only one in the isolation ward. That night I couldn’t sleep. I was in a terrible mental state. The next morning, I contacted the district health officer to enquire about my reports; I was in a hurry to leave. Later in the day, I was told my second confirmation report showed I was negative and I could be discharged,” said Sharma, who was discharged at 5pm on March 30 and has been put under home quarantine for the next 14 days. Sharma now hopes to see his parents after the home quarantine period ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ex-covid-patient-who-was-accused-of-hiding-travel-history-despite-immediate-action-urges-people-to-not-spread-rumours/story-okW5wP8DZ1LJeYarLlGX0L.html
01-04-2020||Noida||Covid-19 outbreak shatters bumper rabi harvest dreams of part-time workers||The nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 outbreak has had other implications besides the obvious. It has shattered the dreams of several farmers-turned-part-time workers in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand, who were expecting a bumper rabi crop this year. Thirty-five-year-old Mangal Sah wheels his vegetable cart in the streets of Sector 62. Though he now earns more than he did before, he is not a happy man. He curses his fate for not getting a reservation on a Bihar-bound train before the announcement of the 21-day nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Sah, however, is not worried about losing a job or eking out a livelihood; he owns a two-storey home in Loni, Ghaziabad. “Selling vegetable is not my permanent vocation. I came to Delhi 15 years ago with my father and we’ve been working here since then. My father deals in property and I chip in. Our family stays with us. But, back home in our native Pratapganj, Bihar, there is no taker for our five bigha-worth of a bumper wheat crop this year,” he said.Standing beside him, his father Raghuvir Sah breaks down, saying that they live in Delhi-NCR just to make money so that they can buy more land back home. “I have seen the plight of landless farmers in our village. It was my dream to become a landowner, that’s why I moved to Delhi and started working as a daily wager in a plastic factory. Since then, I have not wasted a single penny and bought eight bighas of land, besides purchasing an eight-room house in Loni. People like us return home every year during this time for the harvesting season. This time, with our return halted because of the nationwide lockdown, availability of labour will be hurt,” he said and claimed that this year they were supposed to harvest wheat worth over ₹1 lakh.The Sahs, however, are not an exception. Echoing similar views, Rajinder Yadav, who hails from Barapalasi village in Dumka district (Jharkhand), says that he is unable to sleep worrying over his blooming wheat fields back home.Yadav, who works as a caretaker in a tyre company, located in the C block of Sector 63. “After unseasonal rainfall caused considerable damage to the kharif crops late last year, the rabi harvest was expected to be a bumper crop because of higher soil fertility and water reservoir levels. But, all our dreams are shattered now,” he said.Ajay Pal Sharma, a Greater Noida-based farmer and Uttar Pradesh state general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), too, sympathise with the plight of these migrant workers. “These farmers are the biggest losers of this lockdown. A factory can restart and increase its production at any time, but farmers can’t. First, it was the adverse weather conditions that shattered hopes. And, now the directive issued by the state government, which restricts the farmers using combine harvesters, straw reapers and threshers, to operate in groups of not more than 2-5 people, is leading to problems” he said.Sharma also said that the farmers of UP, Bihar and Jharkhand have been asked to intimate their gram panchayats concerned about their movements. “The government has ordered that while cutting crops, along with the landowner, only two more people are permitted as long as they maintain a distance of at least two metres between each other. Not only that, if anyone involved in harvesting is suffering from a cold, cough or a fever, they are to go for a check-up and will not be permitted to harvest the crops. The situation is far from normal for farmers. The government must make adequate arrangements to send the migrants to their hometowns so that they can contribute to harvesting,” the BKU leader said.The Gautam Budh Nagar district labour department, however, is having a hard time locating these part-time workers. Deputy commissioner (labour) Pradeep Kumar Singh said that such workers, mostly associated with construction companies, come once or twice in a year, to earn during the offseason, while farming remains their main vocation. “Of 1,94,611 workers registered with the district labour department since 2008, some 38,000 have renewed their registration. We contacted their employers, who told us that most of them did not return to those companies after a year or two. During this lockdown, our officials who are trying to locate their details say that lesser than 10% of them available on the mobile phone numbers given at the time of their registration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/covid-19-outbreak-shatters-bumper-rabi-harvest-dreams-of-part-time-workers/story-KcyQ0kn42eysi83hg5a94K.html
01-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Sector 23A RWA seeks permission from district administration find, help migrants in nearby slums||The residents’ welfare association (RWA) of Sector 23A on Wednesday wrote to the district administration seeking permission to actively identify stranded daily wage earners in villages and slums in the vicinity of their sector, to help them with food and money.The RWA’s letter has come in the backdrop of an exodus of a large number of migrant workers from Delhi-NCR. “Looking at some of the recent exodus of poor people from our areas and otherwise, as a member of responsible association, we are writing to express that our RWA has not been involved in the war against Covid-19. Our sector is highly dense, with a large village — Carterpuri — that has a large population and unauthorised colonies like Om Vihar and Dharam colony, with thousands of migrant workers living here,” the RWA stated in the letter.It also stated that they have not received any directions from the police or administration, but only through forwarded messages.“No doubt your office (administration) is doing lots of good work on Covid-19, but as an RWA, we have a good reach among the local population and can support the administration effectively, acting as a force multiplier in many ways,” said Bhawani Shankar Tripathy, RWA, general secretary.The letter stated that the RWA can keep people informed with authentic and verified messages on Covid-19 and can ensure an effective lockdown, in cooperation with the administration.“RWAs can keep a tab on any travel history of any individual or family, be it foreign or local travel. RWAs can support in the distribution of emergency materials like sanitisers, masks, gloves, food, etc. RWAs can keep a tab on services provided by the administration, such as the supply of essential items like groceries, vegetables and dairy products, and help in other activities,” said Malkhan Singh, RWA president.Other RWAs too said they want to administration to rope in their help.Bhim Singh Yadav, president, Sector 22 RWA, said, “This step on part of the administration is urgently required because we know workers much more than government officials and can work effectively. Tens of thousands of people are still in pain as their jobs have been hampered and they are ready to leave the city.”Many individuals and industrialists are already taking initiatives to help the stranded workers. Without commenting on any plan to rope in RWAs, Haryana chief secretary, Kesni Anand Arora, said, “People should inform the local administration if help is required in any particular area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-sector-23a-rwa-seeks-permission-from-district-administration-find-help-migrants-in-nearby-slums/story-6lUGQUbxsRjG3ZF77mMGqI.html
01-04-2020||City||Greater Noida urges people to stay home, warns of community spread if lockdown is violated||In an advisory issued on Wednesday ,the Greater Noida authority chief has appealed the residents to follow the lockdown strictly and maintain social distance to contain the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The advisory also warned that if the lockdown directives are not followed, we can enter into stage three of the pandemic where Covid-19 spreads through community transmission.“To prevent entering stage-3, our only opportunity is to stay home the next fourteen days and follow the lockdown. Following the government’s directives, we should maintain social distance strictly in case we need to step out for an emergency.” the advisory read.The advisory was issued after the authority received complaints from some residents that many people still come out to walk in the park do not adhere to the lockdown.“As of now, cases are being reported under the first and second phases, where infected people either have an international travel history or they came into contact with those with travel history. But now we are on the verge of entering the third stage, where community transmission of Covid-19 happens. It is the stage, where infection occurs in people, who neither have a travel history nor have made contact with any traveller. In third stage, we do not know who is a carrier,” Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, said.“According to experts, one person can infect 1,024 persons. If we do not want our country to go in the same direction as Italy and Spain did, then stay at home for the next 14 days without any excuse. People should not act foolishly and maintain social distance,” he added. The authority issued the advisory on social media and urged all social groups including residents’ welfare associations(RWAs) and apartment owners associations to motivate people to stay home and cooperate in fighting Covid-19.“The Greater Noida authority has started an excellent campaign and we all should come forward to support it. We have requested all of our friends and family members to spread the word so that everyone follows the lockdown order and stays home,” Safal Suri, president, Yamuna Expressway RWA.The total number of Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar were 41 till Wednesday evening—the maximum number of cases reported in a district in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/greater-noida-urges-people-to-stay-home-warns-of-community-spread-if-lockdown-is-violated/story-JTYVFAjptLblnBt03fUDiI.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||Heavy police presence on ground forces criminals to retreat in city||Amid the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, the city saw 94 cases of crimes registered last week (March 23 to 29), drop from the average of 434 cases registered per week in 2019. A total of 20,867 FIRs were filed in 2019, 1,821 in January and 1,736 in February this yearThe first week of March (March 2 to March 8) saw 320 crimes, second week (March 9 to March 15) saw 352 and 332 cases were reported in the third week (March 16 to March 22). “The crime rate was bound to come down. We are concentrating on ensuring smooth supply of essential services and preventing hoarding of essential material such as food, sanitisers and masks,” said Santosh Rastogi, joint commissioner, crime, Mumbai Police.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a janta curfew on March 22, barring movement of citizens, which was followed by a lockdown in the state on March 23 and nationwide lockdown on March 24. This, police officials say, stopped the movement of criminals from other districts and states.Of the 94 cases registered from March 23 to March 29, 43 have been solved; 38 of them were related to assault, while 20 were cases of motor vehicle thefts. The week saw one murder, where a man allegedly killed his brother in Kandivli (East), after they fought over not getting out of the house to buy groceries. Three attempt to murder, three robberies, nine thefts, two chain-snatchings, 11 burglaries, four riots and three rape cases (prior to the lockdown) were reported. Pranaya Ashok, deputy commissioner of police, operations and spokesperson for Mumbai Police, said, “Our entire focus is ensuring an effective lockdown to prevent the further spread of COVID19.” During the lockdown, only cases related to section 188 of IPC for violating lockdown orders and under Essential Commodities Act saw a rise. A total of 615 FIRs have been registered till March 31 against 1,167 people since March 20 for violating lockdown orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/heavy-police-presence-on-ground-forces-criminals-to-retreat-in-city/story-EMrXHKSDBnWeJ0atdZMRWL.html
01-04-2020||Noida||Noida starts mobile app to deliver essential items at your doorstep||The Noida authority has launched a mobile application — Noida Authority Apurti Suvidha — on Android to deliver essential items to residents at their doorstep amid a nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19.Through the mobile application, residents can order groceries, fresh vegetables, fruits and medicines conveniently, officials said.“With the help of mobile application — Noida Apurti — residents can get to know vendors who supply fresh vegetables and fruits in their respective localities and order accordingly. The application will provide names and contact details of vendors. They can call and order vegetables and fruits and the vendor will deliver it at the doorstep,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of Noida authority.The mobile application is also available on Play Store as well as on Noida authority’s website noidaauthorityonline.com for download.“One will have to provide area name and list of required essential items. Once it is filled, the application will direct the user to sector and service provide name, along with mobile number. After option of area and service is chosen, the application will direct to options where users can call and place an order,” said a Noida authority official.To begin with, this service will be available only on Android play store and later be expanded to Apple’s app store as well, said officials.The UP government and the government of India have ordered a nationwide lockdown from March 23 to April 14, 2020 in order to contain the spread of Covid-19. As residents are staying home, without coming out even to buy essential services, the Noida authority wants to deliver these services at their doorstep. The authority has deployed at least 700 different vendors, who are assigned to each sector and village to provide essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-starts-mobile-app-to-deliver-essential-items-at-your-doorstep/story-uNL4TZPfjxT0vvgFIm4X4K.html
01-04-2020||Gurugram||Nine of 10 Covid-19 cases in Gurugram recover; no new cases in a week: Health department||With three more Covid-19 patients recovering in the city on Wednesday, a total of nine out of 10 coronavirus cases reported from Gurugram in March were closed April 1. Currently, only one patient from Sushant Lok is undergoing treatment. Not a single Covid-positive case has been reported from the city in the last one week. Health department officials said it was a victory for them to see patients get discharged every day. “It is good news that patients are recovering. Only one patient is currently undergoing treatment. But, the decreasing number of cases has not stopped us from taking samples. On Wednesday, we took 86 samples while the private labs took 45 samples. We are taking measures to prevent transmission where lockdown has played a crucial role,” said Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer.Those who have recovered on Wednesday are 35-year-old woman doctor was deployed at the sample collection laboratory in the civil hospital. She has been discharged from the Medanta hospital. In Palam Vihar, four members of the family were infected after a 22-year-old woman, who had travelled to London reached home on March 15. During her stay with the family, the other three members of the family including her 17-year-old brother, a 55-year-old father and a 70-year-old maternal grandmother were infected with coronavirus. The siblings were discharged on Monday and the other two members – father and maternal grandmother – have been tested negative in the confirmatory test. They are yet to be discharged from the civil hospital sector 10.On Monday, three patients were discharged from Fortis hospital, which includes 29-year-old Rohit Sharma, a resident of sector 83, and the siblings from Palam Vihar. Earlier this week, a husband and wife from sector 50 and a 29-year-old female from sector 9 were discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nine-of-10-covid-19-cases-in-gurugram-recover-no-new-cases-in-a-week-health-department/story-YYgdh2XPmLPjkBNTROqTUI.html
01-04-2020||Gurugram||145 cases registered, 202 arrested in Gurugram for violating nationwide lockdown||Police on Wednesday said they registered 145 cases and arrested 202 people between March 22 and March 31 for violating lockdown orders imposed to curb the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak.According to the data provided by Gurugram Police, the cases were filed under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Police have also issued penalties to 2,730 vehicles and impounded 772 of them for similar violations.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram Police, said, “Necessary steps were taken against those who violated lockdown orders which were announced as a deterrent against the spread of the coronavirus. We appeal to the people to follow the rules of the lockdown diligently. Police officials are posted at necessary spots with all resources to help people, especially the poor.”Gurugram Police had earlier formed a special task force (STF) which includes 120 police officials who are posted at sites where the patients of coronavirus are being isolated or quarantined. Meanwhile, traffic police on Tuesday issued an order allowing accountants and clerical staff of private firms in Gurugram to go to their respective offices. The officials said that the step was taken to make sure that office employees receive their salaries on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/145-cases-registered-202-arrested-in-gurugram-for-violating-nationwide-lockdown/story-QCFCSHxMojFUg7VlFD0C2H.html
01-04-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus lockdown: Six FIRs filed against shopkeepers for black marketing essential goods||The Gurugram Police on Wednesday—Day 8 of the 21-day nationwide lockdown to combat spread of coronavirus—registered six cases of black marketing against shopkeepers in three markets of the city after a ground recce based on multiple complaints from residents. Action is yet to be taken against the shopkeepers, but the top cop has warned that anyone found indulging in black marketing would be arrested on the spot. Gurugram commissioner of police Muhammad Akil said FIRs were lodged on Tuesday under Prevention of Black Marketing and Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act-1980, based on the complaints of residents and daily wagers from Sushant Lok-1, Sector 31 and Sector 40. If convicted, a person may face jail of 6 months under the Act. “We had warned shopkeepers to not sell essential commodities at more than the MRP. Despite regular supply from wholesalers, they were found selling goods at a mark-up and refusing to sell goods to those who questioned their malpractice,” Akil said. Akil said they formed four teams on Tuesday and they were given the task to keep a check on shopkeepers indulging in malpractices and to send decoy customers to get ground report from markets across the city. Reports of black marketing are becoming increasingly common in Gurugram as packaged dry ration has run out and these items are now being sold by the kilogram. Unlike packaged ration, these packets do not have prices, allowing the shopkeepers to charge as they please. There are also reports of suppliers increasing prices of mineral water.However, like residents, shopkeepers, too, are crying foul saying that they were also being fleeced by wholesalers because the demand has increased. “Due to the high demand of groceries and snacks, we have no choice but to agree to their (wholesalers’) price quotation. Even the demand for tobacco and cigarettes has increased. Earlier, a packet of cigarettes which used to cost ₹350 is costing us ₹500, so we sell it for ₹600,” Sector 40 shopkeeper Suresh Thakran said. Warning against such practices, the police reiterated that all shopkeepers must display a rate list outside the shop, and that they would be booked if selling above MRP. On March 25, the district food civil supplies and consumer affairs controller issued a release stating the price list of essential items. The prices of goods per kilogram are ₹25 for loose flour and parmal rice, ₹36 for sugar and ₹20 for salt. Prices for pulses per kilogram are ₹90 for urad dal, ₹95 for moong dal, ₹57 for chana dal and ₹80 for tur dal.Akil said they have ordered all shopkeepers to paste a rate list of grocery items outside the shop and mention the number of local police station. “Anyone found indulging in any illegal activity will now be arrested on the spot,” he said.“We will take stern action against people who are taking benefit out of the crisis that has increased people’s dependence on local shopkeepers for essential goods,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/coronavirus-lockdown-six-firs-filed-against-shopkeepers-for-black-marketing-essential-goods/story-Y3iFN0uqQuz0GnbDOj4BUJ.html
01-04-2020||Gurugram||Six-fold increase in MCG funds for environment, water supply in 2020-21 budget||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is likely to increase the allocation of funds for environment-related works and water supply significantly in its budget for the 2020-21 financial year.According to officials with knowledge of the matter, the increase will likely be to the tune of Rs 60 crore, six times its budget for the same in the previous fiscal. They added that the increase is needed as the MCG wants to convert places near drains into recreational areas, such as the Badshahpur drain, and has been looking for suitable sites for it. The allocation for the same in the last fiscal was Rs 10 crore.At the five-kilometre stretch of the Badshahpur drain, between Vatika Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk, the MCG has set up jogging, cycling and walking tracks, as well as sitting space for an open-theatre, among others. In addition, the MCG has planted native trees and shrubs in the area along with creating spaces for groundwater recharging.In March, the MCG had initiated a survey of drains across the city and identified Gwal Pahari and Jharsa drains as potential sites for undertaking a similar venture, assessment of which officials said would take place later this year.“With the city expanding rapidly, it was realised that a higher allocation of funds was needed to preserve the environment and simultaneously undertake initiatives which would result in both conservation and spaces for citizens to undertake recreational activities,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.Environmentalists, meanwhile, said that the MCG should also allocate some of its funds for checking environment-related violations.“The MCG should also look at creating an environmental task force whose sole focus should be on surveillance and patrolling across the city to curb violations such as tree felling, illegal construction and demolition waste dumping, burning of waste, illegal mining, and illegal dumping into storm water drains. This too will help the city preserve its environment, along with giving greater attention on increasing it as well,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, an environmentalist.Under the water supply category, MCG officials said that funds are likely to be increased by almost three times in the 2020-21 fiscal. Officials said that the civic body may reserve around Rs 100 crore for this fiscal against Rs 30 crore allocated in the last budget.Officials said that the increased funds will also be used for improving water supply in several sectors operated by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran that were transferred to the MCG last year, as well as the MCG’s larger objective of installing water meters across all domestic and commercial establishments in the city.The MCG only has 33,000 registered water connections in the city, even though it is estimated that there are nearly six lakh properties falling under its jurisdiction.Property TaxMCG officials said that the civic body is expecting to net a collection of around Rs 800 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal, against its expected collection of Rs 250 crore last fiscal.In the previous month, the MCG had prepared a list of 197 properties whose owners owed the civic body more than Rs 20 lakh in property tax, and identified 243 properties whose owners owed the civic body between Rs 10-20 lakh. In addition, the MCG had also sent notices to 150 liquor shop owners last month for pending property tax.During the two pre-budget meetings, officials had said that the MCG was going to be concentrating on recovering pending property tax dues in the 2020-21 fiscal.The draft 2020-21 budget was sent to the Directorate of Urban Local Bodies (ULB) for approval on March 27. Officials said they are expecting communication from ULB on the matter within the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/six-fold-increase-in-mcg-funds-for-environment-water-supply-in-2020-21-budget/story-6Jctyu1C0UsmwOmbSAxMGJ.html
01-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Pvt vehicles can’t ply in Dombivli||A day after parts of Dombivli (East) were sealed following five positive cases of Covid-19, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) banned entry of all vehicles across Dombivli starting from Wednesday 6pm until further notice.“No vehicles will ply on the roads in Dombivli until further notice. Only vehicles of essential service providers such as water supply, electricity, fire brigade and ambulance will be allowed,” said Madhavi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.A total of 14 positive cases have been found in Kalyan and Dombivli.The first three cases are of those who attended a wedding function on March 18. A 25-year-old man, who returned from Turkey, tested positive. Two others, who had attended the wedding, also tested positive. On Tuesday, two more cases were reported from Dombivli (East).KDMC sealed areas in Dombivli (East), including Mhatre Nagar, Rajaji Path Road and Balaji garden, to curb the spread of the virus. There are around 1,200 houses and 6,000 residents in Dombivli (East).On Tuesday, Kalyan-Dombivli municipal commissioner Vijay Suryawanshi announced that the areas in Dombivli (East) have been sealed. “We are taking all measures to restrict movement in Dombivli, considering the increase in cases. We are surveying the area to find out if more people have symptoms. We are also appealing to residents to report if they show any symptoms,” said Suryavanshi. The areas which have been sealed have several big housing societies and some slum pockets near Kopar station road. The roads have been blocked with barricades and police personnel deployed. “The residents of these areas are not allowed to come out. Those found driving a car or a two-wheeler will face legal action under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code,” said Suryavanshi. The civic body has said they would provide food grains, vegetables and medicines to the residents at their doorstep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-pvt-vehicles-can-t-ply-in-dombivli/story-H4rD2nLBWCSKMpTUKNja7J.html
01-04-2020||City||Cop injured in a tiff between fruit vendors||A policeman was injured after a tiff broke out between two groups of fruit vendors at Mohane in Kalyan on Wednesday. The cop was injured when vendors pelted stones at each other and he tried to stop them. The police have booked 15 vendors under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The police said the tiff broke out among vendors occupying a spot at Lahuji Nagar market. “A policeman was hit on the head by a stone,” said a police officer of Khadakpada police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-injured-in-a-tiff-between-fruit-vendors/story-wfCivgQaLwG1n6vDYlZnJI.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||Centre developing lockdown relief package for fishing community||: The Centre has directed all coastal states to submit bank details of affected fishers, fish farmers, and vendors during the COVID-19 lockdown to develop a relief package.The Maharashtra fisheries department said the list of affected fisher folk and allied activities had already been sent to the Centre, and now their bank details were being collated. The move comes after reports of over 10,000 tonnes of fresh fish catch being dumped at sea and over Rs. 300 crore losses recorded so far by the community in Maharashtra.“The Centre is putting together a lockdown relief package for affected persons in the fishing community. On one hand the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has directed the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute to submit details of estimated loss of fish catch during the lockdown while we are collating the bank details to provide immediate relief to the affected community,” said Rajendra Jadhav, joint commissioner (fisheries).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/centre-developing-lockdown-relief-package-for-fishing-community/story-m8BXktOVSjd7ecwQ0i6iMI.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: 108 ambulance service runs without protective gears||rupsa.chakraborty@htlive.com Drivers and doctors operating the ‘108’ ambulance service have alleged they are not provided personal protective equipment (PPE) and sanitisers, and the ambulances are not disinfected regularly. The 108 service has been taking suspected and confirmed Covid-19 patients to hospitals across the city. As per the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) guidelines, ambulances should be disinfected after transporting patients exhibiting symptoms of Covid-19, which is caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus.Ambulances operated by 108 — named after the telephone number for the service — assign one doctor to each patient being transported to hospital. WHO has made it mandatory for ambulance staffers to use PPE while carrying confirmed and suspected Covid-19 patients. However, Bharat Vikas Group, which runs the ambulance service with the state government, has not provided either PPE or sanitizers, alleged staffers. Umesh Kumar (name changed upon request) is associated with a civic-run Covid-19 isolation centre. “Two days ago, I transported a suspected patient from Mumbai suburban to Kasturba Hospital. I also help put the patient on a stretcher. This exposed me to the virus, but I didn’t have hand sanitizer. I immediately bought soap to wash my hands,” he said.Atiq Khan, leader of Maharashtra Mathadi Shramik Kamgar Sangharsh Union, said the union has asked the government to provide its members with medical insurance worth Rs 50 lakh for Covid-19. “We are putting our lives at risk every day by carrying patients to hospitals and we aren’t covered under medical insurance,” he said.Khan also alleged ambulances are not disinfected as per WHO guidelines. “The service providers don’t even disinfect the ambulances, which make those sitting on the seats later vulnerable to the infection,” said Khan. State authorities said it is not responsible for ambulance staffers’ PPE. “It is the duty of the service providers to ensure the safety of the workers. We will look into it,” said Dr Sadhanna Taide, director, Directorate of Health Service, Maharashtra.Dnyaneshwar Shelke, CEO of the service said that there are 30 ambulances that cater to COVID-19 patients and all the staffers have been provided with protective kits. “People are trying to spread fake information. All staffers working with coronavirus ambulances have PPE. In other ambulances we have given general masks along with hand sanitizers. We are going to file complaint against the people for making false allegations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-108-ambulance-service-runs-without-protective-gears/story-UxMf51oRD7WDIrLVZAvtzH.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||150 close contacts of Covid-19 patients from Worli being quarantined||With 12 people testing positive, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday has started to quarantine 150 people from Worli Koliwada at Potdar Hospital. The 127 people have either been contacts of the 13 – neighbours, family and friends – or are showing symptoms of Covid-19.“So far, 86 persons have been moved. They have been given food, water and are being closely monitored for symptoms,” said a senior official from G-South ward, with covers Worli, Prabhadevi and parts of Lower Parel.The area has at least three containment zones, with eight buildings sealed in the past two days. All koliwadas, gaothans, slums and all densely populated areas have been on high alert, with the BMC planning to set up a 24x7 dispensary in all such areas. In areas where Covid-19 positive cases have already been reported, an ambulance will also be kept on standby. This comes in addition to the 146 containment zones created by the civic body on Tuesday.A senior civic officer said, “Koliwadas and Gaonthans have been popular tourist spots, especially for international tourists. So we are watching them closely. The doctors at the 24x7 dispensary can recommend any suspected cases to do a test, or approach Kasturba Hospital.” The officer clarified: “There is no reason to panic. But these are densely populated areas and homes to close-knit communities that interact with each other often. So we have to be careful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/150-close-contacts-of-covid-19-patients-from-worli-being-quarantined/story-0O2mr30mx8aaa0EMM6mhZN.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 shutdown: 45 more areas are now no-go zones||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday sealed 45 new containment or ‘no-go zones’ (areas where a patient has tested positive or close contacts of positive patients reside), bringing the tally of such spots in the city to 191. A majority of the new zones are from the suburbs. The containment zones are sealed by the civic body, with the police barricading the spots to bar the entry or exit of residents.With the number of cases on the rise, state health minister Rajesh Tope chaired a review meeting of BMC officials on measures taken to treat Covid-19 patients, testing and isolation bed facilities. Tope was briefed about the situation in the city. Since March, the civic body claims to have completed over 6,100 tests, including those by private labs. “The number of positive cases is higher in Mumbai because the testing facilities have increased. A lot of the patients are from the outskirts, who had approached our facilities owing to lack of testing facilities in their area. Most of the new detected cases are safe and with mild or no symptoms due to early detection,” said a senior official. The BMC has planned to increase the total bed capacity at SevenHills Hospital upto 1,000. In a recent meeting on Covid-19, top civic officials had decided to increase its isolation bed capacity upto 2,000. The BMC has appointed 33 nodal officers across the city who will ensure food supply and logistics to be provided at 10 shelter locations made for them. The officers will have to prepare a list of people requiring shelters, shifting identified persons to shelter homes, monitoring, and also identifying NGOs to assist and ensure supply of food and other essentials.An analysis of the total positive cases found in Mumbai shows that people with travel history and their close contacts account for more than 90% of the cases. This means that a majority of the positive cases found in Mumbai either they have a travel history or are their close contacts. As per the BMC data, 25 patients are found to have traveled to the UAE, while 12 people had flown down from the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-shutdown-45-more-areas-are-now-no-go-zones/story-mJzUn3048bmwsifcVY5RGM.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC plans coronavirus quarantine facilities on cruise ships and floatels||To create more space for coronavirus patients, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to turn cruise ships and floating hotels in the city into quarantine facilities.BMC plans to use floating hotels that are currently anchored along the Mumbai coast or cruise ships near the Gateway of India as backup quarantine areas if needed.BMC chief Praveen Pardeshi directed civic body officials on Tuesday to identify private space to accommodate those who have been asked to self-isolate but cannot as they live in small houses.Harshad Kale, deputy municipal commissioner, confirmed that cruise ships will be used for quarantine facilities. “We are in touch with one such ship owner who operates between Mumbai and Goa and has around 300 to 350 rooms available. The plan is to have a backup option ready if the situation worsens further,” he said.On Tuesday, Pardeshi ordered all ward offices to find vacant spaces in residential buildings, lodges, hotels, clubs, exhibition halls, colleges, hostels, ships, and gymkhanas. Further, to provide temporary shelters to stranded migrant labourers and the homeless, the civic body has identified nine unoccupied buildings across the city and a large commercial space where arrangements are being made.A civic official said that currently, they are focusing on getting in touch with owners of commercial ships as they already have rooms and beds.“We are also in touch with officials from the Mumbai Port Trust and Maharashtra Maritime Board who will help us get in touch with cruise owners. The focus is on cruise ships currently, considering they have the infrastructure ready, whereas for floating hotels we will have to set up basic facilities like rooms and beds,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-coronavirus-quarantine-facilities-on-cruise-ships-and-floatels/story-RRZLLki04GuUmAXL01mMWN.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||Terrace garden helps Mahim society with veggies during Covid-19 lockdown||Efforts adopted over the past seven years are helping a 32-flat residential society in Mahim reap benefits during the lockdown imposed to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak.While most societies in the city are dependent on external services for daily essentials, the 13-storey Fortune Heights is managing to procure about 25% of its weekly vegetables for residents from a terrace garden set up in 2013 using recycled wet waste as organic manure.“Our terrace garden was a lifesaver during the first few days of the lockdown when it was not clear how vegetables would be procured for residents,” said Ramesh Modi, senior resident. “Once a plan was prepared for bringing in vegetable and fruit vendors into the colony, we began limiting the supply from the terrace garden.”Residents said the society is managing to supply 5 to 7kg per week of chilies, tomatoes, ash gourd, fenugreek, radish, spinach as well as herbs such as mint and lemongrass. “The current lockdown is a reset for us all to reflect on our dependencies and how we take things for granted,” said Monisha Narke, who set up waste management efforts that helped create the terrace garden.Three catchments on the terrace collect water, and PVC pipes connected to a bore well on the ground floor recharges the groundwater through the rainwater harvesting setup. “Cleanliness is a major focus now and the stored water is being used. One sanitation worker has been provided a temporary residential arrangement and a daily supply of food from the building,” said Zarine Hodiwala, building secretary. “The entrance, lobby and all common areas are being cleaned using disinfectant (sodium hypochlorite solution) thrice daily.” An entire list of lockdown guidelines and precautionary measures were prepared by two doctors from PD Hinduja Hospital and Lilavati Hospital, which was circulated to all residents. Additionally, sanitisers and masks are being provided to the security staff; only one person per floor is allowed to step out for essentials; senior citizens are restricted from going out, and proper physical distancing measures are imposed while collecting essentials from the main entrance and common area.Residents have also been instructed to pay their domestic help full salaries but the building has restricted their entry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/terrace-garden-helps-mahim-society-with-veggies-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-wmdt2KGi9MMhsX1BSvxUcP.html
01-04-2020||Pune||People come forward to help PMC to strengthen medical infrastructure||Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol and municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad had recently appealed to citizens and housing societies to help them strengthen hospitals. Mohol said, “After Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) appeal, many people came forward to help us and inquired what type of help they would be able to provide.”Mohal said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Chandrakant Patil donated 10,000 disposable masks for employees working in the health department. Architect Sandeep Mahajan has given 10 wheelchairs and developer Nitin Deshpande has donated 50 nebulisers.Principal Sai services located at Magarpatta, Hadapsar, donate 43,700 masks. Municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad accepted this help from the citizens.PMC said that some people are coming with supply of food items. Such food items like biscuits are being distributed to people living in schools and those in quarantine.Mercedes Benz to set up temporary hospitalMercedes-Benz India to set up a temporary hospital with medical facilities and isolation wards for Covid-19 patients, in a newly developed medical facility at Mhalunge-Ingale village, Chakan Khed. The facility will be equipped with isolation wards with a capacity of 1,500 patients.Mercedes-Benz India will assist zilla parishad with all necessary infrastructure including medical equipment required to create a temporary out-patient department (OPD), infrastructure to admit patients, stretchers, wheel chairs, sanitizers, among other essentials required in the smooth functioning of the hospital and isolation ward. The company has also directly supported the Grant Medical Foundation (Ruby Hall Clinic) by donating ventilators.Martin Schwenk, managing director, and CEO, Mercedes-Benz India, said, “In these challenging times, we are trying to support the local community and the local authorities. The new medical facility will help the local authorities and the people of the region with healthcare in the coming times, if the situation worsens. We stand together with our community and it remains our endeavour to support them and the authorities in every possible way. We hope for a steady recovery of the crisis and getting back to normalcy.”Mercedes-Benz India will provide ration and cleaning kits to 1,600 families from Khed and Vimannagar. This initiative will be executed through Mercedes-Benz India’s existing partner NGOs, Shashwat Trust and Ashraya Initiatives for children. The initiative will secure requirements of food and hygiene for these families till the end of May.Central Railway Pune division distributes food packets, bottled water to needyCentral Railway has started distributing food packets, grocery kits, biscuits, packaged drinking water bottles, fruits to the needy at various stations in Pune division from March 28. Voluntary contributions and physical assistance started pouring in and Central Railway has made arrangements with the commercial department in coordination with IRCTC, NGOs, commercial staff, RPF personnel, among others. In Pune division, food packets were distributed to 850 persons at areas surrounding Pune and Kolhapur railway station.RPF also distributed food packets to 1,900 persons on March 31, including 330 persons at Pune division which includes Kolhapur, Pune, Pimpri, Dehu road, Karad.State Covid-19 helplineThe public health department of Maharashtra has launched a dedicated state Covid-19 helpline - +91 20 2612 7394 on WhatsApp. This service will be free-to-use and will act as a central source for accurate, up-to-date information about the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. This service will be available both in English and Marathi.The helpline is an automated ‘chatbot’ service which will allow citizens to get verified answers to questions about Covid-19 from the public health department of Maharashtra within 24 hours. To begin with, the service will provide information on topics such as prevention and symptoms, support being provided by Maharashtra government and details on common myths, with more options to be included in the future. Complimenting the partnership with WhatsApp, Uddhav Thackeray, Chief Minister of Maharashtra ,said, “At this challenging time we urge residents to stay home and message the ‘Covid Helpline Maharashtra’ service on WhatsApp for verified facts and the latest guidance from the government of Maharashtra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/people-come-forward-to-help-pmc-to-strengthen-medical-infrastructure/story-7w0kk72iaBHVKYA9b9ESUN.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||One-Rupee Clinic volunteers screen people at societies for Covid-19||Over the past few days, volunteers of One-Rupee Clinic have screened around 7,000 people across housing societies in Mahalakshmi and Kurla at their homes to find symptomatic patients for Covid-19 (coronavirus disease). The initiative which was launched on Sunday. The volunteers visit housing societies on request of the society members, wherein they also counsel people. The group also announced that an OPD service will be set up for residents of Colaba from Thursday onwards for the next two months, wherein a doctor will be present twice a day to screen patients.“Due to the fear of coronavirus, many private doctors have shut their OPD and are refusing to do a check-up. We were provided space by a local political leader, where we can screen patients,” said Dr Rahul Ghule, director of One-Rupee Clinic.“An online portal has been set-up, wherein people can put in their requests and we will visit their societies. There are a lot of questions that people have about Covid-19, so our trained doctors can guide them,” said Ghule.Those who are been found symptomatic are then advised to do to Kasturba hospital for Covid-19 check-up.Earlier, Railways had requested the group to come to their aid to screen passengers at particular stations.“We have our 183 clinics running, where our doctors are carrying out similar screening to find symptomatic patients. Though there is no mandate given to the group to carry out any such screening by us, any help is appreciated,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health director of BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/one-rupee-clinic-volunteers-screen-people-at-societies-for-covid-19/story-aYaz2SvchW7foLs3OsO5kO.html
01-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Bhiwandi school ground turns into a market||Around 150 fruits and vegetable vendors have got space at Temghar school ground in Bhiwandi so that markets are not crowded. Two policemen will keep a watch so see whether residents are following social distancing. Senior police inspector S Kokate said, “KGM Chowk is crowded as it does not have enough space for vendors. We made arrangements for 150 street vendors so that people can stand in a queue while maintaining distance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-bhiwandi-school-ground-turns-into-a-market/story-orYvE7pCvmlqSTbyEg9VhN.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Jai Ram asks officials to ensure supply of essential items in HP||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday directed the department of food and civil supplies corporation to ensure adequate stock of essential commodities in open markets to facilitate people in the state.He was presiding over a review meeting with senior officers to take stock of essential commodities, availability of plant protection material and horticulture input and role of Panchayati Raj Institutions in implementation of Active Case Finding Campaign (AFC) that began on Wednesday.“Special thrust should be to keep check on hoarding and profiteering. Strict action must be taken against violators,” he said.Thakur said steps must be taken to have adequate stock of pulses as procurement is done from other states. Officers should liaison with wholesalers so that the supply chain is not interrupted. He also directed officials to provide adequate ration to nomad Gaddi and Gujjars.The CM has issued direction related to door to door or village-wise supply of pesticides and other plant protection material to horticulturists. He said efforts must be made to ensure time-bound supply of bee colonies and anti-hail nets to the horticulturists.The CM also directed the Panchayati Raj department to educate people regarding social distancing and preventive measures for checking coronavirus.He said Panchayati Raj functionaries should visit every household in villages and take information regarding the health of each person. They should share this with the department through Google forms so that people coming to the villages from other parts could be medically examined.‘Govt will help industry resume operation’ Himachal government will facilitate industrial houses in Baddi, Barotiwala, and Nalagarh (BBN) area to start their operations, the CM said while interacting with office bearers of BBN Industrial Association through video conferencing.“Government would take all necessary steps for smooth movement of workforce besides strengthening the supply chain of raw material and furnished goods from the industries,” he said.Adequate number of trucks will be provided to facilitate transportation of goods, Thakur said, adding that since textile industries in the area were employing a huge chunk of workforce they should explore the option of deploying local labourers to ensure their smooth operation.He also appreciated efforts of the pharma industry for resuming production in majority of their units. He said out of 370 pharma units over 250 have resumed production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/jai-ram-asks-officials-to-ensure-supply-of-essential-items-in-hp/story-wdblKKnmveimi96NVyIqcM.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal launches campaign to identify people with Nizamuddin travel history||The district administration and police on Wednesday launched a state-wide campaign to trace the persons who travelled to South Delhi’s Nizamuddin area during Markaz Tablighi, an event which has emerged as a hotspot for Covid-19 spread.This has come after the state government received a list over 840 persons with travel history to Nizamuddin. Off these, 167 persons have been quarantined at home.Till Tuesday, 17 people, including 14 from Chamba, 2 from Sirmaur and one from Nahan, who attended the congregation, were quarantined in Delhi.Of the 167 people who had traveled to Nizamudin between March 13 and March 16 and have been home quarantined, 4 are from Mandi, 10 from Kangra, 35 from Una, 23 of Shimla, 53 from Baddi, 10 Chamba and 32 from Sirmaur.All 840 people were identified by using the digital foot printing technology.Director general of police Sitaram Mardi said, “The 11 Tabligh Jamaat attendees who had tried to enter Shimla’s Chopal area have been quarantined at government hospital in Merwa and an FIR has been registered against them under sections 188 and 269 of the IPC. They had walked around 100km from Paonta Sahib and claimed that no body checked them.”Meanwhile, the government has started a day-to-day campaign to identify coronavirus suspects. During the week-long drive, health teams comprising ASHA workers will make door-to-door visits and compile health records of each individual in both rural and urban areas. The teams will also educate people about the precautions to be taken against Covid-19 and ensure that all symptomatic persons observe social distancing and follow the health advisory.6 WITH TABLIGHI JAMAAT LINK IN KANGRAKangra district authorities have identified six persons who attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin area of Delhi. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) said that they belong to Indora sub-division and had returned to their homes a few days ago.“We have identified the persons and sounded an alert in the area. Some of them had cough and have been kept in isolation while others are quarantined at home. We are also trying to ascertain who they came in direct contact with,” the SSP said.Meanwhile, Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati has appealed to the people who attended the congregation to inform the authorities on 104 or 1077 helpline.HUNGER HELPLINE STARTEDThe state government has started ‘Hunger Helpline’ for migrant labourers where they can report shortage of essential items, especially ration. Additional divisional commssioner Sandeep Sood (contact number 8894029000), district Red Cross secretary Raj Kumar (8219509229) and district food and civil supply officer Narender Dhiman (9418056534) have been deployed as the nodal officers.(With inputs from Naresh K Thakur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-launches-campaign-to-identify-people-with-nizamuddin-travel-history/story-89YFIZCpu1HEWuHssKZjaL.html
01-04-2020||Delhi||Migrant exodus leads to labour shortage at farms||For the past one week, Sukhbir Dagar, a farmer in southwest Delhi’s Dhansa village (Najafgarh area), has been trying to arrange labour and a machine to harvest mustard and wheat crops.But to no avail, as a large number of migrant labourers in the area have left for their hometowns after the 21-day national lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week.“We prefer to manually harvest the mustard crop, as there is a 15-20% loss of crop if harvested by a machine. But there is a shortage of labour,” Dagar, who owns 10 acres of land in the village and has rented 80 acres for farming, said. “Now, I’m looking to hire a machine, as we have to harvest the mustard crop (spread over 30 acres) in the next 3-4 days. I also have to harvest wheat from the first week of April. But even the machines we usually get from Punjab are not available in adequate numbers due to the lockdown. This time just 2-3 machines are available till now due to the lockdown as against 10-12 which were available till last year,” he added.Farmers in villages located in the Najafgarh area largely grow wheat, mustard and vegetables. According to the Economic Survey of Delhi 2019-20, the total cropped area in Delhi is 34,750 hectares. The production of wheat in the national capital in 2018-19 was 82,876 metric tonnes.Another major concern of the farmers is taking the crop to the mandis and getting the right price. “There is no labour available. Small farmers don’t have adequate space for storage and due to the lockdown, there is not much business in the mandi. I don’t know how will we sell it,” Pradeep Dagar, another farmer who owns four acres of land in Dhansa, said.Due to the fear of the spread of Covid-19, a majority of traders at Agriculture Produce Market Committee at Najafgarh have decided to close their businesses till March 31. “Our families don’t want us to go out. So, a majority of traders are not going to the mandi. We will take a call on whether to restart work in a day or two,” Sushil Mittal, head of the traders’ association, said.But Naresh Sharma, chairman of APMC Najafgarh, said, “The mandi is open. Though whoever wants to do business can come. There were problems in the initial days. Though the business is affected, we are hoping it will recover in the next few days. Now we are issuing passes to people.”The area where food-grain crops are planted has decreased over some time, as more farmers are taking to vegetable farming. However, the shortage of labour has adversely affected all farmers, including those who grow vegetables.In Dichaon Kalan, a large number of farmers are involved in vegetable farming, mainly of cauliflower. But farmers say that taking their produce to the market has become a real challenge for them. Similar problems abound in Narela. Bhupinder Bazad, a farmer who owns 42 acres of land in Hiranki village in Narela, said that farming is a labour-intensive job and apart from harvesting, labour is needed to clean the produce, store it and take it to the food grain or vegetable markets. But the work is adversely affected due to shortage of labour.“On 50% of the land, I grow vegetables. For this, we need labour. In the initial days of the lockdown, we were not even allowed to go to the farms. Even the temporary mandis in the village were not allowed to be held. The labour started leaving fearing job loss due to the lockdown. I’m working with 50% of the labour staff,” Bazad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/migrant-exodus-leads-to-labour-shortage-at-farms/story-AHTtTCVJQRtOH2Kw0IIBuL.html
01-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: KDMC chief urges doctor to not shut OPDs||Sajana.nambiar@hindustantimes.comWith several complaints from the residents of Kalyan-Dombivli about private hospitals, clinics shut voluntarily by the doctors during the lockdown period, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner has asked the doctors to not shut the hospitals and clinics. “All essential services can function in the city and hence clinics and hospitals should also be available to the residents. There are doctors who have voluntarily stopped their outpatient department. We appeal all of them to open and treat those who are visiting them for any sort of illness,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC. The civic body claimed that it is operating all its opd’s at its two civic hospitals and six primary health care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-kdmc-chief-urges-doctor-to-not-shut-opds/story-G8foxU9eCb2AUCtOzyH76K.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||E-bikes come to rescue of chemists, grocers amid lockdown||With doorstep deliver taking a hit during the nationwide lockdown, personal e-bikes have come to the rescue of the coronavirus warriors like chemists and local grocery stores. Bengaluru-based Yulu Bikes is tying-up with essential service suppliers to facilitate hyper-local deliveries in the city and Navi Mumbai. However, unlike its concept of shared mobility, those renting the bikes can keep it for a month to ensure doorstep delivery and sanitisation.A spokesperson from Yulu Bikes said, “Our initiative is to support the corona warriors who are helping deliver essential services to people. Setups like chemists, local grocers can use the bike. Even citizens can use it as a personal vehicle for a month if they are stepping out to buy essentials.”The mobile application has also been customised wherein only the vehicle owner can unlock the vehicle for the stipulated period. “The idea is to not use it as a shared vehicle during this period,” the spokesperson added. The services have already started in Bengaluru with 200 e-bikes. The company will be charging citizens ₹90 per day for the facility. Yulu Bikes was one amongst the top nine teams selected by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) in November 2019, when the authority ran a technology-driven challenge to look at smart mobility solutions in the city. It is looking at starting services in Bandra-Kurla Complex soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/e-bikes-come-to-rescue-of-chemists-grocers-amid-lockdown/story-6aXtwnelBJsMgZXsxfMHXN.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||State likely to miss its farm loan waiver deadline amid coronavirus pandemic||Amid coronavirus pandemic, the state government is likely to miss its target for disbursement of ₹22,000 crore to more than 24 lakh farmers by April 15 for the ongoing loan waiver scheme. The state government has so far been able to write off the loan of 18.89 lakh farmers by disbursing ₹11,966 crore in their accounts. “The process of disbursement of the waiver to the farmer has slowed down due to the outbreak, but it would not affect the prospect of availing the fresh loans by the farmers for Kharif season,” said Balasaheb Patil, cooperation minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-likely-to-miss-its-farm-loan-waiver-deadline-amid-coronavirus-pandemic/story-6wYy91FRnn2bO418PGxyHK.html
01-04-2020||City||Cops to trace, screen Palghar man’s colleagues||The 50-year-old Palghar resident, who died of coronavirus, worked in a private company at Wagale Estate in Thane. Thane Municipal Corporation has made a list of 110 employees whom he may have come in contact with and are searching for them. A TMC officer said, “We have formed a team to trace the employees and screen them for any symptoms. These employees are from Hajuri, Kalwa, Kisannagar, Pokharan Raod no. 2, Ambika Nagar, Anand Nagar and Wagale Estate areas of Thane city. Few workers are also from Navi Mumbai, Nahur and Mulund areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-to-trace-screen-palghar-man-s-colleagues/story-SlIltorjOnxXnfsbQgaPqK.html
01-04-2020||City||Covid-19: NMMC launches helpline to check travel history, health of people||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has launched a helpline number to collect data about the well-being of the residents in wake of the coronavirus pandemic. NMMC chief Annasaheb Misal has appealed people to call on the communication automation system. People are supposed to call on the helpline number 022-35155012 and answer seven simple questions which will give an idea to the civic body about the travel history and health of the people in general. “We want more and more people to dial this number as it will help us to track each and every individual and fight the pandemic,” said Misal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-nmmc-s-launches-helpline-to-check-travel-history-health-of-people/story-EuGcLccl8q0KU82Xo1dYmK.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||22k volunteers help those in need during lockdown||The messages on this pan-India group, with 22,000 volunteers, range from request for medicines, assisting senior citizens or helping feed stray dogs. With 800-900 calls a day and 2,000 posts on social media, a pan-India voluntary group has emerged as a saviour for many during the lockdown. “We started a few days before the national lockdown came into effect, as many cities had started imposing curfews. Since then, we have got an overwhelming response from people,” said Mahita Nagaraj, founder, Caremongers India. Citizens can reach out to their helpline number (+91 951168886) via WhatsApp or message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/22k-volunteers-help-those-in-need-during-lockdown/story-nk3myAtATBuLZPjfS2MF1K.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B’s fact-checking platform will help verify coronavirus news||Amid the coronavirus outbreak in the country, many fake news and rumours are doing the rounds. To dispel these rumours, a team of scientists at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, have launched a fact-checking platform that helps in verifying news or claims.Director of IIT-B Subhasis Chaudhari, on Tuesday, announced the launch of the platform ‘KauwaKaate’ on social media. This platform developed by students and faculty of the department of computer science engineering can verify news articles, text messages, social media posts, pictures as well as videos, using the platform which is available via WhatsApp, mobile app and a web-interface.The website is available at http://kkfactcheck.in/ or the KauwaKaate Fact Checker application can be downloaded onto an android phone. It works for textual, image and video queries.One can simply send a query to 8369749660 on WhatsApp asking if a viral or forwarded message is true. Alternatively, users can submit queries for checking the veracity of news, pictures, articles or texts on either the mobile application or the website. The query is extracted onto a dashboard, which users can access using a login.“We see if the item has been fact-checked previously by checking them against a predefined set of India-focused fact-checking sites such as check4spam.com, boomlive.com, Alt News, and other leading news sites. We crawl these sites regularly and perform a search on our server on the crawled data. For images, we look for exact matches, and if that fails, we do a partial image match,” said Kameswari Chebrolu, associate professor, IIT Bombay. “If an article/image does not match either of the above cases, we have a few automated checks that we carry out,” she added.The platform is a part of a three-year project funded by the Government of India. The team plans to scale up operations and do more research on automated checking. “For example, we wish to check against a set of sites known to be biased on a particular topic (say politics), and tell the user that their search article appears on such a site, and they should dig deeper and not necessarily accept it as is. We do not believe that the software should remain open-sourced so that other people can pick it up and work on it,” said Chebrolu.The platform also provides additional features in the form of combining similar articles submitted by different users under the same task (task merging), identifying language, possible category of these articles, gathering existing evidence on the Internet via automated means and presenting the same in an organised fashion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-s-fact-checking-platform-will-help-verify-coronavirus-news/story-GH0H0004bhwaZB06Q9y3lK.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||Overshooting furlough cannot be reason to deny leave forever: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court has held that inordinate delay in reporting back to jail after availing furlough cannot be a reason to deny the leave to a convict forever.Making the observation in the case of murder convict Shersingh Nanaksingh Gill, who is lodged in Nashik Road prison, a division bench of justices RK Deshpande and PK Chavan directed the state government to grant him a 14-day furlough. Gill was convicted for killing his cousin. He has been ordered to report at the police station, under whose jurisdiction he will spend the furlough period, every alternate day. The convict had approached the high court after his four pleas for furlough were rejected by jail authorities on the grounds that earlier when he was released on furlough, he reported in April 2013 - 855 days later than the due date. His appeals for the leave were also rejected by the home department. The high court allowed his petition, stating that overstaying the leave once cannot be a reason in perpetuity to reject furlough to a convict forever. The bench stated that the leave can be granted by imposing suitable conditions of reporting to thepolice station concerned every alternate day. The bench also took into consideration that as a punishment for reporting back late by 855 days, Gill’s 240 days of remission were forfeited and his name was removed from the remission list for a period of 3 years and that period has already expired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/overshooting-furlough-cannot-be-reason-to-deny-leave-forever-bombay-hc/story-X8ZFlCCPbebDhOBp2YngTN.html
01-04-2020||Pune||3 new +ves in Pune take count to 37||Three more cases of the Covid-19 infection, caused by the Sars-Cov-2 virus, were confirmed in the city, taking the total count of positive cases to 37, city and rural. “Of the three new patients, one is a 60-year old male from Kondhwa; another is a 60-year old from Junnar, and the third is a male, admitted to AFMC, Pune,” said a senior PMC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/3-new-ves-in-pune-take-count-to-37/story-E5MtwGlphSAIQvKi6IHT6N.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||Court grants bail to 62-year-old who abused a minor citing Covid-19 pandemic||A city sessions court on Monday granted bail to a 62-year-old priest, suffering from ailments, arrested under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, citing the Covid-19 pandemic. The court cited that most victims of the contagious pandemic have been senior citizens as they have a weak immune system. The arrested was arrested for molesting a 10-year-old girl in Cuffe Parade. “The accused is a senior citizen and if he stays in jail then he would be vulnerable to contracting Coronavirus or other diseases in overcrowded city prisons,” argued advocate Sunil Pandey, representing the accused. Upon hearing the defence’s argument, the court was granted bail to the accused on Monday. While granting bail on a bond for ₹15,000, judge BV Kale said, “The applicant is a 62-year-old and is suffering from ailments. Hence, considering the present circumstances the applicant is released on PR bond.” The incident had taken place on February 22 around 4pm when the accused took the 10-year-old girl near a temple in Cuffe Parade and molested her. The minor went home and told her parents, following which a complaint was lodged. The accused was booked and arrested and was kept in judicial custody since. Generally, in cases of child sex abuse the accused does not get bail soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/court-grants-bail-to-62-year-old-who-abused-a-minor-citing-covid-19-pandemic/story-57UNkqqmHpEKjButkmxlnO.html
01-04-2020||Delhi||Feeder passes to feed strays come as a relief amid lockdown||When news of curfew was announced, confusions regarding feeding of stray animals started doing the rounds. With a restriction on movement, NGOs, shelter homes and volunteers became worried about the fate of the animals. The Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi requested people to take care of any such animals, and his efforts were consolidated by MP and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi who announced that dog feeders can now get feeder passes. The application can be made either online or at the respective DCP’s office. Any dog feeder can go to their district DCP office in delhi and get a feeder pass. Please start today as only 50 passes are being given per district.“I applied for the feeder pass online and got it through the District Magistrate. I was given a number on Whatsapp according to the district I fall under and had to send my details there. And that was it! It was a smooth process. But going to the DCP’s office was a pain. I thought I will apply for it both ways, but had to wait for three hours. I had to stand in the line and there were more chances of infection. There were about 300-400 people. You have to wait to get a form, then again get in the queue to submit the form, and collect the pass the next day. They (the authorities) are not to blame because they are processing a lot of applications,” says Vikash Aggarwal who lives in Delhi Cantonment and goes to central areas including Safdarjung Road, Chanakyapuri to feed strays.Basic precautions, such as carrying sanitisers and wearing a mask, in place, some of these volunteers are also feeding strays locally and keeping it low profile. “I live in NOIDA sector 45 and some of us have spoken to the SHO here. He told us we can feed the strays here but to not do so in groups. The authorities recognise the regulars and according to the local police station, we can do without the feeder pass,” says NOIDA-based business owner Deepak Saxena. Day 6 of #feedingstrays in #Delhi. I am posting thez updates daily so tht all of u reading my posts lend a helping hand in feeding stray #animals around u. Feed thoz u can. Help the needy. Seeking your help in spreading the word @deespeak #AnimalsArePeopleToo #BeKind #StayAtHome pic.twitter.com/U4CyWHKoRSFeeder pass or no, people are finding ways to feed strays, either by showing notices circulated by the concerned authorities or by working on the goodwill of the police. “The DM has told some people that if you have food in your car and you are going to feed, no one is going to stop you. We also have a letter from the Chief Secretary’s office, UP, that says the police should help those who are out to feed stray animals,” says Anuradha Dogra a NOIDA resident, who was previously associated with SPCA before it shut down and was taken over by the UP government as Animal Hospital and Shelter, NOIDA.“I got a curfew pass because my NGO is in Gurgaon and I live in Saket. I went to the DCP office in Vasant Vihar where they have put up a counter to collect the form. I submitted some documents including the RC and driving license. I got the pass the next day and have no difficulty in going out and feeding strays,” says Divya Parthasarathy. Read: Uttarakhand cops, animal lovers turn saviours for strays during lockdownWith problem of feeding sorted, the problem with transportation still remains an issue. “Our supplier has his store in Vaishali, Ghaziabad and is able to transport it only once a week. How much ration can we store in our houses? Secondly, our volunteers are going out feeding on cycles but even their movement is restricted,” says Delhi-based professor, Renu Malaviya.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinian||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/feeder-passes-to-feed-strays-come-as-a-relief-amid-lockdown/story-2wFMvxvXSNUXZiaxej7MDP.html
01-04-2020||City||Two customs officials quarantined after 2 Pakistani nationals test positive on their return via Attari||The Punjab health department has home-quarantined two Customs officials posted at the Integrated Check Post (ICP) at Attari after two of the five Pakistani nationals who returned home through the Attari-Wagah land border on Sunday, tested positive for Covid-19.The five Pakistani nationals —Chaudhary Muhammad Ashfaq, who underwent a medical follow-up at Fortis Hospital, New Delhi; his attendant, Muhammad Asif; Nighat Mukhtar, who got a liver transplant done at Fortis Hospital, Noida; his attendant Yasir Mukhtar; and a donor, Muhammad Khalid—had been in India on medical visa.According to the Pakistani media, Yasir Mukhtar and Muhammad Khalid were found suffering from Covid-19 and admitted to the isolation ward at Service Hospital in Lahore.CAME IN SPECIAL AMBULANCEThe group was allowed to return to Pakistan after the Union ministry of external affairs granted them special permission. The permission was granted when the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi wrote to the ministry on March 26, saying the five men had been “stranded”.A special ambulance was arranged to take them from Noida and Delhi to Attari.The ambulance ferried them on Saturday night.“The two men found positive in Pakistan were checked by two Customs officials at the ICP. They have been quarantined in their homes. A team of doctors has also been deployed to conduct regular screening and checkups of the officials,” Amritsar civil surgeon, Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal, said.She said health department officials in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh have also been alerted.PAK RANGERS INFORMED BSFA Border Security Force (BSF) official at Attari said the BSF authorities were informed by Pakistani Rangers on Tuesday about the two Pakistani men testing positive for Covid-19. Subsequently, the health department was informed.On March 14, India suspended cross-border trade and movement of passengers through the Attari-Wagah border till April 15 as a precautionary measure against the coronavirus outbreak. But diplomats, officials of the United Nations (UN) and other international organisations, and employment and project visa-holders were excluded from the ban.On March 19, Pakistan too closed its borders for 14 days. Since then, thousands of Pakistan nationals have been stranded in India and Indians in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-customs-officials-quarantined-after-2-pakistani-nationals-test-positive-on-their-return-via-attari/story-ChuRsNropA8xTczfinohCP.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Residents shower flowers on sanitation workers amid coronavirus crisis, win praise from Punjab CM||PATIALA: In a gesture of gratitude, residents applauded sanitation workers by clapping and showering flower petals on them. The sanitation workers are ensuring cleanliness in the township amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Some people even offered garlands of currency notes to one of the safai workers on Tuesday.Taking to Twitter, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh posted the video where people are seen lauding the sanitation workers and appreciated their benevolent gesture.“Pleased to see the applause and affection showered by people of Nabha on the sanitation worker. It’s heartening to note how adversity is bringing out the intrinsic goodness in all of us. Let’s keep it up and cheer our frontline warriors in this War Against #Covid19,” Capt Singh tweeted.Though the chief minister appreciated the people of Nabha, municipal executive officer Sukhdeep Singh Kamboj clarified that the video was not from the town. (With HTC input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nabha-residents-shower-flowers-on-sanitation-workers-amid-coronavirus-crisis-win-praise-from-punjab-cm/story-ePynYwhUwzYilzcYO1f9eI.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Day after Mohali man’s death to Covid-19, three more test positive in Punjab district||MOHALI: A day after a 65-year-old Mohali man died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), three more people have tested positive, taking the count to 10 in the district.A 60-year-old woman and her nine-year-old granddaughter, who are residents of Phase 9, have tested positive. The woman is the mother of an NRI who returned from Canada recently and tested positive along with his wife on March 30.A 45-year-old man of Jagatpura in Mohali also tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. He was in direct contact with a 22-year-old resident of Sector 30, Chandigarh, who had returned from Dubai on March 11 and had tested positive for coronavirus on March 27.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “All three positive cases are in contact with the Chandigarh patients. We have admitted them to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. They are stable. We are taking samples from their areas.”Meanwhile, the test reports of seven family members of the 65-year-old Mohali man, who died due to Covid-19 on March 31, are negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-after-his-death-seven-members-of-65-year-old-mohali-man-s-family-test-negative/story-gaT3n958EMcYFAw9TMjiHK.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||72-year-old neighbour of Ludhiana’s Covid-19 casualty tests positive||LUDHIANA: A 72-year-old woman living in the neighbourhood of Puja Rani, 42, the first Covid-19 casualty of Ludhiana, has tested positive for coronavirus.The elderly woman, Surinder Kaur, lives near Puja’s house and is learnt to have met her frequently over the past few days.She was admitted to the isolation at the local civil hospital on Tuesday night.Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said that Puja’s daughter has, however, tested negative.Punjab special chief secretary KBS Sidhu tweeted that 140 of the 141 samples from the state sent for testing were found negative.Puja died early on Monday and her test reports that arrived later confirmed that she was suffering from Covid-19.Forty-three of her direct contacts were kept in isolation but their samples have tested negative. The elderly woman’s condition is stated to be stable.Meanwhile, security has been stepped up in the Amarpura area near the civil hospital where Puja used to live. No one has been permitted to come out of their house to check the spread of the virus.Puja is survived by her three children. Her husband died 13 years ago.ELDERLY WOMAN HAD NO TRAVEL HISTORYAccording to area councillor Gurdeep Singh Neetu, Surinder Kaur has no travel history. She suffered a fracture in the arm two months ago and was undergoing treatment from a private orthopaedic clinic. She lives with her husband, Harbhajan Singh, 75. The couple has two married sons and four grandchildren. The family runs a cloth manufacturing unit in the area. “Though the remaining nine family members have been home-quarantined, they have tested negative,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. He said 43 samples were sent on Tuesday out of which one was found positive.“Though Puja’s daughter has tested negative, the report of her sons and other relatives is awaited, “ said Dr Bagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/72-year-old-neighbour-of-ludhiana-s-covid-19-casualty-tests-positive/story-4ssIuhE45ZTnaZltauw0gN.html
01-04-2020||Dehradun||COVID-19 Warrior: Uttarakhand man uses his car as ambulance in remote hilly regions amid lockdown||With  state and district borders sealed and travel services suspended due to nation-wide lock down to contain the coronavirus outbreak, a 32-year-old man from Devprayag in Tehri Garhwal district has started using his car as an ambulance cum essential services delivery vehicle to help people in need.Ganesh Bhatt, 32, from Devprayag got the idea of using his vehicle as an emergency service after he learnt from a few locals that drivers in the area were scared to take patients to and from hospitals fearing they might contract the virus. Bhatt can be contacted on 9410530387.“We all know how the healthcare system is in the hilly regions of our state; ambulance services are not efficient even at the best of times and to top that, now local drivers do not want to take people to hospitals even if they are paid Rs 2000, as they are scared they might get infected. So I started using my own car as an ambulance,” said Bhatt.He started taking people to health centres near his region since March 22 and since then he has helped 24 people get timely treatment, including a pregnant woman.“I have got distress calls from families of pregnant women who were not able to find ambulances on time. I recently took one woman to a health centre for first aid after she was bitten by a monkey, then a small boy who had fractured his hand. I myself have a one and a half year-old son, but I feel that people need to be helped in this hour of crisis,” he added. He said he constantly santises both his hands and vehicle so that they remain free of the virus.According to him, he initially offered only emergency services, but now he has started supplying essential items too in his car.“Following social distancing norms, people call me and tell me to get them medicines, ration and other essential items, so that they don’t have to come out of their houses,” said Bhatt.Bhatt who ran a computer education centre during the pre-covid-19 days, says he is using the money he has saved to offer his service. “People who have contacted me through social media are also contributing money for fuel. Locals have started calling my car, 109 ambulance service,” says Bhatt||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/covid-19-warrior-uttarakhand-man-uses-his-car-as-ambulance-in-remote-hilly-regions-amid-lockdown/story-bWH8EIC7oKNbs8WaXGiQfI.html
01-04-2020||City||78 complete quarantine in Kashmir, sent back home||Around 78 travellers who had returned from Leh and were put under 14-day quarantine in Srinagar were sent back home on Tuesday after completing the quarantine period, said officials of the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday.As soon as the people came out of the hotels in Srinagar where the administration had put them in quarantine after arriving from Leh in an Air India flight on March 18, they were ferried to their respective districts of the valley in state transport buses.“This was the first batch of people who were quarantined and were lodged in two hotels. No one among them developed flu-like symptoms. The police clapped for them to boost their morale,” said Idrees, nodal officer of the quarantine centre on the banks of Dal Lake.Out of these 78 people, 52 were travellers including businessmen while 26 were students. They had arrived at Srinagar Airport on March 18 and most of them belonged to Kupwara, Baramulla, Anantnag, Pulwama, Srinagar, GanderbalKashmir had reported its first coronavirus positive case on March 18 and the authorities had imposed restrictions from the next day to prevent the spread of the disease.“As soon as they landed at the airport, they were put in quarantine at the designated hotels,” said additional deputy commissioner Srinagar, Hanif Balki.The Kashmir administration has quarantined hundreds of people in over 65 hotels and government buildings who returned from foreign countries as well as those from different parts of the country after March 18.Balki said that more people will be completing their quarantine on Wednesday. “Over 100 people, many of which are students who had arrived from Bangladesh will be sent back homes,” he said.The doctors have advised them to home quarantine themselves for another 14 days. “We have issued necessary instructions to them, including the need to stay indoors and avoid any unnecessary travel,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/78-complete-quarantine-in-kashmir-sent-back-home/story-9Jgq5OQRmuLYhMmNkf4feN.html
01-04-2020||Delhi||5 more govt hospitals to fight Covid-19||With a surge in the number of infection cases likely in the city after health officials uncovered the clustering at Nizamuddin, the government has decided to convert five of its tertiary care hospitals to dedicated Covid-19 centres. This will earmark at least 5,850 beds for the management of Covid-19 patients in Delhi, officials said.Lok Nayak, Deen Dayal Upadhyay, Guru Teg Bahadur, Rajiv Gandhi super speciality, and Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospitals have started working on moving their non-Covid patients to other hospitals, said to a Delhi government order issued on Tuesday.Another 200 bed in Guru Nanak Eye Centre in Lok Nayak campus may also be added if needed.On Tuesday, 23 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in the city, taking the total up to 120. The test reports of none of the people evacuated from the Nizamuddin markaz had come back on Tuesday and the number of people who tested positive from the area remained at 24. Another person who had tested positive on Saturday had visited the dargah.The reports of 441 people from the markaz, who showed symptoms of the virus, is awaited.The Delhi government is still in the process of tracing 18 other people who tested positive at private laboratories. The government is trying to trace the history of all the 18.Delhi government’s biggest tertiary care centre Lok Nayak hospital, along with government’s only superspeciality hospital GB Pant on the same campus, are preparing to become Covid-19 hospitals.“Any patient that can be discharged, will be. For those who still need hospitalisation, they will be moved to other Delhi government hospitals or even to a private hospital, if need be,” said Dr JC Passey, medical director of Lok Nayak campus.The hospital is also in the process of moving its out-patient clinic to the separate orthopaedics block and the surgical emergency to Sushruta Trauma centre in Civil Lines. “We are in the process of converting the entire 2,700 bed facility for Covid-19,” said Dr Passey. The government is also exploring the option of opening up a newly constructed hospital in Burari with 1,000 beds – of which 10 -15% will have ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/5-more-govt-hospitals-to-fight-covid-19/story-gr6LkGQMqmV52bFIFyxIuO.html
01-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Gravity of situation yet to dawn upon most Nizamuddin evacuees||Their faces covered, a group of men with their belongings on trolleys and in sacks, walked towards a green DTC bus parked outside the Nizamuddin police station. They left their bags in the front and silently occupied one seat after the other. They hardly spoke to each other.As they waited, another group did what they had done just minutes ago-- they evacuated from a five-storey white building, called Markaz, submitted to a thermal screening, gave their contact details and walked towards the bus.“I had arrived from Muzaffarnagar 25 days ago to do social service. Now, I feel like as if I committed a crime,” said one of the men in the bus — the gravity of their collective act still not having dawned on him. Click here for complete coronavirus coverageHe wanted water as the temperature rose in the bus, but none of his co-passengers had any.The men were part of the around 1,000 pilgrims and guests hiding in the Markaz after the countrywide lockdown was announced on March 24 to prevent the spread of Covid-19. When officials tracked the travel history of at least eight persons who died in different parts of the country, it led them to this building. Since then, 24 people from the area were found positive for the virus and around 441 others showed symptoms. Nizamuddin had become a hot spot of the virus in the city.On Tuesday, the roads leading to the Markaz were sealed and only government officials were allowed. Sanitation workers roped in to spray disinfectants on the gates and windows in the Nizamuddin neighbourhoods received unusual requests -- from health officials and journalists to spray on their clothes and shoes, and the police requested them to spray on their cars and motorcycles. In the adjoining lanes, civil defence volunteers walked around with a list of residents who were suspected of having come in contact with the Markaz residents.But these volunteers said it was a futile task. “We are looking at people who may have visited the Markaz, but the occupants themselves had been to several places,” said Suraj Kumar, one of the volunteers.People in the area concurred. Afzal Khan, a man who works at a roadside food stall and sleeps in a park near the Markaz, said, “Many of them would take a walk in the park and play with our children. They would then walk to the nearby Humayun’s Tomb.”Other residents in the adjoining neighbourhoods said that the occupants would roam around in their streets. “Our delivery boys had been delivering food at the Markaz until Friday. They would approach the gates, collect the cash, hand over the food and leave,” said Zuhaib, owner of a Biryani restaurant nearby.But the evacuees insisted that they weren’t to blame. “When the lockdown was announced, I visited multiple tour and transport shops in the neighbourhood for a way to get to my home in Lucknow. They all refused,” said another evacuee who didn’t wish to be identified.He said that since the lockdown, he and the others in the Markaz wore masks and kept a “social distance”. “Our religion teaches us to follow the law of the land. Is it our fault that the lockdown was announced when we were here? Why weren’t we asked to leave much earlier when there is a police station right next door?” the man asked.A statement from the Markaz on Tuesday said that when the ‘janta curfew’ was announced for March 22, the ongoing programmes were discontinued immediately, but the sudden halting of rail services during the lockdown left them stranded.According to them, there were about 2,500 pilgrims in the Markaz and about 1,500 managed to leave the city immediately in the wake of the lockdown. Scores of those left behind included those from Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and Myanmar.The Markaz statement said that the first formal notice to vacate the premises arrived on March 24. Senior police officers refused to comment on why they did not ask the residents to leave as the Delhi government had also announced a “lockdown” from March 23. One officer on condition of anonymity said that they were cautious in dealing with a religious gathering. “We thought that any attempt to disperse them would be met with the resistance that we faced in Shaheen Bagh and Jamia,” said the officer.Fuzail Ayyubi, the legal counsel of the Markaz in them matter, said that the visitors had arrived before any of the restrictions came into place. “The pilgrims stay here for a few days and then depart. This is a round-the-year feature. After the country-wide lockdown was announced, we asked the authorities for help to send these people back, but no action was taken,” said Ayyubi, adding that the Markaz can accommodate 4,000-5,000 people on any given day.Some of the evacuees HT spoke to said that they had arrived at the Markaz as late as on March 22, the day of the voluntary janta curfew. Police and other officials involved in the evacuation said that the number of people stranded in the Markaz was heavily downplayed. “They hid the real figures from us. So far, we have already sent 34 buses, each occupied by 34 pilgrims. Many pilgrims are still being brought out,” said a police officer.Parveen Kumar, a civil defence volunteer, said that when he had visited the Markaz on Friday with health officials, the response he received was that they didn’t need help from outside. “They weren’t willing to let us take the details of the occupants. They said they would manage on their own. When we spoke to the occupants, some of them complained of cough and fever. That is how some of them were found positive,” said Kumar.At the adjoining Basti, which houses around 30,000 people, there were regular announcements from the mosques asking people not to panic.“A teams of residents would stand guard on the streets to ensure people don’t step out. Now the area is almost sealed,” said Mohammad Umair, a social activist and resident.Residents blamed the police for not acting on time despite being close to the Markaz. SM Umar, the general secretary of Nizamuddin West RWA, said that they have issued circulars their WhatsApp groups, urging people to step out only when urgently required. “The civic agencies spray disinfectants only on select days. We have divided ourselves in small groups to carry out the sanitisation work every day,” Umar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/gravity-of-situation-yet-to-dawn-upon-most-evacuees/story-YpZEPxQjRi8qcdizQZOvGP.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration extends curfew till April 14||The UT administration has extended the curfew imposed in the city till April 14.After imposing the curfew on March 24 to prevent transmission of Covid-19, the administration had relaxed it between 10am and 6pm on March 28, only to curtail the relaxation to between 11am and 3pm on March 30. Only shops of groceries, medicines and vegetables are allowed to remain open during these hours.“UT will follow central government directions on the issue and conform with the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by the Prime Minister. The curfew will continue during the entirety of the lockdown period,” UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida said on Tuesday.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal for a nationwide lockdown on March 24, most states and union territories opted for a lockdown, keeping shops selling essential articles open. But, in Chandigarh and Punjab a curfew was imposed, and all establishments were shut down. This invited a flurry of complaints about non-availability, poor quality and high prices of essential products, such as vegetables, fruits and medicines. The problem was much worse in Chandigarh’s periphery and villages, where only few chemist shops were open.While in most sectors, administration has successfully implemented the curfew and enforced social distancing norms, in the peripheral areas and in colonies, the curfew norms continue to be violated unabatedly.FULL WAGES FOR PVT SECTOR EMPLOYEESThe UT administration has issued an order to all employers — to consider private sector employees working from home as working. “All employees working in the private sector – casual, contractual or regular, who are forced stay at home during the lockdown, will be treated on duty and get full wages,” Parida said.In an earlier order, UT had barred house owners from demanding rent from tenants for one month. Any property owner forcing tenants to vacate premises during the lockdown will be prosecuted.EXPIRED DRIVING LICENCES EXTENDEDThe UT administration has extended the validity of driving licences that expired on February 1 till June 30, 2020. “All driving licences and fitness permits of vehicles, which lapsed on February 1 and could not be renewed due to the lockdown, will be treated valid till June 30,” Parida said.The decision was taken following an advisory in this regard by the Union ministry of road transport and highways. Driving licence tests at the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) already remain suspended since March 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ut-extends-curfew-till-april-14/story-RvuAO3LGTm2ajOf15uswdM.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: 76 untraced passengers from abroad give Chandigarh admn the jitters||The UT administration is yet to trace the 76 people who returned to Chandigarh from abroad in March. These residents have not been found at the UT address mentioned in their passports.Of the 15 Covid-19 cases in the city so far, five recently came from abroad and the rest are those who came in contact with them.“We initially received a list of 1,600 people who came to the city in March. On Saturday, this number was updated to 2,277,” said a senior UT official requesting anonymity.Of the 2,277 people, the administration is trying to trace the 676 persons who returned to the city after March 14. “While 626 of them were already under home quarantine, the administration has marked 30 more for home quarantine, and 20 were quarantined on Tuesday,” the official said.However, adding to the administration’s worry are the missing 76 persons, all of whom returned before March 14.“We are yet to trace 76 people. Some are not present at the address mentioned in their passport, and their houses are locked. The others, we suspect, have shifted to other states. We will make a list of such people and share it with other states,” the official said.As of March 31, as many as 1,070 people in the city are in quarantine, but the administration has not clarified as to how many of them returned from abroad or the number of people they have come in contact with.“It’s a precarious situation. People who have returned from abroad and have not reported to the administration should come forward and disclose their travel history and status of health,” said Ravindra Khaiwal, additional professor, school of public health, PGIMER. The guidelines are clear and should be followed religiously, the professor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-76-untraced-passengers-from-abroad-give-chandigarh-admn-the-jitters/story-nYzTiRlXJaSZxeYlGZmRsO.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Nayagaon man’s death: Nurses cry foul, PGI says protocol was followed||After a 32-year-old nursing officer tested positive for Covid-19 while another was put in quarantine after coming in contact with the Nayagaon man who died of the infection at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Tuesday, the nurses association accused the authorities of “denying proper safety equipment” to those posted in emergency wards.The 22 nurses in emergency wards have been provided with only triple-layer masks and gloves, while personal protective equipment (PPE) is available only to the staff in the communicable disease ward, said PGIMER Nurses Welfare Association general secretary Satyaveer Dagur.“Since patients with no contact history have started reporting to the institute with symptoms, there is need to provide PPEs to nurses in all such wards,” he said. The association has also shot off a letter to the administration stating that protective gear, including N95 masks, should be provided to all nurses who may come in contact with infected patients. Dagur also alleged that nurses posted in the Emergency repeatedly asked for Covid-19 testing of the Nayagaon patient, but to no avail.However, PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram denied the claims, stating that the protocol was followed: “The patient was suspected of H1N1 infection and thus admitted in the specific area earmarked for the disease. He had no travel history and had no contact with any suspected patient, thus he was not expected to have contracted Covid-19. Still, we carried out the test as he was suffering from respiratory syndrome and found that he was positive.”He said a committee has been formed to look into proper distribution of equipment required to safeguard the staff and other demands.P’KULA NURSE SHARES VIDEO TOOMeanwhile, after a 36-year-old nurse at the Sector 6 civil hospital in Panchkula tested positive for Covid-19 in similar circumstances on Tuesday, a video of a staff nurse posted at the primary health centre in old Panchkula was widely shared on social media, wherein she can be seen raising concern over lack of protective equipment.The video also showed Asha workers covering their faces with dupattas in the absence of masks.“I am wearing a raincoat of my own and a polythene bag on my feet. We request the authorities to provide us proper kits as we too have families,” the nurse can be seen saying in the video.“I have come across the video and an inquiry has been marked,” said chief medical officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur. “We have provided protection kits to all medical staff. If any doctor is found negligent, action will be taken.”MISSTEPS IN HANDLING NAYAGAON MAN’S CASEMarch 18 The 65-year-old Nayagaon man visits GMSH-16 on experiencing acute respiratory problem. As he has no travel history and there is no confirmed case in the tricity, Covid-19 testing not conductedMarch 25 He visits GMSH again on complaining of cough and fever. X-ray conducted, but he is sent back. Seven doctors and eight paramedics exposed to infection, directly or indirectly March 26 He is admitted to PGIMER’s H1N1 ward. Again, not tested as he has no travel history, even as he is symptomaticMarch 28 After H1N1 test report comes negative, Covid-19 test done. By time positive report comes, at least five doctors and 28 other staff members exposed to infection, directly or indirectly||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nayagaon-man-s-death-nurses-cry-foul-pgi-says-protocol-was-followed/story-rkMluZLVs4iRqh6HR6q65K.html
01-04-2020||City||Chandigarh doctor covid+, had met UK-returned patient||A 43-year-old doctor at Mayo hospital in Mohali’s Sector 69 tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Chandigarh’s 15th coronavirus patient, the doctor, a resident of Chandigarh’s Sector 49, had come in contact with a suspected patient from Punjab’s Malout town.The patient had visited the doctor at Mayo hospital. After the doctor was confirmed positive for coronavirus disease, he was admitted at the same hospital.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the doctor was a resident of Chandigarh and worked in Mohali. “He had come in contact with a Malout resident, who had returned from the United Kingdom. Though that man is doing fine, we have sent teams to collect his sample. We have also sampled four employees at Mayo hospital. The doctor is stable and responding well to treatment,” Dr Singh added.All family members of the doctor will remain under home quarantine for the next 14 days in Sector 49. Residents of the Sector 49 housing society, where the doctor lives, have been directed to remain indoors till further instructions.NRI WOMAN TESTS POSITIVE AGAINThe 74-year-old woman, who along with her sister, had tested positive for Covid-19 on March 20, has tested positive for the virus in the second test as well. However, her 69-year-old sister’s second sample tested negative. The women, who were visiting Mohali’s Phase 3A from the UK, are admitted to Fortis Hospital in Phase 8. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said though one of the sisters tested positive again, both were responding well to treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-doctor-covid-had-met-uk-returned-patient/story-D6naBEOIfIKaHgbQw0vtRL.html
01-04-2020||Delhi||8 Kyrgyz Jamaat members shifted from Sangam Park||Eight Kyrgyzstan nationals, who are suspected of attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation earlier this month in south Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin area, were evacuated from a house in northwest Delhi’s Sangam Park on Tuesday and were sent to a quarantine facility, the police said. The eight foreigners were living in a rented house near Bharat Nagar since early March, they added.Police said they have also booked the landlord for not informing the police before renting the house to foreigners.DCP (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said the eight Kyrgyzstan nationals have been sent to a quarantine centre after they were screened at a hospital. Their samples were also collected and tested for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “The eight persons showed some symptoms of the infection,” said Arya, adding that only health officials would confirm the health status of the eight foreigners.The DCP said police came to know about the Kyrgyzstan nationals through their sources. “We cordoned off the area and informed the authorities about the foreign nationals who were suspected to have attended the congregation at the Markaz in Nizamuddin. The foreigners were evacuated and taken to a hospital so that they could be screened and tested,” the DCP said. She said the eight Kyrgyzstan nationals were staying in Delhi since early March.A police officer, not authorised to speak to media, said the foreigners told the police and health officials that they were supposed to return home on March 16 but could leave due to the travel curbs. “They said the Tablighi Jamaat authorities had arranged the rented accommodation for them,” the officer said.“We are going through the markaz’s records to see who all left the premises before the screening began. We have asked all our district teams to look for such people,” an official from Delhi’s health department said requesting anonymity.Model Town MLA Akhilesh Pati Tripathi, said he had informed the police and the district magistrate on Tuesday about foreigners living in Sangam Park.“While the police have quarantined the foreigners, I have asked the DM to ensure other people are placed under quarantine as well,” the Aam Admi Party MLA said.A senior official of the north Delhi municipal corporation said civic body was yet to get instructions from the Delhi government’s health department about taking any quarantine measures in the area. The official said work on sanitising the area would start from Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/8-kyrgyz-jamaat-members-shifted-from-sangam-park/story-WonFErqkquBSySkYll1uoN.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown: Only 46 migrants housed in 200-bed facility in Chandigarh||At the newly built community centre in Maloya, Chandigarh, which has an intake capacity of over 200 beds, only 46 migrants have been housed so far.The UT administration had set up a makeshift shelter at the Maloya community centre for interstate migrant labourers after receiving directions from the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Sunday. The directions came in light of the mass exodus of migrant labourers amid the 21-day lockdown in India to control the spread of coronavirus. Most of the migrants in the Maloya shelter had been working in Ludhiana, Punjab, and Baddi, Himachal Pradesh.On Monday, 52 migrants were brought in by Chandigarh Police. Rajiv Tewari, the nodal officer appointed by UT administration, said, “Initially, the total number was 52 but 11 were residents of Maloya and Manimajra. After consulting the police, they were sent back to their homes here.”When this reporter visited the shelter, it was found that despite the facilities provided by the administration, most of the migrants still wanted to go back. Sarvesh Kumar, 17, walked all the way from Una to Chandigarh and was on his way to Sector 43 bus stand when he was caught by police and brought here. “Train kab tak chalu ho jayegi, hum gaon nahin ja payenge kya (When will trains resume, will I never be able to reach my village)?” he asked.“My mother, father and sisters are in Badami, Uttar Pradesh. They are worried about me. Agar mujhe marna hi hai toh unke samne marna chahta hu (If I have to die, I want to die in front of them),” said another migrant, Hoshiyar Kumar, 19.Migrants are served meals three times a day, donated by a local café; basic hygiene products like soap, towels and toothbrushes are arranged by the administration. The facility is sanitised twice. A team of doctors from Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 conduct frequent checkups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-only-46-migrants-housed-in-200-bed-facility-in-chandigarh/story-9ZWn0qey6GfeZ14OKHyi1I.html
01-04-2020||City||Coronavirus curfew: Knights in khaki deliver essentials, food to Mohali colonies||Walking into a police station in Mohali amid the coronavirus curfew is a completely new experience. Instead of writing FIRs, the staff will be found busy packing rations and cooked food to be distributed among the homeless and those living in slums and colonies of the city.The cops instead of making crime entries in the log register are busy keeping a record of the ration as well as food distributed and how much more is required on a daily basis.A senior policeman who was busy packing at the Phase 1 police station said, “Along with some good Samaritans, we, too, are contributing from our pockets towards purchase of ration, while our friends and relatives are coming forward to donate as well. We pack the ration in hampers that are given to each family. Each packet includes flour, pulses, sugar, and oil.”Around 20 police stations, eight police posts and all 13 traffic zones in the district are ensuring no one goes without food in the district. Many police stations serving cooked food have decided on a menu for different days of the week to introduce variety.“On some days, we serve kheer or curry rice, on others sweet rice, chhole-poori, or aalu-poori. Nobody can eat the same thing everyday,” said the senior policeman. There are days when even fruit is distributed, he added.HAPPY TO SEE POLICE AT DOORSTEPUnlike other days when the presence of police would invoke confusion, residents are happy to see the khaki-clad teams and are coming forward to identify families in dire need of food and other essential items.“The police control room as well as police officers are getting calls seeking help. People even help us identify the families who need food and other essentials. We are here to serve the residents,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali.“A lot of organisations, are coming forward to donate. As the movement is restricted, they are coming to the police station or approaching us to accompany them for distribution, which we are readily doing,” said Rajiv Kumar, station house officer, Mataur.POLICE TAKING PRECAUTIONS“We are preparing food in police stations and ensuring proper hygiene is maintained. We have tied up with local gurdwaras as well to cook food for us,” said Baljinder Singh Mand, police post in-charge, Industrial Area, Phase 8, Mohali.He added that while distributing food, servers wear gloves and masks, and social distancing norms are strictly adhered to.“To ensure that there is no chaos during distribution, we are deploying a couple of constables and making announcements that ration packets will be delivered at people’s homes,” said Ramadeep Singh, DSP (city), Mohali, who was busy supervising the distribution of ration in Jagatpura, one of the biggest colonies in Mohali.Besides feeding humans, the SHO of Phase 8, Rajnish Chaudhary, and some other police officials regularly feed stray animals in Mohali to ensure they don’t starve amid the curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/knights-in-khaki-deliver-essentials-food-to-mohali-colonies/story-Z3qrv0FbJpAOR41VsVMM1M.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Door-to-door garbage collectors brave coronavirus outbreak to keep Chandigarh clean||By the time most of the residents wake up, their trash bins have been cleaned out. Hardly anybody has really seen the faces of the unsung heroes who braving calamity are ensuring our living spaces remain clean.Even when the city is on a 21-day lockdown and residents are confined to the walls of their houses because of the fear of coronavirus spread, the 2,500-strong brigade of door-to-door garbage collectors is doing their job relentlessly, without giving it a day’s skip.“We, too, are scared of the virus, but we have no other option. We work so that our family can have a day’s meal,” says 47-year-old Suresh Kumar, who collects garbage from over 140 houses in Sector 41 and over 50 houses in Sector 40.The only change that the ‘virus’ has brought in Suresh’s working schedule is that now, he does not take his wife and two daughters, school drop-outs, along. The entire responsibility of collecting the garbage has fallen on him and his 16-year-old son, also a school drop-out. “This is the only thing I can do for my family at this time of crisis. At least the ladies of the house will be confined inside and it reduces the chances of their getting infected,” says Suresh.Jagwanti, a garbage collector who works along with her husband in a society in Sector 48, says, “After we are done with work, the very first thing we do is take bath, before we meet the family.”AN ‘UNRECOGNISED’ PROFESSIONThe door-to-door garbage collectors are neither a part of the Chandigarh municipal corporation’s sanitation wing, nor are they employees of the private company that has been given charge of cleanness work in the southern sectors.Most door-to-door garbage collectors are paid ₹50 to ₹100 per month per house for collecting daily trash.They don’t have any life insurance cover or any health insurance benefits. They don’t even enjoy the privilege of a weekly off. If one of them falls sick, their family members must pitch and take their place. They cannot let the chain break—from houses to a sector’s garbage collection centre to the processing unit at Dadumajra.“It is the time to show the society that we, too, care for them. If we don’t pick the garbage during the curfew period, the piled up garbage will start spreading infections,” says Shamsher Lotia, who is the head of the door-to-door garbage collectors’ society and himself collects garbage from Sector 27.But how is the administration making sure they stay safe?The only thing the collectors have been provided by the administration is a pair of plastic gloves each, which don’t last for more than a couple of days. “We have urged the UT administration and central government to provide insurance cover to door-to-door garbage collectors who fall under the rag picker category, and at least provide bare minimum facilities that are extended to municipal corporation’s sanitation workers to carry out work at the time of coronavirus,” says Lotia.“Except for a handful, all garbage collectors are Dalits. Though we largely don’t face any discrimination in our work, people do have a tendency to maintain distance. Some people even tell us not to touch their gates. In case we ask for water, they prefer not to use steel or glass tumblers, but give us a bottle and ask us to take it along,” he adds.CLEANLINESS, A DISTANT DREAM FOR THEIR LOCALITYThe garbage collectors ensure cleanliness in all sectors and societies in the city, but when it comes to their colony in Sector 56, cleanliness is a distant reality.It was in 2008 that the collectors were allotted prefabricated tin shed houses under the central government’s Rag Pickers Awas Yojana Scheme in Sector 56, Chandigarh.For the last four months, their sewerage line is choked and the wastewater is overflowing into the residential spaces.“It is the duty of the MC to take care of the common toilets and sewerage lines and of the outer roads. But the officials have a callous approach towards us. They think since we are garbage collectors, we ourselves will take care of the entire sanitation work of the area,” says Rajdulari, 40, who accompanies her husband for collecting garbage from over 150 houses in Sector 39.KIDS MEAN EXTRA INCOMEMost of the children of garbage collectors are school drop-outs and are seen as extra earning hands. “In our profession, you will see the entire family, including wife and kids, helping the man of the house to cover more houses and subsequently add more to the household income. We send our children to schools, but the rate of the drop-out is more in our community,” says garbage collector Geeta, 40, whose all four daughters attend school hoping to one day break out of the ‘family profession’.“We are contributing towards keeping Chandigarh clean even at the time of coronavirus spread, and hoping the administration realises that the rag pickers’ colony, too, should be an area of concern. We are residents of Chandigarh as well,” says a 50-year-old garbage collector, Saroj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/door-to-door-garbage-collectors-brave-coronavirus-outbreak-to-keep-chandigarh-clean/story-FrHMKPKVBqpdkY3SAqxSVN.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh MC civic works hit, labour exodus adds to worries||All civic works being carried out by the municipal corporation in Chandigarh have come to a halt as the nationwide lockdown to contain coronavirus enters second week on Wednesday.What worries the contractors even more is the mass exodus of labourers from the tricity. This, they say, will further delay the works even after the situation normalises. The major work that has been hit is road recarpeting. Pegged at ₹40 crore, it had been pending for long. After taking off in the first week of March, it had to be stopped within 10 days due to the restrictions imposed in Chandigarh.A road contractor, who did not wish to be named, said although he did not have the exact number, most of the labourers engaged by him left the city in the past three to four days. “This will definitely pose a hurdle once we plan to restart the work,” he said. Harpreet Singh, another contractor who deals with public health works, said outsourced labourers working at tubewells and water reservoirs are still reporting on duty. However, as far as civic works, such as road repairs, are concerned, he was not sure whether they were available anymore. “It will be known once restrictions are lifted,” he said. Chief engineer Shailender Singh said suspension of civic works is “beyond our control”. “However, we will try to restart them at the earliest, when the situation normalises,” he said. Meanwhile, parking lots will also take more time to get smart facilities.The MC in February had given 90 days to the two new parking contractors to equip 89 lots with smart facilities.It is learnt, the contractors have told the civic body that they will not be able to meet the deadline, and sought three to four weeks extension. Smart facilities include installation of cameras and display screens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-mc-civic-works-hit-labour-exodus-adds-to-worries/story-GHmqlKoISW1evWy2MZV8QP.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 outbreak: 1,600 Punjab cops pulled out of security duty to maintain law and order||With a view to maintaining law and order on the ground amid the ongoing lockdown imposed in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the Punjab Police on Thursday withdrew nearly 1,300 personnel on security duty The decision was taken on the directions of the chief minister to provide relief to nearly 44,500 police personnel performing field duties over several days.In the first phase, security of district and sessions court judges, IAS officers, senior police officers, retired cops and bureaucrats and some politicians have been pulled out.The personnel deployed with the MLAs, MPs and ministers have not been touched even as a government spokesperson claimed a significant number of men from chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s security were withdrawn to fight the Covid-19 threat, an official said. Nearly 7,000 cops are still deployed to guard VIPs in Punjab. Among the 161 persons, whose security was pruned, are former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal (2 of 30), Markfed chairman Amarjit Singh Samra (2 of 6), Punjab Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh (2 of 9), Punsup chairman Tejinder Bittu (2 of 6), Amritsar mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu (2 of 4), former Congress ministers Avtar Singh Henry (2 of 4), Mohinder Singh Kay Pee (2 of 4), Hari Singh Zira (1 of 3); Akali leaders Jagmeet Singh Brar (2 of 4), Prem Singh Chandumajra (2 of 4), Adesh Partap Kairon (2 of 12), Charanjit Singh Atwal (2 of 8), Maheshinder Grewal (1 of 3), Sikander Singh Maluka (2 out of 4) and Surjit Singh Rakhra (2 out of 4).Also on the list are Amritsar district and sessions judge Balwinder Singh (2 out 10), Patiala district and sessions judge Rajinder Aggarwal (2 of 10) and Fazilka Patiala district and sessions judge Tarsem Mangla (2 of 10). Others are Jalandhar divisional commissioner B Purushartha (3 of 11), Patiala divisional commissioner Deepender Singh (3 of 10) and Pathankot deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira (1 of 11). The retired civil and police officials whose security was pruned are Jasminder Singh, Sanjiv Gupta, Sarabjit Singh, Amarjit Singh Chahal, Lok Nath Angra, Paramjit Singh Gill and RP Mittal.Director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said further withdrawal would be made after evaluation of threat and through “graded reduction”. “More security personnel from district cadre and armed battalions will be withdrawn and put in reserve. Extensive mobilisation of the force has been planned in a phased manner,” he said. The exercise has again exposed how certain people continue to enjoy police cover despite Amarinder-led government’s repeated claims about ending VIP culture in the state.The list also has names of retired cops who have up to 10 gunmen.BOX:Retiring cops, home guardsget extension till May 31Due to the rising Covid-19 threat, the department of home affairs gave extension till May 31to police personnel and home guards jawans who were slated to retire soon.“These employees would not be eligible for any promotion or additional perks during the extension period,” the official notification read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-outbreak-1-600-punjab-cops-pulled-out-of-security-duty-to-maintain-law-and-order/story-isKlJGKLGbOyhzYhxbS8SM.html
01-04-2020||City||Punjab’s 1st Covid-19 death: Pathlawa residents urge Capt to act against those defaming village||The residents of Pathlawa, the native village of Baldev Singh, Punjab’s first COVID-19 victim who died on March 18, have written a letter to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, demanding action against those who are allegedly defaming their village and the deceased on the social media. They also demanded removal of Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala’s song from YouTube, which allegedly maligns the image of Baldev Singh, besides legal action against the singer. They also sought that the link of Moose Wala’s objectionable song be removed from Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta’s official Twitter handle, besides calling for the latter’s explanation.Baldev Singh, 70, died at the Banga civil hospital in SBS Nagar district on March 18. He along with his two associates, Gurbachan Singh and Daljinder Singh, returned from Germany via Italy on March 7 and then attended the Hola Mohalla celebrations at Anandpur Sahib. As many as 27 contacts of Baldev were infected with coronavirus.In their letter to CM, the villagers said that fake reports are being spread about Baldev that he concealed that he was Covid 19 patient. “You (CM) can verify from the health department that Baldev was tested positive for coronavirus only after his death.” “Now, fake stories maligning the image of Baldev Singh’s family and our village are doing the rounds on social media. Besides Baldev, Baba Gurbachan Singh, a respected personality, is also being defamed,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-1st-covid-19-death-pathlawa-residents-urge-capt-to-act-against-those-defaming-village/story-riD7jXidjFgtzS6SRhMPEO.html
01-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Punjab-born UK MP Virendra Sharma recovering||Senior Labour MP Virendra Sharma, who last week tested positive for the coronavirus and was hospitalised when his condition deteriorated, said on Tuesday that he has now been discharged and is “recovering well at home”. Hailing from Jalandhar district, Sharma, 72, is among nearly 30 MPs who have gone into self-isolation with symptoms or tested positive. They include senior figures like Prime Minister Boris Johnson, health secretary Matt Hancock and Scotland secretary Alister Jack. Sharma, MP from Ealing Southall, said: “At Hillingdon Hospital I tested positive for coronavirus, and had some trouble breathing, and was hospitalised for a week. My care was exceptional, and I want to pay an enormous tribute to all the staff at the hospital.” “Now I am back home again and self-isolating, and following all the NHS (National Health Service) and government advice. I want to urge everyone else to do the same…The amazing men and women of the NHS working in almost impossible situations, with too little kit and too little support deserve our help,” he added. Noting that many Britons, including those of Indian origin, are stranded abroad, Sharma said he and his staff have been liaising with the Foreign Office. There has been “some positive development” on this, but the issue has not yet been resolved for all, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-punjab-born-uk-mp-virendra-sharma-recovering/story-uUJqiZRV2yDm8lxbaQRGVI.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Threat, repercussions real; we Punjabis are resilient and will overcome: Captain||After the coronavirus outbreak, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was quick to pad up to deal with the looming public health emergency. He was the first head of the state to clamp curfew on March 23 – a day before the Centre declared a nationwide lockdown – slow down the virus spread. In a crisis management mode, his government is focusing on tracing 1,300-odd missing NRIs, preparing contingency plans for harvesting and procurement of a whopping 135 lakh tonnes of wheat crop and finding ways to endure the pandemic’s debilitating effect on the state economy. In an e-mail interview with HT on Tuesday, the chief minister dwelt on the challenges ahead and his action plan. Excerpts:What impact the coronavirus outbreak would have on the state?It is too early to give an assessment. Our efforts currently are focused on preventing the spread of the disease and ramping up the health infrastructure to meet any eventuality. I am personally monitoring the situation and we are prepared to handle any eventuality. The government machinery is fully engaged so that people are not inconvenienced. The impact of the outbreak is likely to be an extended one, though it is not possible to put any timeline. Also, I do not think any section of the society will remain untouched by the crisis. But we, Punjabis, are resilient, and will undoubtedly come through this crisis eventually.Has the state government been able to figure out the broader spread? If yes, how do you plan to deal with it?The situation is a very dynamic one and changing every day. As of now, there is no apparent community transmission in Punjab. However, as the danger still looms, and we cannot rule out escalation in the coming days, we have geared ourselves fully. We have planned three levels of care centres: i) critical care where all Covid-19 patients with HDU (High Dependence Units) and ICU (Intensive Care Units) requirement would go to Government Medical Colleges (GMCs); ii) Patients with mild symptoms would be admitted to isolation facilities created in government hospitals with total bed capacity of 5,000 at present; and iii) In case of broad spread of Covid-19, hostel buildings of colleges would be converted into care centres. This plan would enable us to take care of more than 25,000 positive patients at any given point of time.As India, according to several experts, is entering into a critical phase where we can either flatten the curve or see a sharp spike. What is your main worry on the health front?Fortunately, we have not entered the Stage-3 of community transmission and hope we do not have to face such an eventuality. However, if a broader spread does occur, then the focus will have to be on flattening the curve so that there is no rush of positive patients to the hospitals and each patient is properly taken care of. The very low number of positive cases in the last few days give us cause for optimism on this count. More aggressive testing and more contact tracing so as to put Covid-19 positive cases in isolation for treatment is the strategy we have adopted. We hope it will help prevent the situation from escalating.What about NRIs and other persons with history of foreign travel who are still to be traced? How serious a danger do they pose?When reports of the outbreak started coming in, we screened more than 95,000 passengers who had arrived at the two international airports at SAS Nagar and Amritsar, and two land ports at Wagah and Kartarpur Sahib. Subsequently, we received a list of 55,000 international passengers from government of India. We have put these passengers under home quarantine of 14 days and are keeping a strong vigil. It is true all Covid-19 positive cases in Punjab have been traced back to persons with history of foreign travel, but it would be unfair to say that NRIs pose a special danger of Covid-19 because if we consider the total percentage of persons who came from abroad and showed symptoms of the virus, then we’ll see that it is a very small percentage.What is your sense on the impact of national lockdown on Punjab’s economy?It is too early to predict anything, especially considering that we are still in the midst of the crisis. Right now, we are diverting all resources to coping with the problem and providing all possible support to our people. I have already asked finance minister Manpreet Badal to draw up a detailed financial contingency plan to deal with the situation. But given the extent of the problem, the economic fallout is going to be extremely serious, and may take a long time to recover, not just in Punjab but the entire nation, and in fact the whole world.As Punjab is heavily dependent on migrant workers for harvesting and they are returning to their homes in droves, what challenges do you see?My instructions to all the departments that not a single migrant labourer should be out on the streets. Industry and brick-kiln owners have been asked to shelter the migrants. Also, we are in talks with the Radha Soami Satsang sect to help accommodate the migrant labourers in their Satsang Bhawans so that they can help out with the wheat harvesting that is due to begin in two weeks. The government has also made elaborate arrangements to provide food and shelter to those left in the lurch because of the sudden lockdown.How do you look at India’s response to the coronavirus challenge?The nation has, by and large, responded very well to the situation. The challenge of locking down 1.3 billion people overnight was an extremely tough one, and naturally it was not possible to put in place foolproof systems. Yet, given the scale and enormity of the challenge. Things have been largely smooth, barring the exodus of labour from some states, which is also now being managed. In retrospect, one can of course think of many things that could and should have been done differently. But things are getting normalised and I am sure every state is doing everything in its power to manage its people while extending full support to the Centre in this critical hour.What steps should the Centre take to help the states?We have already shared a detailed list of steps needed urgently to be taken by the Centre to help us out of this crisis. These include immediate release of our GST compensation, payment of dues under MGNREGA, deferment of industrial and agriculture/crop loan instalments by commercial banks, special insurance for police and sanitary workers in line with the one announced by the Centre for health workers and incentives for farmers to ensure staggered transport of wheat grain into mandis.Medical experts have been pressing for more testing. What is your take on this and whether we have the facilities in Punjab for testing on a large scale?When this problem started, we had testing facilities at PGIMER with capacity of 40 Covid cases per day and then we got approval for testing facilities at GMCs at Patiala and Amritsar. GMC, Faridkot, will also get approval very soon. In the next 3-4 days, we will increase the testing capacity in Punjab to 850 cases per day. Regarding testing protocol, we have been broadly following the ICMR guidelines which allow very limited testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/threat-repercussions-real-we-punjabis-are-resilient-and-will-overcome-captain/story-xFJmJ0gJEiD5dlsdN56K3N.html
01-04-2020||City||Nine from Punjab attended Nizamuddin congregation||As many as nine persons from Punjab attended the Tableeghi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi, health officials said on Tuesday.Among those who attended the congregation included four from Ludhiana, two from Sangrur and one each from Barnala, Gurdaspur and Pathankot.Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, head of newly established media wing for COVID-19 communication, said all of them have been identified. “They all are said to be in Delhi and have not returned to Punjab yet. We have traced their families in the state and all have been found asymptomatic till date,” said Dr Bhaskar.Meanwhile, Ludhiana additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city-1) Gurpreet Singh Sikand said that one man from Rajasthan, who had attended the congregation, had visited the electricity market near municipal corporation zone-A office in Ludhiana eight-nine days ago and then left for Jodhpur.He was quarantined in Jodhpur and found positive for coronavirus. The police have traced the Ludhiana shopkeepers who had come in contact with him and asked health officials to conduct tests on them.The Tableeghi Jamaat had hosted a mass gathering this month that was attended by thousands of followers, which has become the new hotspot of covid-19 cases. As of now, nine Indians who attended this congregation have died. One foreign national has also died in Mumbai and 19 other foreigners have tested positive for the disease.Blurb: Four of them are from Ludhiana, two from Sangrur, one each from Barnala, Gurdaspur and Pathankot||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-from-punjab-attended-nizamuddin-congregation/story-vS4EE9MQY11MdqCPNnvqgI.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Health staff, patients need no curfew passes in Punjab; banks to stay open||The health department staff, doctors and regular patients in Punjab will no longer require curfew passes, while banks and ATMs will be allowed to operate throughout the week, while adhering to Covid-19 protocols under the revised guidelines issued by the state government on Tuesday.The new guidelines were issued by the state home department, following review of coronavirus preparedness with the group of ministers (GoM) by chief minister Amarinder Singh, said a government spokesperson. The guidelines are aimed at streamlining systems in public interest while ensuring compliance.According to the new instructions, the district magistrates (DMs) have been asked to extend the curfew up to April 14.While the relaxations already granted would continue, the post offices and courier services have additionally been allowed to operate under the fresh guidelines. Banks and ATMs have been allowed to operate for the whole week as against two days a week allowed earlier, provided social distancing norms are maintained. Employees of the health and medical education departments have been now permitted to work on the basis of their identity cards and would not be required to carry curfew passes, said the spokesperson. Similarly, all the doctors of private hospitals, nursing homes and diagnostic laboratories will be allowed to work without curfew passes on the basis of their photo ID cards issued by the Punjab Medical/Dental Council or Indian Medical Association. Other employees of private nursing homes would be granted bulk curfew passes on the request of the administrator of the hospital concerned.Patients would now be allowed to visit all hospitals, nursing homes and diagnostic laboratories, on the basis of patient cards/prescription slips. New patients would be allowed movement against e-pass. However, serious patients would be allowed to go to hospitals without any pass or cards.PEOPLE COMING FROM OTHER STATES TO BE QUARANTINEDAny person entering Punjab from other states will need to be home quarantined, if asymptomatic, and hospital quarantined or to be kept in isolation ward, if symptomatic, as per the guidelines of the health department, the government spokesperson said.The guidelines further stipulate that the drug-dependant persons will be allowed to visit outpatient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT)/de-addiction centres on the basis of the prescription slip/cards issued by the clinic. The district authorities have also been instructed to ensure strict adherence of protocol for foreign travellers as already applicable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/health-staff-patients-need-no-curfew-passes-in-punjab-banks-to-stay-open/story-Ci7i4EUhTD1FusitLaFHoJ.html
01-04-2020||City||Ludhiana woman cremated in dead of night; two sons isolated at civil hospital||The body of a 42-year-old Ludhiana woman, Puja Rani, who was the third covid-19 casualty from Punjab and the first from the district, was cremated at the Gaughat crematorium, in the dead of the night, at 2am on Tuesday. She had been declared dead at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, at 6pm on Monday.To control the spread of the infection, only two sons of the woman and health officials were allowed to be present. The two sons are now under isolation at the civil hospital. Her younger son works as driver and elder one is a peon at Guru Nanak Bhawan. The health department has advised people who came in contact with her sons to self-isolate.3 doctors among 58 identifiedcontacts asked to self-isolateSince the death, 33 contacts of Rani, who worked at a factory near Samrala Chowk, were asked to self-isolate on Monday night. On Tuesday, 25 more persons, including the medical staff deployed at civil hospital were also asked to self-isolate. Samples of three children of Rani, her brother-in- law Sukhwinder Singh, and two other relatives have been sent for covid-19 testing.Three doctors, two staff nurses and a Class-4 employee, who came in direct contact with the patient, have also been instructed to self-isolate. The private ambulance driver, who the woman’s family had hired to take her to Patiala, has also been advised home quarantine.With her brother-in-law Sukhvinder claiming that Rani had visited civil hospital for treatment from March 24, some trainee doctors deployed in isolation wards have been asked to go on leave.Quarters cordonedoff; colony sanitisedWith palpable panic among residents of Amarpura Colony, a congested locality marked by dingy small quarters, police cordoned off Rani’s house in the area on Monday. In Shimalpuri too, where Sukhwinder, along with his 10 family members, have been quarantined, the house was sealed. The Amarpura quarter, where Rani had been living as tenant for a year, was sanitised.Sukhwinder, whose own sample report is awaited, expressed disbelief that Rani had died due to the virus infection. “Rani had stopped going to work since March 11. She did not step out of the house. We are shocked as to how did she get the infection. No other family member has fallen sick for 15 days. We demand a reexamination of her samples.”Strap/BlurbSamples of six relatives, including three children, sent for testing; medical staff who came in direct contact with victim instructed to self-isolate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-woman-cremated-in-dead-of-night-two-sons-isolated-at-civil-hospital/story-7kE7UOLZLZEnF6GvSp1MML.html
01-04-2020||City||29 Rajasthan-returned labourers home-quarantined in Amritsar||The health department put 29 labourers in home-quarantine on Tuesday after they reached Amritsar from Rajasthan amid nationwide lockdown imposed to control the coronavirus outbreak.These people were working as daily-wage labourers across Rajasthan since one month.Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said, “The 29 persons were working in Rajasthan as labourers. When the lockdown was imposed, they were terminated from their jobs and were deprived of food and accommodation. They wanted to come back, so we contacted the authorities there and helped them come back.”“They reached Punjab via Fazilka on Tuesday. At around 2.30am, they reached Amritsar and were directly taken to Naraingarh health centre. Their medical screening was conducted and none were symptomatic so they were put on home-quarantine for the next 14 days,” she added.Dr Johal said that the health department received their complete travel history and has put home-quarantine stamps on their hands.“We have maintained their records including travel history and address. A team of doctors will keep a close watch on them for the next 14 days. If found to be suffering from any coronavirus symptoms, they will be shifted to the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) and further tests will be conducted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/29-rajasthan-returned-labourers-home-quarantined-in-amritsar/story-NJC1lgu3rSOGWPoW2a1aLL.html
01-04-2020||City||Nabha villagers protest over ‘inadequate ration’||The underprivileged dwellers in five villages here on Tuesday protested against the ‘poor distribution’ of ration among them during the lockdown period.Villagers in Kakrala, Dhanouri, Surajpur, Bouran Kalan and Majha, along with the members of zameen prapti sangarsh committee and pendu mazdoor union, came out beating utensils and claimed that they were suffering due to poor supplies of ration.However, the administration has roped in several social organisations to help the needy as the government supply of free ration has not reached all the villages yet. The state government has authorised panchayats to withdraw ₹5,000 per day from the panchayat fund if there is a need for emergency supply of ration.Meanwhile, many villages seemed rife with inadequate information regarding government schemes.Protesters claimed that the government was not supplying ration to registered construction workers or MGNREGA workers who receive cash payments. “Are ₹3,000 sufficient to feed a family in these times,” asked Balwant Singh, a protester.A village sarpanch requesting anonymity said that the government had barred them from providing supply to the workers registered under BOCW and MGNREGA schemes as they were already getting cash deposit in their bank accounts.Giving clarity on matter, Nabha block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) Ajaib Singh Ghundar said that free ration will be supplied to all below poverty line (BPL) families, irrespective of the cash reliefs given to them. He said the village heads were barred only from withdrawing cash from the panchayat funds in the name of emergency for those who were already getting relief under various government schemes.When asked about the protest, Nabha sub-divisional magistrate Sooba Singh told HT that he was not aware about it. “I will verify and address the protesters’ issues at the earliest,” he added.Around 1,700 families have been listed from Nabha’s rural areas for not being included as BPL or beneficiaries of Atta Dal and other government schemes. These include shack dwellers and migrant labourers. BDPO Ghundar confirmed the listing of these families assuring help to them during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nabha-villagers-protest-over-inadequate-ration/story-DSJFPbidlqNPFn8litUVaI.html
01-04-2020||City||Amritsar admn tending to stranded Chinese, Swiss tourists||Two foreign tourists have been stranded in the city amid the country-wide lockdown against COVID-19 outbreak as all modes of travel remain suspended.They have been identified as Benjamin Bitte (30) of Switzerland and Zhong Shaoming of China. They had visited various tourist destinations in the country before getting stuck in the city.For the past week, the two have been staying in a hotel on Queen’s Road here, while the administration and police are tending to their needs. “We are making sure that they do not face any problems because they are our guests in this crisis-ridden situation,” said a hotel employee.Assistant sub-inspector Vikram Singh, who is deployed at the hotel for their security, said that five police personnel take turns guarding the hotel round-the-clock. “Efforts are on to ensure their safe return to their respective countries,” said deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon.As per information, after finding themselves in trouble, the tourists had approached the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) seeking accommodation in the premises of the Golden Temple, but were turned away by SGPC officials citing their different lifestyle.Zhong had landed in country on January 5. After visiting several tourist destinations, he came to Amritsar on March 23.The hotel staff also said that they were offering them simple vegetarian Indian food and the foreigners were accepting the same in view the prevailing situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-admn-tending-to-stranded-chinese-swiss-tourists/story-TI20tl4x6VDoGIyesmUSsM.html
01-04-2020||City||Patiala man flees isolation centre, booked||The district police registered a case against a suspected Covid-19 patient for fleeing the isolation centre of the Government Rajindra Hospital on Tuesday.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said Mandeep Singh, a resident of Anand Nagar area of the city, was kept at the isolation centre and his samples were sent for testing.“However, the accused fled the centre before the arrival of his report. He also misbehaved with the medical staff at the centre,” Sidhu said. He added that the police managed to bring him back to the isolation centre. On the complaint of nodal officer Dr Sachin Kaushal, the accused was booked under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), among others, of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-man-flees-isolation-centre-booked/story-df5vGYS8GlqAi7KbQBHoxI.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana defers elections in district courts/HC||The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana (BCPH) on Tuesday decided to defer the elections of Bar associations in districts of both the states and Chandigarh and high court. The elections which were to take place on April 17, have been put on hold indefinitely.The executive committee of BCPH met through video conferencing and also discussed setting up of a fund to help needy advocates in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. However, it was decided that it would be considered at a later stage if lockdown continues.It also decided to request governments of Punjab and Haryana and Chandigarh to constitute a committee to provide medical aid to lawyers, if need be. It also requested lawyers to volunteer for helping the weaker and vulnerable sections in all possible means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bar-council-of-punjab-and-haryana-defers-elections-in-district-courts-hc/story-tdKslfQTyWqTAVYrVgpo6K.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Not wise to assemble for Baisakhi celebration: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president and former Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday said that keeping in view the ongoing lockdown and curfew in the state, it would not be advisable for devotees to assemble at Takht Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo to celebrate Baisakhi. Baisakhi marks the birth of Khalsa, which was founded by the tenth Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh in 1699. “Human lives are precious and in such scenario when social distancing is the key to stay healthy, it is better to stay at home,” Sukhbir said, adding that he would request Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to ponder to on the issue, take a decision and make an appeal to the community.Speaking to select journalists in a video conference, Sukhbir also raised concern over the availability of labour for wheat harvest and the following paddy transplantation. “In the absence of labour, industrial production has come to standstill. The lockdown is casting its shadows on the state’s economy which is largely dependent on agriculture and migrants labour plays a vital role,” he added, suggesting to the Punjab government to arrange for stay and food for labour.He added that state government had a huge role to play in procurement of wheat because it was only on getting payment that farmers would be able to make arrangement for kharif sowing.“My party cadre report that they are out in the field helping the people. The government, however, has failed to give ration and items of daily need to the people, especially the poor,” he claimed. “I would not like to enter into any kind of politics but make a suggestion to the CM to start regular interaction with leaders of all political parties to draw out a strategy to fight the pandemic,” added Sukhbir.On the Kabul gurdwara attack, he added he had asked Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who is also his wife, to take up the issue with PM Narendra Modi so that all Sikh families living in Afghanistan are relocated to India and allowed to start their lives afresh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/not-wise-to-assemble-for-baisakhi-celebration-sukhbir-badal/story-5tP85BQEVRAYuPGFYDyszI.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||82 cases take Maha Covid-19 count to 302||Maharashtra’s coronavirus case count on Tuesday reached 302, highest in the country, after 82 new cases were reported. Of the 82 cases, 59 were recorded in Mumbai alone, taking the number of infected people in India’s worst-hit city to 151. Health minister Rajesh Tope, however, said the spike was because the results of tests conducted by the city’s private laboratories over the past four days were declared together on Tuesday.Among the remaining cases, 13 are in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), five in Pune, three in Ahmednagar and two in Buldhana district. Significantly, test reports of 201 people across the state are still awaited, said the state health department.The spike in Mumbai was registered a day after a few patients, who tested positive, were found to be from densely populated Worli-Koliwada, following which the state government has issued instructions to all authorities to take precautions to contain the spread.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said they are sealing areas where there are coronavirus patients, so as to curb the spread of the disease.For Mumbai, the chief minister also directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to set up 227 flying squads that will conduct house-to-house inspection in each and every ward. The squad comprises a staffer each from the BMC, police, health and revenue departments.“The squads will reach out to the members of the patient’s family and all those who came in contact with them. They will be asked if they have any symptoms of flu, such as cough, cold and fever, and for those having any of these symptoms, arrangements will be made for testing,” Thackeray said.He also said that the entire Worli-Koliwada area has been declared as affected and movement of locals there have been restricted. “It will be difficult to contain if the epidemic spreads out to other such populated areas of the city. Mumbai is a capital and the situation here should be under control,” the chief minister said in a meeting held late on Monday evening at his official residence.Tope said that there is nothing to panic as the spike in numbers is not of a day. “The number of 59 cases are an accumulation of test reports of the past four days of private laboratories, which was validated by the state laboratory,” said Tope.As per the guidelines issued by the Central government, first ten test reports of a private laboratory need to be validated by the state-run laboratory, only after which the test reports of the private lab is considered as final. This is the reason the test reports of the past four days got accumulated, creating a picture of a spike in cases in Mumbai, said a senior health official, wishing not to be named.At present, the state has a capacity of testing around 5,500 samples in a day. Of them, capacity of 13 government laboratories are of 2,300 samples per day and eight private laboratories have capacity of testing 2,800 samples per day, informed the health minister. He, however, stressed that there is no need to conduct sample testing at such a huge level, hence they are not using testing facilities at full capacity.Meanwhile, a 49-year-old housekeeping employee of Saifee Hospital has tested positive for the infection (Sars-Cov-2). She came in direct contact with an asymptomatic patient, who was undergoing treatment at the hospital for a different illness. Currently, she is undergoing treatment at Kasturba Hospital. Around five of her family members have been home quarantined and their samples have been collected for analysis. When contacted, the hospital refused to make any comment.Five close contacts of the 85-year-old surgeon, who died last week in Saifee, have also tested positive, including a house help. “They were earlier kept in home quarantine, but as their samples have tested positive, we have isolated them,” said a ward officer. At Jaslok Hospital, where a nurse was earlier detected with coronavirus, around 150 medical staff, including doctors, have been home quarantined. Non-emergency services at the hospital have been stopped for 14 days.On Tuesday, six more nurses were diagnosed with the disease at the hospital. So far, 6,331 samples have been analysed in the state. The data given by the state government also states 23,913 people are in home quarantine and 1,434 are in institutional quarantine across Maharashtra.Meanwhile, the shutdown declared by the chief minister on March 22 ended on Tuesday and in the past ten days, Maharashtra has got 228 new cases of novel coronavirus. Despite all the restrictions, the numbers are still rising and is likely to further rise, it is said. Moreover, the state government too believes that there could be a spike after the first week of April and they are trying to reduce the impact. Experts believe the state should increase its testing capacity and reach out to maximum people to contain the spread.Two days before the Prime Minister declared a 21-day lockdown across the country, Thackeray had on March 22 declared imposing section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in urban areas of the state, restricting assembly of not more than five people at one place. He has also declared a shutdown of public transport services — Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST), state transport and private buses — after which Mumbai Metro and Monorail also announced closure of their services till the end of the month. The staff in all the government offices was also reduced to 5% each day. The clampdown orders were issued to contain the outbreak but numbers are still going up.The data provided by the state government indicates that in the past five days (since March 26), most of the new cases found are of non-travellers, which means the ones who have come in contact with a coronavirus-infected person, while in the past three days (from March 28), all the new patients of Covid-19 in the state are non-travellers, which is not a good sign. On March 28, 29, and 30, the number of positive cases found were 20, 27 and 22 respectively.Senior officials in the government also confirmed that the state is expecting a spike in cases and are taking all the precautions to restrict it. “It has been observed in other countries that after a gap of 30-35 days, the number of cases rises suddenly, hence a spike is very likely to happen in the second and third week of April month. We are taking all the precautions to minimise the rise,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.Tope also said that the number will increase, but not that high, like in other countries. “There is no community transmission in the state as of now. The number will increase , but not in the range like that of other countries, as we have taken precautionary measures in an advanced stage,” he said.But experts insist that the state should increase its capacity for testing facilities. Dr Behram Pardiwala, internal medicine expert, Wockhart Hospital, said that the test, which should take 12-14 hours, is taking up to 4 days because of a backlog. “With more number of tests the government can epistemologically see how the epidemic is spreading. For instance, Worli-Koliwada got few patients and we know there is a cluster there, so there is a need to test people there more actively,” he said.Meanwhile, state home minister Anil Deshmukh has warned people against spreading any rumour owing it to be April Fool’s Day on Wednesday. “Tomorrow’s April 1st. The annual tradition making an ‘April Fool’ of people has already begun on WhatsApp & social media. The state govt won’t allow anyone to spread rumours/panic on #Corona. I’ve instructed @MahaCyber1 to act swiftly & strongly such miscreants,” Deshmukh said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/82-cases-take-maha-covid-19-count-to-302/story-2RRtwxGt1sCIEqoe43dbjO.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||3 new Covid-19 patients from Worli Koliwada worked alongside infected doctor||Three new positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in Worli Koliwada and the adjoining Janata Nagar and Adarsh Nagar on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 12 in the area. A 60-year-old resident of Worli Koliwada, who had died in Nair Hospital on Monday, was also revealed to be positive for Covid-19 after his test results were confirmed on Tuesday. Of the three latest patients, one man worked as a technician with the doctor at Saifee Hospital who also tested positive for Covid19 last week. The other two were staff nurses who worked with the same doctor, according to an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)On Sunday, when the first four persons from Worli Koliwada tested positive for the coronavirus, the BMC revealed that neither had a history of travel or close contact with a person who had traveled to another affected country.However, when asked if the most recent infected persons, who were in contact with the Saifee Hospital doctor, could be traced as the origin of the spread of Covid-19 in Worli Koliwada, the BMC official said, “It is too early to say this. The results of these three persons came only today. We are examining this possibility.”The G South ward, that has jurisdiction over Worli Koliwada, also recorded 15 other cases up from 12 reported on Monday, all of them from a single chawl at Elphinstone Road. A food vendor living in this chawl tested positive for Covid-19 on March 24. She died three days later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/3-new-covid-19-patients-in-worli-koliwada-worked-alongside-infected-doctor/story-Nx4osveQvGvA7rux4AtJFI.html
01-04-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal warns of rise in cases after Tablighi Jamaat episode||Terming the Tablighi Jamaat congregation that took place mid-March in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West “highly irresponsible”, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said 24 of the 89 active coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-infected people in the Capital were those who were part of the religious gathering earlier this month. Kejriwal also warned that the number of positive cases in Delhi could go up further in two-three days as 431 of over 1,500 persons evacuated from the Nizamuddin area till Tuesday had started showing Covid-19 like symptoms, including fever, cough and shortness of breath. In a digital address to the media, the chief minister talked of strict action against his officers if they were found negligent in performing their duties. The administration of the markaz has alleged inaction on the part of the district magistrate and the sub-divisional magistrate (south-east) for failing to evacuate people on time. It alleged that the revenue officials did not issue e-passes for its vehicles, as a result of which a large number of guests had to stay put in the building. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) blamed the Delhi Police and the organisers of the markaz and sought strong action by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. “Strong action should be taken against the administrators of the Nizamuddin markaz who organised a three-day religious gathering with thousands of people from March 13-15, when Delhi government orders had clearly forbidden gatherings of more than 200 persons on March 13 itself,” Kalkaji MLA Atishi said.Earlier in the day, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain said the organisers of the gathering had “committed a grave crime”.The AAP also attacked the Delhi Police for its inaction. “The Delhi Police should have stopped them since they had full information about the event, especially since the Nizamuddin police station shares a boundary wall with the markaz. Strict action needs to be taken against the police officers concerned as well,” Atishi said. Kejriwal said his government had written to lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Monday seeking an FIR against the organisers of the Nizamuddin markaz. To this, the L-G’s office later responded with: “The matter has been referred to the police today for appropriate action as per law.”“A total of 1,548 people has been evacuated over the past two days. Of them, 431 people were found to be symptomatic and were directly sent to the hospitals. A total of 1,107 were asymptomatic and so, were sent to the government’s quarantine centres. Organising such a gathering was extremely wrong. Imagine how many people may have contracted the virus since several persons returned to other states from the markaz. What happened was highly irresponsible,” Kejriwal said. The chief minister also cited an empty Vatican and Mecca to urge people not to gather. He appealed to religious leaders not to hold any such gatherings to avoid the spread of Covid-19, which he said was still in the local transmission stage in Delhi. “This is the time of Navratri and temples are usually crowded with worshippers. But everyone is following the lockdown and not crowding these places of worship. Gurudwaras and even mosques are empty. Everyone is offering prayers in their homes. But if cases like this (Nizamuddin) emerge then Delhi government will have to resort to strict action,” he said. According to an analysis of the total number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi by the city administration, of a total of 97 cases so far, 41 are of those who returned from abroad, 24 are from the Nizamuddin markaz and 22 are mostly family and friends who came in contact with those who returned from abroad. “For the remaining 10 cases, we are checking the nature of transmission. Further, of the 97 cases, two have died, five have recovered and been released, one is out of the country. So, we currently have 89 active cases in which one patient is serious and is on ventilator support. Two others are on oxygen. Eighty-six patients are stable,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-warns-of-rise-in-cases-after-tablighi-jamaat-episode/story-WBnIqyYQgzfGoX3jrxiADN.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||Coronavirus outbreak: Maharashtra government employees to get salary for March in two instalments||Staring at a drastic drop in the revenue receipts of outgoing fiscal 2019-20, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced the deferment of a part of the March salary of elected representatives and government employees.The elected representatives, from the chief minister (CM) to the gram panchayat members, will get 40% of their March salary, while the government employees will get 50% to 75% in the first installment. The remaining part of the March salary will be released later in the next financial year, the government has clarified.The decision has been taken in the wake of the drastic drop in revenue receipts and huge amounts spent on unforeseen expenditure while combating the Covid-19 outbreak.Class A and B officers, ranging from the rank of secretaries to desk officers, will get 50% of their March salaries, while the clerical staff in Category C will get 75% of the salary. There is no deduction initiated for Class D employees, comprising peons and office assistants, deputy CM and finance minister Ajit Pawar said after his meeting with all the unions representing state government employees.“I hope that the employees and their unions will extend their whole-hearted support to the government in this unprecedented challenge we are facing,” Pawar said, adding that the decision would boost the morale and finances of the government in its fight against the outbreak.After Pawar’s announcement, chief secretary Ajoy Mehta issued a circular stating that the March salary will be released in two phases.“A separate circular will be issued announcing the release of the remaining part of the salary,” it read. The state government is expected to save ₹5,000 crore by deferring the payment and utilising the amount for the settlement of the balance sheet in a bid to make-up for the drop in the revenue receipts, in form of taxes and duties, due to the lockdown.There are more than 15 lakh state employees, drawing an estimated annual salary of ₹1.15 lakh crore for financial year 2019-20.GD Kulthe, chief consultant, Maharashtra Gazetted Officers’ Federation, said, “We have agreed to the deferment of a part of the salaries in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The delayed payment will help the government to adjust its bills during the closure of the financial year 2019-20. The government has assured us that the salary deduction will be restored within the next couple of months.”However, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Kirit Somaiya, Ashish Shelar and Nitesh Rane have criticised the state government for not excluding health workers and police from the decision. CM Uddhav Thackeray later in the evening clarified that the government would try releasing the second instalment of the salary of employees who have been fighting Covid-19 from front-line at the earliest. A day ago, Pawar had demanded the Centre to release a package of ₹25,000 crore to the state in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent lockdown, which has badly hit the state economy. He also has demanded that dues of ₹16,654 crore with the Centre towards the devolution of central taxes and aid be released before March 31.All major political parties have already declared to donate the salary of their legislators to the relief funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coronavirus-outbreak-maharashtra-government-employees-to-get-salary-for-march-in-two-instalments/story-Q9f19X0CHTbBYa1ZKUNo4N.html
01-04-2020||Delhi||SDMC steps up sanitisation ops in Nizamuddin area||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday stepped up sanitising operations in Nizamuddin Basti and Nizamuddin West residential colony and areas adjoining the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, also referred to as markaz. A team of 40 people with sodium hypochlorite (a disinfectant) on shoulder-mounted knapsack pumps and three tractor-driven tankers sanitised the entire area on Tuesday, starting at 7.30am.The headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim organisation, in Nizamuddin West is emerging as a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spot in the national capital, with 24 confirmed cases so far, more than 400 showing symptoms of the contagious disease, and more than 1,100 people placed in quarantine. Though SDMC officials have been spraying disinfectant in the congested Nizamuddin Basti since Saturday, a senior official with the civic body, said efforts have been stepped up since Monday evening. “Till now 45,000 litres of disinfectant have been sprayed in the area, including Nizamuddin Basti, Nizamuddin West and Nizam Nagar. Spraying is being done twice a day. It starts at 7.30 am and continues till the entire area is covered. We have been spraying 15,000 litres of disinfectant in the area every day since Sunday,” the official said.A senior SDMC official said there is a special focus on disinfecting the area because of its population density and the fact that it also has a large floating population, factors which make it vulnerable for the spread of the coronavirus. Area councillor Yasmin Kidwai, said, “We ensured that the area adjourning the markaz (Basti and Nizamuddin West residential area) were completely sanitised on Tuesday.”He said that as many as 50 sanitation employees have been deployed in the area to sweep the area and collect garbage. Four tippers has also been engaged for transportation of municipal waste from the area.As many as 40 masked domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) are spraying disinfectant in the narrow alleys and lanes in the area that tankers cannot enter. “We are keeping a close vigil and actively taking all measures to contain the spread of the virus in the area. Whatever actions are required, will be taken,” SDMC mayor Sunita Kangra said.Meanwhile the health department of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Tuesday sanitised the Bakkarwala area, as suspected cases from Nizamuddin have been quarantined here, municipality officials said. Public toilets in and around Nizamuddin were sanitised as well on Tuesday.“The NDMC has provided the Delhi government 240 EWS flats at Bakkarwala to isolate suspected cases. The sanitation staff carried out spraying of disinfectant and fogging in Bakkarwala, along with other New Delhi areas such as Khan Market, Chanakyapuri. Officials are keeping a close watch on areas near Nizamuddin,” an NDMC official said.Residents concernedJangpura MLA Praveen Kumar said that ever since the matter concerning the congregation at the markaz came to light, he has been getting requests from residents of Nizamuddin West to carry screenings of all households in the area. “We have cordoned off Basti, Nizamuddin West and East, Bhogal and Sarai Kale Khan. People want all households, especially in the Nizamuddin West residential colony to be screened. The government is thinking of screening all houses in the Basti first.”A senior Delhi government official said the priority right now is to take all people in the markaz to quarantine facilities, and trace their contacts.Rakesh Mehta, former president of the Nizamuddin West RWA, said, “Our residential colony is adjacent to the Basti. There are no gates, so people move around freely here. The civic agency has sanitised the area. But now that so many cases have been reported, we want the government to screen all the houses in this area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sdmc-steps-up-sanitisation-ops-in-nizamuddin-area/story-suwaz3SSLhLKgbCgpxuDYO.html
01-04-2020||Gurugram||33 sent to quarantine, cops suspect their participation in Tablighi Jamaat||Worried about the spread of Covid-19 in the district, the Gurugram administration, along with the local police, on Tuesday sent 27 persons from Pataudi and six from Dhankot village to quarantine at the Civil Hospital after collecting their samples for testing. Officials in the district administration said they were yet to find out if the patients sent to quarantine were part of the Tablighi Jamaat convention held at Nizamuddin in Delhi.“These people are from districts of Haryana like Mahendergarh and neighbouring cities like Loni border, Ghaziabad and Delhi. According to locals, 27 people — including three families — arrived in Pataudi on Monday night. These families, however, claim that they have been in Pataudi since March 2019,” said Rajesh Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate, Pataudi. He added that locals fear that the 27 were part of the Tablighi Jamaat. “We are still inquiring whether they were part of the Jamaat or not,” said Kumar, who along with the local police on Tuesday morning had gone to Pataudi and Dhankot .Of these 27 people, officials said, 13 are adults and the remaining children. They were taken to civil hospital, sector 10, where their samples were collected for Covid-19 testing. Currently they are admitted in the quarantine ward of the hospital and after the sample reports are in, the symptomatic patients will be admitted in the isolation ward, health officials said.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer said, “We were informed about people in Dhankot and Pataudi. So, we had to admit them in quarantine. We carried them to sector 10 civil hospital in an ambulance and their samples have been sent for testing to PGIMS, Rohtak. We had to take their samples to prevent community transmission . However, it cannot be confirmed right now, whether they were part of the Jamaat or not.” In Gurugram, of the 10 Covid-19 cases, 6 patients have recovered so far and have been discharged. One of the biggest cases of coronavirus transmission has come from a convention of Islamic preachers held by Tableeghi Jamaat held earlier this month in Nizamuddin, Delhi. Along with Delhi, the case is being connected to states like Maharashtra, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andaman-Nicobar, Andhra Pradesh and Srinagar. Telangana reported that six people who attended the event died from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/33-sent-to-quarantine-cops-suspect-they-might-have-been-part-of-tablighi-jamaat/story-2txuaCFYcWY1kTkYJ03G5O.html
01-04-2020||Delhi||Ghaziabad health dept traces 14 residents who attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation||The Ghaziabad health department officials on Tuesday said they have so far identified 14 persons in the district who had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation earlier this month in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area.The chief medical officer (CMO) said the department will soon put the identified persons under isolation and is tracing those who might have come into their contact apart from others who attended the congregation.“ So far we have identified fourteen persons who had attended the congregation at Nizamuddin. We are in touch with them, and they will soon be taken to isolation wards and their samples will be collected for testing. The majority of these people are from Masuri area, while some are from Muradnagar and Loni. Our teams are tracing others who came into their contact,” Dr NK Gupta, CMO, Ghaziabad, said.“Some of the persons have shown symptoms of Covid-19. We are also tracing their contacts and fear that some of the identified persons might have offered Friday namaz at a mosque on March 20 and might have made direct or indirect contact with many people,” he added.The Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Nizamuddin has emerged as one of the biggest coronavirus disease hotspots in India with 24 people testing positive till Tuesday evening. In a digital address to the media, Delhi chief minister had said that 431 of over 1,500 persons evacuated from the Nizamuddin area till Tuesday had started showing Covid-19 like symptoms, including fever, cough, and shortness of breath and warned that this number could go up in the coming two or three days.The Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday morning cut short his visit to Ghaziabad and flew to Lucknow where he held meeting with senior state officials after the incident came to light.Avanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home), on Tuesday said the CM has directed officials to conduct searches in every district as there is a possibility that some people who attended the event at Nizamuddin might have entered the state.“Over 157 people who attended the congregation are in the state and 95% of them have been tracked so far. The rest will be tracked by Tuesday evening. If they show any symptoms, their tests will be conducted. Searches for others are going on in every district. We appeal to the people who attended the congregation and have come to UP to make self-disclosures, and those around them should also come forward to reveal information about such people to the local administration,” Awasthi said during a press briefing at Lucknow.Meanwhile, one more person was tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday in Ghaziabad taking the total number of virus-infected cases to eight.“The man declared positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday was admitted to an isolation ward as a suspect case. His test report confirmed him positive for Covid-19. He has been shifted to the Covid-19 ward, The man had come in contact with a 30-year-old man from Shalimar Garden who is an employee of Noida-based fire safety solutions firm ‘Ceasefire’ from where a number of positive cases have been reported,” Dr Gupta said. Until now, 24 persons, who are directly or indirectly linked with the company, have tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-health-dept-traces-14-residents-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-congregation/story-i7LdIZKLGAJDWvpHMrZ9RM.html
01-04-2020||Mumbai||Society in Navi Mumbai doesn’t step out, even to buy essentials amid coronavirus lockdown||A housing society in Nerul, which was once bustling with children playing in parks and senior citizens enjoying their evening walks, wears a deserted look since its residents went into complete quarantine.The Jay Balaji cooperative society, Nerul, which consists of seven wings and 200 flats with over 1000 residents, enforced ‘zero contact’ over the past few days. This implies that no resident is allowed to meet a person who is not a family member, speak to them or co-ordinate with them, except for over messaging applications.“We have never seen the society this deserted before. No children are in playgrounds, there is no hustle and bustle of people. It is grim to be living like this, but it’s for our greater good,” said Sangeeta Bal, a resident. Even for essentials goods and services, the orders are placed on the society messaging groups and Archana Lokeshwar, the chairperson of the society, combines all the orders and forwards them to the respective vendors. “We have set up a mechanism, wherein all the essentials are delivered at the gate by the vendors and our security and house-keeping staff pick it up, sanitise it and place it outside the door of the respective house. Then a message is sent on the group, and one by one members from each house can pick up their orders but not together,” said Lokeshwar.A team of 15 volunteers and around 11 security staff help Lokeshwar in this task.To take the zero contact initiative a notch higher, the society has collectively decided that any household, who has a person visiting them from outside, won’t be supplied with essentials for 10 days.“The self-quarantine is put in place to ensure that people can manage to do basic work on their own, and no carpenter or a plumber is called in. It is to minimise outside contact to prevent spread of Sars-Cov-2,” said Mugdha Moghe, a resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/society-in-navi-mumbai-doesn-t-step-out-even-to-buy-essentials-amid-coronavirus-lockdown/story-sFeWFdRv1w9MYPkTlkYzPN.html
01-04-2020||Pune||‘We have taken steps to stem virus spread,’ says Jayant Patil, state cabinet minister||Pune Jayant Patil, Maharashtra cabinet minister for irrigation and water resources, is also the guardian minister of Sangli where a home quarantine lapse left a four-member family who was tested Covid-19 positive to later affect 24 members their clan. Patil tells Shalaka Shinde the steps taken by the state government to check the virus spread and sealing off ground zero Islampur Is the lockdown working? What is your view of the situation in Islampur?The lockdown will work. That is the only way of stopping the spread of the virus. The situation in Islampur is under control, and we hope it will not spread. Ground zero was cordoned off a week ago. The family has made statements that they were not informed about the situation at the international airport when they entered the country.I was told by the police yesterday [Monday] that Dubai, the city from where the family landed in Mumbai, was not under “high-risk” places during their arrival. Hence, they were not checked. Later, when they visited a local hospital here (Islampur), they were asked to go to Civil Hospital, Sangli. They were given tablets and told to remain indoors. I took a meeting on March 18 and asked the officials to stamp those with travel history. The stamping started from the morning of March 19. This family was also stamped and they visited the hospital again on March 22 complaining of medical issues. The local hospital immediately sent them to Sangli and their swap samples were sent to NIV Pune and the reports released on March 23 were positive. We immediately carried out tests of first contacts and those found positive were placed in quarantine.The outbreak has come at the beginning of your term as a state cabinet minister.This is not a local political situation, but a global health issue. We should not draw political conclusions, but take all possible steps to save people.Future course of actionWe will be starting a testing centre soon. I’m going to Miraj today [Tuesday]. After my return, a lab to carry out Covid-19 tests will be set up. The lab will function from Wednesday evening or Thursday morning as there is no such facility in Sangli, Kolhapur and Ratnagiri areas. Will you be staying in Islampur to review the situation?Where I stay is not important as it is not a flood-like situation that I have to meet people regularly. I am in constant touch with officers. The response to lockdownThe lockdown has been received fairly well by the people. The lockdown was announced by our state government and a curfew was called for before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the lockdown. 21-day lockdown is a long period, but as scientifically it has been observed that the duration will help in checking the virus spread, so we do not have any other option.The situation post-lockdownIf the lockdown is extended beyond April 14, the economy will come to a standstill. The authorities will find it difficult to cope up with the situation. Post-lockdown, production units all over Maharashtra will have to start all over again. The Covid-19 cases should drop after lockdown. The government may extend the lockdown period if infected numbers do not drop.Message for your constituency Essentials are in place. All towns and urban areas, including Islampur, are taken care of. People are co-operating. We have asked police machinery to deal with those who flout lockdown norms, softly but firmly. There is fear among masses as well which is preventing them from venturing out.How do you view the issue of migrant labourers getting stuck at borders?I don’t want to criticise anyone, but we should have thought about migrant labourers and their safety, stay and food requirements. It could have been planned in a better way. It is unfortunate that migrants are left to walk on the streets to reach their native places. In Maharashtra, we have set up camps for them to stay and be fed. We should have made them understand that it is a temporary phase, but the migrants felt that the crisis will be long term.Is not 21-day lockdown a long period? As I said, they feared that this could be 2-3 months. They felt that if they’re not going to have jobs here, it’s better to go back home. So, people migrated back to their own villages - UP, Bihar, Andhra and Karnataka. In the night, people are seen walking on highways.If the lockdown continues, is the government prepared to feed them?We have already started doing that through Shiv Bhojan.There are complaints that these canteens are closed due to fear of virus?Yes, that is happening. Whoever has taken up Shiv Bhojan canteen projects have been asked to restart canteens.Any incentive for them to open up?It is a seva (service) now. If everybody starts asking for incentive, how will the government be able to give? You keep social distancing and start serving. Fortunately, the virus has not spread among masses so nobody needs to worry. The places where we have found cases have been cordoned off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/we-have-taken-steps-to-stem-virus-spread/story-NlkHztSJVdlK5VR2M5C1RP.html
01-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19 patient in Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital tests negative for virus||A Covid-19 positive woman admitted to the Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital on March 16 has tested negative, twice, for the virus, hospital doctors said on Tuesday.She had been on ventilator support since March 16. Dr Sanjay Lalwani, medical director, at Bharati Vidyapeth, said, “This is a case wherein a patient who is on the ventilator has recovered from Covid-19. It gives us more reason to follow the lockdown and flatten the curve of the spread.” The woman has no foreign travel history and so was suspected to be the first case of community transmission in the city. A central team also visited the hospital to determine the source of transmission. The woman, who lives at Sinhgad road, was initially thought to have swine flu, but when her samples were sent to NIV, the institute confirmed Covid-19. Dr Lalwani said, “We sent her swab samples on Monday after she completed her incubation period and then we got her first test results negative. Her second swab samples were sent on Tuesday morning and that too tested negative. Right now, we can say that she has been cured of Covid19.”According to the current ICMR guidelines, any patient who tests negative for two swab samples taken at a 24-hour interval after the incubation period of 14 days can be said to have recovered from Covid-19. Dr Lalwnai further said, “She still has slight breathlessness, which is just the recovery phase. Her fever has gone down. If her recovery continues this way, she should be discharged in a week’s time.” The woman attended a wedding at Navi Mumbai earlier this month and used public transport to go to an Aangandwadi at Panshet in Pune, where she works as a sevika.Currently five persons infected through the woman are admitted to PMC’s Naidu hospital. The driver who drove the woman from Navi Mumbai to Pune is also quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-patient-in-bharati-vidyapeeth-hospital-tests-negative-for-virus/story-PQ3u7xsynPI5xHpoX3ITfO.html
01-04-2020||Pune||Drones, video calls, GPS tracking app and even personal visits: Pune admin out on a limb to track those home quarantined||The Pune police along with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and district administration have come up with various ways to keep a check on those home quarantined to prevent the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus).The new methods of keeping a check on residents include drones, video calls, facial recognition techniques and a GPS (global positioning system) tracking app in the person’s phone to ensure that they do not leave their houses. While technology is at the centre of ensuring implementation of the home quarantine order, PMC staff is also visiting residences of those advised isolation and putting up posters at door with the message – “Please do not visit. This home is under quarantine”.The move to use drones, video calls or putting up posters has come after it came to the administration’s notice that many under home quarantine are not adhering to instructions and stepping out of their homes. According to the district administration, there are at least 3,500 people who have been ordered to be home quarantined and the list is growing amid fresh Covid-19 positive cases being detected. Besides posters, the PMC’s disaster management cell has dedicated its staff to call those at home at least once in a day to ensure that they do not leave their house. The PMC has also stamped the hands of those who have been asked to be home quarantined, so that it is visible for the social policing groups and neighbours. Rahul Jagtap, PMC IT department head, said, “The disaster management cell makes at least 2,000-2,500 calls every day and the list keeps growing. We have also put up posters at homes of those asked to stay isolated so that there is a societal pressure on the family members to stay inside from the neighbours and social policing groups. We have asked them to download an app ‘Saiyam’ which has GPS tracking so that whenever they leave their homes, we are alerted and we can inform the local ward or the local police station, who then visit the family.”To ensure, people under home quarantine are being provided essential commodities, the housing society members have been instructed to proivde the same to the family. On their part, police are making video calls everyday to ensure people under isolation are not stepping out. Through the video calls, police check if the person under mandatory home stay is at his residence. One of the new measures also includes use of drones to check if people are not stepping out home, especially when the centre has announced a 21-day lockdown. In addition to the PMC, the Pune police is also keeping a watch so that no one violates the home isolation norms. The Pune police has developed a facial recognition software system for surveillance of home quarantined persons in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas. It will help all police personnel to avoid direct contact with these persons. DCP Mitesh Ghatte (Special Branch) said, “The major features are the selfie-app based face recognition and location tracking system that enables a passenger/person to register themselves with their details like name, phone number, selfie and other relevant information. The passenger uploads his/her registration details using the app, following which a verification is made against the existing master list of passengers. Once the registration is approved, the selfie app enables a passenger to upload their attendance in the form of a selfie with location tagging in realtime.” He further added that this information is then sent to a private cloud based server which runs a realtime Artificial Intelligence based face recognition and location tracking algorithm and compares against the registered information. When the face data and location data match against the database, a positive attendance / update is made into a dashboard.”The district administration too has come up with a website and an app to keep track of those recommended home isolation and for the doctors who might get such patients. Both doctors and patients can register themselves on idsp.mkcl.org to update the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme which is under the central ministry, said district collector Naval Kishore Ram. With regards to doctors, they can notify the IDSP about any suspected patient with a travel history and they would be guided accordingly, added Ram. As of now, there are 4,591 passengers out of 7,746 passengers still under home quarantine in Pune division, including Pune, Solapur, Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/drones-video-calls-gps-tracking-app-and-even-personal-visits-pune-admin-out-on-a-limb-to-track-those-home-quarantined/story-HOuhjXE7kmVvH3OICIM0BM.html
01-04-2020||Pune||Pune’s Market Yard market allows entry to 400 vehicles at a time to maintain social distancing||Pune: The wholesale market at Gultekdi is back in business, though in small scale, after the Pune agriculture produce market committee (APMC) decided to allow trucks carrying agriculture produce to enter the market from March 29 [Sunday]. Though the members of Shri Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard Traders and Agents Association have not opened their shops, APMC Pune has decided to allow trucks to arrive at the market on alternate days — vegetables on one day and fruits on another day.An APMC official said that only 400 trucks will be allowed to enter the wholesale market at one time to adhere to the social distancing norm put in place because of Covid-19 (coronavirus) spread.“On Tuesday, 1,150 trucks, including 720 from sub division markets, carrying vegetables arrived at Market Yard. The total quantity of agriculture produce was 20,000 quintals. Looking at the response from farmers, the market is stabilising now and the rates of vegetables have also reduced. There is adequate supply of vegetables, fruits and other necessary essentials at the markets affiliated to APMC Pune and there is no need to panic,” said Balasaheb Deshmukh, Pune APMC chairman.“To maintain social distancing as a precautionary measure, we are not allowing more than 400 vehicles inside the market at one time. Retailers carry the vegetables, fruits and other essentials in light vehicles and tempos. The arrangement of goods and its sale is also done by maintaining distance between two shops. We appeal to farmers, traders, agents and purchasers to not bring extra goods and always produce identity cards issued by APMC, Pune to enter and leave the wholesale market,” added Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-s-market-yard-market-allows-entry-to-400-vehicles-at-a-time-to-maintain-social-distancing/story-R9fDFT5nBi6jA7oRV6U8pK.html
01-04-2020||Pune||Fear, shame and isolation: Lockdown in Maha’s virus hot-spot, Islampur, has 5K residents in eye of storm||Metal barricades have rendered the Uran Islampur area in Sangli into a ghost-town.One extended family that lives here contributed to 24 of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive cases.Four family members, including two females – ages 62 and 50; and two males – ages 65 and 35; landed in Delhi on the morning of March 13 returning from a pilgrimage (Umrah) in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.They had booked a package for 24 days, but had completed only 20 days of the Umrah.The family then flew to Mumbai the same evening and drove went straight home to Islampur, Sangli. The four reached home on March 14.Life ever since has been a never-ending series of tests, lockdowns and hospitalisations for the family and residents of Islampur.“The people in our area started behaving in a certain way with us. On the day the first four were tested positive, general stores stopped selling to people of our community. Our family is suffering. How are we to blame for this?” said a family member who runs a local business, has tested negative, and is in an institutional quarantine facility set up by the local authorities.“My parents are not educated people. And they’re old. If you ask them what quarantine or coronavirus means, they might not be able to tell you. At Delhi airport, as well as Mumbai airport, only thermal temperature testing happened. They were not informed about the situation or what precautions they needed to take, or even taken into quarantine. They reached home early on March 14 and the next day we took them to our family doctor. The doctor referred us to Islampur government hospital, who in turn referred us to Sangli Civil hospital,” said another young man from the family, who is a software engineer based in Pune.“There, they were given flu medicine twice. On March 21 got more medicine. However, as the flu conditions were not improving we took them to Islampur government hospital where we were told to go to Sangli Civil Hospital on Sunday morning (March 22). That is when the entire process started,” said the young man.The joint family lives in three houses in the Gandhi chowk area of Islampur. Positive patients were found in all three households.The family members had allegedly visited a bank, the municipal corporation, hospital and the local masjid, all of which have been sealed shut, according to Dr Saket Patil, taluka health officer.“We acted as soon as we could, without wasting any time. My team has maintained a map of their movements and marked out the core area which includes the family houses and the two maids’ houses, and buffer zone where they may have visited. My team is working continuously and has managed to contain the spread,” said Dr Patil.“One of them came into the bank, from what I know. Our house has been sealed shut for the past few days. The shops that were open for some days were shut down during the three-day severe lockdown. Now we just stay inside and wait for milk and groceries to be delivered,” says Chandrashekar Pawar, whose household of seven shares a wall with the MD Pawar People’s Bank, where a Covid +ve family member visited. “There is no strict distinction between secondary and tertiary contacts of the family. So far, there is no provision for swan testing of secondary and territory contacts,” said chief surgeon at Sangli Civil hospital, Dr Salunkhe.The Islampur area is divided into three– the core zone, where the three houses of the infected family are located; a buffer zone where they are suspected to have roamed; and the rest of the area.Pawar’s house falls in the buffer zone where one member of each family is provided with the home quarantine stamp.The entire sealed area has 5,000 people living within, according to Pradnya Potdar-Pawar, chief municipal officer, Islampur.“There are 10 officers of the municipal council, including me, who are living in isolation, away from the family for the past few days. Nobody wants to come near Islampur, but my staff is on the road on all days, maintaining cleanliness. The garbage from Islampur is not going to the usual dumping yard, but to Surya Biomedical Agency where it is incinerated. Continuous fogging and spraying of sodium hypochlorite is on. My city has risen to the challenge and we will get through this,” said Potdar-Pawar.The administration has set up a 75-bed isolation facility on the outskirts of Islampur which lodges 28 people who have come in contact with positive cases, according to Dr Saket Patil, taluka health officer. Of the 28, 18 have tested negative, 10 are yet to be tested.The authorities are also tracking 434 people from 79 families who were identified as secondary and tertiary contacts of the infected family.Police action-The Sangli police, along with health department officials, are tracking 434 people whose houses are marked with a quarantine notice.- The Islampur police station officials have appointed 28 special police officers (SPO) who help enforce the lockdown.- A case has been registered against one of the 24-infected family members for giving an allegedly false statement about having made contact with a neighbour with whom he had an old disagreement, according police inspector Narayan Deshmukh.Municipal council action- Regular fogging and spraying of sodium hypochlorite in open areas.-Home delivery of essential goods like vegetables, groceries and milk .- Garbage from Islampur is not going to the usual dumping yard, but to Surya Biomedical Agency where it is incinerated.-Gutters are cleaned more regularly than usual.-All sanitation workers are provided with masks and latex gloves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fear-shame-and-isolation-lockdown-in-maha-s-virus-hot-spot-islampur-has-5k-residents-in-eye-of-storm/story-bEOcg8KTXr6A8u6BgbthKN.html
01-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s Kolhapur deploys data analysis-driven tool to track returnees||Kolhapur district which has reported three positive cases of Covid-19 as of Tuesday, has deployed a data analysis-driven symptom-based risk assessment tool to track the estimated 75,000 returnees to the district. The ‘Corona Symptom Tracker’ consists of an e-questionnaire circulated by the district administration via SMS on the mobile phone network and a back-end analysis of the filled forms by CPC Analytics, a Pune-based data analysis firm. On March 29, Maharashtra’s minister of state for home Satej (Bunty) Patil, a prominent Congressman and Kolhapur’s guardian minister said in a tweet: Our primary priority is to quickly identify individuals who are at a high risk of being affected. Along with @deosahil and @pvinayak, we have developed a symptom-based risk tool. If you have returned to Kolhapur from outside or have symptoms, fill this.” Patil shared the link to the e-form of the Corona Symptom Tracker on his tweet. In a telephonic interview he said: “Nearly 75,000 people have returned to the district and we didn’t know how to track them. This tracker has provided us with a tool where the people can connect with us and we can connect with them. People are responding and this is a good platform for communication. It is also helping us with GPS tracking.” Sahil Deo, co-founder of CPC Analytics, said the analysis of about 12,000 forms received so far has been done and people with medium to high risk have been identified for follow-up action by the district administration. The 12 questions in the e-form are as per the guidelines of the WHO (World Health Organisation) and the Indian Council of Medical Research), he said. “The system allows the district collectorate to call and intervene in the cases we flag as medium to high risk. It allows us to track community spread if it is happening,” he said. Deo’s colleague, Vinayak Pachalag, a data analyst on the ground working closely with the Kolhapur district administration said, “We shot 30,000 links of the tracker in the first phase on March 29. Of these, 12,000 people responded. The medium to high risk cases identified through the tracker are manually validated. The district administration has deployed nearly 7,000 people on the ground for Covid-19 related work.” Pachalag said of the estimated 75,000 people who returned largely from Pune, Mumbai, Bangalore and Goa where they were working, the administration has data such as phone numbers and addresses of about 60,000 people.The e-questionnaire Issued by the Kolhapur district administration begins by stating that it can help people assess whether they are at risk from Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the Covid-19 disease. It then gathers basic details such as name, gender, mobile number, age, address, taluka and foreign travel history in the last month, especially to the high risk countries. Respondents are asked whether they were suffering from symptoms such as fever, tiredness, dry cough, difficulty in breathing and whether they have body pain, nasal congestion, runny nose, or diarrhoea. It then proceeds to ask about health conditions such as hypertension, lung, kidney or/and heart disease, cancer, diabetes, other chronic diseases or ‘none of the above’. The 12th question asks whether they had any contact with a Covid-19 patient.Deo said the data is “extremely granular” (detailed) and “luckily the people there are taking it seriously. Every minute, we get 20-30 new entries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-kolhapur-deploys-data-analysis-driven-tool-to-track-returnees/story-JZTF7A8wAFO4i7Gd0teGgI.html
01-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19: INS Shivaji, Lonavla takes precautionary measures||INS Shivaji, Lonavla has put in place strict drills to stop the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus). This includes restricting the entry of non-uniformed personnel, contractual staff, staggered meal timings for personnel, multiple hand washing points, minimising the congestion in barracks and shutting down of non-essential stores and office spaces.As a part of assistance to civil administration, this station has also been at the forefront in providing the essential services to the civil populace around the base. The nearby Kurvande village with an approx. population of 4,000 and a labour camp comprising about 325 persons adjacent to this station, which provide contractual manpower for MES works, were completely sanitised by the SHO team on March 28 and 30. The station also facilitated and coordinated the distribution of food packets and other essential provisions in conjunction with the local NGOs.All the domestic helps residing at the Naval Officers Residential Area (Nofra) were briefed about the prevention measures to be taken to avoid the Covid-19 on March 30 which was followed by the distribution of essential provisions to the domestic helps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ins-shivaji-lonavla-takes-precautionary-measures/story-76vZTUWltfQ2pH0gMagIsK.html
01-04-2020||Pune||NCL Pune starts R&D on bulk drugs to develop self-sufficient, indigenous supply chain in India||Pune-based CSIR National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) is currently focusing on the chemical synthesis of at least half of the 53 active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and bulk drugs in order to develop self-sufficiency in the drug supply chain in the country.The Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved on March 21 a special package for the promotion of bulk drugs parks to finance common infrastructural facilities and production-linked incentive schemes for the manufacture of key starting materials (KSMs), drug intermediates and APIs in the country, in response to the medical emergency situation which might arise due to Covid-19 lockdown for an extended period. According to officials, the Indian pharmaceutical industry is the third largest by volume, but it is critically dependent on imports of raw materials or KSMs, in some cases to over 80 per cent extent, mainly from China. Drug security, self-sufficiency and continuous supply of essential medicines are the need of the hour for national security and healthy population. India has the largest number of FDA approved manufacturing sites outside of the US. “The more than 27 or so bulk drugs covering different therapeutic classes such as anti-viral, retro-viral, antibiotics, anti-bacterial, anti-fungal, cardiovascular, diabetes, cholesterol lowering, anti-cancer to simple pain killers like paracetamol, are synthesised from about 10-12 simpler building blocks or KSMs and drug intermediates. Self-sufficiency in drug supply chain for India means indigenous processes and platform technology to produce these important KSMs,” said NCL director Ashwini Kumar Nangia. “For three-four drug intermediates and bulk chemicals, R&D projects are already ongoing and these will be fast-tracked. For remaining four-five molecules, the most efficient routes considering atom economy, novel catalysis, flow chemistry, process intensification, plant safety, cost of raw materials, reagents and solvents, and recycling of by-products, and energy management have been designed. These chemical processes will bring down the cost of production through continuous flow synthesis, process optimization and reaction engineering, an area in which CSIR-NCL has prior experience and expertise. CSIR-NCL scientists have reported a novel and economical chemical synthesis of cystic fibrosis drug Ivacaftor in 2018, which is one of the highest priced drugs for patients (US $300000 per year per patient). CSIR-NCL has recently demonstrated flow synthesis with minimal or no solvent use which will make significant economic benefit when translated for the identified molecules. Apart from cost economics, minimal chemicals, process safety, and environment friendly, the biggest advantage of multi-step continuous flow technology is that the production can be carried out on smaller scale in a distributed model at several locations, a factor which will be important in the medical emergency situation facing the country,” he added. “We are hopeful that CSIR-NCL will be able to release the R&D reports to the government and chemicals and pharmaceutical industry bodies soon as each laboratory scale process is ready in the next few weeks and months to be taken up for manufacturing by Indian drug companies. The capability and infrastructure for further synthesis of final APIs from the intermediate KSMs largely exists in the country,” said Prof Nangia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ncl-pune-starts-r-d-on-bulk-drugs-to-develop-self-sufficient-indigenous-supply-chain-in-india/story-N39DbkmkGTtf59hGGklHlJ.html
01-04-2020||Pune||Vahbiz Bharucha tackles lockdown in Pune with ‘work out of the day’, ‘breakout sessions’ over the net||Vahbiz Bharucha, captain of India’s women rugby team is connected to the game via the internet even during the lockdown. Apart from the game, Bharucha is catching up on the ‘traditional’ quarantine routine of doing the household chores. A resident of Camp, Bharucha explains her current daily routine. Morning sessionI am a physiotherapist by profession, so I treat patients during this time (only those who really need my presence). I follow-up with all my other clients via social media.Afternoon sessionThe first half of the afternoon I devote to doing household chores like cleaning and sweeping my house. Post lunch, I train inside my house or on the terrace of our building. These workouts are usually sent out by our coaches from South Africa. Coach Jannie Brooks is our strength and conditioning coach. He puts out daily WODs (work out of the day) on his Instagram handle, which I follow. His latest upload is the 1,000 repetition challenge. Through the workout, you end up completing 1,000 repetitions distributed over 10-12 exercises- these comprises variations of squats, lunges, push-ups and core. At times, I just do cardio by running up and down the six floors of my building over a predefined time limit.Evening sessionI just relax in the evening, eat good food, write my diary, plan the next day and binge watch videos on the internet. I also watch rugby games (men’s, women’s and even my own games) to get those visuals in place, so that I can practice it whenever the time comes. I watch at least two 7s games and one 15s game.I look at these for reference points, to learn, to practice as and when the situation permits. Watching games helps me grow and it broadens my point of view of a scenario. I watch players who play the same position as I do (number 8) and I look at everything from how they place their hands in a scrum to what skills and speed would they possess and in turn work on myself because now I have the visual in my mind.Also something that we (rugby India) have begun on Wednesday evenings at 7pm is “The Breakdown Session,” where people get to interact live with the national stars of India rugby over the Rugby India Instagram portal. So, inching to a Wednesday, I am preparing for that too.No gymsI do basic exercises like squats, push-ups, lunges, core, burpees and then, their infinite variations. As rugby players, we also need to keep our running continuously in check, so I step out early mornings just outside my building and do some shuttles to get those strides in place and my cardio vascular system pumping.HobbiesI love colouring and spend a lot of time doing that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/captain-of-india-s-women-rugby-team-tackles-lockdown-in-pune-with-work-out-of-the-day-breakout-sessions-over-the-net/story-Z1dnWNqZNMCm8ptfLFd7gO.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Hours after Nayagaon man’s death, his nurse at PGI tests positive||A 32-year-old nursing officer at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education Research (PGIMER) tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday. He had treated the 65-year-old coronavirus patient from Nayagoan in Mohali district who died on Tuesday afternoon.The patient was suspected of having contracted H1N1 virus and was being treated along with other patients in the emergency ward. After he was tested positive, 36 healthcare workers were quarantined in the hospital, including 22 nursing officers and five doctors. Officials said two nursing officers showed symptoms of the disease. One of them tested positive, while the report of the other nurse is awaited. The nurse has been admitted in the communicable disease ward of the institute and is stated to be stable.His nine-month-old daughter and wife have been quarantined.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram confirmed that the nursing officer had tested positive. The other Chandigarh case is a Sector 49 resident, who is a doctor at Mayo hospital in Sector 69, Mohali. After confirmation of his results, he was admitted in Mayo hospital itself. The condition of the doctor is stated to be stable.With this, the number of positive cases in Chandigarh has spiked from eight to 15 in the past two days.The first case was reported on March 18, after a 23-year-old student, who flew back from London tested positive. Later, her five contacts, including her brother and mother, tested positive.A 22-year-old mechanic, who returned from Dubai, tested positive on Friday after which his mother and two friends were diagnosed with Covid-19, too. Besides, a couple who returned from Canada on March 13 tested positive on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hours-after-65-year-old-mohali-resident-s-death-his-nurse-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-awifFYe3IkhXp62BIaCjjI.html
01-04-2020||City||Panchkula civil hospital nurse who treated salon worker tests positive||A 36-year-old staff nurse at the Sector 6 civil hospital tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, making it Panchkula’s second case. She reportedly attended to the city’s first patient, doctors said.“The nurse was home quarantined last week but with her condition being symptomatic, her sample was taken on Sunday and reports today tested positive. We have initiated further process to trace her contacts,” said Panchkula civil surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur. She added that six of the nurse’s contacts had been isolated at the hospital, and their samples sent for testing.Among them four are the nurse’s family members, including her in-laws and two children, while the remaining two are her landlords.Earlier, after the first case was confirmed on March 21, the hospital administration had taken samples of six hospital staff, including nurses and Class 4 employees, which returned negative results. The nurse in question, however, was quarantined, as she had reportedly attended to Panchkula’s first case, a 38-year-old salon worker and Kharak Mangoli village resident near Sector 2. The woman, who tested positive on March 21, had come in contact with Chandigarh’s first coronavirus patient when the latter visited her salon on returning from London. The salon worker’s husband, daughter and two sons have already tested negative, and remain in quarantine at the Nada Sahib gurdwara. The first patient is admitted at the civil hospital’s isolation ward and is reported to be stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-s-second-covid-19-case-civil-hospital-nurse-tests-positive/story-uJHb51kTWg6j3Wn21xQ4GL.html
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||65-year-old Nayagaon man is first Chandigarh tricity area fatality||A 65-year-old Nayagaon man has become the first coronavirus-related death in the tricity, even as three health workers, including two nurses and a doctor, tested positive for the disease on Tuesday.The patient, Om Parkash, was declared dead at 1pm. Terming him “Covid-19 positive”, the death report stated “respiratory failure” as the immediate cause of death and “acute respiratory distress syndrome” as the antecedent cause. PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said, “The patient was officially declared dead at 1pm. He was critical and had been on ventilator support.”Samples of 25 primary contacts of the patient have been collected, while 31 contacts have been placed in home quarantine in Nayagaon, where cops have been deployed to ensure compliance. Dr Rajendra Bhooshan, medical specialist, civil hospital, Phase 6, Mohali, said, among the 25 people tested, the patient’s son, his wife and two children had tested negative. “Reports of the other 21 samples are awaited,” he said.Wrapped in a white sheet, the body of Om Parkash was directly taken to the PGIMER mortuary by the staff donning personal protective equipment (PPE), before it was moved to the crematorium in Sector 57. As the body kept lying outside the mortuary on a stretcher for over an hour, no one was allowed to approach it as the area was sealed.Mohali civil surgeon Manjit Singh said, “The body was directly taken to the electric crematorium where the cremation was done around 5.30pm. No one from the family, except his son, was allowed to attend. His other family members are under quarantine, so we could not allow them to attend the cremation. There were no remnants to hand over to the family.”Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said six people were present at the crematorium. “The body was properly sealed at PGIMER and transported by the district health department team taking all precautions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/65-year-old-mohali-man-dies-of-covid-19-becomes-fourth-casualty-in-punjab/story-xpJDEUYe2vHEdiQ7P8LbUN.html
01-04-2020||World||UK reports over 500 coronavirus deaths in one day||Britain reported 563 daily coronavirus deaths on Wednesday, the first time the national toll has exceeded 500, bringing the total fatalities to 2,352, according to official figures.“As of 5pm (1600 GMT) on 31 March, of those hospitalised in the UK who tested positive for coronavirus, 2,352 have sadly died,” the health ministry said on its official Twitter page.Some 29,474 people have now tested positive, an increase of 4,324 over the previous day, it added.Britain locked down last week in an attempt to combat the virus, but Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who himself has tested positive, warned that it would “get worse before it gets better”.The virus has also hit the royal family, with Prince Charles only coming out of isolation on Tuesday after displaying mild symptoms of the disease.On Wednesday he released a video message praising the “remarkable” state-run National Health Service. “None of us can say when this will end, but end it will,” he said.“Until it does, let us all try and live with hope and, with faith in ourselves and each other, look forward to better times to come.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-records-over-500-coronavirus-deaths-in-one-day/story-1ZuOqcpgtzASoFUPANrBaJ.html
01-04-2020||World||‘Coronavirus cough’ is now a crime in United Kingdom||Threatening people in emergency and essential services with a ‘coronavirus cough’ by individuals claiming to have the virus has been made a criminal offence following reports of the police, shop workers and vulnerable people being deliberately coughed at in the UK.The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said such behaviour is illegal and assaults specifically against emergency workers are punishable by up to 12 months in prison. Coughs directed as a threat at other key workers or members of the public could be charged as common assault.Some individuals have already been charged and sentenced for such assaults. The police have also been given new powers to ensure and enforce social distancing. Some gatherings and parties by people ignoring official advice have been thwarted by the police. Max Hill, director of public prosecutions, said: “Emergency workers are more essential than ever as society comes together to tackle the coronavirus pandemic. I am therefore appalled by reports of police officers and other frontline workers being deliberately coughed at by people claiming to have Covid-19”.“Let me be very clear: this is a crime and needs to stop. The CPS stands behind emergency and essential workers and will not hesitate to prosecute anybody who threatens them as they go about their vital duties.”East London-based Darren Rafferty, 45, has admitted three counts of assaulting an emergency worker after claiming to have coronavirus and directing coughs at Scotland Yard officers arresting him for another offence.Blackburn-based David Mott, 40, has been jailed after threatening to spit at the police who had asked him what he was doing out with two others after Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced stricter social distancing rules on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-cough-is-now-a-crime-in-united-kingdom/story-yi7u7epjsQKyLUQGNpxqOK.html
01-04-2020||World||Coronavirus update- ‘A spark of hope’: 101-year-old Dutch woman recovers from coronavirus||A 101-year-old woman who contracted coronavirus in the Netherlands has recovered, offering what her hospital said was “a spark of hope”. The woman, whose name was not released, was admitted to the IJsselland Hospital near Rotterdam a week and a half ago with breathing difficulties and tested positive for coronavirus.She was kept in isolation but has now recovered enough to leave hospital. The centenarian, who lives independently, will rest in a nursing home before returning to her home, the hospital said on its website. “She is a tough lady, and it’s great to see her following the medical advice, like sneezing in her elbow and even telling me to keep proper distance,” pulmonologist Sunil Ramlal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-a-spark-of-hope-101-year-old-dutch-woman-recovers-from-coronavirus/story-E4hjlMhuTUGLYmxsB1cQhP.html
01-04-2020||World||Coronavirus Update: Canada may extend restrictions to fight Covid-19 till July||Even as Canada’s largest city Toronto cancelled all events till the end of June, a government document appears to suggest that the country may be looking at restrictions related to fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, till at least July this year.The Canadian daily National Post obtained a government document that states: “Current GoC (Government Operations Centre) modelling suggests as a best case scenario that current measures continue until at least July.”The GOC, according to Public Safety Canada’s website, provides an “all-hazards integrated federal emergency response to events (potential or actual, natural or human-induced, accidental or intentional) of national interest.”While that document may stretch the timeline for relaxation of rules imposed due to the coronavirus threat, the city of Toronto’s authorities have also decided that measures will be in place till late into this summer. In a tweet, city Mayor John Tory said, “Today we announced the cancellation of mass events permitted by the City through to June 30th. While the City recognizes the importance of special events and festivals to the livability and vitality of the city, protecting the health and safety of residents is of primary concern.” Among the major events that will be affected by this decision are Hot Docs, the largest documentary film festival in North America and the annual Pride parade.These details underscore a point that many officials have made, though without getting into specifics, that battling COVID-19 will be a “long haul.”Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has said that how long the impact lasts will “hinge” on the “choices” Canadians make. He said during a media appearance: “We will be able to say more about how many weeks or months this lasts for as we see the impacts of the behaviours people have engaged in over these days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-canada-may-extend-restrictions-to-fight-covid-19-till-july/story-WucEfDYHmBbOcMmHGWudcM.html
01-04-2020||World||Coronavirus update:Donald Trump urged to pause H1B visa programme amid job losses||A US body representing American technology workers has urged President Donald Trump to suspend for this year the H-1B visa programme, the most sought-after among the Indian IT professionals, to protect their interests amidst the massive layoffs in the country due to the coronavirus pandemic.The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise.Also read: Donald Trump warns US headed for ‘very, very painful two weeks’Companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China.US Tech Workers, a nonprofit organisation which describes itself as representing the voices of American workers harmed by the H-1B visa programme, in its letter to Trump also urged him to suspend the H-2B visa programmes for the foreign guest workers too.“We have written a letter asking that the H-1B & H-2B visa programme be suspended for this year due to the economic fallout from the coronavirus. Letters have been sent to the office of the President, to his Chief of Staff, & to all members of congress,” the organisation said.H-2B visas are mostly for foreign farm workers. US businesses hire people from Latin American countries.“With the historical displacement of workers, compounded by the current crisis, it is very concerning that the Department of Homeland Security is working to accelerate the delivery of H-1B and H2-B workers to the United States. We ask that you stand up for the productive class of this country and protect the interest of American workers,” the letter said.Also read: H-1B workers seek 180 instead of 60-day stay in US amid layoffsAccording to some reports, the Department of Labour would be looking at 50-70 million unemployed Americans by the end of April.Last Thursday, unemployment claims ramped to three millions, shattering the record high of 695,000 in October 1982, the letter pointed out.“We urge you to pause the H-1B visa programme that would bring in 85,000 workers this year and suspend the recently approved addition of 35,000 workers for the H-2B visa. Overall the importation of workers should be undertaken with great caution during this period of tremendous uncertainty,” the letter said.“Battling both a pandemic and the resulting fallout to our economy from the coronavirus is no time to approve employment visas for more foreign workers,” wrote US Tech Workers in the letter to Trump.Economic experts fear massive layoffs in various sectors of the American economy due to the current economic distress that is only going to deteriorate in the coming months.A record 3.3 million Americans have filed initial jobless claims for the week ending March 21.Even as the peak of coronavirus in the US is two weeks away, millions of people in the country have lost their jobs.According to an estimate, some 47 million people could be rendered unemployed.Meanwhile, a report released by the CATO Institute think-tank, said that more than 200,000 petitions filed for Indians could “die of old age” before they receive green cards. This is mainly because of the projections according to which Indian technology workers would have to wait for decades to receive permanent legal residency or a Green Card.Based on the statistics obtained from the US government under the Freedom of Information Act, which is similar to India’s Right to Information, the institute said that for the first time, the US government has approved more than 1 million petitions for workers, investors, and their families who cannot receive legal permanent residence solely as a result of the low green card caps.The government is approving nearly two petitions for the employment-based immigrants for every Green Card it is issuing to them. At the current rate of increase, the backlog will exceed 2.4 million by 2030, it said.Skilled Indian workers make up 75 per cent of the employment-based backlog, and recently backlogged Indian workers face an impossible wait of nine decades if they all could remain in the line, the CATO Institute said.A Green Card allows a non-US citizen to live and work permanently in America.According to the estimates by the Johns Hopkins University, there are more than 850,500 confirmed coronavirus cases in the world, and over 41,000 deaths.The US now has the highest number of cases in the world at 184,183 and more than 4,000 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-donald-trump-urged-to-pause-h1b-visa-programme-amid-job-losses/story-sS41N6L6STdCFRsQTwrHgL.html
01-04-2020||World||‘Unprecedented’ measures like lockdowns saved over 50,000 lives from coronavirus in Europe: Study||A study conducted by experts at the Imperial College, London has found that non-pharmaceutical government interventions like lockdowns may have averted scores of Covid-19 deaths - saving nearly 60,000 people in over 10 European nations.The report published on March 30 studies the effects of “unprecedented non-pharmaceutical interventions including case isolation, the closure of schools and universities, banning of mass gatherings and/or public events, and most recently, widescale social distancing including local and national lockdowns” by various governments to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.As per the report, with the help of current interventions across 11 European countries, as many as 59,000 deaths would have been averted up to March 31.“Many more deaths will be averted through ensuring that interventions remain in place until transmission drops to low levels,” the study read.The experts suggest that the number of deceased in Covid-19 hotspots Italy and Spain would have been way higher in the absence of such measures.The experts used a semi-mechanistic Bayesian hierarchical model for the study which found that lockdowns saved nearly 38,000 lives in Italy and Spain up to the end of March and another people 2,500 in France.According to the report, between 7 to 11 million individuals have been infected by coronavirus in 11 European countries up to 28th March, representing between 1.88% and 11.43% of the population.The coronavirus pandemic has infected more than 800,000 people across the globe and claimed more than 40,000 lives worldwide, the World Health Organization states.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has said that the coronavirus pandemic is the worst global crisis since World War II and could trigger conflicts around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unprecedented-measures-like-lockdowns-saved-over-50-000-lives-from-coronavirus-in-europe-study/story-umAHXAGdPVHnieKTGNTyCK.html
01-04-2020||World||Prominent Indian-origin virologist in South Africa dies from coronavirus||World-renowned virologist Gita Ramjee has become the first Indian-origin South African to have died after contracting the novel coronavirus that has killed five people in the country.Ramjee, a stellar vaccine scientist and an HIV prevention research leader, had returned from London a week ago but reportedly showed no symptoms of COVID-19.Ramjee, 64, was the Clinical Trials Unit Principal Investigator and Unit Director of the HIV Prevention Research Unit of the South African Medical Research Council (SAMRC) offices in Durban.“We are deeply saddened to inform you of the tragic passing of Prof Gita Ramjee in hospital today,” said a statement issued by SAMRC President and CEO Glenda Gray.“Prof Ramjee died of COVID-19 related complications,” Gray added.In 2018, Ramjee was presented with the Outstanding Female Scientist Award in Lisbon by the European Development Clinical Trials Partnerships (EDCTP) for her lifetime commitment to finding new HIV prevention methods, which are conducive to the lifestyles, circumstances and perceived risk factors that South African women are faced with. “This award is an acknowledgement of the unwavering determination by a global community to forever change the trajectory of the HIV/AIDS epidemic,” she had said at the time. “Professor Gita Ramjee is a towering HIV prevention research leader whose work continues to contribute immensely to the global response to curb the HIV/AIDS epidemic,” Gray had said after the Indian-origin scientist received the award. Ramjee was married to pharmacist Pravin Ramjee, a South African of Indian descent. Her funeral arrangements have not been announced. Attendance at funerals in South Africa is highly restricted and requires permits as the country is going through a 21-day nationwide lockdown announced last week by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Five South Africans have died from COVID-19 since Sunday, the third day of the lockdown. Over 13,50 cases have been reported in the country so far. The South African government on Tuesday announced that it will double to 10,000 the teams going door-to-door to test people for COVID-19, mainly in the overcrowded Black townships created during the apartheid era. On Sunday evening, in a national broadcast, Ramaphosa cautioned thousands of South Africans who have not been taking the lockdown seriously. The death toll from the rapidly-spreading coronavirus pandemic has risen to 41,654 and over 850,580 people have been infected by the deadly virus, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prominent-indian-origin-virologist-in-south-africa-dies-from-coronavirus/story-0zBBV4VLddWno3OULIlMCJ.html
01-04-2020||World||Royal no more: Harry and Meghan start uncertain new chapter||Prince Harry and his wife Meghan officially make the transition Tuesday from senior members of Britain’s royal family to — well, it’s unclear. International celebrities, charity patrons, global influencers?The royal schism that the couple triggered in January by announcing that they would step down from official duties, give up public funding, seek financial independence and swap the U.K. for North America becomes official on March 31.The move has been made more complicated and poignant by the global coronavirus pandemic, which finds the couple and their 10-month-old son Archie in California, far from Harry’s father Prince Charles — who is recovering after testing positive for COVID-19 — and Harry’s 93-year-old grandmother, Queen Elizabeth II.“As we can all feel, the world at this moment seems extraordinarily fragile,” the couple said in a final post Monday on their now-mothballed SussexRoyal Instagram account.“What’s most important right now is the health and well-being of everyone across the globe and finding solutions for the many issues that have presented themselves as a result of this pandemic,” they added. “As we all find the part we are to play in this global shift and changing of habits, we are focusing this new chapter to understand how we can best contribute.”It is less than two years since ex-soldier Harry, who is sixth in line to the British throne, married American actress Meghan Markle at Windsor Castle in a lavish ceremony watched by millions around the world.Soon the couple began to bristle at intense scrutiny by the British media — which they said tipped into harassment. They decided to break free, in what Harry called a “leap of faith” as he sought a more peaceful life, without the journalists who have filmed, photographed and written about him since the day he was born.Harry has long had an uncomfortable relationship with the media, which he blames for the death of his mother, Princess Diana. She died in a car crash in Paris in 1997 while being pursued by paparazzi.Harry’s unhappiness increased after he began dating Markle, then the star of TV legal drama “Suits.” In 2016 he accused the media of harassing his then-girlfriend, and criticized “racial undertones” in some coverage of the biracial Markle.It’s clear that Meghan’s upbeat Californian style — embodied in the glossy images and life-affirming messages of the couple’s Instagram account — rankled with sections of Britain’s tabloid press, which is both insatiable for royal content and fiercely judgmental of the family members.The couple — who are keeping their titles, Duke and Duchess of Sussex, but will no longer be called Their Royal Highnesses — had hoped to keep using the Sussex Royal brand in their new life. But last month they announced they wouldn’t seek to trademark the term because of U.K. rules governing use of the word “royal.”The couple plans to launch a non-profit organization for their charitable activities in areas including youth empowerment, mental health, conservation, gender equality and education. Harry will also continue to oversee the Invictus Games, the Olympics-style competition he founded for wounded troops.Meghan has been announced as the narrator of “Elephant,” a Disney nature documentary.But for now, the couple’s office said they want the world to focus “on the global response to COVID-19.”“The Duke and Duchess of Sussex will spend the next few months focusing on their family and continuing to do what they can, safely and privately, to support and work with their pre-existing charitable commitments while developing their future non-profit organisation,” the couple’s office said in a statement.The newly independent Harry and Meghan will also need to earn money to help pay for a multi-million dollar security bill.As senior royals, they have had bodyguards funded by British taxpayers. Since late last year, Harry and Meghan have since been based on Canada’s Vancouver Island, where security was provided by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Canadian authorities warned last month that would end once the couple ceased to be working royals.The duke and duchess recently moved to the Los Angeles area, where Meghan grew up and where her mother still lives. The news led President Donald Trump to tweet on Sunday: “the U.S. will not pay for their security protection. They must pay!”Harry and Meghan’s office said “security costs are being personally covered by the couple.”Some royal historians warned that Harry and Meghan could struggle to find a fulfilling role. Comparisons have been drawn to King Edward VIII, who abdicated in 1936 to marry divorced American Wallis Simpson. The couple lived the rest of their lives in luxurious but lonely self-imposed exile from Britain.Royal historian Penny Junor said U.K.-based royals were helping boost the nation’s morale during the coronavirus pandemic. The queen has issued a message to the nation, while Harry’s brother Prince William and his children joined in a public round of applause for health care workers.“All of this is absolutely what the family is about, and those members of the royal family that are on a limb now are pretty irrelevant,” Junor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/royal-no-more-harry-and-meghan-start-uncertain-new-chapter/story-4WT9aCxltdz8RLsgMRDbbJ.html
01-04-2020||World||Saudi Arabia urges Muslims to defer hajj plans over coronavirus||Saudi Arabia’s hajj minister asked Muslims on Tuesday to temporarily defer preparations for the annual pilgrimage amid uncertainty over the coronavirus pandemic.Earlier this month, Saudi Arabia suspended the year-round “umrah” pilgrimage over fears of the new coronavirus spreading to Islam’s holiest cities, an unprecedented move that raised uncertainty over the annual hajj.“Saudi Arabia is fully ready to serve pilgrims and umrah seekers,” hajj minister Mohammad Benten told the state-run Al-Ekhbariya television.“But under the current circumstances, as we are talking about the global pandemic... the kingdom is keen to protect the health of Muslims and citizens and so we have asked our brother Muslims in all countries to wait before doing (hajj) contracts until the situation is clear.”Saudi authorities are yet to announce whether they will proceed with this year’s hajj, scheduled for the end of July.The pilgrimage -- which last year attracted 2.5 million people -- is a key revenue earner for the kingdom. But it could be a major source of contagion as it packs pilgrims closely in religious sites.Earlier this month, Saudi Arabia suspended prayers inside all its mosques except the two holiest sites in Islam as it increased efforts to contain the new coronavirus.The announcements risk riling fringe Muslim hardliners, for whom religion trumps health considerations.Saudi Arabia is scrambling to limit the spread of the disease at home. The kingdom’s health ministry has reported 1,563 coronavirus infections and 10 deaths from the illness so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-urges-muslims-to-defer-hajj-plans-over-coronavirus/story-ivXEvV2H3QbQObk0JnMMiM.html
01-04-2020||World||Barack Obama suggests Donald Trump team ‘denied warnings’ of Covid-19 pandemic||Former US president Barack Obama took a veiled swipe Tuesday at his successor Donald Trump, chastising those who have “denied warnings” of a deadly coronavirus pandemic and cautioning against ignoring the consequences of climate change.The popular two-term Democrat took to social media as the Trump administration finalized a controversial rollback of Obama-era vehicle fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions standards that were aimed at slowing global warming.“We’ve seen all too terribly the consequences of those who denied warnings of a pandemic,” Obama posted on Twitter.“We can’t afford any more consequences of climate denial. All of us, especially young people, have to demand better of our government at every level and vote this fall.”The Republican leader’s government has faced stark criticism for failing to heed early global alarms about the virus outbreak, after death tolls began to spike in places like China and Italy.The United States now has more than 165,000 confirmed coronavirus cases, the most worldwide, and the US death toll has surged past 3,400 -- exceeding China’s official toll.Obama’s tweet included a link to a story about the Trump administration’s new rules.In a statement, Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao said the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Transportation were rolling back “costly, increasingly unachievable fuel economy and vehicle CO2 emissions standards.” The stringency of those so-called CAFE standards will now be increased by 1.5 percent annually through 2026, substantially less than the roughly 5.0 percent annual increases issued in 2012, the EPA said. So far, Obama has only rarely engaged in the 2020 presidential race, which features his former vice president Joe Biden as the Democrat likely to face Trump in November’s election.The former commander-in-chief has not publicly endorsed any candidate in the Democratic nomination race, which has boiled down to Biden and leftist rival Bernie Sanders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/barack-obama-suggests-donald-trump-team-denied-warnings-of-covid-19-pandemic/story-EQzi1lRJtq8a69A7uuIuTO.html
01-04-2020||World||Vaccine against Covid-19 at least a year away, says EU agency||It will be at least another year before a vaccine against the new coronavirus will be ready for approval and available in sufficient quantities, the EU medicines agency said Tuesday.As the number of declared coronavirus cases worldwide passed 800,000 on Tuesday, according to an AFP tally, the race is on to develop a vaccine against COVID-19 which emerged from China late last year.The European Medicines Agency said in a statement it “estimates that it might take at least one year before a vaccine against COVID-19 is ready for approval and available in sufficient quantities to enable widespread use”.This was based on current available information and past experience with vaccine development time frames, the Amsterdam-based agency said.It added that two vaccines have already entered a first phase of a clinical trials that was carried out on healthy volunteers.But in general “timelines for the development of medicinal products are difficult to predict”, the EMA said.So far, no medicine has yet shown to be a treatment for the coronavirus, that has so far claimed some 40,000 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-against-covid-19-at-least-a-year-away-says-eu-agency/story-MYbHyNaoI19WaKeekehACM.html
01-04-2020||World||Veteran Indian-origin British MP discharged from hospital after Covid-19 diagnosis||Veteran Indian-origin British lawmaker Virendra Sharma on Tuesday urged everyone to strictly follow the government’s social distancing advice to help control the coronavirus pandemic as he revealed his own COVID-19 diagnosis and discharge from hospital.The 72-year-old Opposition Labour MP for Ealing Southall in west London had revealed on Twitter that he was self-isolating after developing mild symptoms earlier this month. But his condition deteriorated as he began having trouble breathing, a major impact of COVID-19, and was admitted to his local Hillingdon Hospital for a week.“Following my light coronavirus symptoms, my condition deteriorated and I was hospitalised. I have now been discharged from hospital and I am recovering well at home,” said Sharma.“Now I am back home again and self-isolating, and following all the NHS [National Health Service] and government advice. I want to urge everyone else to do the same. Stay at home, protect the NHS and save lives,” he said.Sharma paid tribute to his local hospital for the “exceptional care” he received and also to the wider health service working hard at a time of immense pressure.“The amazing men and women of the NHS working in almost impossible situations, with too little kit and too little support deserve our help. I am asking everyone of you to do what you can to help them,” he said.Now back working from home, the MP reached out to his constituents to get in contact regarding any of their loved ones stranded abroad as the UK government announced a 75-million pound effort to charter special rescue flights to bring travellers back from countries under travel lockdowns, including India.“Many people also have friends and family stranded abroad, and this is very worrying for everyone involved. Please rest assured I have been liaising with the Foreign Office on this matter, and my staff continued to work on this while I was in hospital,” he said.Sharma’s update came as UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock, who had also gone into self-isolation after testing positive for COVID-19, revealed that he was “on the mend” and continued to work from home during his self-isolation.Prime Minister Boris Johnson also remains in self-isolation at 10 Downing Street after his coronavirus diagnosis, while Prince Charles continues to work from home as he came out of self-isolation on Monday, a week after his diagnosis.The UK remains under strict stay-at-home social distancing rules and the government has said it is “ramping up” its testing capacity by buying “many millions” of tests to diagnose the infection as the death toll from the deadly virus hit 1,448 in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/veteran-indian-origin-british-mp-discharged-from-hospital-after-covid-19-diagnosis/story-GtnTkBMGL0DLahKCakpVzI.html
01-04-2020||World||Philip Anderson, Nobel laureate in physics, dies at 96||Philip Anderson, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist who expanded the world’s understanding of magnetism and superconductivity, has died. He was 96.Anderson died Sunday at the Princeton Windrows retirement community in Princeton, New Jersey, his daughter said. No cause was reported.He researched the electronic behavior of solid materials such as glass, crystal and alloys, The New York Times reported.Bogdan Andrei Bernevig, a Princeton professor of physics, said in a statement that Anderson will be known as the man who started solid state physics as a field.Bernevig described Anderson as complex and said that “I was always in awe of his intellect. He was working on theories for regular days well into his 90s.”Anderson graduated from Harvard in 1949 and then worked for Bell Telephone Laboratories until he began teaching at Princeton and the University of Cambridge.During his career in academia, Anderson advised another Nobel Prize winner, F. Duncan Haldane, who won the 2016 prize in physics. Anderson inspired another winner, Brian Josephson, who won the 1973 Nobel Prize and took a class taught by Anderson at Cambridge.Anderson was drafted during World War II into the Navy and assigned to work at the U.S. Naval Research Lab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philip-anderson-nobel-laureate-in-physics-dies-at-96/story-gyxWqxHhxBBt5WbkNGuOXI.html
01-04-2020||World||Coronavirus the worst global crisis since World War II, says UN chief||The coronavirus pandemic is the worst global crisis since World War II, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said Tuesday, expressing concern that it could trigger conflicts around the world.Guterres said that the scale of the crisis was due to “a disease that represents a threat to everybody in the world and... an economic impact that will bring a recession that probably has no parallel in the recent past.”“The combination of the two facts and the risk that it contributes to enhanced instability, enhanced unrest, and enhanced conflict are things that make us believe that this is the most challenging crisis we have faced since the Second World War,” he told reporters.The New York-based United Nations was founded at the end of the war in 1945 and has 193 member states.“A stronger and more effective response... is only possible in solidarity if everybody comes together and if we forget political games and understand that it is humankind that is at stake,” Guterres added.More than 40,000 people have been killed so far as the disease spreads across the world, and causes economic devastation.“We are far from having a global package to help the developing world to create the conditions both to suppress the disease and to address the dramatic consequences,” Guterres warned, pointing to unemployment, the collapse of small firms and vulnerable people in the informal economy.“We are slowly moving in the right direction, but we need to speed up, and we need to do much more if we want to defeat the virus.”The UN on Tuesday created a new fund to help developing countries after last week appealing for donations for poor and conflict-hit nations.Beyond traditional aid from rich countries “we need to have innovative financial instruments,” so that developing nations are able to respond to the crisis, Guterres said.He warned that the coronavirus outbreak could return from poorer countries, especially in Africa, to hit wealthy countries again, and that millions could die.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-the-worst-global-crisis-since-world-war-ii-says-un-chief/story-wGFf7TCnrwF2ugbpgcGVSO.html
01-04-2020||World||‘There’s no magic bullet’: Covid-19 will kill 100,000 to 240,000 Americans, say White House experts||The two top US government scientists spearheading the fight against the coronavirus said Tuesday that 100,0000 to 240,000 Americans could die in the outbreak despite the social-distancing mitigation guidelines that have shut down schools, restaurants, cinema and all non-essential activities.Anthony Fauci, a leading epidemiologist and member of the White House task force, and Deborah Birx, a physician who serves as coordinator of the task force, warned fatalities could be much higher — 1.5 to 2.2 million — if nothing was done. Social-distancing is working, it’s effective and is perhaps the best strategy yet, they added.“There’s no magic bullet. There’s no magic vaccine or therapy. It’s just behaviors,” Birx said, addressing the daily White House briefing along with Fauci and President Donald Trump. “Each of our behaviors translating into something that changes the course of this viral pandemic. Over the next 30 days.”Fauci added: “We gotta brace ourselves: in the next several days to a week or so, we’re going to continue to see things go up. We cannot be discouraged by that. Because the mitigation is actually working, and will work.”The experts used charts and graphs with mathematical modeling for their presentation that was intended to explain why Trump announced Monday he was extending the social-distancing guidelines by a month to April 30, overturning his earlier plan to end them by Easter and put the country back into business.President Donald Trump warned, “We’re going to go through a very tough two weeks … (and they will be) very, very painful two weeks”. That was much in in line with his grim projection that the death-rate will peak after two weeks around Easter.He added: “Our strength will be tested, our endurance will be tried, but America will answer with love and courage and ironclad resolve.”The staggeringly grim numbers are projections based on multiple models based on assumptions gleaned from experiences in other countries such as China and Italy and on early days of the outbreak in the United States, with heavy casualties from the two worst hit states, New York and New Jersey.Fauci underlined the projections with a degree of caution saying they are as good as the assumptions that the models were based on. And indicated they could change based on new information inputs. Another experts has said the toll could be brought down to 80,000 if all states came under stay-at-home orders one week.At least 30 of the 50 states are under stay-at-home orders or versions of it, covering an estimated 80% of Americans. The remaining states have been a cause of concern as experts have warned some of them could be taken by surprise by a sudden flare-up, such as in Louisiana.More than 810 people died of the coronavirus in the United States on Tuesday in another single-day high, taking the toll to 3,900 so far; with nearly 190,000 confirmed cases, an increase of more than 44,000 over Monday. New York state is still the worst hit was 75,000 cases and 1,550 deaths, up by more than 580; 1,086 deaths in New York City.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/there-s-no-magic-bullet-covid-19-will-kill-100-000-to-240-000-americans-say-white-house-experts/story-W32WupPsf7kXytSR4ZzmWJ.html
01-04-2020||World||Donald Trump says ‘absolutely’ considering Brazil travel ban||President Donald Trump said Tuesday he is strongly considering a ban on travel from Brazil, where his close ally Jair Bolsonaro dismisses the danger of the coronavirus.Trump told a White House press conference he is “absolutely looking at a ban” on travel to the United States from Latin America’s biggest country.Bolsonaro, who has modeled himself on Trump and sought to bring Brazil into a close partnership with the United States, has caused controversy by claiming that the coronavirus pandemic is no more than a “little flu.”The Trump administration has already barred travel from major US economic partners including China and the European Union as part of a global effort to halt the spread of the virus.Despite a rising number of cases reported in Brazil, Bolsonaro is actively promoting his belief that people should continue to work and travel, saying the country should face the virus “like a man, damn it, not a boy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-says-absolutely-considering-brazil-travel-ban/story-UI1pOFXn6Tw7kMjkGXc5bM.html
01-04-2020||World||13-year-old UK boy dies after contracting Covid-19||A 13-year-old British boy has died days after testing positive for COVID-19, hospital officials and his family said on Tuesday, with relatives saying he had no underlying illnesses.The boy, who died Monday at King’s College Hospital in London, is believed to be Britain’s youngest confirmed death in the coronavirus pandemic.A 12-year-old girl, whose death was confirmed earlier on Tuesday in Belgium, is thought to be Europe’s youngest victim. The boy’s family said Ismail Mohamed Abdulwahab “started showing symptoms and had difficulties breathing” before he was admitted to hospital.“He was put on a ventilator and then put into an induced coma but sadly died yesterday morning,” the family said through a family friend, Mark Stephenson, adding: “We are beyond devastated.”Nathalie MacDermott, a lecturer at King’s College, said: “While we know it is much less likely for children to suffer severe COVID-19 infection than older adults, this case highlights the importance of us all taking the precautions we can to reduce the spread of infection in the UK and worldwide.”She urged research into deaths outside the groups expected to succumb to infection as it “may indicate an underlying genetic susceptibility.”On Tuesday, Britain announced 381 deaths from COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, the highest figure in the country since the start of the pandemic, bringing the death toll to 1,789.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/13-year-old-uk-boy-dies-after-contracting-covid-19/story-kS8afY0pAsrkeVkCGmrHSK.html
01-04-2020||World||Coronavirus update: Donald Trump warns US headed for ‘very, very painful two weeks’||President Donald Trump on Tuesday warned of a “very painful” two weeks as the United States wrestles with a coronavirus surge that the White House warns could kill as many as 240,000 Americans.“This is going to be a very painful, a very, very painful two weeks,” Trump told a press conference at the White House.Trump described the pandemic as “a plague.”“I want every American to be prepared for the hard days that lie ahead,” he said.Top health experts said that the decision to maintain strict social distancing was the only way to stop the easily transmitted virus, even if this has caused massive disruption to the economy with three quarters of Americans under some form of lockdown.“There’s no magic vaccine or therapy. It’s just behaviors, each of our behaviors translating into something that changes the course of this viral pandemic over the next 30 days,” Deborah Birx, coronavirus response coordinator at the White House, said.Birx displayed a chart at the press conference charting a range of 100,000 to 240,000 deaths in the United States, when current efforts at mitigation are taken into account.Infectious diseases specialist Anthony Fauci told the press conference that “mitigation is actually working” and that authorities are “doing everything we can to get it (the death toll) significantly below that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-donald-trump-warns-us-headed-for-very-very-painful-two-weeks/story-jkajSpnSRHq4nuLmc2eCoM.html
01-04-2020||World||Covid-19: UK visa of medical staff from India, non-EU countries extended free for a year||Grappling with the coronavirus pandemic, the Boris Johnson government on Tuesday extended for free the visa of nearly 2,800 doctors, nurses and paramedical staff from India and non-EU countries currently working in the National Health Service.They will also be exempted from paying the annual immigration health surcharge of £400 for every person in the family, home secretary Priti Patel announced. It will benefit those whose visa is due to expire before October 1. The extension will also apply to their family members.The visa extension was announced as new figures by the Office for National Statistics showed that the number of deaths is higher than those released by the Department of Health and Social Care, which releases figures of deaths in hospitals, and not those in homes and care-homes.The Home Office also lifted the restriction on the number of hours student nurses and doctors can work in the NHS. Pre-registered overseas nurses who are currently required to sit their first skills test within three months and to pass the test within eight months, will now have this deadline extended to the end of the year as well.Patel said: “Doctors, nurses and paramedics from all over the world are playing a leading role in the NHS’s efforts to tackle coronavirus and save lives. We owe them a great deal of gratitude for all that they do”.“I don’t want them distracted by the visa process. That is why I have automatically extended their visas – free of charge – for a further year”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-uk-visa-of-medical-staff-from-india-non-eu-countries-extended-free-for-a-year/story-mrWfsdGhd8qN2bOJzpU8IP.html
01-04-2020||World||Employers trusted more than govt and media, says global survey on Covid-19||People rely upon the major news outlets, nearly twice as much as global health organizations WHO or social media for information about the Covid-19 pandemic. But when it comes to credible information, people trust their employers more than the government or the news media, according to the Edelman Trust Barometer special survey.The online survey was conducted in 10 countries: Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, South Africa, South Korea, the UK and the US. The firm had surveyed 10,000 people.About 70 percent said they were following news on the virus on a daily basis and 74 percent expressed concern that there was a lot of fake news and false information being spread about the virus.The barometer shows that ‘my employer’ is the most trusted institution. Sixty-three percent said that they would believe information from their employers after one or two exposures, versus 58 percent for a government website and 51 percent for traditional media.“That explains our finding that employer communications is the most credible source of information about the coronavirus,” Richard Edelman, chief executive officer of the global communications firm said in a statement releasing the findings.The survey also revealed that the young - people in the 18-34 age-group - were more likely to turn to social media for information about coronavirus as compared to other adults. Over one-third of people said they would never believe social media if it were the only place they had seen the information.There’s also a lack of faith in the country’s preparedness to deal with Covid-19. Except for people from Canada and Germany, the respondents from all the other eight countries think their employer is better prepared to respond effectively and responsibly to the challenge posed by the virus than their country.In response to a question on the agency that was trusted to respond effectively and responsibly to the coronavirus challenge, employers figure next only to the health authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/employers-trusted-more-than-govt-and-media-says-global-survey-on-covid-19/story-a1AEIAhjsdW8MA9gyK6kAL.html
01-04-2020||World||Russian doctor who met Putin last week diagnosed with coronavirus||A doctor who gave Russian President Vladimir Putin a tour of Moscow’s main coronavirus hospital last week said on Tuesday he had himself been diagnosed with the virus. Putin visited the Kommunarka hospital last Tuesday where he chatted to the doctor, Denis Protsenko. Neither man was wearing protective equipment during their conversation, TV footage from the visit showed.Protsenko, writing on Facebook said: “Yes, I have tested positive for coronavirus, but I feel pretty good. I’ve isolated myself in my office. I think the immunity I’ve developed this month is doing its job.” The Kremlin said that Putin was being regularly tested for coronavirus and that “everything is okay,” the RIA news agency reported. It has previously said that Putin is being protected from viruses and other illnesses “around the clock”.Putin donned a hazmat suit and a respirator during his visit to the hospital last week when dropping in on patients. But he did not have his protective gear on during a meeting with Protsenko, with whom he was photographed shaking hands.The Kremlin reported a coronavirus case in Putin’s administration on Friday, but said the person in question had not come into contact with the president and that all measures were being taken to prevent the virus from spreading further. Russian lawmakers on Tuesday granted the government powers to declare a national emergency over the coronavirus, and approved penalties for violations of lockdown rules including, in extreme cases, jail terms of up to seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-doctor-who-met-putin-last-week-diagnosed-with-coronavirus/story-5jmIkv6aATtEzLX0csTFgK.html
01-04-2020||World||British Airways stops flights from Gatwick||British Airways suspended operations at its second London hub at Gatwick airport as the airline industry enters deep hibernation to weather the impact of the coronavirus.With just over a week to go until the Easter holidays, the IAG SA-owned carrier is contacting customers with the news that flights are off, a spokesperson said by email. Gatwick largely serves British Airways’ leisure travelers, and some flights are still operating from its larger Heathrow hub.Britain reported a record daily coronavirus toll of 381 on Tuesday, more than double the number of nationwide deaths posted in the previous 24 hours.“As of 5pm on March 30, of those hospitalised, 1,789 have sadly died,” the health ministry said on its Twitter page.Meanwhile, the UK government, facing criticism over alleged lack of action to repatriate thousands of Britons stuck in India and other countries, has announced a £75 million plan to charter flights as part of a new partnership with several airlines.Senior Labour Party MP Virendra Sharma, who last week tested positive and was hospitalised, has now been discharged and is “recovering well at home”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-airways-stops-flights-from-gatwick/story-B5FTw32iJSiQsql2shxc1K.html
01-04-2020||World||Global coronavirus cases cross 800,000 after US sees deadliest day||The coronavirus pandemic on Tuesday infected more than 800,000 people all over the world, with the global death toll crossing 40,000. The twin developments came as the total number of deaths in the US surpassed China’s toll of 3,305.The US, Italy, Spain, China and Germany are now the five most affected countries in terms of number of confirmed cases.The US death toll, which has now touched 3,400, is more than the nearly 3,000 people killed in the September 11, 2001 terror attacks. Close to 175,000 have been infected across the US.More than 575 people died in the US on Monday, the deadliest single day toll in the country’s battle against the outbreak, and President Donald Trump called for vigorous adherence to social-distancing guidelines over the next 30 days.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe US president also sought to address concerns about the availability of essential medical supplies needed to test and treat patients and protect health care workers. He said the US will be in “a good shape” when the death rate is expected to peak in two weeks when it comes to the availability of ventilators.The US has ramped up acquisition of supplies at home, through stepped up production by American companies and purchases abroad, as complaints of shortages persisted, specially in hot spots such as New York state, New Jersey, Washington and those other states that are potentially on the edge.New York state remains the worst hit, with more than 67,000 cases and at least 1,300 deaths; New York City alone had 914 fatalities at one stage.“Challenging times are ahead for the next 30 days, this is a very vital 30 days,” Trump said at a White House briefing, referring to the extended period of social-distancing guideline, during which the administration also fears the death-rate to peak. While the existing social-distancing guidelines will remain in place for this period, the administration is expected to release its strategy going forward on Tuesday, along with data and findings that have been used by its top experts to warn of between 100,000 to 200,000 deaths.It wasn’t clear if new measures could be announced as well, but The Washington Post reported on Monday that the CDC is considering recommending people use masks when they step out. Across the border, the Canadian government is preparing to mobilise nearly 24,000 troops to assist in the effort to contain the pandemic, even as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau pointedly said the country was on a different “trajectory” from the spread of the disease in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-coronavirus-cases-cross-800-000-after-us-sees-deadliest-day/story-7SHpAuNI01E00MZfo7xCDL.html
01-04-2020||India||More Indian students in US may be hired under H-1B visa in 2021 than those in India||The number of Indians hired on H-1B visas from India could be less in 2021 than in previous years but more Indians could be hired from among foreign students enrolled in US institutions of higher learning, according to numbers released Wednesday by the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS).Of the 275,000 unique registrations filed by employers this year under the new system, 46% were for beneficiaries who are foreign students enrolled in US institutions of higher learning. Under the new system, the USCIS will pick the Congressionally capped 85,000 beneficiaries for 2021 from only among registered beneficiaries. The USCIS released the numbers in an announcement inviting registered employers to begin filing their applications (H-1B visa application are filed by employers, not beneficiaries).The chances are higher, therefore, of more foreign students being picked than the other open category.And the chances of more Indians being selected among them were higher as 67% of the potential beneficiaries were from India. The Chinese were a distant second with 13.2%.The registered beneficiaries have still to go through the approval process, subject to the selection criterion, as every year. The difference, under the new system introduced for 2020, is that the USCIS will select only from among those who were electronically registered by their potential employers.Indians have tended to be the single largest beneficiary of the H-1B visa programme for US employers to hire highly skilled foreign students to make up the shortage of local availability. They have accounted for upwards of 70% of the visas, which, for many Indians is the gateway to permanent residency and citizenship.Of the total of 85,000 such visas given out every year, 65,000 were set aside earlier for foreign workers hired from abroad and 20,000 from among foreign students in US colleges and universities. The Trump administration has changed it to accord priority to foreign students, opening up the general category to them as well.“The new H-1B electronic registration system has been an overall success. As a result of this modernized process, the amount of paper and data exchanged between USCIS and petitioners will dramatically decrease this year,” said USCIS Deputy Director for Policy Joseph Edlow in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-indian-students-in-us-may-be-hired-under-h-1b-visa-in-2021-than-those-in-india/story-QKPlepxxgw7RnrOP86Hd9J.html
01-04-2020||India||‘Virus has no religion’: Pinarayi Vijayan on criticism of Tablighi Jamaat meet||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday condemned the move to isolate and attack a particular community citing the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi even as the state reported 24 new Covid-19 cases.“A virus has no religion and it spreads not on the basis of any religion or community. Some forces are trying to communalise the situation. They have started a virulent campaign on social media. Such attempts will not succeed in a state like Kerala,” the CM said adding strict action will be taken against such people. “There is no need of such intolerance. We will not tolerate it,” he said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHe said there is no need for any panic over the Tablighi Jammat incident. “At least 60 people returned after the congregation and are under observation. We have collected details and passed all information to respective districts,” he said. When asked about the exact number of pilgrims from the state he did not reply. There are allegations that the government is not disclosing details so as not to trigger panic.However, there are unconfirmed reports that more than 300 people from the state attended it.At least 80 of them returned between March 5 and 8 to north Kerala and they were asked to remain in quarantine until the shutdown is over. Health officials said in their case there was no need to worry as the incubation period is almost over. But 60 of them returned a day before the lockdown began (March 23) and they were identified and put under strict quarantine in different hospitals, said a senior health ministry official.Over 100 people are reportedly stranded in Delhi and there are reports that some of them have proceeded to other religious places in north India as part of their itinerary and are stuck at different places. Fearing action some of them are not receiving calls on their mobile phones making their contact tracing really cumbersome, police officials said.A resident of Pathanamthitta, Dr M Saleem (67), who participated in the congregation, died on March 24 and later his body was buried in Delhi. His relatives said he was suffering from multiple complications and he died of a heart attack. But now many suspect he may have died of Covid-19 and his test results are yet to emerge. Meanwhile the state has reported 24 new cases taking the total number of positive cases to 265-- this includes 26 people discharged from hospitals. Among 24, 9 are foreign returnees and 15 their contacts. The total number under observation has also risen to 1,64,130. To a question the CM said community transmission was yet to take place in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-has-no-religion-pinarayi-vijayan-on-criticism-of-tablighi-jamaat-meet/story-Rd1mlpC9mNkFQp0B8OUZjL.html
01-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases hit close to 2000, Markaz contact tracing on ‘war footing’||The number of Covid-19 cases in India soared close to 2,000 on Wednesday, fuelled largely by infections linked to a March event of the Tablighi Jamaat in the heart of Delhi that emerged this week as the biggest domestic source of the disease in the country.According to a tally of numbers released by 25 states and union territories, close to 8,500 people have been identified as having been to the Islamic sect’s headquarters in the capital’s Nizamuddin area, prompting authorities to intensify efforts to trace them since they may be carrying the virus and potentially infecting others.This is in addition to the 2,346 people who have been evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat’s six-storey mosque complex – called a markaz – in Delhi since Sunday, including 531 who have now been taken to hospitals as they showed symptoms of the disease.In all, 358 confirmed Covid-19 across the country have been linked to the markaz.In a video conference with the police and administration heads of the states, Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba asked all states to launch on “war footing” a contact tracing of all those who attended Tablighi Jamaat events in Delhi this month.In a briefing later in the evening, the health ministry said the country recorded 386 new cases in 24 hours – a surge that was driven by the infections among the sect’s members. “I want to highlight that the rise in the number of positive cases does not represent a national trend, but if there will be a failure anywhere, obviously cases will rise,” said health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal, reiterating the need for people to follow social distancing guidelines and not violate the nationwide lockdown underway at present.Over the weekend, officials discovered infections were multiplying at the markaz after alerts began streaming in from other states where people who had been to the building and developed symptoms after heading out to other cities. At least nine of these people – six in Telangana and one each in Kashmir, Gujarat and Karnataka – have died due to the disease.By 1 pm on Wednesday, the markaz was sanitised by sanitation workers in decontamination suits. The workers said they found the insides of the building to be damp. “We have sprayed every corner of the building, but its insides are damp due to the absence of sunlight. Usually the surfaces we have been spraying all these days were dry, so we don’t know how effective the disinfectant would be,” said Harish Kumar, a sanitation worker.Kumar described the markaz as comprising mostly large halls, many of which had rows of beds spread out. “Rows and rows of mattresses were spread out in the halls, floor after floor,” he said.Authorities may now begin an exercise to canvass the Nizamuddin area, a congested residential locality. “As part of the cluster containment strategy, Nizamuddin, which is turning out to be a big cluster, would require aggressive door-to-door- contact tracing and testing to pick up positive cases. After the evacuation and segregation at the epicentre, next step will be to trace possible cases that may have directly or indirectly come into contact with them; and test them,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity.The Delhi Police and Intelligence Bureau separately estimated that around 6,500 to 7,000 people visited the markaz between March 10 and March 24 – when active infections are believed to have been taking place at the building. At least 300 of these were foreign nationals, including the six Indonesians who died in Telangana.Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have seen the bulk of infections linked to the markaz, with the three states reporting 237 cases. Tamil Nadu added 110 on Wednesday alone, taking its total to 190.Officials in at least two other states -- Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra -- said they are using cellphone location and call data to search for people who had been to the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi.According to intelligence bureau officials who asked not to be named, about 2,000 foreign nationals arrived on tourist visas from at least 70 countries to take part in the sect’s work across the country since January 1. Participating in religious activity while on a tourist visa is prohibited by Indian immigration rules.According to the home ministry’s assessment, a majority of these foreign nationals were from Bangladesh (493), Indonesia (472), Malaysia (150) and Thailand (142).“All the ambassadors of the concerned countries have been contacted and they’ve been informed about the position of various nationals that are involved in this [matter],” said a person who asked not to be named.The home ministry has now directed state authorities to immediately deport foreigners who test negative for Covid-19 by the “first available flights”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-hit-close-to-2000-markaz-contact-tracing-on-war-footing/story-FLt7KkRIXpbwhdHGJdvZGK.html
01-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala HC orders Centre to open Kasaragod Mangalore highway immediately||The Kerala High Court In a late night order on Wednesday asked the Centre to open the Kasaragod-Mangalore National Highway immediately and said the Karnataka government had no powers to close it. On a petition by two lawyers against the closure of the highway by Kartnataka in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the court said this was not an appropriate time to impose such restrictions.Follow coronavirus live updates here.At least seven patients from Kerala have died after Karnataka denied entry to ambulances. After Kasaragod became a hotspot of the coronavirus pandemic Karnataka had suddenly closed the national highway causing much trouble to the people living in the border areas.In its order the HC said national highway is the property of the Centre and it is bound to ensure traffic on it. Karnataka argued that the state is not bound to follow the Kerala high court order but the court rejected its contention and ordered the Centre to implement its order immediatelyAlso read:‘No exceptions to lockdown’: MHA order after Kerala’s ‘liquor on doc advice’ ruleThe Centre’s counsel sought two day time saying talks were on between two states but the court declined it saying many deaths had already taken place due to this blockadeEarlier on Monday, Rajmohan Unnithan, Lok Sabha MP from Kasaragod, filed a petition in the Supreme Court, seeking directions to the Karnataka government to open its borders and allow movement of ambulances, emergency vehicles and vehicles carrying essential items into Kerala.Unnithan argued that that the decision of the Karnataka government to close its borders with Kerala was a dangerous and ill-planned decision as it has led to the disruption in supply of food and other essential items in his tate and resulted in a humanitarian crisis.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had earlier written to Prime Minister Marendra Modi seeking his intervention. Later home minister Amit Shah had talked to chief ministers of both states. But Karnataka did not relent saying it has every right to protect its districts neighbouring Kerala.Relations between two states strained after closure of NH and other roads connecting them. Karnataka had put boulders and sand on the road to block vehicles from Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kerala-hc-orders-centre-to-open-kasaragod-mangalore-highway-immediately/story-GBT4KNfpmXsjKJdhb7RQNI.html
01-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Dozen more infected in Assam, all attended Tablighi Jamaat meet||A day after Assam recorded its first coronavirus case, 12 more people tested positive in the state on Wednesday taking the total number of patients in the state to 13.Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted about eight of the latest cases in the evening. Alert ~ 8 more #COVID19 positive cases in Assam, taking the total to 13.All eight new cases are of people who also participated in #TablighiJamaat congregation at #NizamuddinMarkaz.Update at 9 pm / April 1All of them had taken part in the congregation organised by the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. While four test results were announced in the afternoon, 8 more tested positive on Wednesday evening Follow coronavirus live updates here.“We received a list of 456 people present in and around the location during the congregation organised by Tablighi Jamat. Names of another 91 people were collected from information gathered locally —taking the total to 547,” Sarma had said earlier in the day at a press conference.“Out of that, 134 were in that area but had not attended the congregation, and another 68 had attended it but are yet to return to Assam. So our target was to locate 347 who had returned to Assam,” he added.Also read: Karnataka now says 1500 from the state were at Nizamuddin gathering, only 800 tracedSince Tuesday, 230 of them have been identified and located—samples have been collected from 196 of them and sent for tests. There is no trace yet to 117 and efforts are on the locate them.“We have got reports that four other persons from Assam, who are among the 68 attendees of the congregation yet to return to the state, have been found positive in Delhi,” he added.Sarma appealed to the 117 others who are yet to be traced to voluntarily contact healthcare authorities or call the 104 helpline number and inform about their status and location.“We have entered a critical stage as most of the 347 people who came to the state from the Tablighi Jamaat gathering last month didn’t spend time in quarantine and there is no idea how many people they came in contact with after returning,” he said.The first positive case from Assam, a 52-year old from Karimganj who is a patient of cancer and diabetes, had attended the Tablighi Jamaat gathering. He is at present admitted at Silchar Medical College Hospital.After attending the congregation he had returned by train to Guwahati earlier last month where he spent a night before going back home in another train. All those people who have come in contact with him have been quarantined and samples collected from five of them for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-dozen-more-infected-in-assam-all-attended-tablighi-jamaat-meet/story-ix2ZkIbQRe9W3azklXh57I.html
01-04-2020||India||‘No exceptions to lockdown’: MHA order after Kerala’s ‘liquor on doc advice’ rule||Union Home Secretary Ajay kumar Bhalla on Wednesday ordered all state governments to stop making exemptions to the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown ordered by him under the Disaster Management Law. Bhalla told them that they had to stick to the script outlined by the Centre and enforce the lockdown in “letter and spirit”.Bhalla had invoked his powers under the disaster management law to order the nationwide lockdown on March 24, shortly after Prime Minister Narendra Modi broke the news to the country in a televised address to the nation.Since then Bhalla has tweaked the ground rules on a few occasions.But there have been instances of some state governments relaxing the lockdown to make exemptions.Like the Kerala government which has allowed people to pick up their supply of liquor if they could get a doctor to prescribe it to them. The unusual order was issued by the Pinarayi Vijayan’s government after eight deaths linked to non-availability of liquor were reported.In Punjab, on the other hand, the government asked industrial units and brick kilns to resume operations to stop migrant workers from heading home if they can accommodate the workforce within the complex.In his letter to states, home secretary Bhalla did not cite any specific instance but sent his message across.“It has been noticed that some state governments/UT administrations are allowing exceptions beyond what has been allowed under lockdown measures by the Ministry of Home Affairs,” Bhalla’s letter to the states said.“This amounts to violation of the lockdown measures issued by MHA under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and may defeat the overall objective of containing the spread of Covid-19 in the country,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-exceptions-to-lockdown-mha-order-after-kerala-s-liquor-on-doc-advice-rule/story-NVUvHuvl6suxEwmSLbIDZP.html
01-04-2020||India||Garbage disposal, no groceries in Goa: Complaints for govt after Covid-19 lockdown||From groceries not being delivered in Goa to pleas from the UK and New York to evacuate stranded Indians, from frantic requests for garbage disposal to complaints about police harassment -- these are some of the matters that have come to the central government ‘s notice since the 21-day lockdown to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease began on March 25. Around 345 complaints relating to Covid-19 were registered with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and various government departments and ministries, according to an official in the Department of Administrative Reform and Public Grievances (DARPG). The DAPRG has now sorted 336 complaints into 11 categories to “expeditiously address them.”“These grievances have been filed with the Prime Minsiter’s Office on the PM”s website,” a senior DARPG official said on condition of anonymity. “There is a 60 -day period for the redressal of grievances filed with the PMO. But since these are urgent, and a huge data dump has taken place, a separate portal has been set up to monitor and address them.”These complaints will be resolved in a period of three days. The 11 categories include inadequate facilities in hospitals, problem in donating to the PM-CARES fund, essential supplies not being provided, request for rescue from another country, stuck in some place because of lockdown, harassment, lockdown not adhered to, examination-related and quarantine-related matters, suggestions and others, according to data accessed by Hindustan Times.A majority of the grievances are health-related, the official cited above added. These include overcrowding of isolation wards, lack of masks and sanitisers and not enough testing facilities or hospitals being ill-equipped to test patients. According to the official, the DARPG has also received requests for immediate garbage disposal and evacuation of Indians from overseas. “We have received requests from UK and New York to evacuate Indians stranded there as the situation has gotten really bad in those countries,” he said. Several students, family members and concerned parties have also reached out to external affairs minister S. Jaishankar on the same issue, including senior Nationalist Congress Party leader Supriya Sule. “We are looking into it. People have also complained that essential services, like garbage collection, are not happening anymore,” the official said. There have also been requests from people to intervene with banks since the Reserve Bank of India has allowed a moratorium on payments of equated monthly instalment but the banks haven’t responded, leading to concerns among consumers about being penalised in case of non-payment of dues. “There are also litigants who have reached out to us,” said the first official. “They haven’t been able to reach courts on time and are afraid it may adversely impact their cases. They have asked us for help.” The DARPG has also received requests to help ease supply chains so that essential services may not be hampered. In Goa, according to the analysis accessed by Hindutan Times, people have complained about groceries not being provided. Seven requests to postpone government exams have also been received. Among the harassment complaints are cases of people being evicted from college and police high-handedness. Around 28 grievances have been lodged under the lockdown not being followed category; that includes private sector and postal employees being called to work, according to the data.“In the general pipeline (PMO or CPGRAMS) we receive lakhs of grivances,” a second official said. “The Covid-19 specific ones have been segregated for immediate attention.” CPGRAMS is short for Centralized Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring SystemThe department has also received suggestions to extend the lockdown. There have also been bogus claims like discovery of a Covid-19cure. A person even lodged 54 grievances not related to Covid-19 that the department has noted. The grievances have been collated on a portal on the DARPG website launched by minister of personnel, public grievances and pensions Jitendra Singh on Wednesday. These have further been allocated to each department/ministry for redressal. On the day of the launch, the National Monitoring Dashboard received 43 grievances related to the ministry of health and family welfare, 31 grievances under the ambit of the ministry of external affairs and 26 grievances in the domain of the ministry of finance.“It is the endeavour of the Modi Government to ensure timely redressal of Covid-19 grievances and directions have been issued to all ministries/ departments to prioritize these grievances and provide redressal in a period of three days,” Singh said on Tuesday. “For the remainder of the lockdown, these will be addressed on a priority basis and anyone wishing to lodge a complaint may log on to the website,” the first official said. “After that, they may be merged with the PMO again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/garbage-disposal-no-groceries-in-goa-complaints-for-govt-after-covid-19-lockdown/story-JnGz9l7EMuoizP46HAOwdK.html
01-04-2020||India||Man fakes death to return home in ambulance in Poonch, gets caught||Stranded in Jammu during the coronavirus lockdown and desperate to reach home near Poonch, a man faked his own death to avail of an ambulance that would have dropped him and three others at their village but the plan came unstuck near the destination about 250 km away, police said Wednesday.Three others who also had to travel hatched the plan to show Hakim Din as “dead”, managed to get an ambulance and its driver Abid Hussain, obtained a fake order form the government medical college and hospital in Jammu for the ‘body’s’ passage before the police nabbed them at a check post in Surankote on Tuesday.Follow live coronavirus updates here. The “dead” man and his three associates hailed from Sailan village of Surankote while ambulance driver Abid Hussain belonged to Rajouri.Also read: 4 men trek through Pir Panjal range to reach home during lockdown, 3 die of coldThe accused, with the help of a nursing orderly, procured a fake death certificate that carried seal of the casualty medical officer of the government medical college and hospital and his forged signature.“Dead body shifted from GMC hospital to Baflaiz Saillan. In between the crisis of “Corona virus”, nobody could not disturb them (sic),” read the order issued on the letterhead of medical records department of GMC hospital. The letter also mentioned name of the ambulance driver as Abid Hussain and ambulance’s number (PB 02 CQ-6663) carrying the “dead” man to his native village.“The ambulance was close to its destination when a police team intercepted it at a check post and found the ‘dead man’ alive. The driver was immediately arrested and a case under FIR number 45/2020 under sections 188, 269, 420, 109 of the IPC has been registered against all of them at Surankote police station,” said Ramesh Kumar Angral, Senior Superintendent of Police of Poonch.The driver was arrested and then quarantined along with the other four men.Station House Officer of Surankote, Anil Sharma said that the ambulance belonged to a doctor in Rajouri, who has three more ambulances.Sharma said that there have been reports of ambulances being used to ferry people from Jammu to Poonch during the lockdown and passenger were being charged Rs 7,500 per trip.Medical superintendent of government medical college and hospital in Jammu, Dr Dara Singh said, “Hospital authorities have also initiated probe. A nursing orderly Noor Alam used the stamp and letter head of the casualty medical officer. He also hails from Rajouri. Police have been informed and action under law will be initiated against him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-fakes-death-to-return-home-in-ambulance-in-poonch-gets-caught/story-wGDS3yFDxufJG04q7rpIeO.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: UP record first two deaths, one without travel or contact history||Uttar Pradesh reported first two deaths due to coronavirus infection-- one each from Basti and Meerut-- while 13 more positive cases took the total tally of infections in state to 116, officials said on Wednesday.The travel history of the 25-year-old man from Basti, who died at the BRD Medical College hospital in Gorakhpur on Monday, was not known, officials said. His sample swab tested positive on Wednesday, two days after his death, they added.“Our surveillance teams are working to find out the exact travel or contact history of the man. But right now, it cannot be said to be a case of community transmission in the state,” principal secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said in Lucknow.The second patient, who died in the state, was a 72-year-old man, the father-in-law of the first person to test positive in Meerut, said Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College principal Dr R C Gupta.Dr Gupta said the elderly person was a patient of diabetes and had respiratory problems.He was put on oxygen and was reported to be stable till Tuesday but his condition started deteriorating at night after which he was put on a ventilator. He died on Wednesday afternoon, Gupta said.About the Basti man, BRD Medical College hospital principal Dr Ganesh Kumar said, “His test results are Covid-19 positive. The patient was suffering from liver and kidney ailments. His immunity was low because of multiple health complications. However, he had no overseas travel history and might have been infected because of low immunity. His contacts are being quarantined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-up-record-first-two-deaths-one-without-travel-or-contact-history/story-GCwDjOg07eNzr4Y1G126dL.html
01-04-2020||India||‘Stupid advice,’ says Chidambaram on interest rate cut for small savings||The Congress on Wednesday criticised the government for its decision to reduce interest rates on small saving schemes with senior party leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram calling it a wrong step based on “stupid advice”.The opposition party demanded its immediate rollback.The government reduced the interest rates on small savings schemes by 70 to 140 basis points for the year 2020 during April-June quarter.Public provident fund interest rates in the quarter have been brought down by 80 bps to 7.1% and for KVP -- Kisan Vikas Patra -- have been slashed by 70 bps to 6.9% and after reduction of 0.8%, the girl child-focussed Sukanya Samriddhi scheme now stands at the interest rate of 7.6%.“I know that sometimes the government acts on stupid advice, but I am amazed how stupid this advice was. While reducing the interest rate on PPF and small savings may be technically correct, it is absolutely the wrong time to do so,” Chidambaram tweeted.He said though India’s GDP for the last quarter could not be have been more than 4%, it was time to focus on saving people’s lives and not the GDP.In times of acute distress and uncertainty about income, people depend on the interest income on their savings, added Chidambaram, demanding immediately rollback of the decision and restoring old rates until June 30.About the GDP, he said after the three quarters’ growth rates of 5.6%, 5.1% and 4.7% respectively, the fourth quarter of 2019-20 ended Tuesday. “Q4 growth could not have been more than 4%. So, annual GDP for 2019-20 must be a disappointing 4.8%.”However, Chidambaram said this was the time of discussing the growth rate of coronavirus and not GDP. “Once Covid-19 is in control automatically the GDP will increase. In my view, we should not worry about growth now. The focus should be on saving people’s lives whatever it takes,” he said.The former finance minister also expressed concern over the government not announcing the second financial assistance package during the lockdown imposed amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“That is why I am appalled that the government has not yet announced FAP II after the miserly and disastrous FAP of March 25,” he tweeted.His party colleague Jaiveer Shergill termed the government’s decision “irrational, illogical and ill-timed”, saying it has come at a time when the people are already facing hardship due to the lockdown and the economic recession.“The BJP government’s decision to cut interest rates on small saving schemes is a heartless and shameful act that will hit the common people, especially the farmers, middle class and the poor who are already suffering due to the downturn in the economy,” he told reporters at a press conference held through video conferencing.He demanded that the government waive interest on EMIs for the three-month period from March to June, saying the moratorium on EMIs is merely hogwash and a postponing exercise.Shergill also urged the government to come out with a second tranche of economic relief packages to help small and medium enterprises, and the poor and common people from the economic downturn the country is facing.“The decision to reduce interest rates on small savings is ill-timed, illogical and irrational,” he said, adding that it will snatch the incomes of 90 crore people in the country.Shergill said the government will earn an additional Rs 26,000 crore through this reduction in interest rates and said it should not act like “Shylock to extract a pound of flesh” from the people.The government should instead work towards raising incomes of people instead of shrinking it, for helping them survive this economic downturn, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stupid-advice-says-chidambaram-on-interest-rate-cut-for-small-savings/story-khWgyeHCsX9v7cRNOqjDgM.html
01-04-2020||India||Envoys of nations whose nationals violated tourist visas for Tablighi activities alerted||The Indian government has alerted envoys of several South and Southeast Asian countries whose nationals allegedly violated visa regulations to attend a gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi that has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday.Action will be taken under India’s regulations and laws against hundreds of foreign nationals who entered the country on tourist visas and joined the gathering at Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz or headquarters in Nizamuddin area of New Delhi, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The Jamaat’s six-storey headquarters has emerged as the single biggest source of Covid-19 infections in the country, after being linked to at least eight deaths and 283 infections. Officials have said members who joined a gathering at the Markaz earlier this month had tested positive in New Delhi, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Kashmir.“All the ambassadors of the concerned countries have been contacted and they’ve been informed about the position of various nationals that are involved in this [matter],” said a person who declined to be named.The home ministry is taking action in close coordination with external affairs ministry, the people said.“If there have been violations of the rules and laws of the land, appropriate action will be taken by relevant authorities,” said the person cited above.According to a statement from the home ministry, as of March 21, there were 216 foreigners at the Jamaat’s Markaz and 824 more foreigners engaged in activities of the Jamaat in different parts of India. The home ministry directed state police forces to identify these 824 foreigners, medically screen and quarantine them.A classified assessment by the home ministry, accessed by HT, said eight Indonesian nationals who were part of a Jamaat team tested positive for Covid-19 in Telangana. It also estimated some 2,000 foreigners from 70 nations, who all entered India on tourist visas, were “spread all over the country for Tabligh work”.The assessment said a majority of them were from Bangladesh (493), Indonesia (472), Malaysia (150) and Thailand (142). The home ministry directed state authorities to immediately deport foreigners who test negative for Covid-19 by the “first available flights”.Most foreign members of Tablighi Jamaat travel to India on tourist visas, and the people cited above said it is difficult to ascertain the purpose of visit of individual applicants, especially in the case of friendly countries such as Thailand and Indonesia for which visa regimes are relatively liberal. They said Jamaat members should apply for missionary or conference visas.The home ministry has now said the external affairs ministry should advise foreign missions to refrain from granting tourist visas to foreigners “who are likely to use it for Tabligh activities”. It also said missions should check details such as place of stay in India, return tickets and financial means of applicants before granting tourist visas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/envoys-of-nations-whose-nationals-violated-tourist-visas-for-tabligh-activities-alerted/story-nQbPzG0352JNpMZwWP773H.html
01-04-2020||India||Karnataka now says 1500 from the state were at Nizamuddin gathering, only 800 traced||Karnataka dramatically revised the numbers of Tablighi Jamaat members from the state who had attended the gathering at Nizamuddin, to 1500 on Wednesday from less than 100 on Tuesday. The state government added that it had screened around 800 of the Jamaat members and throat swabs of 143 members had been sent for testing, while 700 others were still to be traced.“We received this total of 1500 people from the Centre in three different installments. Of them, 800 have been identified and throat swabs of 142 symptomatic cases have been taken and sent for testing. We expect the results to start coming in from tomorrow. Efforts are on to trace the rest of the people who attended the meet,” said Jawaid Akhtar, state’s principal secretary health and family welfare. The principal secretary also said that a public notification appealing to all those who attended the meet to voluntarily get in touch with the state government has been issued.He added that the 800 identified individuals will be first quarantined at a public facility for two weeks followed by home quarantine.“We are in the process of collecting travel history of all these people.”The government, however, has not provided details as to how many of these 1500 Jamaat members are foreigners and from which countries. It only said that they were spread all over state’s 30 districts.Nine more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, bringing the state’s total infections to 110. Three patients have died and nine have been discharged till now.Meanwhile, Bengaluru’s city crime branch police have arrested the manager of Prajaval Surgical and Scientific store for selling fake infrared thermometers.These thermometers were apparently being sold for Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 a piece. A bunch of these fake thermometers were also seized and a case registered. This comes in the backdrop of busting of rackets selling fake sanitizers and masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-now-says-1500-from-the-state-were-at-nizamuddin-gathering-only-800-traced/story-GQbJXxt05r9i8OIhh91gSI.html
01-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India to accept help from abroad for PM-CARES Fund||The Indian government has decided to accept contributions from abroad for the PM-CARES Fund created to fight the Covid-19 outbreak, marking a shift from its earlier position of refusing foreign donations during crises.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the decision was in line with the unprecedented situation created by the coronavirus outbreak that has resulted in more than 850,000 infections and around 42,000 deaths globally.“The pandemic is unprecedented and when the prime minister spoke to envoys [via video conference on Monday], he asked them to make efforts for contributions towards this fund. A decision has been taken to accept contributions from abroad in the PM-CARES Fund,” said a person who declined to be named.The Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund was set up in view of several spontaneous requests from India and abroad for making contributions to support the government’s fight against Covid-19, the people said.Also Watch: Will the Centre extend lockdown?  Contributions to the fund can be made by individuals and organisations, both in India and abroad, in view of the expressed interest to contribute to the government’s efforts and keeping in mind the “unprecedented nature” of the pandemic, the people said.In 2018, the government refused all foreign aid, including a reported offer of $100 million from the United Arab Emirates, for disaster relief following floods in Kerala that displaced millions of people. Offers of help from Thailand, Qatar and the Maldives too were declined.This was in line with a long-standing policy put in place after the Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004, and at the time, the external affairs ministry had said in a statement that the “government is committed to meeting the requirements for relief and rehabilitation through domestic efforts”.The people cited above pointed out that no foreign governments had so far come forward to donate to the PM-CARES Fund, which has largely attracted pledges from NRIs and people of Indian origin based in several countries.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has directed the heads of Indian missions around the world to explore the possibility of sourcing medical equipment needed to fight Covid-19 – especially personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, ventilators, and three-ply, surgical and N95 masks – as there is a huge shortage in the country, the people cited above said.In the case of China, some relief materials were coming to India from independent sources as donations while the mission in Beijing is looking at procuring available equipment on a commercial basis, the people said.“The embassy in Beijing is working on this and we are looking at various options and sources,” said a second person. “There is a huge shortage and we will source materials from wherever they are available.”At the same time, domestic companies are being encouraged by the health and textile ministries to ramp up production of PPE and medical equipment, the people said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-to-accept-help-from-abroad-for-pm-cares-fund/story-fCUA0AJ7eerKLfocPWP9VI.html
01-04-2020||India||‘Mini PMO’ at PM Modi’s Kashi flooded with calls for LPG, food, ration supply||The landline phone rings continuously as the helpline at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s local public relations office, which is also known as ‘Mini PMO’, in Varanasi receives 80-90 calls daily on an average, says Shivsharan Pathak, who is in charge of the Mini PMO.The callers ask for help to ensure home delivery of medicines, timely supply of cooking gas and sanitisation of their locality, he adds.The ‘mini PMO’ helpline (0542-2314000) was started on March 27. As one call disconnects, another follows. The person deployed at the helpline is instructed to attend each call and note down the request made by the caller, his name, the area he belongs to and the cell phone number in a register, Pathak says.In addition, many daily wagers, who are stranded in different areas, dial the helpline number and ask for delivery of food packets to them, he adds.Their location is noted. With the help of several organisations, food packets are delivered to them within an hour.Pathak says, “The helpline functions round the clock. On average, around 80 to 90 seek help. Each call is attended and it is ensured that the problem is solved quickly.”Around 20 calls are by labourers, who ask for food. Around 25 calls are from other residents, including senior citizens, who want home delivery of medicines. Then, about 5-10 calls are for getting residential areas sprayed with disinfectants. About 20 others ask for proper supply of cooking gas and so on, he says.“As soon as the helpline receives a call from any labourer, his location is established and the cell phone number is noted. Soon after that, the helpline contacts social organizations to ensure delivery of food packets to the person (labourer) quickly,” Pathak says.Two days ago, Vikas Kumar, a daily wager from Khojwan area asked for food packets, which were provided.Dr Suresh Kumar, a resident of Ashokpuram Colony, dialled the Mini PMO helpline and sought help for getting his colony sanitised.Pathak spoke to the Varanasi municipal authorities and ensured the colony was sanitized.Amit Kumar Pandey from Pandeypur area sought help for proper distribution of foodgrains by the fair price shop in the locality.Pathak said he spoke to additional district magistrate (supply) Satish Pal and had the problem solved immediately.In the meantime, one Bhanvar Lal from Guru Dham colony sought help for ensuring home delivery of medicine, he said.The helpline volunteer called up a medical store identified by the administration for home delivery and made sure that Bhanwar Lal got the medicine at his doorstep, he said.An official at the ‘mini PMO’ said several calls were received with requests for delivery of cooking gas cylinders at home.Pathak said he spoke to ADM supply Pal and asked him to ensure proper supply of cylinders in each and every area of the city.The ADM said passes were already issued to trolley-men for the door to door delivery of cooking gas cylinders.Navratan Rathi, the BJP spokesperson for the Kashi region, said, “The helpline at the Mini PMO received around 400 calls in the last five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mini-pmo-at-pm-modi-s-kashi-flooded-with-calls-for-lpg-food-ration-supply/story-SsU6eKVBZ1r7hlcvF3jdfP.html
01-04-2020||India||Salaries of UP govt employees will not be cut, says Yogi Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday said salaries of its employees will neither be deferred nor cut amid the coronavirus lockdown and its impact on revenues.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has clearly said that the condition of the state’s economy is strong and it would deal with the challenge posed by the pandemic, Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi told newspersons here.There would be no cut or deferment in the salaries of state government employees, Awasthi said, quoting the chief minister.The chief minister is of the view that when he has asked private agencies to pay full salary to their employees in this hour of crisis, it is the responsibility of the state government to pay its employees as well, Awasthi pointed out.   Several states including Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Telangana have announced deferment of payment of full salaries to the chief minister, officers and employees, saying their revenue streams have dried up due to the ongoing lockdown to combat coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salaries-of-up-govt-employees-will-not-be-cut-says-yogi-adityanath/story-PiAw8bNhRK2Pcg7ElodBOO.html
01-04-2020||India||India alerts countries whose nationals misused visas for Tabligh meet||The Indian government has alerted envoys of several South and Southeast Asian countries whose nationals violated visa regulations to attend a gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi that has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday.Action will be taken under India’s regulations and laws against hundreds of foreign nationals who entered the country on tourist visas and joined the gathering at Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz or headquarters in Nizamuddin area of New Delhi, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The Jamaat’s six-storey headquarters has emerged as the single biggest source of Covid-19 infections in the country, after being linked to at least eight deaths and 117 infections. Officials have said members who joined a gathering at the Markaz earlier this month had tested positive in New Delhi, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Kashmir.“All the ambassadors of the concerned countries have been contacted and they’ve been informed about the position of various nationals who are involved in this [matter],” said a person who declined to be named.The home ministry is taking action in close coordination with external affairs ministry, the people said.“If there have been violations of the rules and laws of the land, appropriate action will be taken by relevant authorities,” said the person cited above.According to a statement from the home ministry, as of March 21, there were 216 foreigners at the Jamaat’s Markaz and 824 more foreigners engaged in activities of the Jamaat in different parts of India. The home ministry directed state police forces to identify these 824 foreigners, medically screen and quarantine them.A classified assessment by the home ministry, accessed by HT, said eight Indonesian nationals who were part of a Jamaat team tested positive for Covid-19 in Telangana. It also estimated some 2,000 foreigners from 70 nations, who all entered India on tourist visas, were “spread all over the country for Tabligh work”.The assessment said a majority of them were from Bangladesh (493), Indonesia (472), Malaysia (150) and Thailand (142). The home ministry directed state authorities to immediately deport foreigners who test negative for Covid-19 by the “first available flights”.Most foreign members of Tablighi Jamaat travel to India on tourist visas, and the people cited above said it is difficult to ascertain the purpose of visit of individual applicants, especially in the case of friendly countries such as Thailand and Indonesia for which visa regimes are relatively liberal. They said Jamaat members should apply for missionary or conference visas.The home ministry has now said the external affairs ministry should advise foreign missions to refrain from granting tourist visas to foreigners “who are likely to use it for Tabligh activities”. It also said missions should check details such as place of stay in India, return tickets and financial means of applicants before granting tourist visas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-alerts-envoys-of-countries-whose-nationals-violated-tourist-visas-for-tabligh-meet/story-mEFzWtHPmYEazqxwXwaiEL.html
01-04-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat head booked over Covid-19 spurt not in UP hometown, say police, relative||Tablighi Jamaat head Maulana Saad Kandhalwi who is now in the eye of a storm over a spurt in coronavirus cases in the country following a congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, was not in his hometown Kandhla in Shamli district of western Uttar Pradesh, police said on Wednesday.Shamli‘s Superintendent of police, Vineet Jaiswal said that he had no information about Maulana Saad Kandhalvi’s arrival in the town. Maulana Saad’s relative Maulana Badrul Hasan said he usually stayed at the Nizamuddin Markaz and visited his home in Kandhla for a day or two every month. But he didn’t come to Kandhla on Wednesday as claimed by a section of the media, Hasan said.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Maulana Saad has been in the news after at least eight people, who participated in a religious gathering at the Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz (centre) in Delhi between March 13 and 15, died of coronavirus. Saad and five other top functionaries of the Tablighi Jamaat were booked on Tuesday after its headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area emerged as the single biggest source of Covid-19 infections in the country. Maulana Hasan said, “Maulana Saad is not a fugitive as presented in a section of the media. He is in Delhi and we support every action and order of the government during this crisis.” He claimed neither Maulana Saad nor other organisers had received a copy of the FIR lodged by the Delhi Police against the cleric. “Media trials should be stopped against the Markaz and its organizers,” he said. Maulana Saad Kandhalwi is the great grandson of Muhammad Iliyas Kandhalwi, who organised a group of young madarsa graduates from Deoband and Saharanpur in early 1920s and sent them to Mewat to establish a network of mosques and Islamic schools. Later, people of South Asia started calling these devotees ‘Tablighi’ and the organisation became popular as Tablighi Jamaat. Maulana Hasan said it was an apolitical organisation with over 20 crore (200 million) members across the world. He said Maulana Saad preferred to keep a low profile during his visits to his hometown where he has an ancestral house in Maulvian locality of the town. “He is a cult figure. Within no time, a big crowd gathers to meet him. Therefore, he avoids meeting people here in order to stay in peace for a day or two,” said Maulana Hasan. Maulana Saad was born in Kandhla in May 1965. After pursuing a religious education under his father’s tutelage, he studied at the Islamic seminary Darul Uloom Deoband and thereafter completed Dars-e-Nizami studies from the Kasiful Uloom madarsa of Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-head-booked-over-covid-19-spurt-not-in-up-hometown-say-police-relative/story-48ehqewOr0w5aYT00JuenO.html
01-04-2020||India||Mamata Banerjee writes to PM Modi, seeks Rs 25,000 crore financial assistance amid coronavirus lockdown||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, seeking financial assistance of Rs 25,000 crore to fulfil the state government’s commitments of providing free ration to the people and continuing other welfare schemes amid a dip in the revenue at a time when all businesses are shut due to the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown.In the letter, Banerjee stated that the West Bengal government needs assistance from the Centre to cope with the unprecedented “impasse to fight against the COVID-19 pandemic”.“Our state finances like that of many other states, is in a dire situation with practically no revenue flows after the closure of all businesses. Despite this, we have somehow been able to pay the salaries, wages and pensions of government employees this month though some major states of the country could not do that on full. And even with the massive debt trap left behind by the previous government, we were able to service the debt so far, but future remains uncertain,” Banerjee said in the letter to the prime minister.“Furthermore, we are required to meet our commitments towards girl child, students, farmers, unorganised workers, weaker sections, minorities, SC, ST and OBCs. We are also having to honour our commitments of providing free ration to almost 9 crore people, who need this so crucially to survive in this perilous time,” she wrote.Banerjee said the Centre should sanction Rs 25,000 crore to West Bengal and also release the other funds due to the state.“The Centre has already reduced their devolution to our state by over Rs 11,000 crore and were yet to pay Rs 36,000 crore owed by the GoI (Government of India) to our state, she said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-rs-25-000-crore-financial-assistance/story-fyYWwIiT0idrzbjn8STyNN.html
01-04-2020||India||Centre grants permission to passenger aircraft for ferrying medical cargo, essential goods||The Centre has granted special permission to conduct cargo operations using passenger aircraft for ferrying medical equipment and essential goods during the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown, which started on March 25, to contain the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Aviation regulator Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in an order issued on Wednesday said there has been an additional demand for transporting essential cargo services due to the viral outbreak.“With the Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown in the country, there is a demand for cargo operations for transporting medical equipment and essential goods. Considering the extraordinary situation that the country is facing, permission may be given to scheduled/non-scheduled operations to use the available passenger category aircraft (without configuration changes) for the carriage of cargo,” the DGCA said in its order.So far, 74 flights have been pressed into service to carry essential medical supplies and goods. A total of 37.63 tonnes of cargo has been transported to date, according to the Union ministry of civil aviation.Carriers involved in Lifeline Udan operations include Air India, Alliance Air, Indian Air Force (IAF) and Pawan Hans. Private carriers such as IndiGo, SpiceJet and Blue Dart are also operating medical cargo flights on a commercial basis. The DGCA order comes after the shortfall was pointed by the government’s nodal agency for medical procurement, HLL Lifecare Limited. The state-run company had pointed towards a shortfall of supply of equipment due to high demand and logistical issues because of the lockdown. The state-run company had also written to the Indian Railways citing the crunch. “Normal movement has been a bit strained because raw materials first have to be ferried to a manufacturing unit, then the finished product has to go The South India Textile Research Association (Sitra) for testing, and finally to the facilities where they’re needed, “ a government official said requesting anonymity.The Union government has also formed a committee under the ministry of home affairs for enabling the supply of medical equipment. Besides the railway board chairman, the panel on logistics comprises secretaries to the ministries of aviation, health, drugs, textiles, consumer affairs and shipping. The committee is tasked with ensuring unhindered supply of essential and medical goods during the lockdown and coordinating on relief operations.The committee, which is slated to hold a daily meeting, discussed the issue of making domestic cargo service operational. It also held talks on logjam across highways as hundreds and thousands of trucks are stranded since the lockdown.The civil aviation ministry has said special flights have been arranged to ferry cargo, including Covid-19-related reagents, enzymes, medical equipment, testing kits, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) such as masks, gloves and other accessories across the country.The Indian Railways has also begun special parcel train services in a bid to increase the supply of essential items such as medical supplies and equipment and groceries in small parcel sizes. Also, freight trains have been operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-grants-permission-to-passenger-aircraft-for-ferrying-medical-cargo-essential-goods/story-ZD8ru5Vr41i96VbcGZ98FL.html
01-04-2020||India||Andhra follows Telangana in slashing govt salaries, citing ‘dried up’ funds||A day after the Telangana government announced slashing of salaries of its employees, the Andhra Pradesh government, too, issued orders imposing a cut in the salaries of its employees, ranging from 10 per cent to 60 per cent, alleging the finances of the state were dwindling due to the present lockdown.A government order issued around midnight on Tuesday said the salaries of various categories of employees for the month of March were being slashed since all the revenue streams of the government have “totally dried up” in view of the ongoing lockdown to fight Covid-19.However, the government described it as partial deferment, rather than a pay cut.As was done in Telangana, the AP government, too, announced that the “salary deferment” would be to the extent of 60 per cent for All India Service Officers like the IAS, IPS and IFS officers, while it would be 50 per cent for all the other state government employees and 10 per cent for Class IV employees like drivers and sweepers.Similar deferment has been announced for pensions of retired employees – ranging from 50 per cent for normal retired employees and 10 per cent for Class IV retired employees.Besides, serving and retired employees of all PSUs, government-aided institutions, universities and autonomous bodies would get only proportionate deferred payments, the order said.However, the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government announced 100 per cent deferment of salaries for all elected public representatives – starting from chief minister, ministers, MLAs and MLCs, besides elected representatives of all urban and rural local bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-follows-telangana-in-slashing-govt-salaries-citing-dried-up-funds/story-mohM4HyjZeMwjlb70qxxSI.html
01-04-2020||India||4 men trek through Pir Panjal range to reach home during lockdown, 3 die of cold||Three young labourers who tried to trek to from Kashmir valley to Banihal in Jammu region through the Pir Panjal mountain range died of hypothermia while another was rescued in Ramban district on Wednesday, a top police officer said.The four men, who tried to reach home amid the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, had taken mountainous trek in the Pir Panjal range to reach Banihal in Ramban but were caught in bad weather.Ramban’s Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Haseeb-ur-Rehman said, “Three labourers died of hypothermia while another was rescued and shifted to a hospital. It had snowed and the night temperature had plummeted. They were coming from Anantnag to Dooligam area in Banihal area but died of hypothermia.”Three other labourers had also trekked to their village in Banihal from Anantnag. “In fact, seven labourers took a hilly route from Verinag in Anantnag towards Banihal on Tuesday. While three labourers reached their village, remaining four got stuck at a hilltop in Nagimandu (Hingal Top), about five km from Dooligam in Banihal bacause of extreme bad weather conditions and snowfall,” he added.“These four labourers could not cross the hilltop and a rescue operation was launched this morning. While three dead bodies were recovered from the spot, one person was found alive and rescued,” said Rehman .The deceased were identified as Ghulam Mohiuddin (30), Zubair Ahmad Drabu (20) and Reyaz Ahmad (22). The man who was rescued was identified as Parvaiz Ahmad of Hinyal and has been hospitalized in Sub-District Hospital, Banihal.The SSP said that all the deceased were related to each other and belonged to Dooligam.“While three had reached their homes last night, these four men decided to cut short their distance and chose to cross a snow y peak fearing that they might not be allowed to pass Jawahar Tunnel due to the ongoing lockdown restrictions,” the SSP said.Deputy magistrate of Ramban district, Nazim Zai Khan said, “We had requested everyone to stay put where they were but they took a treacherous route which wasn’t right. They were coming from Verinag in Kashmir and were crossing a mountainous pass.”Khan also said that despite repeated advisories people have been violating lockdown norms and putting themselves and others at risk in Ramban district.“Nearly 200 people have reached Banihal and probablywant to go to Kashmir. We are giving them food and shelter but their number is increasing every day. They have been kept in quarantine for 14 days at Banihal railway station. Though there is no suspected case among them so far but they are certainly adding to the worries of the administration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-men-trek-through-pir-panjal-range-to-reach-home-during-lockdown-3-die-of-cold/story-gkG4mIg1wFxFeP8LThhS4L.html
01-04-2020||India||More than 8,500 military doctors, support staff on standby as India fights Covid-19||More than 8,500 military doctors and support staff are ready to help the government in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, apart from 9,000 hospital beds that have been prepared to meet emergency requirements, the government was told by the armed forces on Wednesday.Review of the preparation of the armed forces to fight Covid-19 came during a video conference chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh. It was also attended by Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, army chief Manoj Mukund Naravane and IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria.Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat told the minister that the armed forces have made more than 9,000 hospital beds available for Covid-19 cases and separate hospitals have been earmarked to exclusively deal with the coronavirus.The armed forces have earmarked 28 service hospitals for managing Covid-19 cases. Also, five hospitals run by the armed forces are equipped to carry out Covid-19 tests and six more would be added to the list soon.“Over 1,000 evacuees are quarantined at facilities in Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Chennai, Manesar, Hindon and Mumbai. Their quarantine period will end by April 7,” Rawat said during the video conference that was attended by the top military and ministry brass.Last week, the army said it was prepared to extend its network of military hospitals and laboratory facilities to the civil administration to assist in managing Covid-19 hotspots.Lieutenant General Anup Banerji, who heads the Armed Forces Medical Services, said, “Retired health professionals have also been kept in readiness to volunteer their services…Necessary equipment has been procured and dispatched to various hospitals.”Around 25,000 National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets are also being mobilised to provide necessary local assistance, said a defence ministry release.Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said the air force had flown 25 tonnes of medical supplies during the last five days. He stressed that critical operational work was being undertaken with all necessary precautions.The essential medical supplies airlifted by the IAF include personal protective equipment (PPE), sanitizers, surgical gloves and thermal scanners, apart from medical personnel.“Regular airlift of Covid-19 test samples from the Union Territory of Ladakh to Delhi is also being carried. Towards this, C-17, C-130, An-32, Avro and Dornier aircraft are being tasked on as required basis and IAF is adequately geared up to meet all the emerging demands,” an IAF spokesperson said.During the video conference, Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said warships were on standby to extend any assistance required.Defence Research and Development Organisation chief said a five-layered nanotechnology face mask N99 was being manufactured on a war footing. He said 10,000 masks have already been made and production would soon be raised to 20,000 masks daily. He said 50,000 litres of sanitizers made by DRDO labs have been supplied to various security entities, including Delhi Police. DRDO labs have also supplied 40,000 other face masks to Delhi Police. DRDO has also made arrangements to manufacture 20,000 PPE kits per day.It is also engaged in modification of ventilators so that one machine can support four patients at the same time.The defence minister directed all the organisations under the ministry to redouble their efforts and work in close coordination with other ministries to fight the Covid-19 pandemic....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-8-500-army-doctors-support-staff-on-standby-as-india-fights-covid-19/story-SQ6MGcFmABdZKOT0VmJqOP.html
01-04-2020||India||Case study of first US community spread patient offers vital Covid-19 clues||While health ministry officials quibble over whether increasing clusters of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across India should be classified as “local transmission” that implies the infection source can be traced, or “community transmission”, which indicates more widespread disease because the source cannot be traced and contact tracing cannot be carried out to identify potential cases, clinicians in California have published a detailed case study of the first case of community transmission in the United States on February 26, underlining the need for expanded, aggressive testing to tackle the pandemic.Following the diagnosis, the US ramped up testing to discover the staggering magnitude of the epidemic, and now has the highest number of cases in the world, with at least 190,000 cases and 4,000 deaths.For clinicians, the medical history of an otherwise healthy woman in her 40s, whose chest infection rapidly deteriorated to near-fatal septic shock, offers critical clues to the management and treatment of Covid-19.The woman was admitted to the UC Davis Medical Center in Sacramento, California, with a respiratory infection, which chest imaging indicated was pneumonia.Her condition worsened within 24 hours of admission, and she was quickly moved to the intensive-care unit (ICU) and put on ventilator support to help her breathe. She was given antibiotics, including linezolid, piperacillin-tazobactam and azithromycin, to kill a possible bacterial infection.The battery of tests over the next few days included a viral panel, respiratory culture, blood cultures, bronchoscopy cultures to identify infection source, but all came up negative.The doctors then started suspecting coronavirus disease but did not test her as she had no history of international travel or contact with a person with Covid-19, which was the testing criterion of the US Centers of Disease Control a month ago when no community transmission has been recorded.She next developed acute respiratory distress, with fluid building up in her lungs and making it difficult for her to breathe, which quickly worsened to septic shock, a potentially fatal sudden drop in blood pressure in reaction to severe infection.The severity of her respiratory condition and her lack of response to all supportive treatment led the clinicians to put her on airborne precautions and strict contact precautions and finally get her tested for Covid-19. Two days later, the results came back positive.Since there were no approved antiviral therapies for Covid-19, but the UC Davis got regulatory approval to treat her with an investigational drug called remdesivir, the broad-spectrum antiviral developed by Gilead Sciences that has shown promise against coronaviruses in animals.Remdesivir infusions resulted in the patient needing significantly less ventilator support and having better blood oxygen levels and chest X-ray results. Fourteen days after first admission to UC Davis, she was taken off ventilation. She has since been discharged and is recovering at home.“Remdesivir is an experimental drug, though there are ongoing clinical trials to analyse its safety and effectiveness against Sars-Cov2, the virus that causes Covid-19. In Medanta, we managed the 14 Italian patients symptomatically and all but one have recovered and been discharged. Only one is still in the ICU, but she is stable,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, Chairman Institute of Critical Care and Anaesthesiology, Medanta-The Medicity, Gurugram, where India’s first large group of 14 tourists were isolated for treatment in March.The US case study emphasises knowledge gaps in the diagnosis and management of Covid-19 patients in the absence of known community transmssion. Without clear risk factors, such as travel history, contact, co-morbidities like hypertension and diabetes, and advanced age, Covid-19 infection can initially masquerade as pneumonia.“According to recent guidelines in India, all hospitalised patients with severe acute respiratory infection, such as acute respiratory distress syndrome or pneumonia without an explanatory diagnosis, must be tested for Covid-19 even if no clear source of exposure is identified,” Dr Mehta.The US study underscores the value of expanded testing. “There are individuals in the community who are not manifesting severe enough symptoms to check with their health care providers To tackle the pandemic, there needs to be significantly faster, less expensive and more widespread testing of all patients who potentially have Covid-19,” said Michael Schivo, co-director of UC Davis Comprehensive COPD Clinic and senior author on the study, in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-study-of-first-us-community-spread-patient-offers-vital-covid-19-clues/story-N9OGDb1IErKKXxtzRXcGwN.html
01-04-2020||India||Over 8.5k military docs, support staff ready to help tackle Covid-19: Army chief||More than 8,500 military doctors and support staff are ready to extend assistance to the civil administration to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Wednesday. His comments came during a video-conference chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh to review the ministry’s efforts to fight the novel coronavirus.The army has alerted retired health professionals to stay prepared in this time of crisis.Also read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayChief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat told the minister that the armed forces have made more than 9,000 hospital beds available for Covid-19 cases and separate hospitals have been earmarked to exclusively deal with the coronavirus disease.The armed forces have earmarked 28 service hospitals for managing Covid-29 cases.Also, five hospitals run by the armed forces are equipped to carry out Covid-19 tests and six more would be added to the list soon.“Over 1,000 evacuees are quarantined at facilities in Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Chennai, Manesar, Hindan and Mumbai. Their quarantine period will end by April 7,” Rawat said during the video-conference that was attended by the top military and ministry brass.Last week, the army said it was prepared to extend its network of military hospitals and laboratory facilities to the civil administration to assist it in Covid-19 hotspots.Lieutenant General Anup Banerji, who heads the Armed Forces Medical Services, said, “Retired health professionals have also been kept in readiness to volunteer their services…Necessary equipment has been procured and dispatched to various hospitals.”Also read: Delhi govt’s cancer hospital shuts after doctor tests positive for coronavirusAround 25,000 National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets are being mobilised to provide necessary local assistance, said a defence ministry release.Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said the air force had flown 25 tonnes of medical supplies during the last five days. He stressed that critical operational work was being undertaken with all necessary precautions.The essential medical supplies airlifted by the IAF include personal protective equipment (PPE), sanitizers, surgical gloves and thermal scanners, apart from medical personnel. “Regular airlift of Covid test samples from the Union Territory of Ladakh to Delhi is also being carried. Towards this, C-17, C-130, An-32, Avro and Dornier aircraft are being tasked on as required basis and IAF is adequately geared up to meet all the emerging demands,” an IAF spokesperson said.During the video-conference, Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said warships were on standby to extend any assistance required.Defence Research and Development Organisation chief G Satheesh Reddy said a five-layered nanotechnology face mask N99 was being manufactured on war-footing. He said 10,000 masks have already been made and production would soon be raised to 20,000 masks daily. He said 50,000 litres of sanitizers made by DRDO labs have been supplied to various security entities, including Delhi Police. DRDO labs have also supplied 40,000 other face masks to Delhi Police. DRDO has also made arrangements to manufacture 20,000 PPE kits per day.It is also engaged in modification of ventilators so that one machine can support four patients at the same time.The defence minister directed all the organisations under the ministry to redouble their efforts and work in close coordination with other ministries to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-8-5k-military-docs-support-staff-ready-to-help-tackle-covid-19-army-chief/story-z2Lrx8pa0wpB37dKCwarZP.html
01-04-2020||India||Assam Covid-19 positive cases touch 5, all linked to Tablighi Jamaat congregation||Four more people in Assam tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Wednesday, a day after the first case was reported in the most populous North-eastern state, taking the total number of infected people to five.Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that all the five Covid-19 positive patients had taken part in the international congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi between March 13 and 15. The minister said that the number could reach double-digits after more tests results are available later on Wednesday evening.“We have received a list of 456 people, who were present in and around Nizamuddin during the Tablighi Jamat’s congregation. The total number of people from Assam who were in Delhi stands at 547, as we have collected another 91 names locally,” the minister said.“We have gathered that 134 people were in the area but didn’t attend the congregation, while another 68 took part but are yet to return to Assam. Our target is to locate those 347 people who have since returned home,” he added.So far, the state government has identified and located 230 people who have come back to Assam and swab samples of 196 of them have been sent for tests. The authorities, however, are yet to locate 117 people and efforts are on to trace them.“Most of the test results are expected by Wednesday evening, but as of now we have four new Covid-19 positive cases confirmed by the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital. The total tally of Covid-19 patients in Assam is five and all of them had attended the Jamaat congregation,” said Sarma.“We have got reports that four other persons from Assam, who are among the 68 attendees of the congregation, are yet to return to the state but have tested Covid-19 positive in Delhi,” he added.The minister appealed to the 117 others, who are yet to be traced, to voluntarily contact healthcare authorities or call the 104 helpline number and inform about their location.“We have entered a critical stage as most of the 347 people who came back to Assam from the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in March didn’t quarantine themselves. We have no clue how many people they might have come in contact with since their return,” he said.A 52-year-old man, who also attended the Jamaat meet and belongs to Karimganj district in the Barak valley, is Assam’s first Covid-19 positive case, as test results confirmed on Tuesday. He has been admitted to Silchar Medical College and Hospital after he returned to Guwahati from Delhi by train. Those who came in contact with him since his return have been quarantined and swab samples of five of them have been sent for tests. The authorities are keeping a close watch on Assam’s zero patient’s health, as he also suffers from cancer and diabetes. Of the 386 fresh Covid-19 cases recorded in the past 24 hours, 154 have been traced to the Jamaat meet in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-covid-19-positive-cases-touch-5-all-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-congregation/story-vUDRM13hL6DoWS9koNaJaM.html
01-04-2020||India||Congress hits out at PM Modi over medical supplies to Serbia||The Congress on Wednesday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the export of 90 tonnes of personal protective equipment (PPE) to Serbia at a time when the country’s health workers are struggling to get necessary medical supplies to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.“What is this happening Mr Prime Minister Narendra Modi? While Frontline Indian Health workers are struggling for protective equipment we are supplying Serbia. Air India to fly out Germans and 90 tonnes of Protective Medical Equipment to Serbia. Are we nuts? This is CRIMINAL,” Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari tweeted.People familiar with developments said an assessment by the commerce and external affairs ministries concluded the equipment sent to Serbia – 3.5 million pairs of surgical gloves sold by a Kerala-based private company – was not on the list of medical gear whose export is prohibited.At the Congress’ news briefing through video conference, Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill hit out at the government on the issue. He alleged that when doctors and nurses across the country are crying for better equipment, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government was exporting PPE to Serbia.Shergill attacked the government for using Air India to fly out German nationals to their homes when Indian migrant labourers are dying on the roads.“This is heartless, shameless and brainless behaviour of the BJP government,” he alleged.On March 29, the official Twitter handle of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Serbia said a Boeing 747 had arrived in Belgrade with 90 tonnes of medical protective equipment from India.“The transportation of valuable supplies purchased by @SerbianGov has been fully funded by the #EU while @UNDPSerbia organized the flight & ensured the fastest possible delivery,” it tweeted.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the guidelines regarding medical equipment whose export is prohibited are very clear. “The restricted items can be exported on a case-by-case basis with the approval of the DGFT (Director General of Foreign Trade),” said a person.Notifications issued by the DGFT on Feb 25 and March 19 state the exports of surgical and disposable masks, ventilators, and textiles and raw materials for masks and overalls are prohibited. Other equipment such as gloves, non-woven shoe covers and gas masks with chemical absorbents can be exported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-hits-out-pm-modi-over-medical-supplies-to-serbia/story-pTeKGhJdSwSonoQrQ8EKhI.html
01-04-2020||India||J&K parties call new domicile rights ‘insult’, seek suspension of ‘casual’ order||A Central notification issued on Wednesday defining domicile rights for the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has led to criticism from most regional parties including the newly launched Apni party which described the policy as an “ill-timed” and “casual” attempt.The notification grants domicile rights in Jammu and Kashmir to those who have lived there for 15-years and to children of central government employees who have served in the UT for at least ten years among others. The rules also reserve group-4 level jobs for domicile right holders.Former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah described the notification as an “insult” while questioning the timing of its release. “Talk about suspect timing. At a time when all our efforts & attention should be focused on the #COVID outbreak, the government slips in a new domicile law for J&K. Insult is heaped on injury when we see the law offers none of the protections that had been promised,’’ tweeted Omar Abdullah.The policy also grants domicile to those who have studied in J&K for seven years and appeared in Class 10 and Class 12 examinations in an educational institution located in the Union Territory apart from those registered as migrants with the Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner (Migrants). Apni party president Altaf Bukhari said the policy didn’t take the expectations of the local people into account and demanded that the ‘ill timed, order be put in abeyance till the Covid-19 pandemic is over.“While JKAP had been vehemently demanding Domicile Rights on land and jobs for the people of Jammu and Kashmir, the order issued by the union government reflects a casual exercise carried out at bureaucratic level without taking aspirations and expectations of people into consideration,” Bukhari said.Bukhari said the order was “causal” in attempt and designed to “hoodwink” the people of Jammu and Kashmir.“This Order in its entirety is a casual attempt, cosmetic in nature, to hoodwink the people of Jammu and Kashmir who genuinely believed that post October 31, 2019, their rights and privileges in the matter of employment and other rights would remain as it had been,” he said, adding that being a government-issued order and not a law made by the Parliament, the new gazette notification regarding domicile rule for J&K was not immune to any judicial review. Bukhari said a tangible, legal and constitutional mechanism was needed to safeguard privileges such as employment rights to non-Gazetted and Gazetted post and admissions to professional colleges for “the permanent residents” of J&K.As many as 28 of the 138 acts have been repealed as the domicile policy was notified months after the union territory came into existence on October 31, 2019, after its special status and statehood were taken away by the Parliament in August. J&K Peoples Conference led by Sajjad Lone said the order fell way short of expectations. “The new definition of ‘domicile’ is humiliating and insulting. Adds insult to injury. The lowest rung in jobs has been reserved for locals - not even non-gazetted but Class IV jobs,” J&K Peoples Party spokesman said in a statement.Congress said the notification diluted the privileges enjoyed by Jammu and Kashmir residents instead of safeguarding their interests with provisions that exist in the northeastern states.“This is an insult to the people of J&K. By this order the centre has made lakhs of people eligible for the jobs and other things which were reserved for the people of J&K,” J&K Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir told Hindustan Times.PDP spokesman called the domicile policy a “crude joke”.“The people of J&K will not benefit from this and it is a symptom of a larger problem,” the spokesperson said.However, the BJP welcomed the decision and termed it to be a step in the right direction post the abrogation of article 370.“It’s same like our neighboring state Himachal Pradesh’s domicile rights. It is a good step, though some people will criticize it. We welcome this notification and reservation,” former J&K deputy Chief Minister and senior BJP leader Kavinder Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-parties-call-new-domicile-rights-insult-seek-suspension-of-casual-order/story-2mGlo2CyruywHnvM9yYPtM.html
01-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Inspired by Singapore, Delhi to track mobile phones to enforce quarantine||The Delhi Police has been ordered to track mobile phones of people in home-quarantine to find out if they stepped out or came in contact with others, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday.Kejriwal said the government had already handed over 25,000 phone numbers to the police to trace.The chief minister, who insisted that there had been no instance yet to indicate that coronavirus disease was in a community transmission stage in the national government, said the mobile phone tracing would establish quarantine violation but also identify their possible contacts.“We had given 11,000 phone numbers to Delhi Police for tracking yesterday. Today, 14,000 more numbers were sent,” he said.The decision to use smartphones was taken at his meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal.Also Watch | Covid-19 | ‘Rs 1 crore compensation...’: Delhi CM’s promise to medical staff It was inspired, the chief minister said, by countries such as Singapore that are using technology to enforce quarantines.The use of smartphone locations to locate a person in quarantine started in China, was quickly adopted in Singapore and China, and has been adapted by countries in Europe. Last week, the UK’s data and privacy authority confirmed that it wasn’t a violation of an individual’s privacy.Ensuring that people who are ordered to stay in isolation do not move out has been a challenge for states across the country. Health departments and the police had initially started pasting notices outside homes of people under self-quarantine and encouraged neighbours to report violations.But it was often not enough. So Karnataka came up with a mobile application that requires people to send geotagged selfies every hour, a system that is being adopted in Telangana as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-police-told-to-track-mobile-phones-of-people-under-quarantine-says-delhi-cm/story-2sZ90oirpjMrKbjnG1KNRI.html
01-04-2020||India||Recent rise in Covid-19 cases not a national trend, says govt||Amid a spurt of the number of people testing positive for coronavirus in the country this week, the government on Wednesday said that although the cases have increased due to Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month, it does not reflect the national trend.“1,800 people related to Tablighi Jamaat have been sent to 9 hospitals and quarantine centres. The recent rise in cases does not represent a national trend,” Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary in the Union health ministry said at a briefing.Over the past three days, the number of positive cases has risen sharply across many states. Many of the news cases have been linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. Follow coronavirus live updates here.“Till now there are 1,637 Covid-19 cases, including 386 new positive cases since yesterday. There have been 38 deaths. One hundred thirty two people have recovered. The number of positive cases has gone up since yesterday. One of the main reasons for it is the travel by members of Tablighi Jamaat,” Aggarwal said.Also Watch l Will the Centre extend lockdown?  He urged people to follow guidelines during lockdown period, avoid congregations and religious gatherings.In a related development, the Centre instructed states to intensify contact tracing of Tablighi Jamaat members who participated in the gathering at Nizamuddin March 13-15, and asked them to initiate steps to cancel visas of its foreign members who participated in the event in violation of their visa conditions. As the numbers continue to surge, the government is also stepping up efforts to stop the pandemic with the railways contributing in a large way by modifying coaches to set up quarantine facilities.“The Railways is preparing to set up 3.2 lakh isolation and quarantine beds by modifying 20,000 coaches. Modification of 5,000 coaches has begun. Lifeline flights have been started to transport essential commodities like testing kits, medicines and masks” Aggarwal said.Joint secretary in the Union home ministry, Punya Salila Srivastava who also addressed reporters said state governments are taking care of migrant workers who were heading home from different metros following the announcement of the 21-day lockdown.“The States are arranging food and shelter for the migrant workers; 21,486 relief camps have been set up where 6,75,133 persons have been given shelter,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recent-rise-in-covid-19-cases-not-a-national-trend-says-govt/story-g4iHTlQVHebMrRrQcRdjPN.html
01-04-2020||India||Congress to send its speakers to TV debates, Ist time since May last year||The 21-day national lockdown and strict social distancing measure to battle coronavirus have prompted the Congress to rescind its 10-month-old decision of not sending its spokespersons on television debates.The party has decided to send its spokespersons and panelists to TV channels to articulate its views on the pandemic.However, according to a party functionary familiar with the development, the Congress will continue to boycott certain “anchors who are perceived to be biased and only toe the line” of the government and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).It was on May 30 last year soon after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections that the Congress had decided not to send its spokespersons on television debates.The move was then widely attributed to the party’s discomfiture caused by the leadership crisis triggered by Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s insistence on quitting the post.But Congress functionaries had maintained that the decision was taken to register protest against the alleged “unfair treatment” meted out to its panelists in debates.“This is our protest against the acquired characteristics of the media. There is no level playing field on news channels. The TV debates are more like a circus than a discussion where they pitch one against the other and most of it is aimed at painting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP as hero and all the opposition as villain,” an office bearer of the party’s media department had then said.But the Covid-19 crisis forced a rethink in the Congress and accordingly it was decided to revoke the earlier decision.Keen to ensure that its voice reaches a wider audience, the grand old party has started using the new technologies available to cater to the needs of the media.From this week, Congress spokespersons have addressed daily press briefings through video-conferencing. The questions from journalists are sought well in advance and after initial remarks the spokespersons respond to those.Congress president Sonia Gandhi has also held a meeting through video-conferencing with party chief ministers on the coronavirus situation and the steps taken by the state government to deal with the crisis and also spelt out her suggestions.A meeting of Congress general secretaries, in-charge of states, state unit chiefs, legislature party leaders and heads of frontal organisations was held on March 28 through video-conferencing to assess and discuss the preparedness in fighting Covid-19.As many 82 functionaries, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Ahmed Patel, KC Venugopal and Randeep Singh Surjewala took part in it.And now on Thursday, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, will discuss through video-conferencing the impact of nationwide lockdown on the economy, poor and marginalised besides the problems faced by the migrant workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-withdraws-10-month-old-decision-to-boycott-tv-debates/story-NFuEr9C1cTAkFFMsiEfi7I.html
01-04-2020||India||Kashmir gets a new domicile law, sets off a political firestorm: 10 facts||Eight months after the Union government scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, it has changed domicile rules for the union territory and ordered that only people who fulfill the new criteria will be eligible for junior posts in the bureaucracy and the constabulary. Before Parliament scrapped Article 370, only those considered permanent residents of the erstwhile state could get jobs in the state government. Here are 10 facts about the reworked domicile law:1.The Centre on Wednesday issued a notification announcing a number of amendments to 138 Acts of Jammu and Kashmir that include protecting jobs up to Group-4 for only those who are domiciled in the union territory.2. Among the laws amended is the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment) Act. 3. The government has inserted a clause for domicile category under which a person has to stay in the Union Territory for a period of 15 years. Children of all-India services personnel who have served there for 10 years also come under the category.4. The tweaked law says that no person shall be eligible for appointment to a post carrying a pay scale of not more than Group-4 (Rs 25,500) unless he is a domicile of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Group-4 is equivalent to the rank of constable in police parlance.Also Read| Amit Shah reworks Kashmir’s domicile law, includes residents for 15 yrs5. A total of 28 of the 138 Acts have been repealed as the Union government has laid down a procedure for being a domicile of the Union Territory, which came into existence on October 31, 2019, after the Centre scrapped Article 370 which gave special status to the erstwhile state. It was then bifurcated into two union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh.6. According to the procedure, anyone who has resided for 15 years in Jammu and Kashmir or has studied for seven years and appeared in Class 10 and Class 12 examinations in an educational institution located in the Union Territory is a domicile.7. Anyone who is registered as a migrant by the Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner (Migrants) will also be deemed to be a domicile.8. The others who can be deemed to be a domicile include children of those central government officials, all-India services officers, officials of public sector undertakings and autonomous bodies of the central government, public sector banks, officials of statutory bodies, central university officials and those of recognised research institutes of the central government who have served in Jammu and Kashmir for 10 years.9. Children of those who fulfil any of the conditions or children of those residents of Jammu and Kashmir who reside outside the Union Territory in connection with their employment or business or other professional or vocational reasons but their parents fulfil any of the conditions provided in the sub-section will also be deemed to be domiciles, the notification said.10. The domicile law would apply for recruitment to all posts that come with a basic salary of Rs 25,500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-gets-a-new-domicile-law-sets-off-a-political-firestorm-10-facts/story-QVFG9AzUVfVV2n4dBjY3YP.html
01-04-2020||India||Maharashtra tracks down 52 who visited Tablighi Jamaat event: Officials||MUMBAIAt least 52 people in Maharashtra who visited the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters for a religious programme in New Delhi – which has emerged as India’s largest hot spot for the coronavirus outbreak -- have been traced by the district administrations and the police. About 23 people from Thane district’s Mumbra and 29 others from Ahmednagar have now been placed in 14-day mandatory quarantine in their respective districts, and are under close watch for symptoms of the disease, according to state government officials. “We have initiated a tracking method in which, as of now, around 52 persons have been tracked down in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat event and the operation is going on across Maharashtra,” a senior official from the state home ministry told HT on condition of anonymity. Several states across the country are tracking down people who attended the Tablighi programme in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. Around 2,000 people, including over 200 foreigners, reportedly visited the headquarters of the Muslim sect in mid-March, flouting several restrictions imposed to curb the spread of the virus. Out of these, more than 100 tested positive for Covid-19 till Tuesday while at least nine deaths are linked to the programme. Of the 52 traced till Wednesday – all of them preachers -- 13 are Bangladeshi nationals, 8 Malaysian and 2 from north-eastern states. The Union government had hinted a day before that the foreign nationals who visited Nizamuddin might have violated Indian visa norms by attending a religious event on tourist visas instead of the Missionaries visa. State officials said that the 29 traced to Ahmednagar had also attended another religious function organised at a dargah in Jamkhed, around 76km from the district. According to officials the state health ministry, none of those tracked down have so far shown symptoms of Covid-19, but will undergo a detailed check-up and will be monitored for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-tracks-down-52-who-visited-tablighi-jamaat-event-officials/story-Kmr0HPLqopf9ryhdbT9dnO.html
01-04-2020||India||States told to intensify contract tracing as Tablighi Jamaat leaves a trail of Covid-19 patients||The Centre instructed states on Wednesday to intensify contact tracing of Tablighi Jamaat members who participated in the sect’s religious gathering at Delhi’s Nizamuddin held between March 13-15, and asked them to initiate steps to cancel visas of its foreign members who participated in the event in violation of their visa conditions. The instructions were issued in a video conference chaired by the Cabinet Secretary with all the Chief Secretaries and police chiefs of states. “The States were sensitized about the intensive contact tracing of Tablighi Jamat participants as this has increased the risk of containment efforts of COVID-19. The States were asked to complete the contact tracing process on a war footing,” an official release on the meeting said.The meeting comes ahead of a video conference, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold on Thursday with the chief ministers of states and union territories to review the progress made in containing coronavirus through lockdown measures and to address any key challenges in its effective implementation and desired outcomes.The Nizamuddin congregation has turned out to be a major source of infections around the country, with Telangana reporting that all its new cases were from attendees to the Delhi meet, which is suspected to have been held in violation of several restrictions imposed on large gatherings and holding of religious events. Delhi police had registered an FIR against the organizers of the event on Tuesday and the government release detailing points from the meeting held by the cabinet secretary, says states have also been asked for registering cases against the organizers of the Jamaat and its foreign participants. “It has been found that foreigners who had participated in the Tablighi Jamat had violated visa conditions. The States were asked to initiate action for violation of visa condition against the foreigners and the organizers of the event,” the release said.In other important measures, the states were asked to implement the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana within the next week, while taking care to maintain social distancing. The central government had announced a combined package worth 1.7 lakh crore under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana early last week which included several cash relief measures including Rs 1,000 to three crore senior citizen, widows and disabled among the poor class, Rs 1,500 assistance for women holding Jan Dhan accounts, Rs 2,000 advance payment to farmers months apart from other measures including additional ration for the poor, increased wages for MNREGA workers and relief for construction workers through state wage board funds. The cabinet secretary is said to have told states that the implementation of the scheme will likely involve large cash transfer to beneficiaries and it should therefore be organized in a staggered manner to ensure social distancing.In other important steps, the states were also told to ensure the manufacturing of essential goods continues along with the maintenance of supply chains of such goods with and between different states.It was also noted that the lockdown is being implemented effectively all over the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-told-to-intensify-contract-tracing-as-tablighi-jamaat-leaves-a-trail-of-covid-19-patients/story-NDhStHtaz5UjzkRkidWxRO.html
01-04-2020||India||Assam reports 4 new Covid-19 cases, all attended Tablighi Jamaat event: Reports||Four people, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, have tested positive for the coronavirus disease in Assam’s Guwahati, a day after the state announced its first Covid-19 case, reports said on Wednesday.“Total five positive cases have been reported in Assam—one shifted to Silchar Medical College and Hospital and four to Gauhati Medical College in Guwahati,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said, according to news agency ANI.Assam had on Tuesday reported its first Covid-19 patient after a 52-year-old man tested positive. The man, Sarma told a local news channel, had first shown symptoms of Covid-18 on March 18. “The patient was under our notice since Monday and we sent his samples to NIV, Pune to confirm. We have taken his travel history and done contact-tracing. The persons who were in contact with him have already been either quarantined or kept in isolation. So there is no need to panic,” Sarma had said on Tuesday.According to the Assam government, 455 people were present at the Tablighi Jamat gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz, which has become a coronavirus hotspot after a religious congregation was held there earlier this month.Sarma had also urged people who have returned to the state to voluntarily go to the nearest hospital or make a call on the state’s coronavirus helpline number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-reports-4-new-covid-19-cases-all-attended-tablighi-jamaat-event-reports/story-hnAjhzrWE5KbjkAapgFLMP.html
01-04-2020||India||HRD frames new reservation norms for KVs, JNVs to accommodate OBCs||The human resource development (HRD) ministry has framed new reservation rules for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs) and Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) run by it to provide quotas to Other Backward Classes (OBCs). It’s the first time that seats are being reserved for OBC students at the school level. KVs will create additional seats for scheduled castes (SCs), scheduled tribes (STs) and OBCs incase their numbers fall short after the regular admission procedure.For JNVs, it has been decided that the proportion of reservation for SCs and STs will be equal to their population of the district where the school is located but subject to minimum of the national average and a maximum of 50% for both these categories. Above this 27% reservation will be provided to the OBCs.This would help in imparting quality education to rural students in districts with large SC, ST populations while also providing opportunities to the OBCs, said a senior official who didn’t want to be named.The HRD ministry has also finalised the norms for implementing reservation for OBCs in KVs from the upcoming academic session itself.According to the modalities decided by the ministry, in the KVs, it has been decided that in the first phase, there will be a draw of lots for the seats reserved under the Right to Education Act from among the SCs,STs and OBCs. Following this, the seats for students belonging to employees in transferable jobs under the central government would be taken up and following that seats for those in public sector undertakings would be filled.Priority will also be given to the wards of state government employees.According to an HRD ministry official, once these seats are filled, a significant number of students would belong to the SC, ST and the OBC sections.In case it is found that the number of such students is below the reservation proposed, additional seats can be created, the official said.“The Modi government has a strong commitment for the welfare of the backward sections and HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank has felt that the constitutional mandate should be fulfilled without delay,” said the official. He added that despite the lockdown for the coronavirus disease, the ministry did not want to delay the important decision, which was taken when a majority of HRD ministry officials are working from home.The KVs are a chain of schools under the Union HRD ministry for the children of transferable central government employees. Currently, they provide 15% reservation in admissions to SC and 7.5% to ST students, apart from setting aside 25% seats under provisions of the Right to Education Act (RTE). The latter includes horizontal reservation of 3% for disabled students.The Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan was established in November 1962 to provide uninterrupted education to wards of transferable central government employees. It has 1,228 schools, including three abroad in Kathmandu, Tehran and Moscow. Around 1.3 million students study at these schools. There are 661 Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, which are geared towards rural areas.At present, 27% positions for OBCs are reserved in government jobs and higher education, but none at the school level. “This is the first time reservations for OBC students are being provided in the school education sector,” said the second official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hrd-frames-new-reservation-norms-for-kvs-jnvs-to-accommodate-obcs/story-hhlxebrd5PnOrGo6HlsChN.html
01-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 lockdown, Odisha couple ties the knot at police station||A young couple from Odisha got married in a police station on Tuesday amid the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak.Pabitra Sahoo (28) of Nadipada in western Odisha district of Bargarh and Lakshmi Meher (24) of Ambapali locality was slated to tie the knot at a local marriage registrar’s office. Sahoo, who works as an automobile mechanic, has been in love with Meher for over a year.On Tuesday, the couple chose Bargarh town police station as the makeshift venue to get married since the marriage registrar’s office has been shut since March 25 – the day the lockdown started.They went to the police station and expressed their wish to get married to inspector Sadanand Pujahari. “I allowed the couple to get married in the police station because of the difficult circumstances due to the nationwide shutdown. They have given us in writing that they will live as man and wife from now on,” said Pujahari.The couple was given hand sanitiser and masks before Sahoo tied a mangalsutra around Meher’s neck. The couple and the police officials had to make do with biscuits as no sweets were available due to the lockdown. Later, the couple went to a nearby temple to seek blessings of a local goddess.“I had never imagined that I would ever get married in a police station. I would have liked to host a reception for my loved ones. But I am happy that I could marry the love of my life,” said Sahoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-lockdown-odisha-couple-ties-the-knot-at-police-station/story-FRqOla6WCDo2N1x1R0HmUP.html
01-04-2020||India||‘Voldemort never attacked Harry when he was home’: Govt’s Covid-19 lockdown message||The government on Wednesday tried giving the coronavirus situation a comic spin and tweeted out a meme of a picture from a Harry Potter movie. Through the post, the government reiterated the importance of staying indoors. “#DidYouKnow that Harry Potter was always safe at his home? Yes, Voldemort never attacked Harry when he was home. Wonder why? Well, ask any #HarryPotter fan you know!,” the Maharashtra branch of government’s Press Information Bureau (PIB) tweeted out this morning. “Stay home during the 21-day lockdown,” the tweet added.On Wednesday as the country entered the eighth day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown, the number of cases escalated to 1,637. India has seen a rise of as many as 240 coronavirus cases in the past 12 hours, Ministry of Health stated on Wednesday. There are about 1,466 active cases and 133 cured patients in the country as of now. As many as 38 people have lost their lives to the infection.  #DidYouKnow that Harry Potter was always safe at his home? Yes, Voldemort never attacked Harry when he was home. Wonder why? Well, ask any #HarryPotter fan you know! Yes, #StayHome during #LockDown21, #StayHomeStaySafe pic.twitter.com/CX0pKV68nfIn a telephonic conversation on Tuesday, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo spoke with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar regarding the coordination of efforts to respond to the coronavirus crisis, said “close cooperation is imperative to combat the coronavirus”.The number of Covid-19 cases across the globe has crossed 800,000 while more than 40,000 people have died from the infection. The United States has the highest number of cases with 187,919 patients followed by Italy, Spain and China. White House has released new projections saying there could be 100,000 to 240,000 deaths in the US even if current social distancing guidelines are maintained.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has said that as many as 25% of people infected may not show symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-when-government-turned-to-harry-potter-to-drive-home-its-message-on-21-day-lockdown/story-kXJ2PixVkWeja7CsakjxML.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus:Noida launches mobile app for doorstep delivery of essential items||The Noida authority on Wednesday launched a mobile application to deliver essential services such as food items and medicines to residents at their doorsteps amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown enforced to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Residents can order fresh vegetables, fruits and medicines on the Noida Authority Apurti Suvidha app by getting in touch with vendors who have been listed on the app, officials said. “With the help of the mobile application, residents can get to know who will supply fresh vegetables and fresh fruits in their respective localities. The application will provide names and contact details of vendors. They can call and order required vegetables and fruits, and the vendor will deliver at the doorstep,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The announcement comes amid reports of difficulties faced by elderly people who couldn’t visit shops that have been allowed to remain open during the lockdown while many are concerned about leaving their homes. Elderly people and those with pre-existing medical conditions are at a higher risk of developing serious illnesses if they contract Covid-19. For now, the service is available only for Android phone users, but it will be expanded to be made available on the Apple App Store, officials said.With the lockdown in effect till April 14, the Uttar Pradesh government had ordered all district officials to ensure essential services are made available to residents. The Noida authority too had assigned at least 700 vendors to each sector and village in the city to provide essential items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/noida-launches-mobile-app-for-doorstep-delivery-of-essential-items/story-U7ZDjEvtIHppGmqQeyrcDI.html
01-04-2020||India||Will interrogate Tablighi Jamaat leader over audio clip: Delhi Police||Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) head Maulana Saad was on the run a day a case was filed against him for allegedly defying restrictions on gatherings to contain the coronavirus (Covid-19) spread, two investigators said on Wednesday, and added they want to interrogate him over an audio recording in which he is purportedly heard asking his followers to flout social distancing guidelines.Saad and five other top functionaries of the group were booked on Tuesday after it was discovered that the TJ’s headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area has emerged as the single-biggest source of Covid-19 infections in the country. The six-storey headquarters has been linked to at least eight deaths and 117 confirmed Covid-19 cases. The discovery prompted around a dozen states to sound an alert and search for the people, who had been to the headquarters. The Centre separately began the process to blacklisting 275 foreigners, found at the headquarters, who allegedly flouted visa rules by claiming to be tourists.The investigators cited above said they will question Saad over the recording they have found in which he is purportedly heard urging his followers against following the prohibitory orders while calling them the government’s conspiracy. The Delhi Police have mentioned the recording in the first information report (FIR) filed in the case. HT has seen a copy of the FIR.“The audio tape is an important evidence. Before the [three-week countrywide] lockdown [was imposed from March 25 to check the Covid-19 spread], they should have sent back the visitors. Instead of making arrangements, the head [Saad] wilfully misled the gathering and asked them to stay put. The case against him and others has been registered under sections of criminal conspiracy and the Epidemic Diseases Act,” one of the investigating officers said on condition of anonymity.Over 400 people at the headquarters have shown Covid-19 symptoms. A joint team of police, health workers, and the World Health Organization have evacuated at least 2,361 people from congested Nizamuddin until Wednesday. They have been sent to quarantine centres and hospitals.Investigators said Saad allegedly ignored the government’s March 13 and March 16 orders banning gatherings of over 200 persons and any form of religious congregations.Officers of the Delhi Police, who are authorised to speak to the media, refused to comment on the investigations despite repeated text messages and phone calls.The TJ on Tuesday issued a statement, saying the visitors were stuck at the headquarters because of the lockdown. Its spokesman, Mohammed Shoaib, said they had sent a request for curfew passes to the Delhi government to help the visitors leave their headquarters but they received no reply.Police and government officials have been scouring 16 mosques across Delhi, where some visitors at the TJ headquarters had stayed after leaving Nizamuddin. On Tuesday, the Delhi’s Police’s intelligence gathering wing wrote to the health department asking it to take “necessary action” as the “persons/foreigners associated with Tablighi Jamaat” were staying at those placed and posed “a grave danger to public health.”Syed Shaban Bukhari, the vice-Shahi Imam (prayer leader) of Delhi’s Jama Masjid, said they have sent a message to management committees of mosques in Delhi, urging them not to panic and make it mandatory for guests to get their medical check-ups done.“We have sent the message via a WhatsApp group asking committees to ensure they get the medical check-ups of guests conducted. It is crucial for the overall safety and for containing the Covid-19 transmission” said Bukhari.Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, the Shahi Imam of Delhi’s Fatehpuri Masjid, said mosques have been shut since they were ordered to do so. “We had already issued advisories asking people not to gather at mosques. The government should set up a help desk for the people who are stuck since the lockdown was imposed... [They] were not given any time to go back to their respective places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-interrogate-tablighi-jamaat-leader-over-audio-clip-delhi-police/story-VRm02rpV0U10uuLvsVAUdP.html
01-04-2020||India||‘Rs 1 crore for Covid-19 warriors if they die’: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced a sum of Rs 1 crore for families of those health workers who die while handling patients of the coronavirus disease. He said it will be a mark of ‘respect to their service’. “If anyone loses their life while serving Covid-19 patients, whether sanitation workers, doctors or nurses, their family will be provided Rs 1 crore as respect to their service,” Arvind Kejriwal said, according to news agency ANI.Also read: Inspired by Singapore, Delhi to track mobile phones to enforce quarantine“Whether they are from private or government sector doesn’t matter,” Kejriwal said.Also Watch | Covid-19 | ‘Rs 1 crore compensation...’: Delhi CM’s promise to medical staffArvind Kejriwal’s announcement came days after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said doctors, nurses, paramedics, technicians, and other health care professionals involved in the care of Covid-19 patients will get a special insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh.Uttarakhand has also announced life insurance for thousands of state government employees, who are on the frontline in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in the state.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has said Rs 4 lakh insurance will be given to 68,457 employees, including health, sanitation, police and media personnel, recognised as ‘COVID Warriors’ by the government for their role in the fight against the deadly virus. The national capital has reported 120 Covid-19 patients and that two people have died because of the disease till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-1-crore-for-covid-19-warriors-if-they-die-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-NdkLuiyflfzJdFFM7kpdcO.html
01-04-2020||India||Govt distilleries in Rajasthan now producing sanitisers to fight Covid-19||The distillery and liquor division of the Rajasthan State Ganganagar Sugar Mills (RSGSM) that normally produces 2.4 million bottles of country liquor every day is now producing sanitisers as part of the government’s efforts to stop the spread of coronavirus.RSGSM plants had been shut for three days following the 21-day lockdown. But from March 25, five out of its 19 plants began producing sanitisers.The plants have produced about 1.4 million bottles of sanitisers until March 31 and supplied free of cost to government departments in the front line of the Covid-19 fight.Follow coronavirus live updates here.“The approximate cost producing these sanitisers is Rs 3.5 crore. We consider it as our contribution to the state’s efforts to fight the pandemic,” said Kesar Lal Meena, RSGSM general manager. The government organization has also donated Rs 5 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund Covid-19 Mitigation Fund.The plant in Jaipur operates in two shifts – 6 am to 1.30 pm and 2 pm to 9 pm – and the plants in Mandore (Jodhpur), Hanumangarh, Ranpur (Kota) and Udaipur operate in one shift – from 8am to 5pm – to produce sanitisers in plastic bottles of 180ml each.Meena said two chains are operating in Jaipur and one chain each in the other plants. “There’s a shortage of labour so we cannot operate more chains. On a normal working day, we have 160 labourers in Jaipur plant alone. Currently, the plant is operating with 40,” he said.Excise commissioner Bishnu Charan Mallick said the sanitisers have been given to district administrations for free distributions to frontline workers in police, medical and health and other departments.Meena said production of sanitisers began on March 25 on a small scale. “Large-scale production began the next day when all five plants got operational,” he said.The RSGSM GM said the sanitisers will be available across 40 depots of Rajasthan State Beverages Corporation Limited, which normally handle supply of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), from Wednesday for Rs 37.50 each bottle.“We know there are restrictions on movement but people are exempted from the lockdown orders may also need to buy these sanitisers. The cost of our sanitiser is one third of the market rates,” Meena said.So until the plants are closed for production of country liquor, the rectified spirit is being turned into sanitisers with lemon and pink essence to colour the liquid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-distilleries-in-rajasthan-now-producing-sanitisers-to-fight-covid-19/story-4gWoiHriGMhLPi7RM5HL3N.html
01-04-2020||India||PM Modi to discuss Covid-19 challenges with chief ministers tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting with all chief ministers on Wednesday to discuss India’s status in the battle against coronavirus disease and the way ahead, according to news agency ANI.PM Modi’s decision to hold the meeting via video conference comes at a time the central government is trying to contain the Nizamuddin setback to its efforts to restrict the spread of the highly contagious Sars-Cov-2 pathogen that has, according to the World Health Organisation, killed over 36,000 people across the world.At a status-check meeting with chief secretaries earlier on Wednesday, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba had also told states to scrupulously trace every Tablighi Jamaat and then their contacts to stop the disease from spreading any faster than it already is.According to the health ministry, there were 1,600 confirmed Covid-19 cases that had led to the death of 38 people in India. Gauba told chief secretaries that they should carry out intensive contact tracing of the Tablighi Jamaat participants “as this has increased the risk of containment efforts of Covid-19,” a government statement said.Gauba said this exercise should be carried out “on a war footing”.According to the World Health Organisation database, the disease is in the local transmission stage in India.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ordered a 21-day national lockdown on March 24 in his televised address to the nation to stop the disease from spreading. Cabinet Secretary Gauba noted that the lockdown was now being implemented effectively all over the country, a reference to the flagrant violations in Delhi last week when tens of thousands of migrants reached the national capital’s borders with Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-discuss-covid-19-challenges-with-chief-ministers-tomorrow/story-Psnxg7MZa3R8nVHuSSS2sI.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus hotspots: Kasaragod accounts for half of Kerala’s positive cases||Nearly half of Kerala’s total coronavirus cases--241-- are from Kasaragod, which is one of the ten hotspots of Covid-19 pandemic in the country. The north Kerala district has a high number of expatriates from the middle-east and its poor medical infrastructure combined with slack surveillance is feared to have pushed the coastal district to infamy.Out of 128 coronavirus cases in Kasaragod, 90 are Gulf-returnees and their contacts, but some others have no travel or contact history, which is adding to the district administration’s concerns. The district is in complete lockdown and two senior IPS and IAS officials are camping there to check the possibility of community spread of the virus.Kasaragod’s high population density (13 lakh people for a small district) and a poor doctor to population ratio of 1: 1500 as compared to 1: 300 for the rest of the state, might have aided in the spread of the virus, say officials.“We literally pleaded foreign-returnees to remain in their homes for at least 3-4 weeks. Many followed our advice but some flouted it, making the district pay a heavy price. We are fighting with all our might to contain the spread,” said State Revenue Minister E Chandrasekharan, who himself hails from the district.The district had reported some glaring cases of violations including that of an alleged smuggler who jumped quarantine and transmitted the disease to many. After his case came to light, customs officials found out that he had made 14 trips to the middle east in last three months. Later, district collector Sajith Babu impounded his passport and registered a case against him.According to the district administration, at least 8000 people came to the district from the Gulf since February 15 and they were put into home quarantine before many of them slipped out. At least 60 per cent of Dubai returned Kasaragod residents were living or working in Naif, a crowded commercial and residential area in Dubai, which is one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the middle-east.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-hotspots-kasaragod-accounts-for-half-of-kerala-s-positive-cases/story-5BrJ7ZGapqhto9LQqrDHSM.html
01-04-2020||India||UP reports first Covid-19 fatality as 25-yr-old man tests positive||A 25-year-old man from eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Basti district, who died at Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College in Gorakhpur earlier this week, became the state’s first coronavirus disease (Covid-19) victim after his swab samples tested positive on Wednesday.The deceased’s samples proved positive at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow, a state government official said.“His latest test results proved Covid-19 positive. The patient was suffering from liver and kidney ailments. His immunity was low because of multiple health complications. However, he had had no overseas travel history and might have been infected because of low immunity. The deceased’s contacts have been quarantined,” BRD principal Dr Ganesh Kumar said.Initially, the deceased was admitted to the hospital’s trauma centre on Sunday noon but later shifted to the isolation ward, where he died on Monday morning.Six people, including laboratory technicians who collected his swab samples without a preventive kit and family members who at his attended last rites, have been quarantined. Also, the neighbourhood, where he lived in Basti district, has been cordoned off as a precautionary measure, officials said.The BRD Medical College authorities alerted the Basti district administration after his death on Monday morning, as they suspected him of being Covid-19 positive while awaiting the test results from KGMC, Lucknow.UP reported 103 Covid-19 positive cases till Tuesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-reports-first-covid-19-fatality-as-25-yr-old-man-tests-positive/story-zUAWPHM52yssNcOv8kZQVM.html
01-04-2020||India||National lockdown over Covid-19 leads to drug shortage for HIV patients||HIV patients in remote areas of Odisha and Bihar who are on antiretroviral therapy (ART) drugs have not received their dosage of medicines for the month of March due to the national lockdown over the threat of the coronavirus.A 40-something HIV patient in a remote village of Odisha’s Khurda district was planning to get his ART drugs last week when the lockdown was announced, putting his plans of getting his medicine on hold. “I was not prepared for the lockdown. Normally I take a bus or auto to get the medicine from the ART centre. But with no transport available, I don’t know what to do,” he said.In another village of the same district, a 45-year-old HIV man as well as his HIV-positive wife and son have been frantically calling the president of HIV Positive People Network, an NGO supporting the HIV positive persons, to help them get the drugs as far as possible. “None in the family can move out and get the drugs from ART centre while it is difficult for outreach workers to deliver the drugs to all of them,” said Prabasini Pradhan of the HIV Positive People Network in Khurda district.In Ganjam district, that has the maximum number of HIV positive patients in Odisha, 5,000 are on therapy. But least 2,500 are yet to get the drugs, said Nilambar, of the HIV Positive People Network in the district. The outreach workers who can help in carrying the medicines to the doorsteps of those who need, are scared of getting beaten up by police. “A couple of days ago, one of our outreach workers was thrashed by police. Naturally we are scared,” he said. Though the government could have distributed the medicines through NGOs working among HIV patients, there was a risk. “In villages where everyone knows the other, sending the drugs through NGO worker would lead to identification and possible social ostracism of the HIV patient,” said Ajay Patra, an NGO worker.Project director of Odisha State Aids Control Society, Sanjukta Sahu admitted that some of the HIV patients have not got their medicines due to the lockdown. “Those who are in Bhubaneswar and nearby have managed to take their medicines from the ART centre, as police allows them to travel after seeing their green book. Those who are in remote areas are facing difficulties. By tomorrow we may reach all HIV positive persons,” said Sahu.There are more than 2.4 million HIV patients in India, of whom more than 1.2 million are on ART drugs.Odisha has over 35,000 HIV positive people living of which around 21,000 are availing the ART. The rest though registered with the Odisha State Aid Control Society, have discontinued the therapy. Getting supplies of anti-retroviral therapy (ART) drugs is proving difficult for patients in far-flung areas of Bihar too. With immunity levels already compromised, walking to ART centres to collect the drugs in the absence of public transport is not easy.There are only 20 ART dispensing centres to cater to Bihar’s 38 districts, with two in the state capital Patna, which must be accessed by patients on the periphery of the city too. For instance, patients in Barh, located 70 kilometers away, have to travel to Patna. Doing so on foot during the lockdown is proving hard for patients.“My monthly stock of ART drugs was getting over today. I panicked because missing a single dose can have serious repercussions. I then came to know about the NGO, Patna Network for People Living With HIV Society, who arranged for the drugs to be sent to our local district hospital,” a 35-year-old HIV-positive widow in Barh said.It was not easy for workers of the NGO to convince the state health authorities to part with the drugs either.“After much persuasion, the Bihar State AIDS Control Society (BSACS) provided us two ambulances and health staff yesterday to deliver ART drugs among people living with HIV in various districts”, the NGO’s president Gyan Ranjan said.BSACS additional project director Dr Abhay Prasad confirmed that there is no shortage of ART drugs and pointed to the difficulty in collection only due to the absence of public transport.“We have instructed our civil surgeons in districts and superintendents in medical colleges to make available drugs at the doorstep of HIV patients. NGOs, who are part of our support system, are also helping us ensure delivery,” Prasad said, adding that supplies for three months will be disbursed in one go and that even migrants with HIV infection who are in Bihar but not enrolled at the state’s ART centers, will be accounted for.Bihar has 60,033 people living with HIV enrolled at its ART centres.Earlier this month, an elderly Italian couple who underwent treatment for Covid-19 in Jaipur were administered a drug combination commonly used to control HIV infection. The drugs have been employed during clinical trials in China and Thailand. The Union Health Ministry has approved the use of the anti-HIV drugs in Covid-19 cases on a case to case basis and depending on the severity of the condition of a patient of Covid 19, giving rise to fears that patients may resort to stock-piling of the drugs.Visakhapatnam-based AIDS specialist Dr K Surya Rao said there was no cause for worry.“The production of anti-HIV drugs like Lopinavir and Ritonavir is on a large scale in India. While there are more than 2.4 million HIV patients, victims of Covid-19 are still in the hundreds. So, for now, there is no scarcity,” Rao said. Rao also pointed out that anti HIV drugs had not received FDI approval for Covid-19 treatment yet and that once they do, Indian drug companies would ramp up production immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-lockdown-leads-to-drug-shortage-for-hiv-patients/story-81uSkJbhDACZzbkAmZSsjO.html
01-04-2020||India||Tamil Nadu sees surge in Covid-19 patients, fourth-highest cases in Delhi: A statewise tally||India has seen a rise of as many as 240 coronavirus cases in the past 12 hours, Ministry of Health stated on Wednesday. According to the official figures, the total number of Covid-29 cases in the country stands at 1,637 which includes 1,466 active cases and 133 cured patients. As many as 38 people have lost their lives to the infection.Besides Maharashtra and Kerala, Delhi, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu sit at the top of the tally.Here’s a look at statewise coronavirus cases in India:MaharashtraThe state has the highest number of Covid-19 cases with 302 patients. Maharashtra has registered 9 coronavirus deaths so far while 39 patients have recovered.KeralaWith 241 coronavirus cases, Kerala is the second most coronavirus-affected state in the country. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, Kerala has witnessed 2 Covid-19 deaths while 23 people have successfully recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has seen a dramatic rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. From over 70 patients, the cases in the state have jumped to 124 which is third highest in the country. Tamil Nadu has seen four recoveries and one Covid-19 death.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the fourth-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 120 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. Two people have died from the infection while 6 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Delhi’s Nizamuddin area has emerged as the hotspot of coronavirus disease after several cases of Covid-19 emerged in people who were a part of a religious congregation in the area earlier this month. According to reports, more than 2,000 delegates from countries like Indonesia and Malaysia attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin West from March 1-15.Uttar Pradesh103 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 14 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, no one has died from the infection here, however, the state health department has notified a Covid-19 death today.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 101 Covid-19 cases and 3 deaths. 8 people have been cured and discharged.Telangana94 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported here so far. One person has made a recovery from the virus while three people have died from Covid-19.RajasthanThe state has 93 positive cases of coronavirus with no reported cases of fatalities. Three patients have recovered from the infection.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed a sudden spike in its Covid-19 cases. 83 positive Covid-19 patients have been reported in the state and one case of recovery.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 74 coronavirus cases and 5 recoveries so far. As many as 6 people have died from the infection in the state.Jammu and Kashmir55 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported here. Two people have died from the infection while two were cured.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 47 positive cases of coronavirus. Three people have died from Covid-19 here.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 43 and 41 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 3 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen no deaths. 21 people have been recovered from coronavirus in Haryana, one in Punjab.West Bengal has 26 people who tested positive for the infection with two deaths. In Chandigarh, 13 people were found infected from Covid-19. Andaman has recorded 10 coronavirus cases. Chhattisgarh has recorded 9 cases of coronavirus. In Bihar, 23 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Uttarakhand has 7 coronavirus patients, two patients have recovered from the virus. Goa has reported 5 cases of Covid-19 infection. Himachal Pradesh has 3 cases, one patient has died. Odisha has 4 Covid-19 positive patients.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Manipur, Mizoram and Pondicherry. The official figures for Tuesday were not released by the health ministry when this copy was being written.On Wednesday, India entered the eighth day of the 21-day long nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country.Note: Figures are from official data released by Ministry of Health, may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-sees-surge-in-covid-19-patients-fourth-highest-coronavirus-cases-in-delhi-a-statewise-tally/story-W8TaUeY4lTTYJuhr8XQeHO.html
01-04-2020||India||Migrants question implementation advisory on protecting wages, jobs||Nanhe Lal, 52, was busy setting up a makeshift tent on Monday in the fields on the periphery of his village in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district. The tent, he said, would serve as his personal isolation ward for the next two weeks.Lal was among thousands of migrant workers from Delhi who took to the national highways on foot, soon after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, in their desperation to get back home and safety—a feat he finally accomplished on Sunday night.The exodus of workers, headed to their native lands, has been witnessed across the country over the past few days. For a country like India, which has an internal migrant population of around 37% (according to the 2011 census data) the movement of migrants was of such a scale that many likened it to the exodus triggered by the Partition of 1947. Photographs by media houses and agencies showed massive gatherings at state borders, highways and bus terminals, with people desperately looking for a way to get back home.On Sunday, the Union home ministry directed states to ensure that no employer sacks these workers or deduct their wages during the lockdown period, through an advisory. The direction was welcomed by the migrant workforce but its potential for enforcement was beyond their imagination.HT later reached out over the phone to a dozen migrant workers from different states and told them about the Union home ministry’s directive.Lal was one of them. “How is that possible? We don’t have any records. How will I prove I have been sacked or my salary has been deducted?” Lal said.They said the direction was welcome but wondered how it would be implemented on the ground even as Delhi’s labour minister Gopal Rai assured workers that his government will ensure that no worker is sacked or not paid because of the lockdown.Delhi has around 1.5 million migrant labourers engaged in the unorganised sector which perennially suffers from an arbitrary—or rather malicious—record-keeping system in terms of employees on payroll.“How can any government which till date could not ensure that we receive the stipulated minimum wages suddenly enforce a crackdown on employers for terminating our employment or not paying us during this lockdown?” said Amar Ahirwar, another migrant worker who does loading and unloading of heavy machinery in Delhi’s Mayapuri industrial area. He has now reached his village in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena and quarantined at a government centre there.Rakhi Sehgal, a labour rights activist and researcher, said, “India has plenty of labour laws but for ages, they were not enforced efficiently. The result—hundreds and thousands of wrongful terminations, wage disputes, inhuman working conditions, etc. The lack of enforcement is why no migrant labourer today trusts the news that government will act against employers for wrongful termination and/or salary cut during the lockdown.”Even if the government has the right intent, how will they transform it into action, a senior official in Delhi’s labour department asked. He further said, “The task of crackdown will lie with the states. Let us take Delhi as an example. The department has 20 field officials against a sanctioned strength of 72, only five case officials against a sanctioned strength of 20. Five joint commissioners preside over courts, against a sanctioned strength of 13. Who will do the enforcement?”Animesh Das, a member of the Delhi government’s minimum wage committee, said, “The government should do four things. First, make record-keeping in the unorganised sector less arbitrary by issuing mandatory identity cards to labourers. Second, digitise the wage mechanism to strengthen the record-keeping process. Third, create a strong complaint registration mechanism for labour disputes that arise out of the lockdown. And, fourth, strengthen the labour law implementation machinery in general.”Gopal Rai said, “Right now, the priority for migrant workers is food and shelter. As far as the enforcement of the government’s directive is concerned, we will do everything to ensure that no worker is terminated or suffer a salary cut because of the coronavirus lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-question-implementation-of-govt-advisory-on-protecting-wages-jobs/story-bSJcx1l7ODCA1qgUBnG6qJ.html
01-04-2020||India||Telangana engineering student sets herself ablaze fearing coronavirus infection||A 20-year old engineering student in Telangana’s Rajanna Siricilla district committed suicide on Tuesday by setting herself ablaze fearing that she might have contracted Sars-Cov-2 virus, the police said.The deceased was identified as Dasari Sravanthi, daughter of Dasari Balaiah of Jillella village of Thangallapalli block in the district. She was a B Tech final year student at a private engineering college in Siddipet district.According to the complaint lodged by the victim’s mother Lakshmi, no one was at home when Sravanthi doused herself with kerosene and set herself ablaze.“My husband Balaiah went to Muscat long ago, my son Vamsi and I had gone to the fields for work and my father-in-law Rajaiah had gone out for some personal work. When my father-in-law returned home in the afternoon, Sravanthi was burning in flames. By the time my son and I reached home, she was already dead,” Lakshmi said in the complaint, a copy of which was seen by HT.The police rushed to the village with a fire tender and put out the flames after it was alerted by the villagers. A suicide note was recovered from the house in which Sravanthi said she was suffering from symptoms of cold and fever and feared she might be suffering from coronavirus.“She suspected that she might have contracted the virus from her co-passengers in the bus in which she used to travel to her college in Siddipet. She asked her brother to take care of parents,” Lakshmi said.Stating that Sravanthi had not spoken about symptoms before, Lakshmi told the police that there could be some other reason for her suicide and requested a thorough investigation.Rajanna Siricilla superintendent of police Rahul Hegde told HT that prima facie, it was evident that Sravanthi had committed suicide fearing that she might have contracted Covid-19. “But we have sent the suicide note to the forensic experts to find out whether it was written by Sravanthi herself or fabricated by anybody else. We are also awaiting the autopsy report to know whether she really had any Covid-19 symptoms,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-engineering-student-sets-herself-ablaze-fearing-coronavirus-infection/story-fmU5RQCTgB64kItjC6ZP3L.html
01-04-2020||India||As govt seeks feedback to tackle Covid-19, suggestions pour in||Cab driver Deepak Gupta wanted to know if the government has any welfare scheme to offer his fraternity; he has earned little money in recent days.Raman Bhatia, the owner of a small business, sought the prime minister’s intervention for the release of payments owed by state-owned companies to his firm. Anand N suggested that volunteers be enlisted to deliver groceries at the doorstep of residents so that people don’t have to go out to shop.These are just three among the more than 52,000 comments that have poured in after the Narendra Modi government sought feedback from people on ways to tackle the coronavirus disease, widening the scope of public consultations.As India scrambles to stop the spread of Covid-19, the government opened a platform for public suggestions, seeking to involve more people in the battle against the disease, on mygov.in, the popular platform for government and public interface.An official note says the ideas people suggest can include “innovative and best practices regarding hygiene, hand washing, social distancing and preventing spread of rumours and being prepared rather than panicking.”The government has a record of taking suggestions seriously. For instance, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi wanted to launch his Namo app, he sought competitive suggestions on this platform; the final design for the app was suggested by a participant .The effort to tap public opinion on ways to tackle the coronavirus and its fallout is an indication of the government’s desire to engage with the people, a government official said, requesting anonymity.The success of the government’s battle against Covid-19 ultimately depends on the people’s participation. An internal evaluation of the suggestions is on and some of them may be implemented, he added.A participant, Tushar, used the opportunity to alert the government to the fact that many residents of east Delhi were not taking the lockdown seriously and were coming out onto the streets. He advocated the use of force to confine people to their homes. Hemendra Kumar suggested the use of school and college buildings and train coaches to shelter migrant workers.Inderdeep Singh proposed that airline caterers be used to provide food in shelters and camps for migrant workers. “There is a huge kitchen and delivery infrastructure available with organisations like Taj Sats that provide food to Air India and other airlines. Currently none of them is operating and therefore government can use that infra to provide food in Delhi and Mumbai,” he said.Varun Malviya wanted the lockdown, which ends on April 14, to continue for another week at least,.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-govt-seeks-feedback-to-tackle-covid-19-suggestions-pour-in/story-nucoRh8xz3Uj3foiswXLoK.html
01-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Another doctor tests positive for coronavirus in Delhi, 6th doctor in the city||A 32-year-old paediatrician at another Delhi government-run hospital has tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Wednesday, making him the sixth doctor to contract the disease in the Capital.The doctor, who works at the Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital in East Patel Nagar, was tested after his wife turned positive for the coronavirus disease last week. The wife works at Safdarjung Hospital’s biochemistry department.Safdarjung Hospital currently has 21 Covid-19 patients in its isolation facility.Before this, a 35-year-old doctor at the Delhi State Cancer Institute tested positive for the coronavirus disease. The doctor from the institute’s preventive oncology department is admitted at the Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini near his home.Also read: 2nd Delhi mohalla clinic doctor’s contacts being tracedAuthorities on Wednesday suspended the Delhi State Cancer Institute’s out-patient clinics to sanitise the premises after the doctor there tested positive, officials said and added that the source of his infection is unclear.“His brother and sister-in-law did travel to the UK in February, but they haven’t tested positive for the infection,” an official from the Delhi government’s health department, said.Two Mohalla Clinic doctors and a private practitioner from Hari Nagar have also contracted the respiratory disease. A doctor couple from two Delhi Mohalla Clinics in the northeast region had tested positive for the coronavirus disease on March 21 and March 25. The 49-year-old doctor, who worked in a mohalla clinic in Maujpur, was diagnosed on March 21 after being infected from a patient who returned from Saudi Arabia. His 48-year-old wife, who also worked in a neighbouring clinic in Baburpur, and their 17-year-old daughter tested positive for the disease on March 25.There are 121 Covid-19 patients in the Capital and two people have died because of the disease till date.And, the number of coronavirus cases in India climbed to 1637 on Wednesday. At least 38 people have died and 123 have been cured or discharged after treatment till date, according to Centre’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-another-doctor-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-delhi-6th-doctor-in-the-city/story-h91k3flRl8fYDC6B1PdJ2L.html
01-04-2020||India||Andhra sees sudden rise in Covid-19 cases, total goes up to 89||Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday reported that the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases had more than doubled in the space of just 12 hours, putting the state on tenterhooks.A health bulletin issued by the state government said as many as 43 positive cases of the coronavirus disease surfaced between 9pm on Tuesday and 9am on Wednesday, taking the overall number of Covid-19 patients found in the state to 89.Of these 89, two persons – one in Nellore and another in Visakhapatnam -- recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals last week.“In all, 373 samples were tested in the last 12 hours, of which 330 samples tested negative and the remaining 43 proved positive,” the bulletin said.Kadapa reported the most number of positive tests (15)), followed by West Godavari (13), Chittoor (5), Prakasam (4), with East Godavari and Nellore reporting two each and Krishna and Visakhapatnam one each.It is not yet clear whether the spurt in the number of cases was linked to the spread of infection by people who returned after attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has emerged as a Covid-19 hot spot. The state government on Tuesday announced that around 800 people from the state had been identified as having attended the Jamaat event.Vijayawada commissioner of police Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said the police had identified all those who had returned from the New Delhi congregation and all of them had been sent to isolation centres.On Tuesday, state government advisor (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy declared that Andhra Pradesh was better placed than many other states in containing the spread of the coronavirus disease because of the stringent measures the state government was taking to implement a lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-sees-sudden-rise-in-covid-19-cases-total-goes-up-to-89/story-78SMu1cmiGIvG83v6YmFGJ.html
01-04-2020||India||Fighting Covid-19: Bengaluru based group leads the way||As coronavirus disease Covid-19 spreads across India and the world, there is no dearth of kindness and good samaritans.Many such groups have taken upon themselves to help people and the government in fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.One such group is Startups vs Covid-19, a Bengaluru-based group of entrepreneurs and professionals from sectors like healthcare, technology, social sector, and government.The initiative started with 4-5 people, and now boasts of 600 members.“We are a group of entrepreneurs and problem solvers, and our mission is to support the government and citizens during this crisis. We wear multiple hats, ranging from being policy advocates; to building a taskforce that the government and citizens can rely on,” said Mekin Maheshwari, ex-Flipkart executive turned social entrepreneur who is the original founder of the group.Startups vs Covid-19 has adopted muli-pronged strategy to check the spread of the disease, scale up the testing infrastructure, prepare for the next stage (Stage 3) of the outbreak and ensure supplies for healthcare professionals.To help in checking the spread of coronavirus, the group advocates for lockdown and building applications to reduce contact tracing. It has also pushed for imposition of prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC which stops people from assembling in an area.To scale testing, Startups vs Covid-19 advocates telemedicine, building multi-scale testing and increasing testing infrastructure.The group has also launched a helpline where patients can consult with doctors without stepping out of the house and risking themselves. The vast pool of experts has enabled the group in building various applications, such as a portal for citizens to report symptoms and a heatmap of the infection based on symptoms reported by doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fighting-covid-19-bengaluru-based-group-leads-the-way/story-WYrJLDss0ul3Ir5ChGF8LK.html
01-04-2020||India||RBI takes more steps to mitigate Covid-19 impact- Exporters get 6 months buffer for realization of proceeds||The Reserve Bank of India announced more measures on Wednesday to deal with the economic fallout of coronavirus, including an extension of the period for realisation and repatriation of export proceeds, in a move aimed to help businesses. The banking regulator had earlier announced several measures including slashing of bank rates to ease liquidity pressure and to stabilise the markets and the financial sector, along with steps to give major relief to individual borrowers by announcing measures including a three-month moratorium on EMIs of various loans including personal, housing and auto. Here are the additonal business-specific measures announced by the RBI on Wednesday1. Extension of realisation period of export proceeds by six monthsPresently the value of the goods or software exports made by the exporters is required to be realized fully and repatriated to the country within a period of 9 months from the date of exports. In view of the disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the time period for realization and repatriation of export proceeds for exports made up to or on July 31, 2020, has been extended to 15 months from the date of export. The measure will enable the exporters to realise their receipts, especially from Covid-19 affected countries within the extended period and also provide greater flexibility to the exporters to negotiate future export contracts with buyers abroad.2. Review of Limits of Way and Means Advances of States/UTsReserve Bank also increased the Ways and Means limits for state governments and Union Territories by 30 percent from the existing limit to enable the states to tide over the situation arising from the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The revised limits will come into force with effect from April 1, 2020 and will be valid till September 30, 2020.3. Implementation of countercyclical capital bufferRBI also deferred the activation of Countercyclical capital buffer or CCyB for a period of one year. The framework envisages the credit-to-GDP gap as the main indicator, which is used in conjunction with other supplementary indicators.Meanwhile, Congress has asked finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to ensure that the RBI circular regarding deferment of EMIs be issued widely and that interest subvention arrangement should be made for the interest on the deferred EMI payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-takes-more-steps-to-mitigate-covid-19-impact-exporters-get-6-months-buffer-for-realization-of-proceeds/story-dlszyPgbgflWMrht6NZ0wI.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update:Two patients die in West Bengal, death count reaches 6||Two persons infected with coronavirus have died in West Bengal, taking the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the state to six, a health department official said on Wednesday.A 57-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital in Golabari area of Howrah district two days ago, died on Tuesday night, he said.“We are trying to find out the travel history of the deceased and whether he had come in contact with any person infected with coronavirus,” the official said.Another 57-year-old man died in a hospital in Belghoria in North 24 Parganas district on Wednesday morning, he said.The second person had no history of travelling abroad or to any other state in India, the official said.“The man was diabetic for the last 20 years and was hospitalised since March 23 with kidney ailments. He tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday night,” he said.Family members of both the deceased have been placed under quarantine, the official said.Two men from Sheoraphuli in Hooghly district and another man from Egra in Purba Medinipur district tested positive for coronavirus, taking the total number of such cases in the state to 34, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-two-patients-die-in-west-bengal-death-count-reaches-6/story-eFFFvxWbU9T31Dh3h6wT1M.html
01-04-2020||India||Testing sewage water may give clue about Covid-19 circulation: Study||Testing sewage water could give authorities clues about the circulation of Covid-19 in cities, new research has found. Scientists in the Netherlands found the virus circulating in sewage water even when cases of Covid-19 were very low and the outbreak was still in its early stages in Dutch cities. In another analysis, Chinese scientists have suggested the use of paper-based devices (analytical devices for rapid diagnostics of pathogens. For instance, paper-based testing kits for malaria) to trace these pathogens early on.In the Dutch study, tests were conducted from sewage water samples three weeks before the first case of Covid-19 tested positive in the Netherlands but no markers were found in wastewater. When the test was conducted again on March 4 and 5, one week after the outbreak began in the country, markers were found in wastewater. Wastewater treatment plants were selected from two large and three medium sized Dutch cities and an airport to draw samples from which ribonucleic acid (RNA) was extracted and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) was conducted.Scientists, however, clarified that there is no evidence yet that sewage is a transmission mode for SARS-CoV-2. Although SARS-CoV-2 has been detected in a significant proportion of stool samples in earlier studies, just two studies reported finding infectious virus from these samples. This indicates virus doesn’t sustain in sewage water for long possibly due to treatment. Surveillance of sewage water, however, offers the opportunity to check for community prevalence of the disease.“It is important to collect information about the occurrence and fate of this new virus in sewage to understand if there is no risk to sewage work ers, but also to determine if sewage surveillance could be used to monitor the circulation of SARS-CoV-2 in our communities… sewage surveillance could also serve as early warning of the re-emergence of Covid-19 in cities, much like the sewage surveillance for poliovirus that has been used for this purpose,” authors from the KWR Water Research Institute in the Netherlands said in the studypublished in medRxiv.Another analysis published in the Environment Science and Technology journal by scientists from the School of Water, Energy and Environment, Cranfield University, and Chinese Academy of Sciences said paper based devices to pick up bio-markers in sewage samples similar to those being used for HIV, Malaria, Zika virus, human papillomavirus, among others, can be useful for tracking Covid-19.Dr Zhugen Yang, Lecturer at Cranfield Water Science Institute, said: “In the case of asymptomatic infections in the community or when people are not sure whether they are infected or not, real time community sewage detection through paper analytical devices could determine whether there are Covid-19 carriers in an area to enable rapid screening, quarantine and prevention.”“Sewage surveillance has been done for polio and non-polio viruses in the past. But testing sewage samples is not easy. We need RT-PCR now on a large scale for people. Swabs from sewage in cities can be extracted from the common duct in an area to test it. But I think that would be a post pandemic response in India. We need testing kits to be available right now. That’s a priority,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of microbiology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. India is testing at only about 36% of its capacity currently, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/testing-sewage-water-may-give-clue-about-covid-19-circulation-study/story-jIgH37yczvOUyOgALiCusK.html
01-04-2020||India||Prices of non-subsidised LPG cylinders reduced by up to Rs 65||Amid the countrywide lockdown due to the COVID-19 crisis, the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd on Wednesday slashed the price of non-subsidised domestic liquefied petroleum (LPG) gas by Rs 61.50 per 14.2-kg cylinder in Delhi.A 14.2-kg non-subsidised LPG cylinder will now cost Rs 744 in Delhi, it will cost Rs 714.50 in Mumbai (down by Rs 62), Rs 774.50 in Kolkata (down by Rs 65.5), and Rs 761.50 rupees in Chennai (down by Rs 64.5).The reduction comes in the backdrop of the decline in global crude oil prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prices-of-non-subsidised-lpg-cylinders-reduced-by-up-to-rs-65/story-Wt5aSx2n7P7RSTsKqcaPoN.html
01-04-2020||India||Amit Shah reworks Kashmir’s domicile law, includes residents for 15 yrs||Nearly eight months after the Centre scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, the government has redefined domicile rules for the union territory and ordered that only people who fulfill this criteria are eligible to be appointed to junior posts in the bureaucracy and the constabulary.The new domicile condition in the recruitment law is designed to address concerns that the union territory status for Jammu and Kashmir would lead to demographic changes since people from any part of the country could apply for jobs and settle in J&K.The domicile rule would apply for recruitment to all posts that come with a basic salary of Rs 25,500.Before Parliament scrapped Article 370, only people considered permanent residents of the erstwhile state could get jobs in the state government. When a delegation of Kashmiri politicians met Home Minister Amit Shah last month, he had assured them that the Centre did not intend to carry out demographic changes in the union territory.Shah had also promised that the new domicile rule for J&K would be better than any other state.But the new rule triggered howls of protest from Jammu and Kashmir parties.Altaf Bukhari of the Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party, who had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah on his Delhi visit last month, was the first to lash out at the move. The former PDP minister who has floated a new party described the order as a casual attempt, cosmetic in nature, and designed to hoodwink the people of J&K. He asked Shah to put the notification on hold.Former chief minister Omar Abdullah criticised the timing of the order as well. ”Insult is heaped on injury when we see the law offers none of the protections that had been promised,” he tweeted.As evidence, Omar Abdullah pointed to Altaf Bukhari’s reaction.“You can imagine how hollow the domicile law is from the fact that even the new party created with Delhi’s blessings, whose leaders were lobbying in Delhi for this law, have been forced to criticise the #JKdomicilelaw,” he said.According to Tuesday evening’s notification by the home ministry, any person who has stayed in J&K for 15 years or has studied for a period of seven years and appeared in Class 10th/12th examination will be deemed as domicile.The government order said children of central government officials, All India Services, officials of Public Sector Undertakings and autonomous bodies of central government, public sector banks, officials of statutory bodies, officials of central universities and recognized research institutes of central government who have served in Jammu and Kashmir for a total period of 10 years will also be considered to be domiciled in the union territory.Children of residents of Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir who reside outside the union territory in connection with their employment, business or other professional or vocational reasons will also be treated to be domiciled in the UT if their parents fulfil the eligibility criteria to get a domicile certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-reworks-kashmir-s-domicile-law-includes-residents-for-15-yrs/story-HI3tqta82f2rbXDSGDYynL.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: A complete list of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi||As the Delhi government battles a rapid rise in coronavirus cases, the administration on Tuesday declared five of its tertiary care hospitals as dedicated Covid-19 centres. This will earmark at least 5,850 beds for the management of Covid-19 patients in Delhi, officials said.The move comes after Delhi’s Nizamuddin area emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hotspots of the country, leading to at least eight deaths and hundreds of confirmed cases. Delhi Chief Minister has said to expect a further surge in coronavirus cases in the national capital. The hospitals are not clustered centres but are spread in different parts of the city to cater to people residing across the national capital. Here is the complete list of Delhi’s dedicated coronavirus hospitals.Lok Nayak Hospital and GB Pant HospitalBoth hospitals are located in the heart of the national capital. The hospitals are close to Old as well as New Delhi area and are easily accessible to those living in the northern part of the city.Deen Dayal UpadhyayLocated in Hari Nagar, the hospital will cater to the people residing in West Delhi and adjoining areas.Guru Teg Bahadur HospitalThe hospital is situated in Dilshad Garden and is easily accessible to people residing in the eastern part of the national capital and adjoining areas. Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality HospitalAnother medical centre which is located in East Delhi and can be accessed by those living in the northeast part of the national capital as well. It is one of the premier healthcare institutes in the country.Baba Saheb Ambedkar HospitalLocated in Rohini, the hospital can be accessed by those living in the north and far northern areas of the national capital.The southern part of the city already has some of the highly equipped medical centres including AIIMS and Safdarjung Hospital. Both hospitals are already leading the front in providing Covid-19 relief and care in the national capital.The Ministry of Health on Wednesday updated the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to 1,637. The figure includes 1,466 active cases and 132 cases of recoveries. As many as 38 people have lost their lives to Covid-19 in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-a-complete-list-of-dedicated-covid-19-hospitals-in-delhi/story-qCD1z16RyazSzGcdJYfyIL.html
01-04-2020||India||Odisha records 4th Covid-19 case, 29-year-old who had returned from Dubai infected||A 29-year-old man, who had returned from Dubai to his native village in coastal Bhadrak district on March 18, has tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Tuesday night, officials said.Though he was asymptomatic (not showing symptoms of the disease), the health authorities took his swab samples for diagnostic tests. Before this, Odisha reported three Covid-19 positive cases — of which two had travelled abroad. The third patient, a bank official, had travelled to Delhi and Haryana last month.Last week, the Odisha government revised its policy and decided to test all those who returned from abroad after March 4, said a senior state health official, adding that over 4,300 people have returned to the state since that date.Odisha health secretary Nikunja Bihari Dhal said the Bhadrak resident has been shifted to SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack late on Tuesday night. All his family members have been admitted to the isolation facility of the Bhadrak district hospital and their swab samples sent for tests. The authorities are carrying out contact tracing of the infected person. His residence has been sanitised and sealed by district officials.Senior state government officials also said at least 35 people from Odisha attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held at Nizamuddin in Delhi between Match 13 and 15. The building, where the gathering was held, has become a hot spot of coronavirus infections in India.The Odisha government has also decided not to organise any function on the occasion of Utkala Dibasa (Odisha Day) on Wednesday due to the coronavirus outbreak and 21-day nationwide lockdown that started on March 25.Odisha governor Ganeshi Lal and Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik wished the people of the state on Utkala Dibasa, which is celebrated every year to commemorate the formation of the state on linguistic basis on April 1, 1936.Governor Lal sought the blessings of Lord Jagannath for combating Covid-19 in Odisha. CM Patnaik exuded confidence regarding the containment of the viral outbreak with the active cooperation of the people of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-records-4th-covid-19-case-29-year-old-infected/story-5FRfTeboILDnCvEiQ6b9cM.html
01-04-2020||India||Gram panchayats asked to play active role to stop Covid-19 spread||The Union government has asked the over 250,000 gram panchayats to play an active role in staunching the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and identify residents of their areas who may have come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members who attended a March congregation of the Islamic missionary group in New Delhi, people aware of the development said. “These elected representatives are the first point of contact for villagers because they are familiar with the specific problems of each household. It has been decided to use state and central funds to engage these representatives to fight the crisis,” an official said on condition of anonymity.Tablighi Jamaat members from all over India and its followers from overseas took part in the congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in mid-March and then fanned across the country. The building where the congregation took place has become a hotspot of coronavirus infections in India.The government has begun aggressively tracing people with a history of contact with participants in the Jamaat congregation who have tested Covid-19 positive to date.While states have been put on a status of high alert, gram panchayats have been asked to step up monitoring and report anyone who could had come in contact with participants in the Jamaat gathering.Gram panchayats in each state have also been given specific tasks such as creating awareness of the disease and monitoring the home quarantine of those at risk of catching the infection, said a person aware of the development.There are over 250,000 gram panchayats across the country, according to the Union ministry of Panchayati Raj. Each gram panchayat consists of a village or a group of villages divided into smaller units called wards.“Tracing people with any contact or travel history has become an imperative as a large number of people have moved across states after attending the Jamaat meet. Preventing the spread of the virus to rural and semi-urban areas is critical. We are urging the gram panchayats to report cases as well as keep a strict vigil over those who are in quarantine. In many villages, there are community quarantine facilities,” said the official cited above.For instance, in Jharkhand, gram panchayats have been asked to disseminate awareness through wall paintings and set up isolation wards to treat migrants. In the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, anganwadi (women and child welfare centres) workers have been supplying food to 41 children and six pregnant women. In eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district, gram panchayats have been pressed into service to reach out to the Mahadalit communities such as Musahars and Vantangiyas.In West Bengal, gram panchayat members are involved in making and distributing personal protective equipment ( such as masks and sanitisers. Vehicles meant for the community area development programme are being used to sell fresh vegetables, fruits and fish to the villagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gram-panchayats-asked-to-play-active-role-to-stop-covid-19-spread/story-vqu3HdlDodrRCuTMjmH4nO.html
01-04-2020||India||‘Excuses’: 5 things minister Mukhtar Naqvi said on Nizamuddin event||Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi has said that the incident in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area cannot be linked with one particular community. The Tabhligi Jamaat, a religious group, had organised its annual congregation in the area which was attended by thousands at a time when coronavirus disease Covid-19 is spreading rapidly.“The Jamaat incident cannot be linked to any community. Such crimes are not linked to any community or caste,” Naqvi told Hindustan Times. (Read the full interview here)Naqvi, who heads the minority affairs ministry, said that what happened at Tabhligi Jamaat’s headquarters was a crime and it should not be seen through a religious prism.“We don’t look at it as a Hindu or Muslim or through any religious prism per so. This was a crime. The place, where this gathering happened, just happens to belong to one religious community,” said the minister.The uddin Markaz,six-storey building, the global headquarters of the Jamaat, has emerged as one of the biggest coronavirus hot spots in the country. Those who attended the congregation spread across the country during the lockdown increasing the risk of Covid-19 spread.“It is a Talibani crime. When the entire country is together to fight coronavirus, in such circumstances, such a thing is a crime. Not just the law, but even the Almighty will not forgive such a thing,” said Naqvi.He also slammed the statement by the Jamaat that many of those who came for the congregation could not move out because of the Janata Curfew on March 22. “Excuses are of no use. These kinds of excuses makes one feel that something was amiss,” Naqvi said.He also thanked the religious leaders for their positive response in fight against Covid-19. “I am happy that all religious leaders and more than that the public has responded very positively in the fight against Covid-19. There is no contradiction from anywhere.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excuses-5-things-minister-mukhtar-naqvi-said-on-nizamuddin-event/story-EBsvY1xupVY4xIwT6XCISJ.html
01-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 PM: Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin Markaz cleared, 2361 people evacuated: Manish Sisodia and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin Markaz cleared, 2361 people evacuated: Manish SisodiaMore than 2000 people were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has emerged as the latest Covid-19 hotspot, in the past 36 hours, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday. Read moreOne-third of migrant workers could be infected with Covid-19: Centre tells SCThe government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that there is a possibility that three out of 10 people moving from cities to rural areas are carrying coronavirus disease Covid-19. Read moreAfter mega-merger effective today, six banks will cease to existThe new financial year beginning today will see the merger of six public sector banks into four (the anchor banks) in a bid to make them globally competitive. Read moreApril Fool’s Day 2020: Say no to fake new pranks, tweet police handlesYou don’t need a specific day to get fooled but hey, there’s an entire day dedicated to it. April 1 is celebrated as April Fool’s Day everywhere but things are quite different this time around. Read moreThe Taste with Vir: The decline and fall of the UPANobody seriously disputes that it will take the global economy a long time to recover from the Corona virus pandemic. In India, when and if the problems caused by the lockdown are solved, we will then have to return to the grim reality of the mess that our economy is already in. Read more‘Preparing for my MA exams’ - Rani Rampal gives a peek of life inside SAI camp in Bengaluru amid lockdownThe India hockey men’s and women’s team were at SAI campus in Bengaluru for preparation for upcoming Pro League matches, friendly games and Tokyo Olympics, when coronavirus outbreak in India brought the nation to a standstill. Read moreCOVID-19: Vodafone Idea, BSNL change network operator names to create awarenessThe Indian government has imposed a 21-day lockdown in the country to tackle the coronavirus outbreak in the country. As the COVID-19 cases continue to mount in the country, state-run BSNL and Vodafone-Idea have changed their network operator names to create awareness about the virus outbreak in the country. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-tablighi-jamaat-s-nizamuddin-markaz-cleared-2361-people-evacuated-manish-sisodia-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-YOnvb2SMYIGT6QCpnA4YYK.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: 8 new Covid-19 patients in Gujarat, total cases go up to 82||Eight new coronavirus cases have been found in Gujarat, taking the total number of such cases in the state to 82, a health official said on Wednesday.All the new cases have been were reported from Ahmedabad,which has been declared as one of the COVID-19 hotspots in India.Of the eight new patients, four have history of inter-state travel, three are cases of local transmission while one person has foreign travel history, Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi said. With this, the number of local transmission cases in the state has gone up to 41, those having foreign travel history has risen to 33, and eight patients have inter-state travel history, she said. Six people have died in Gujarat due to the deadly virus, the official said. She also said that six patients have so far been discharged, and the condition of 66 is stable, while three are on ventilator support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-8-new-covid-19-patients-in-gujarat-total-cases-go-up-to-82/story-0b1bygJvN5riNt6MxIycmI.html
01-04-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin Markaz cleared, 2361 people evacuated: Manish Sisodia||More than 2000 people were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has emerged as the latest Covid-19 hotspot, in the past 36 hours, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday.Manish Sisodia tweeted about the “intensive campaign” to clear the building as other states and Union territories scrambled to identify, trace and quarantine the thousands of attendees of the religious congregation in Nizamuddin early in March.“In Nizamuddin’s Alami Markaz, the entire building was evacuated at four in the morning after a 36-hour intensive campaign. There were 2361 people present in this building. Of this, 617 have been admitted to hospitals and the rest to quarantine,” Manish Sisodia tweeted in Hindi.“The medical staff, administration, police, DTC staff all worked together in this nearly 36-hour operation, putting their lives at risk. Heartfelt gratitude to all of them,” the deputy chief minister said in another tweet.Also read: Markaz leadership resisted, then NSA Ajit Doval dropped by at 2amDelhi government officials have said they have identified 1830 people from 19 states and Union territories who visited the congregation in Nizamuddin, which was held between March 15 and 17. The state governments, however, said they suspected many more people, who were not registered with the sect, had visited the event. They are trying to identify at least 3200 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. Hundreds of people have been put under quarantine and tested them for the dreaded infection in at least 11 states and Union territories.Officials have confirmed these congregation members had tested positive in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu, and Jammu & Kashmir and that many test results were awaited.Also read: ‘A Talibani crime, says Naqvi on Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin eventSix in Telangana and one in Kashmir, who attended the event, have died of Covid-19.The number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi climbed to 121 on Wednesday and includes 24 people, who took part in a religious congregation at the Markaz in Nizamuddin earlier this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-s-nizamuddin-markaz-cleared-2361-people-evacuated-manish-sisodia/story-cUjIFAWMkGydQIQoebTvlJ.html
01-04-2020||India||Sudden spurt in number of Covid-19 patients in Andhra Pradesh in 12 hours||Andhra Pradesh witnessed a massive rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the last 12 hours.A health bulletin issued by the state government said as many as 43 positive cases were reported between 9 pm on Tuesday and 9 am on Wednesday, taking the overall number of positive cases in the state to 89.Of these 89, two people - one in Nellore and another in Visakhapatnam - recovered from the disease and were discharged from the hospitals last week.“In all, 373 samples were tested in the last 12 hours, of which 330 samples tested negative and the remaining 43 proved positive,” the bulletin said.Most of the positive cases (15) are from Kadapa, followed by 13 in West Godavari, five in Chittoor, four in Prakasam, two each in East Godavari and Nellore and one each in Krishna and Visakhapatnam.It is not yet clear whether the sudden rise in the number of cases is because of the returnees from Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. The state government had on Tuesday announced that around 800 people from the state had been identified as having attended the Jamaat conference.Vijayawada Commissioner of Police Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said the police had identified all those who had returned from New Delhi meeting and all of them had been sent to isolation centres.On Tuesday, state government advisor (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy declared that Andhra Pradesh was better placed compared to many other states in containing the spread of coronavirus because of the stringent measures being taken by the government in implementing the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudden-spurt-in-number-of-covid-19-patients-in-andhra-pradesh-in-12-hours/story-45PfZAniWeRHsFLI457kdJ.html
01-04-2020||India||43 new coronavirus cases reported in Andhra Pradesh, tally rises to 87||As many as 43 new cases of coronavirus have been reported in Andhra Pradesh since Tuesday night, taking the overall count to 87 in the state, the government said.Most of these cases relate to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation.West Godavari district, which did not have a single Covid-19 case till Tuesday, recorded 13 positive cases while Kadapa district too reported 15.Five new cases were added in Chittoor district, four in Prakasam, two each in East Godavari, SPS Nellore and one each in Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts, according to the latest bulletin of the Medical and Health Department.In all 373 samples were tested since 9 pm on Tuesday and 330 of them turned negative till 9 am on Wednesday, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/43-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-rises-to-87/story-Wpj2ZTa9bML3ouU5Z573BO.html
01-04-2020||India||‘A Talibani crime’: Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tablighi Jammat’s Nizamuddin congregation||Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi has called the Tablighi Jamaat’s international congregation at its headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which was held between March 13 and 15, as nothing short of a “Taliban crime”, and also urged authorities to deal with it strictly. The meet has turned into a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spot in India. Speaking to Amandeep Shukla, Naqvi said 99% of the people, including minorities, are strongly supportive of the government’s efforts to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The minister insisted that the fight against Covid-19 should not be viewed through religious prisms.Also read: Markaz leadership resisted, then NSA Ajit Doval dropped by at 2 am At a time when the fight against Covid-19 through social distancing is at its peak, an organisation such as Tablighi Jamaat has come under sharp focus for the gathering in the national capital. How do you view this?  It is a Talibani crime. When the entire country is together to fight coronavirus, in such circumstances, such a thing is a crime. Not just the law, but even the Almighty will not forgive such a thing. It is very unfortunate that the lives of so many people were endangered because of such a careless approach.Another issue that has emerged is that at this time a lot of foreigners were also staying there?I think the administration and the law enforcement agencies should be extremely strict with these issues. It is not just related to the lives of the people concerned, but also with the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. No one should be allowed to be negligent or carry out a criminal conspiracy under any circumstances.Also read: Timeline: How Nizamuddin event went on despite lockdown orders It is also being said on behalf of Tablighi Jamaat that the gathering was already held and many of them could not move out because of the Janata Curfew on March 22 resulting in lack of availability of transport facilities.Excuses are of no use. These kinds of excuses makes one feel that something was amiss. You are the minority affairs minister of the country. There may be statements against the Muslim community because of this incident related to the Tablighi Jamaat.We don’t look at it as a Hindu or Muslim or through any religious prism per so. This was a crime. The place, where this gathering happened, just happens to belong to one religious community. The participants are the first to be infected by the disease. Such an action damage society and the country at large.Do you plan to carry out any outreach towards religious leaders or community leaders? I am happy that all religious leaders and more than that the public has responded very positively in the fight against Covid-19. There is no contradiction from anywhere. For instance, talking about minorities, there has been a consensus about the Friday namaaz. Everyone has voluntarily decided not to offer prayers in public. But there are exceptions like the Jamaat meet that should be strictly dealt with.Do you plan to launch any awareness drive?We are talking to all stakeholders. We are getting positive reports from all across…99% of people are with us and working hard to spread awareness. The Jamaat incident cannot be linked to any community. Such crimes are not linked to any community or caste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-talibani-crime-union-minister-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-on-tablighi-jammat-s-nizamuddin-congregation/story-ayp8shadVRIAmPb6XZlOcN.html
01-04-2020||India||Delhi govt’s cancer hospital shuts after doctor tests positive for coronavirus||A 35-year-old doctor at the Delhi State Cancer Institute has tested positive for the coronavirus disease forcing authorities to suspend the hospital’s out-patient clinics to sanitise the premises, officials said on Wednesday.The doctor from the institute’s preventive oncology department is admitted at the Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini. His wife and child have also been admitted to Lok Nayak hospital near Delhi Gate.Officials said the source of his infection is unclear.“He has no history of foreign travel or treating any Covid-19 patients. So, the source of the infection is still a question mark,” an official from the Delhi government’s health department, said.“His brother and sister-in-law did travel to the UK in February, but they haven’t tested positive for the infection,” the official quoted above said.Since the lockdown, the hospital saw around 100-150 cancer patients in OPD. Before that, the OPD attendance was between 1000 and 1500 a day.“We cannot take a risk. Only the cancer patient in emergent need of care is coming to the hospital right now and they are immunocompromised. We have to shut the OPD to sanitise the premises to ensure that no one gets it,” Dr BL Sherwal, director of the Delhi State Cancer Institute, said.More doctors infectedHe is the fourth doctor in the Capital to test positive for the coronavirus disease after two Mohalla Clinic doctors and a private practitioner from Hari Nagar contracted the disease.A doctor couple from two Delhi Mohalla Clinics in the northeast region had tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Tuesday.The 49-year-old doctor, who worked in a mohalla clinic in Maujpur, was diagnosed on March 21 after being infected from a patient who returned from Saudi Arabia. His 48-year-old wife, who also worked in a neighbouring clinic in Baburpur, and 17-year-old daughter tested positive for the disease on March 25.The city’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme is tracking all the people who came into contact with the doctor couple, as well as the 38-year old index patient. Ten people have been infected from the 38-year-old Dilshad Garden resident, who returned from Saudi Arabia, so far.Also read: 2nd Delhi mohalla clinic doctor’s contacts being tracedAt least 3800 people who came in contact with the index patient, the doctor, or his wife, including patients from the two mohalla clinics, are being tracked by the programme’s officials.Around 1200 people who came in contact with the index patient are also being tracked. All of them have all been quarantined at home and if they develop symptoms, they will be taken to a hospital.There are 121 Covid-19 patients in the Capital as the number of coronavirus cases in India climbed to 1663 on Wednesday. At least 50 people have died and 150 have been cured or discharged after treatment till date, according to Centre’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-hospital-doctor-contacts-covid-19-building-shut/story-C5QEegTV4ObcCNFFan3LFL.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Assam returnees from Nizamuddin tested for Covid-19, results in today||Some of the residents of Assam, who were present “in and around” the Tablighi Jamat gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi and returned to the state, have been tested for the coronavirus and their results will be available on Wednesday, officials have said.The Assam government has said 455 people were present at Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has become a coronavirus hotspot after a religious congregation was held there earlier this month.“On Wednesday evening, we are likely to receive the test results of those persons who had returned from Nizamuddin. We will be able to know the status of Covid-19 spread in Assam only after the results arrive,” Himanta Biswa Sarma, the state’s health minister, had said on Tuesday.Sarma had said he has instructed district authorities to find and quarantine them.“Held an urgent Video Conference with all DCs & SPs advised them to take swift & strict measures for all those who returned from hotstpot at #NizamuddinMarkaz of #TablighiJamaat. All of them shall be quarantined by evening,” Sarma tweeted late on Tuesday.The minster had also urged people who have returned to the state to voluntarily go to the nearest hospital or make a call on the state’s coronavirus helpline number.“Urgent Request. If there is anyone from Assam who attended the religious congregation of Tablighi Jamaat at Hazrat Nizamuddin in Delhi, please IMMEDIATELY report voluntarily to the nearest government hospital or by calling Helpline no # 104. Please treat this as very important,” he had tweeted.Also read: Markaz leadership resisted, then NSA Ajit Doval dropped by at 2amAssam had on Tuesday also reported its first Covid-19 patient after a 52-year-old man tested positive and Sarma said he is now at Silchar Medical College Hospital in Cachar district of Barak Valley.The man, Sarma told a local news channel, had first shown symptoms of Covid-18 on March 18. There are unconfirmed reports that he had gone for treatment of another disease to Delhi and had returned to Assam on March 11.“The patient was under our notice since Monday and we sent his samples to NIV, Pune to confirm. We have taken his travel history and done contact-tracing. The persons who were in contact with him have already been either quarantined or kept in isolation. So there is no need to panic,” he said.Sarma said that the details of the patient, his travel history and list of persons he may have come in contact will be made available officially on Wednesday.Officials of the Delhi government have said they have identified 1,830 people from 19 states and Union territories who visited the congregation in Nizamuddin, which was held between March 15 and 17.However, state governments said they suspected many more people, who were not registered with the sect, had visited the event. They are trying to identify at least 3200 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. Hundreds of people have been put under quarantine and tested them for the dreaded infection in at least 11 states and Union territories.Officials have confirmed these congregation members had tested positive in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu, and Jammu & Kashmir and that many test results were awaited.Six in Telangana and one in Kashmir, who attended the event, have died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-assam-returnees-from-nizamuddin-tested-for-covid-19-results-in-today/story-0DjGLJvy3fPcuaT6BltNSI.html
01-04-2020||India||Covid-19: States coordinating on migrant workers, Nizamuddin event||State governments have increased their coordination to share details about migrant workers and those with travel and contact history with Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic missionary movement that held a congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi mid-March.Nizamuddin has since become the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspot, claiming nine lives and infecting at least 24 people across the country.The states are also trying to ensure safe transportation, screening, monitoring and providing food and healthcare for tens of thousands of migrant workers during the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown to tackle the pandemic.The labourers’ plight has emerged as a big challenge, said government functionaries aware of the details.During daily coordination meetings between state functionaries and ministers, the mass movement of these migrant workers, some of whom have walked for hundreds of kilometers after the lockdown started on March 25, has been identified as the most critical area requiring immediate attention. “Almost all states have made arrangements to look after these workers, but the situation is still quite fluid. Many state governments are coordinating to take care of the workers such as sharing details on how to help them,” said a Union minister requesting anonymity.On Tuesday, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh spoke to his counterpart in Bihar, Nitish Kumar, to apprise him of the arrangements being made by his government to look after the migrant labourers from the latter’s state. Singh told Kumar to reassure the families of these workers that they are being looked after well during the lockdown.People, who had begun their journey on foot, are still in transit or reaching their native places, despite the fact that states have been instructed to stop all movement of people beyond their boundaries. In such cases, states have been asked to take proactive steps to screen and monitor them.“In Uttar Pradesh, approximately three lakh migrant workers arrived over the last few days. They have all been screened and kept under watch for 14 days. Over 7,000 gram panchayats have been alerted to report cases of those who arrived earlier and managed to reach their homes,” said a senior functionary of the UP government.States have also started to share details on the number of people who came in contact with members of the Tablighi Jaamat’s congregation at Nizamuddin from foreign countries such as Malaysia, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, and Kyrgyzstan. “We’ve told the states to exchange information on whereabouts of the people who attended the congregation or were in touch with the members of the Jaamat. States have started helplines to report these cases and are also making appeals to people to voluntarily come forward for screening,” said a member of Parliament from the Bharatiya Janata Party.Trade unions have urged the central government to reset the process of offering relief to the migrant workers stranded across the country. They have suggested direct cash transfers, ensure jobs and wages are not cut and healthcare needs are met at native places of the workers.K Saji Narayanan, president of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), said, “The workers are facing several problems. For instance, they are not accustomed to the food being provided to them. In some states, they are being forced to live in shelters that have no civic amenities. Besides, the anxiety of being away from home and not earning their wages are getting the better of them.”The BMS, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), which has a network of over 6,000 registered trade unions, on Monday wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and urged her ministry to pay at least Rs 5,000 to each labourer’s family immediately, open new bank accounts for those in the unorganised and informal sector and allow the workers to run their own kitchens.Sukumar Damle, secretary, All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), said the government must ensure that there is compliance with its orders on the ground. He said the workers are bearing the brunt because of a lack of coordination between the state administrations and the police.Sachin Jain, of Vikas Samvaad, a Madhya Pradesh-based non-governmental organisation working with the migrant workers, flagged the need to involve civil society groups to reach out to the distressed workers.He said the government does not have a plan to deal with workers in an emergency and is relying on the police to overcome “the unprecedented humanitarian crisis”.“The police are overworked and stressed. Besides, they don’t have the capacity to address the workers’ issues. No wonder, workers are walking up to 500 kilometers to reach their native places amid this unprecedented humanitarian crisis,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-states-coordinating-on-migrant-workers-nizamuddin-event/story-x7WXVW5ae2TP8JHljhhzZN.html
01-04-2020||India||One-third of migrant workers could be infected with Covid-19: Centre tells SC||The government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that there is a possibility that three out of 10 people moving from cities to rural areas are carrying coronavirus disease Covid-19.The submission was made by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre in the hearing on two public interest litigations (PILs). The hearing was held by video conferencing.Referring to the last census, Mehta who addressed the court from his office chamber, said there were about 4.14 crore people had migrated for work, but backward migration is now happening due to the coronavirus pandemic.More on Covid-19:• Covid-19: Your guide to staying safe• Covid-19: What you need to know today• Can Covid-19 spread after symptoms end?• How coronavirus is different from seasonal flu and common coldThe court directed the Centre to ensure that migrant workers kept in shelter homes are given food, medical aid, and also asked it to take assistance of trained counsellers and religious leaders of all faiths to help the migrants overcome their panic as “panic will destroy more lives than the virus”.“We want to impress upon you that the panic will destroy more lives than the virus. You need counsellors,” the bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justice L Nageswara Rao said, adding, “you can have ‘Bhajan, Kirtan, Namaz’ or whatever but you have to give strength to the people.”The court also asked the central government to set up within 24 hours a portal for dissemination of real-time information on the Covid-19 pandemic to counter the panic and fear being spread through fake news.Mehta told the bench that no migrant worker, who had left for their native places after being rendered jobless due to a 21-day nationwide lockdown, “is on the road now”. He also said that authorities would mobilise religious leaders to counsel the migrants in shelters so that they could stay calm.The PILs demanded direction from the court for the government to provide thousands of migrant workers who are rendered homeless and jobless due to the lockdown with relief, including food, water, medicines and proper medical facilities.Mehta said that the migration of people cannot be allowed at this juncture as this would spread the virus in villages.The bench adjourned the hearing on the PILs to April 7 while refusing to restrain the high courts from taking up the issue of migrants, saying that they may monitor the issue more closely.According to the Union home ministry, there are over 21,000 relief camps set up across the country where more than 6.6 lakh destitute people and those stranded because of the Covid-19 lockdown are sheltered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-third-of-migrant-workers-could-be-infected-with-covid-19-centres-tells-sc/story-bwKnI2oBI5tFoXlpvP0n7M.html
01-04-2020||India||‘It’s special’: PM Modi lauds young India for contributing to PM CARES fund||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been taking to Twitter and expressing gratitude toward those contributing to the PM CARES fund in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. In a touching post, the Prime Minister thanked children who have been coming forward and donating from their little savings. “Have been seeing thoughtful messages of young children contributing to PM-CARES,” PM Modi tweeted out on Tuesday.  Have been seeing thoughtful messages of young children contributing to PM-CARES. This is special because they are contributing from their piggy banks. We yet again see the large-heartedness of young India. #IndiaFightsCorona https://t.co/FbYOKeY0TEhttps://t.co/J4btTCs9dN https://t.co/vVsCT954fwHe said it is very special to see children making their contribution from their piggy banks.“This is special because they are contributing from their piggy banks. We yet again see the large-heartedness of young India,” he said. PM’s tweet came in response to a user posting a video of his daughter giving away all her piggy bank saving to PM CARES fund to fight coronavirus. “Dear PM @narendramodi ji, my daughter Reveda has donated all her piggybank savings to #PMCARES fund & has requested everyone to donate as much as they can,” the user tweeted out. PM Modi also expressed gratitude to film personalities for their contributions to the fund. On Tuesday, the PM shared a series of tweets thanking celebrities who have come forward to back his appeal.In an evening Tweet Modi said, “People from all walks of life have contributed to PM-Cares. They have given their hard-earned money to sharpen the fight against COVID-19.”The Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES) fund was launched by PM Modi last week in a bid to fight the Covid-19 crisis. From industrialists like Ratan Tata and Anand Mahindra to eminent personalities, institutes and celebrities like Anushka Sharma, scores of people have come forward and donated to the fund to help the country fight the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-it-s-special-pm-modi-lauds-young-india-for-contributing-to-pm-cares-fund/story-InogGPCndzFeuHfbRFL2SK.html
01-04-2020||India||Global cases cross 800k, new study on fatalities: Covid-19 news today||The Covid-19 disease has now infected over 800,000 people and killed more than 40,000 even as a new study showed the death rate was lower than estimates ranging between 2% and 8%. The study puts the death rate at 1.38%, still higher than previous pandemics such as H1N1 influenza. Back home, the Indian Supreme Court has asked the media to exercise caution and not to disseminate unverified news.ICMR plays down signs of community transmissionThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has come under scrutiny over the past few days for its continued insistence that there is no community transmission of Covid-19 in India, and delays in approving testing kits, parameters for which have been set at absurdly high levels, according to many experts.Read MoreSC concerned over ‘fake news’ on Covid-19Media should maintain a strong sense of responsibility, while disseminating news on coronavirus and should ensure that unverified and fake news is not published, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday after the central government drew the court’s attention to the possibility of people panicking due to “fake” and “inaccurate reporting” of news connected with Covid-19.Read MoreTB vaccine appears to offer protection against Covid-19The Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine to prevent tuberculosis, which has been given to Indian children since 1949, and which around 97% of the 26 million Indian children born every year received last year, appears to offer protection against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to US researchers who analysed the wide variation in the intensity of the disease in different countries. It also helps lower cases of Covid-19 in a country, the researchers found.Read MoreCoronavirus death rate lower than estimates: StudyA new analysis of data from at least 70,000 lab-confirmed cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from China puts the death rate at 1.38%, lower than earlier estimates ranging between 2% and 8% but higher than previous pandemics such as H1N1 influenza, which killed around 0.02% of the people infected in 2009-10.Read MoreTest results delayed, labs struggle with sample loadIndia may claim to be testing only at about 36% of its capacity, but government laboratories testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) seem to be already burdened by the sample load, with many hospitals saying that the lag time for receiving test results has increased to three days.Read MoreGlobal coronavirus cases cross 800,000 after US sees deadliest dayThe coronavirus pandemic on Tuesday infected more than 800,000 people all over the world, with the global death toll crossing 40,000. The twin developments came as the total number of deaths in the US surpassed China’s toll of 3,305.Read MoreBig Sports lose in stoppage timeThis is not just the era of sports, this is the era of Big Sports. And, for the moment, it has come to a complete halt. The billion-dollar broadcast deals, the millions of viewers, the mega sporting events that transform entire countries (for better or for worse) are all in limbo.Read MoreLiverpool’s 30-year dream again in limbo after agonising heartbreaksStoried football club Liverpool — seemingly locked forever in a Sisyphean quest for premiership glory — appear to have been dealt another cruel hand by destiny; if it was their god who slipped six years ago, all of humanity has been struck by a deadly pandemic this time.Read MoreLong-term containment measures key as Covid-19 cases may rise after lockdown: StudyIndia needs to urgently think of long-term infection containment measures because the ongoing 21-day national lockdown is unlikely to be enough to reverse the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases and rate of transmission (although it will help), a new study has suggested.Read MoreEconomic fallout will be extremely serious for Punjab and the nation: Punjab CMThe Punjab government stepped up efforts to check the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and clamped a curfew before the Centre declared a nationwide lockdown for the purpose. Amarinder Singh, the Punjab chief minister, spoke to Hindustan Times about these efforts and how he plans to deal with the impact of the lockdown on the state’s economy. Read MoreNavy’s ventilator to help 6 at a timeAs the country prepares to handle a rising number of cases and meet its need for ventilators, which about 5% of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients may require, the Indian navy has pitched in with an innovative ventilator design that can cater to six patients simultaneously.Read More17 Indian evacuees from Iran infectedAs many as 17 Indian evacuees from Iran have tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) at the army’s two quarantine facilities in Rajasthan and admitted to hospitals in Jaisalmer and Jodhpur, two officials said on Tuesday on condition of anonymity.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-cases-cross-800k-new-study-on-fatalities-covid-19-news-today/story-Irk12zdWSC7udibTtsWsKM.html
01-04-2020||India||States rush to track down attendees, visa allegations surface: Nizamuddin developments today||Officials across the country have begun a frantic search for thousands who had been to the headquarters of a religious group in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area that has become the single-biggest source of Covid-19 infections in the country (at least eight deaths and 117 cases). An FIR has been registered against the head of Tablighi Jamaat and other officials for defying a series of government orders that restricted gatherings in the city.States scramble as pilgrims transgressOfficials across the country began a frantic search for thousands of people who had been to the headquarters of a religious group in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area that has now emerged as the single-biggest source of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in the country, leading to at least eight deaths and 117 confirmed cases. Read moreNow a disease hub, Jamaat defied series of anti-Covid curbsDelhi Police on Tuesday registered a case against Maulana Saad, the head of the Tablighi Jamaat, and other officials of the group for defying a series of government orders that restricted gatherings in the city in a scaled manner between March 13 and March 21, before a full-fledged national lockdown was put in place on March 25. Read more Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe meeting in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area was attended by around 2,000 people although there are reports that this is just the count of those who registered for the event, that there were many who didn’t, and that people came and left in batches. This was a wilful tragedy, brought about by foolishness, compounded by carelessness, and, at every stage, characterised by a clear disregard for the law. Read more Genesis of India’s biggest hot spotTips about an infection hotspot at the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin headquarters began trickling in to the Delhi Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme office that week, leading the district surveillance officer (DSO) to dispatch a team on March 26. Six people were found with symptoms at the building, isolated and sent for testing. Read more Gravity of situation yet to dawn upon most Nizamuddin evacueesA statement from the Markaz on Tuesday said that when the ‘janta curfew’ was announced for March 22, the ongoing programmes were discontinued immediately, but the sudden halting of rail services during the lockdown left them stranded. Read more States rush to track down over 3,000 who attended Delhi’s Nizamuddin eventAt least 11 state governments and union territories put hundreds of people under quarantine and tested them for the dreaded infection. Read more FRRO, immigration bureau probe irregularitiesOrganisations under the Union home ministry like the Bureau of Immigration and Foreigners Regional Registration Offices (FRROs) have a greater responsibility to monitor activities of foreign members of groups such as Tablighi Jamaat, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday. Read moreAt least 216 likely violated visa regulations: OfficialsAt least 216 foreigners who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation this month in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, which has emerged as one of the biggest coronavirus (Covid-19) hot spots in India, violated visa norms by entering the country on tourist visas rather than the mandatory Missionaries visa, HT has learnt. Read more Islamic missionary at centre of India’s Covid-19 outbreakIgnoring the pandemic, an estimated 2,500 Sunni Muslim men belonging to several nationalities, each identically dressed in a white gown and skullcap, checked into a five-storey establishment called Markaz in Delhi’s Nizammudin area, part of a yearly routine. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-rush-to-track-down-attendees-visa-allegations-surface-nizamuddin-developments-today/story-r21VyVWdse2fLEkbBxbQTM.html
01-04-2020||India||‘By first available flight’: Centre orders deportation of foreign Jamaat workers||The government has advised all the states and union territories to “thoroughly screen” all the foreigners who are part of Tabligh Jamaat (TJ). It has also said that any foreigner found to be free from Covid-19 should be immediately deported by the first available flight.“Till that time, such person must be confined and quarantined by his host organisation,” the government has said in its advisory.The advisory further says that foreign teams of the Jamaat are on tour to the hinterland of India, and appear to be potential carriers of the coronavirus disease.“TJ activists from India had reportedly attended a religious congregation (February 27 to March 1) in a mosque in Kuala Lampur, Malaysia. Open domain reports indicated that several of those who attended the congregation had tested positive for Covid-19. Hence, thorough screenings of these who arrived from Malaysia is urgently needed,” the advisory says.“Presently, it is estimated that about 2000 foreigners, on tourist visa, from over 70 countries are spread all over the country for Tabligh work. Their period of stay in this country is upto six months. Tabligh headquarters at Nizamuddin (Delhi) is reportedly in the process of calling the foreign Tabligh teams from different states and sending them back to their respective countries,” it adds.The six-storey headquarters of the Jamaat has emerged as the one of the biggest coronavirus hot spots in the country. An estimated 2,500 Sunni Muslim men belonging to several nationalities, each identically dressed in a white gown and skullcap, checked into the establishment called markaz in Delhi’s Nizammudin area earlier this month, as part of yearly routine, for a congregation.The authorities now fear the markaz waypoint has become a coronavirus transmission hub, with 24 preachers testing positive in Delhi alone between Sunday and Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-teams-of-jamaat-touring-india-could-be-carrying-covid-19-govt-tells-states/story-t5mfturVlY7k3ZfbYkDUBM.html
01-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: 16 new coronavirus cases, Maharashtra Covid-19 numbers jump to 320||Sixteen more people have tested positive for the coronavirus disease in Mumbai and two more cases were reported in Pune, taking the number of those infected in Maharashtra to 320, the highest in the country, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday.This comes a day after Maharashtra reported 302 cases on Tuesday with 82 people testing positive for Covid-19. Of these 59 were recorded in Mumbai alone, taking the number of infected people in India’s worst-hit city to 151. However, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the jump on Tuesday was because the results of tests conducted by the city’s private laboratories over the past four days were declared together.Maharashtra’s chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had on Tuesday said they are sealing areas where there are coronavirus patients to curb the further spread of Covid-19.Thackeray also directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to set up 227 flying squads that will conduct a house-to-house inspection in each and every ward. The squad will have personnel each from BMC, police, health and revenue departments.“The squads will reach out to the members of the patient’s family and all those who came in contact with them. They will be asked if they have any symptoms of flu, such as cough, cold and fever, and for those having any of these symptoms, arrangements will be made for testing,” Thackeray said.Uddhav Thackeray had on March 22 declared imposing section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in urban areas of the state, restricting assembly of not more than five people at one place. His orders came two days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared a 21-day lockdown across the country.Thackeray had also declared a shutdown of public transport services -- Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST), state transport and private buses. Mumbai Metro and Monorail also announced the closure of their services till the end of the month.The staff in all the government offices was also reduced to 5% each day.The numbers are still rising despite all the restrictions and are likely to further rise. Experts believe the state should increase its testing capacity and reach out to maximum people to contain the spread.Anil Deshmukh, the state’s home minister, has warned people against spreading any rumour on April Fool’s Day on Wednesday.“Tomorrow’s April 1st. The annual tradition making an ‘April Fool’ of people has already begun on WhatsApp & social media. The state govt won’t allow anyone to spread rumours/panic on #Corona. I’ve instructed @MahaCyber1 to act swiftly & strongly such miscreants,” Deshmukh tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-16-new-coronavirus-cases-maharashtra-covid-19-numbers-jump-to-320/story-H2os3DmoKWSTtUIAuEw31H.html
01-04-2020||India||Nizamuddin Covid-19 scare escalates, ICMR says ‘no community spread’: 10 points||The number of coronavirus cases in the country has crossed 1,200. According to the figures shared by the Ministry of Health, as many as 1,231 people are currently infected with Covid-19 in the country while 123 have recovered. 35 people have lost their lives to the infection. The headquarters of a religious group in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area has now emerged as the single-biggest source of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in the country, leading to at least eight deaths and 117 confirmed cases.On Wednesday, the country entered the eighth day of the 21-day Covid-19 lockdown.Here are the key developments:1. One of South Asia’s biggest clusters identified. Over 3000 people in different states and some from other countries may have contracted the infection at Tablighi Jamat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. 2. Members of Tablighi Jamat are booked for violating Covid-19 restrictions and Maulana booked for allegedly asking people to not obey government orders.3. State governments across India scrambled on Tuesday to identify at least 3,200 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi that has emerged to be the biggest Covid-19 hotspot in the country. At least 11 state governments and union territories put hundreds of people under quarantine and tested them for the dreaded infection.4. Indian Council of Medical Research says no community transmission in the country yet.5. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal says to expect a surge in cases as many more from Markaz likely to test positive.6. The Centre has begun making additional arrangements for the supply of medical cargo, including the arrangement of special flight operations and special parcel trains.7. The administration of Jammu and Kashmir has said 20 villages have been isolated to prevent Covid-19 from spreading, especially after some people associated with Tablighi Jamaat told officials about their travel history. Many of them had even participated in the religious congregations in the Nizamuddin area of Delhi and Samba in J-K in the first two weeks of March.8. In a telephonic conversation, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo spoke with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar regarding the coordination of efforts to respond to the coronavirus crisis, said “close cooperation is imperative to combat the coronavirus”.9. The fire safety solutions firm ‘Ceasefire’ has been sealed by the district administration after 13 employees and 11 of their family members had tested positive for Covid-19 in Noida. 10. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court said that media should maintain a strong sense of responsibility while disseminating news on coronavirus and should ensure that unverified and fake news is not published.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-nizamuddin-becomes-biggest-covid-19-hotspot-icmr-says-no-community-transmission-10-points/story-mqgVzcL4MafZzCAFikf32I.html
01-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 AM: Coronavirus death rate lower than estimates: Study and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Coronavirus death rate lower than estimates: StudyA new analysis of data from at least 70,000 lab-confirmed cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from China puts the death rate at 1.38%, lower than earlier estimates ranging between 2% and 8% but higher than previous pandemics such as H1N1 influenza, which killed around 0.02% of the people infected in 2009-10. Read moreCovid-19: What you need to know todayEdward Murphy, after whom the famous law was named, may well have scripted the tragedy (for it is definitely that) in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, where the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, hosted a meeting of indeterminate length at its headquarters, a six-storey building. The meeting was attended by around 2,000 people although there are reports that this is just the count of those who registered for the event, that there were many who didn’t, and that people came and left in batches. Read moreDonald Trump says ‘absolutely’ considering Brazil travel banPresident Donald Trump said Tuesday he is strongly considering a ban on travel from Brazil, where his close ally Jair Bolsonaro dismisses the danger of the coronavirus. Read moreRakesh Roshan reacts to Sussanne Khan’s decision to move in with Hrithik during lockdownActor-turned-filmmaker Rakesh Roshan has reacted to his former daughter-in-law and actor son Hrithik Roshan’s ex-wife Sussanne Khan moving in with them to stay with his grandkids amid lockdown. Sussanne had temporarily shifted to Hrithik Roshan’s Juhu residence last week to co-parent her sons Hrehaan and Hridaan. Read moreApril Fools’ Day 2020: History and significanceThe origins of April Fools’ Day remain a mystery for many of us. According to some historians, it is believed that April Fools’ Day dates back to 1582 when France switched to the Gregorian calendar. Those who did not know about this change faced jokes, as they did not realise that January 1 would be the beginning of the year from now. Read more‘Preparing for my MA exams’ - Rani Rampal gives a peek of life inside SAI camp in Bengaluru amid lockdownThe India hockey men’s and women’s team were at SAI campus in Bengaluru for preparation for upcoming Pro League matches, friendly games and Tokyo Olympics, when coronavirus outbreak in India brought the nation to a standstill. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown last week, the players still remained at the camp, despite Tokyo Olympics getting postponed to 2021 last week. Read moreHouseparty owns whatever you say in its app, can track you and won’t delete all your information even if you ask for itPopular group video calling app Houseparty was recently claimed to have been ‘hacked’ but it was not the case as the company later made it clear that it was a smear campaign. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-coronavirus-death-rate-lower-than-estimates-study-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-C90H74UEU9UbVXFHJcG0tN.html
01-04-2020||India||18 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra; tally jumps to 320||Eighteen more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra, taking the total number of such cases in the state to 320, a health official said on Wednesday.“Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally till Tuesday night was 302. Today, we got reports of 18 more people testing positive for the viral infection. This has taken the state tally to 320,” the official said.Of the 18 new cases, 16 have been reported from Mumbai and two from Pune, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-tally-jumps-to-320/story-oihvCAczF0fOmGoCYMveXP.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 20 J-K villages isolated, some residents attended Nizamuddin event||The administration of Jammu and Kashmir has said 20 villages have been isolated to prevent Covid-19 from spreading, especially after some people associated with Tablighi Jamaat told officials about their travel history.Many of them had even participated in the religious congregations in Nizamuddin area of Delhi and Samba in J-K in the first two weeks of March.Officials, privy to the details, said more than one dozen people affiliated with Tablighi Jamaat had visited Nizamuddin and also attended the religious congregation in different places in the state after reaching Kashmir. At least 3200 people from across the country attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin, which has emerged to be the biggest Covid-19 hotspot in the country.Hundreds of people have been put under quarantine and tested them for the dreaded infection by at least 11 state governments and Union territories.Results were awaited in many states but officials confirmed that congregation members had tested positive in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu, and J-K.Also read: How Nizamuddin event went on despite lockdown ordersThree villages in Hajin, one in Ganderbal, two in Shopian, seven in Pulwama, five in Srinagar and two in Budgam have been declared as ‘red zones’ and all those who have tested positive for coronavirus disease are connected with the Covid-19 patients belonging to Tablighi Jamaat. Many members of the Jamaat had voluntarily approached officials after they heard about the death of the 65-year-old religious preacher in Srinagar, whose was the first Covid-19 related death in J-K. The preacher had attended the gathering in Delhi on March 8 and 9 and left for Deoband in Uttar Pradesh on March 10. From there, he went to Samba district in Jammu on March 12, where people from different parts of the state had also participated.On March 16, he flew down to Srinagar and developed mild symptoms. Before he tested positive he had met dozens of people in the Valley and also attended a gathering in Sopore and Baramulla. The locality in Srinagar where the preacher lived was also sealed.Officials said that more than 100 people who had any sort of contact with the preacher are currently under the hospital quarantine and couple of them have already tested positive.Many family members and Jamaat members who had met the religious preacher in Delhi and Samba were tested and many turned to be negative, which has given a slight glimmer of hope to officials. Also read: Islamic missionary at centre of India’s Covid-19 outbreakIn Hajin, eight people affiliated with Tablighi Jamaat have tested positive and four villages—Batagund, SK Bala, Chandeergeer and Parray mollah of Hajin township—have been declared as red zone and the areas completely sealed as the police are keeping a close eye on the situation.Among these eight positive cases, two had come into contact with the religious preacher who died, while others have been travelling to different states across the country. However, officials say that they could have attended the religious gathering at Nizamuddin and other places and contracted the virus during travel or some other places.“They all positive patients had a travel history as they belong to Tablighi Jamaat. Around 200 people are under administrative quarantine and more than 600 in home quarantine,’’ said a senior officer in Bandipore district.Among these eight positive patients, two had visited neighbouring Ganderbal district and stayed at a mosque. Now, a big village which also houses a big mosque and Darul-a-uloom have been declared a red zone.“Nobody is allowed in or outside the village and names of all the persons who had met the positive patients have been contacted,’’ said another senior officer in Ganderbal district. In south Kashmir, three members of the Tablighi Jamaat had tested positive and all of them had travelled outside the state in the first week of March and two had even attended several religious congregations. Around six villages in Pulwama and two in Shopian have been isolated. One of the Covid-19 patients, who is also the member of Tablighi Jamaat from Pulwama, had met around 100 people in four different villages in Pulwama and all are being now under quarantine, most of them under home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-20-j-k-villages-isolated-some-residents-attended-nizamuddin-event-publishing-this-from-mail/story-MCAN1zGd5ReEvDz926VueL.html
01-04-2020||India||Pompeo dials Jaishankar, says ‘our close cooperation is imperative to combat coronavirus’||In a telephonic conversation, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo spoke with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar regarding the coordination of efforts to respond to the coronavirus crisis.“Good call today with Indian External Affairs Minister @DrSJaishankar on the #USIndia partnership. Our close cooperation is imperative to combat the #coronavirus, including strengthening global pharmaceutical and healthcare manufacturing and supply chains,” Pompeo tweeted out.Good call today with Indian External Affairs Minister @DrSJaishankar on the #USIndia partnership. Our close cooperation is imperative to combat the #coronavirus, including strengthening global pharmaceutical and healthcare manufacturing and supply chains.Pompeo reiterated the United States’ unwavering commitment to working with India to advance peace, prosperity and security in the Indo-Pacific and around the globe, US State Department spokesperson Morgan Ortagus said. Pompeo highlighted the importance of continued close cooperation between US, India and other close partners and allies to combat this international crisis, including strengthening global pharmaceutical, healthcare manufacturing and supply chains.The dialogue between the two diplomats comes at a time when the world is grappling with the coronavirus crisis. As per the World Health Organization, more than 800,000 people have been infected by Covid-19 across the world while nearly 40,000 have died. The United States is bearing the brunt of the rise in infection.The US death toll, which has now touched 3,400, is more than the nearly 3,000 people killed in the September 11, 2001 terror attacks. Close to 175,000 have been infected across the US.More than 575 people died in the US on Monday, the deadliest single day toll in the country’s battle against the outbreak, and President Donald Trump called for vigorous adherence to social-distancing guidelines over the next 30 days.The US, Italy, Spain, China and Germany are now the five most affected countries in terms of the number of confirmed cases.India has reported over 1,200 cases and 35 deaths. More than 100 people have recovered from the disease. On Wednesday, India entered the eighth day of the 21-day Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mike-pompeo-dials-jaishankar-says-our-close-cooperation-is-imperative-to-combat-coronavirus/story-Ij4HdTutNkcESLgHqqYoTL.html
01-04-2020||India||At least 216 likely violated visa regulations: Officials||At least 216 foreigners who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation this month in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, which has emerged as one of the biggest coronavirus (Covid-19) hot spots in India, violated visa norms by entering the country on tourist visas rather than the mandatory Missionaries visa, HT has learnt.The Jamaat is an Islamic missionary movement aimed at spreading the teachings of the Prophet and has a sizeable base in South Asia. Till Tuesday morning, at least 24 people who were part of the congregation tested positive for Covid-19 in Delhi alone and the area was locked down. At least 441 people from the location were taken to hospital with symptoms.The detection of the Covid-19 infection among the Tablighi Jamaat workers at Markaz (headquarters) Nizamuddin was an 11-day operation that began in Karimnagar in Telangana on March 18 and was completed in the wee hours of March 29 after intervention from the highest levels of the security establishment, officials familiar with the matter said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe officials, from the home ministry, Delhi government, and security agencies added that the Jamaat came on the radar when nine Indonesians tested Covid-19 positive at Karimnagar, Telangana. The nine were members of Tablighi Jamaat (or Tablighis), and the organisation’s HQ was asked, as early as on March 19 to provide details of all the foreign nationals who had come visiting since January 1, 2020. The number was no less than 2000. And some of them had ventured out preaching across the length and breadth of the country. On March 21, the home ministry alerted all state governments about the crisis and asked them to contact district co-ordinators of the Jamaat so that all those who left Markaz, foreigners and Indians, were reported and tested for the virus. It was after this that Covid-19 positive cases among preaching Tablighis turned up in Andaman, Tamil Nadu, and Jammu and Kashmir.Co-incidentally, it was the same day, ahead of the People’s Curfew called for by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 22, that Maulana Saad Tablighi, the Emir at Markaz issued a statement that was also uploaded on YouTube, saying that the Modi government’s recommendation of social distancing was a way of keeping one good Muslim away from the other. Repeated attempts to contact Maulana Shahzad, the coordinator at Markaz elicited no response.According to official data accessed by HT, the 216 foreigners who were staying in the Nizamuddin area came from countries such as Indonesia, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Singapore and Saudi Arabia, among other places.Indian security agencies on March 21 brought the presence of foreign nationals in the gathering at the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin headquarters, also referred to as Markaz, to the Delhi government’s notice.But a state official said the Delhi government was not informed about the scale of the congregation. “The Delhi Police [which reports to the Union home ministry] is the primary enforcing agencies of all the rules under the nationwide lockdown. The Nizamuddin police station shares a boundary with the Markaz. So what was stopping them from taking strict action?” this official, who did not want to be named, asked.On March 24, the SHO (Nizamuddin) served a notice to the Markaz to vacate the premises so that health checks could be carried out. The next day, Maulana Saad asked his followers to follow instructions of the government as workers were ill within the Masjid.According to home ministry officials, between March 26 and the evening of March 28, the Markaz only allowed the ill to be removed to the hospital; 32 people were taken to the Sanjay Gandhi hospital. The situation took a turn for the worse when one of the doctors of the Markaz also took ill. That was when the home ministry and agencies decided that the building had to be vacated. However, there was serious resistance mounted by the Markaz leadership on March 28 and at 2.00 am on March 29 National Security Advisor Ajit Doval was asked by Home Minister Amit Shah to break the deadlock. NSA Doval talked to the Markaz leadership and the latter yielded.While the Markaz has now been vacated with the inhabitants removed to either quarantine or hospitals, the Modi government has decided to black list all the foreigners who attended the missionary movement using tourist visas instead of mandatory missionary visa on the basis of registered FIR.In the past, the immigration department has black-listed a number of Tablighi Jamaat members for visa violations. Religious missionary visas are only given after much vetting, which perhaps explains why many of the people attending the Jamaat used tourist visas.In a statement, the Jamaat said that “visitors/guests/devotees/worshippers from across the globe throng the place for prescheduled programs lasting for not more than 3-5 days”.Although the Tablighi Jamaat has been under the scanner of security agencies around the world for suspected links with radical groups in South Asia and the larger Muslim Brotherhood, and also the involvement of its members in specific terror plots (such as the 2006 one to use liquid explosives on aircraft), nothing has ever been proved.“They operate in grey areas and their preachings can be used to radicalize youth in the name of Islam,” said a counterterror operative on condition of anonymity. The Tablighi Jamaat originated from the Mewati region on the Haryana-Rajasthan border and the organisation is currently headed by Maulana Saad. It has since spread across the world — as can be expected of a body whose name literally means “society for spreading the faith”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-216-likely-violated-visa-regulations-officials/story-2EbkOywhCPmHpIDFeMDhXP.html
01-04-2020||India||Timeline: How Nizamuddin event went on despite lockdown orders||Officials across the country began a frantic search for thousands of people who had been to the headquarters of a religious group in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area that has now emerged as the single-biggest source of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in the country, leading to at least eight deaths and 117 confirmed cases.The discovery of the hot spot at the six-storey building of the Tablighi Jamaat - called a markaz - triggered alarm in several circles of the government.Here’s a timeline of the event as reported by news agency ANI:March 13: Around 3,400 people came together to be part of the religious gathering at the Nizamuddin markazMarch 13: The congregation began even after an order by the Delhi government on the same day, which said that no religious, social, political gatherings of more than 200 people will be allowed in Delhi till March 31March 16: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal announced further tightening of measures, and a revised guideline that no gathering of more than 50 people will be allowed in view of coronavirus. However, people at the Markaz continue to stay thereMarch 20: 10 Indonesians who attended the gathering tested positive in TelanganaMarch 22: Janta curfew announcedMarch 23: 1500 people vacate the markazMarch 24: Nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra ModiMarch 25: Around 1,000 people remain at the markaz. Jamaat officials go to the SDM’s office to file an application for permission to transfer its workers.March 26: A preacher who attended the gathering tested positive and died in SrinagarMarch 26: SDM visits the markaz and called Jamaat officials for a meeting with the DMMarch 27: Six coronavirus suspects taken away from the markaz for a medical check-up and were later put in a quarantine facility in Haryana’s JhajjarMarch 28: SDM and the WHO team visit the markaz and 33 people who were taken for medical check-up were kept in the isolation ward at Rajiv Gandhi Cancer HospitalMarch 28: ACP (of Lajpat Nagar) sent a notice to the markaz to vacateMarch 29: In response to ACP’s letter, Markaz officials said no new people were allowed to gather post nationwide lockdown announcement. The current gathering had started much before lockdown and that the PM in his lockdown speech said “jo jahaan hai vahin rahe (stay put where ever you are)”From the night of March 29: Delhi Police and health authorities start taking out people from markaz and sending them to hospitals and quarantine facilitiesMarch 31: 1,548 people evacuated from Nizamudddin markaz till the evening||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timeline-how-nizamuddin-event-went-on-despite-lockdown-orders/story-LA0SmOwOxT05GpQNwVrm7J.html
01-04-2020||India||Delhi Police video shows cops urged Nizamuddin markaz members to vacate area||Delhi police released a video on Tuesday, showing a senior policeman persuading a group of Nizamuddin markaz members to ask visitors to return to their native places due to government orders on maintaining social distance to curb the spread of coronavirus.Police officials said the video was shot on March 23 at Hazrat Nizamuddin SHO’s office.The video shows the SHO urging and at times warning members of the markaz (centre) to immediately ensure not more than five people can gather as all religious places are closed.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here But there are still a large number of people in their buildings, he tells the members, warning them that if they don’t heed to repeated police requests he will be forced to take strict legal action.He also shows them what he says is a notice to vacate the area.Read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe video has been released after a few people, including AAP leaders Atishi and Amanatullah Khan, criticised the police for not taking action and getting the area vacated.Khan said he informed DCP (southeast) and ACP Nizamuddin on March 23 that about 1,000 people were stuck in the area, and asked why did the police not make any arrangement to move them out.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageIn the video, the SHO explains the group of markaz members about the need for social distancing and asks them to contact the SDM to facilitate the movement of people still residing in their buildings.One of the members interrupts the SHO during the meeting and tells him that they had removed 1,500 people but there are 1,000 more who are from cities like Lucknow, Bijnore, Varanasi.The members say the visitors are unable to vacate the buildings due to the lockdown.The officer tells them he will speak to SDM and warns them to comply with the order to vacate. Also read: Gravity of situation yet to dawn upon most Nizamuddin evacuees||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-delhi-police-video-shows-cops-urged-nizamuddin-markaz-members-to-vacate-area/story-zKNftKgzfJluFm85BZItwO.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Goa to use iron ore permanent fund to fight Covid-19 battle||The Goa government will dip into the Goa Iron Ore Permanent Fund, a specialised fund set up on the orders of the Supreme Court, in a bid to find the finances to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday. Sawant, who had earlier admitted that the government was facing a fund crunch, said the state finances are also under tremendous stress due to reduction and stoppage of business activity and had sought donations from private companies through their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds to help battle against the disease. “We will be using money from the Goa Iron Ore Permanent Fund for fighting Covid-19. We will use around Rs 120 crore, the fund is worth approximately Rs 400 crore,” Sawant said at his daily press briefing after discussing with stakeholders.Also read: Lockdown-hit Goa relaxes system to issue curfew passesThe Goa government is already using the district mineral funds that were set up as per the amended Mines and Minerals Development Act agreeing to spend Rs 52 crore lying with the two districts. The government, which was in a precarious financial position even before the Covid-19 crisis, has also set up a special bank account asking private companies to donate to help fight the disease. While not revealing the amount collected so far, the Goa chief minister has said that all MLAs have vowed to give one month’s salary to the account while industrial houses like Bandekar and Dempo have given money while Vedanta Group a large stakeholder in Goa’s mining industry has promised money but has not declared the amount.The Goa Iron Ore Permanent Fund was set up for sustainable development and inter-generational equity. It was set up on the directions of the Supreme Court while disposing of the Goa Foundation’s plea in 2014 that the lessees who benefit the most from mining must contribute 10% from their sale proceeds for sustainable mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-goa-to-use-iron-ore-permanent-fund-to-fight-covid-19-battle/story-FjjoMJ01ouXjjhzJoGBqRI.html
01-04-2020||India||Plea before Supreme Court to make Covid-19 testing free||A petition was filed before the Supreme Court on Tuesday praying testing facility for the coronavirus disease should be provided free of cost to all citizens at all private and government testing laboratories.At present, private laboratories are allowed to charge people to test for coronavirus though the same is capped at Rs 4500.“It is urgently required that the respondents have to provide free of cost testing for Covid-19 to all citizens,” the petition stated.The petitioner, advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, submitted that government hospitals are packed to capacity and it has become difficult for the common man to get himself tested in the government labs.With no alternative in sight, they are forced to pay money to get the tests done at private labs. Saddling ordinary citizens with such financial burden effectively deprives them of their accessibility to medical facilities and is violative of right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, the petitioner submitted.Sudhi also pointed out there are only 114 identified testing centres for testing Covid-19 in an entire country with a population of 1.3 billion people. Also read: At 32 per million, India lags far behind on testingDue to this, he claimed, adequate testing was not happening to make the situation dangerous with each passing day.He, therefore, prayed that testing facilities should be ramped up so as to ensure that adequate tests are done and all tests relating to Covid-19 must be conducted by pathological laboratories accredited with National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). “The impending danger of the Covid-19 is extremely serious given the deprived population of the country and testing is the only way to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic,” the petition said.“The private hospitals including laboratories have an important role to play in containing the scale of the pandemic by extending philanthropic services in the hour of national crisis,” it added.Government labs testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) seem to be already burdened by the sample load, with many hospitals saying that the lag in receiving test results has increased to three days.The 130 functional government laboratories across India have tested 42,788 samples so far, of which 4346 were tested on Monday alone. Of the 49 private labs approved for testing, 399 tests were conducted on Monday, and in total these chains have done about 14,00 tests since they were allowed to test, starting on March 21.All laboratories performing Covid-19 tests have a capacity of conducting 13,000 tests per day. The 49 private chains have around 16,000 collection centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-before-supreme-court-to-make-covid-19-testing-free/story-arFX9ZeOvSY1jru9kzC62H.html
01-04-2020||India||Podcast: Aarti Shahani on Her Indian-American Immigrant Story||If you listen to National Public Radio, chances are you’ve heard the journalist Aarti Shahani report on some of the biggest technology stories in the world. Microsoft. Google. Apple. Facebook. Aarti has covered them all.But there’s one story you may not have heard of--and that is Aarti’s own. In a new memoir, Here We Are: American Dreams, American Nightmares, Aarti documents her family’s harrowing journey--from Partition-era India to Casablanca, Morocco to Queens, New York. Aarti’s parents came to America with little money in their pockets and no legal documents to remain in the country. Battling poverty, discrimination, and wayward business partners, the Shahani family manages to make it. Until one day, nearly everything falls apart. Aarti’s father was arrested and accused of operating an electronics store that was a front for the Cali drug cartel. What followed was a jail sentence for Aarti’s father in New York’s notorious Riker’s Island prison and a years-long struggle to fight off deportation.This plot sounds like a made for Netflix special. But this is real life. This is Aarti’s story.This week on the show, Milan Vaishnav (Director of the South Asia programme at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) talks to Aarti about her new memoir, her immigrant story, the “unsung heroes of low-end globalization,” and what she learned about America’s broken immigration system along the way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/podcast-aarti-shahani-on-her-indian-american-immigrant-story/story-G32y1rmMCTVtdX7D152tIM.html
01-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||Edward Murphy, after whom the famous law was named, may well have scripted the tragedy (for it is definitely that) in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, where the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, hosted a meeting of indeterminate length at its headquarters, a six-storey building. The meeting was attended by around 2,000 people although there are reports that this is just the count of those who registered for the event, that there were many who didn’t, and that people came and left in batches.This was a wilful tragedy, brought about by foolishness, compounded by carelessness, and, at every stage, characterised by a clear disregard for the law.Also read: Now a disease hub, Jamaat defied series of anti-Covid curbsIt emerges that at least some of the people who attended the meeting from other countries travelled to India on a tourist visa – a clear violation of Indian laws which would have required them to enter the country on missionary visas. It is estimated that there were 216 foreign delegates who attended the meeting, although there are fears that the actual number could be much higher.The meeting itself appears to have violated several Delhi government orders – one on conferences of more than 200 people; another on any religious gathering; a third on a congregation of more than 20 people; and a fourth on a meeting of more than five people.Once it was clear that there was no way those who attended the conference could stay back, the Jamaat seems to have decided to put them up, although it says it did inform the local police about the presence of the people at the Markaz and sought help, late last week, for their return home. Some of these people have now tested positive for Covid-19. It gets worse – some of those who were ill appear to have taken fever-reducing medication to pass the screening process; fortunately, these cases have come to light after people were quarantined. But the damage has been done. Many of those who attended the conference have already dispersed to states and Union Territories across India, and also back home to their countries in the case of the foreign preachers, with some of them taking the infection back with them.The headquarters, Markaz Nizamuddin, where around 2,000 people were staying even as recently as the weekend, will likely end up being India’s own Diamond Princess, the cruise ship that saw 712 infections. All occupants have since been moved out and the building sealed. It is likely that more infections are traced back to the Jamaat’s meeting. Already 117 cases, including eight deaths, can be.On Tuesday, India ended the day with 1,614 cases of Covid-19 and 46 deaths. The number rose by 294 during the day, on the back of an increase of 181 on Monday and 126 on Sunday. It is clear that India’s numbers are on the rise – and clusters such as the one at Markaz Nizamuddin will only accelerate that process. That makes the task of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), officials of which are engaged in contact-tracing, that much more challenging – and that much more critical.Still, India’s infection numbers are way below those of many other countries. On Monday, new research suggested that children given the BCG vaccine (which prevents against tuberculosis, and which is given to every Indian child, and has been since 1949) at birth may develop immunity to Covid-19, although large-scale tests are required before this can be confirmed . With no avenue being left unexplored, it isn’t surprising that Australia, Netherlands, Germany and the UK have said they will begin just such large-scale human trials involving health workers who are most at risk from the infection.India will hope it can continue to keep its numbers low. On Wednesday, April 1, the 21-day lockdown enforced to flatten the curve of infections entered its second week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-WlhcIvnObprc00SElZ3oSN.html
01-04-2020||India||Indian, Chinese presidents to exchange letters to mark 70 years of ties on April 1||The Indian and Chinese presidents are expected to exchange letters of greetings to mark the beginning of celebrations of the 70th year of Sino-India ties on Wednesday. The 70 events planned by the two countries to mark the milestone year, however, are likely to impacted by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic that have killed more than 38,000 and sickened over 80,0000 globally.India was among the first non-Communist countries to recognise the People’s Republic of China (PRC) when it was formed under the rule of the Communist Party of China (CPC) in 1950 after years of a civil war. New Delhi and Beijing have finalised a long list of events to mark the year including dozens of exchange programmes and cultural, religious and trade promotion activities.The events planned both in China and in India are likely to postponed because of the pandemic.Both countries have implemented strict restrictions on international travel, which are unlikely to be resumed immediately, to contain the spread of the virus.The 70 events were finalised in line with the understanding reached by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping during their 2nd Informal Summit at Mamallapuram on October 11-12, last year.The Indian Embassy here said soon after that summit that the activities were aimed at demonstrating the historic connection between the two civilisations as well as their growing bilateral relationship over the years despite several differences.In 2018, Modi and Xi held the first informal summit in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, signalling a thaw in the chill that had set in bilateral ties following the military standoff between the border troops of the two countries near the Sikkim border.The two countries have continued to maintain close exchanges despite several old and new differences, the primary of which continues to be the disputed boundary question that has cast a shadow on bilateral ties for decades.Experts say its the lack of mutual trust between the two countries that have historically hampered the relationship between the two populous neighbours.The details of the letters to be exchanged between President Ram Nath Kovind and President Xi Jinping were not immediately available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-presidents-to-exchange-letters-to-mark-70-years-of-ties-on-april-1/story-qt4u3F34V2rjjuydKSX40J.html
01-04-2020||India||Hundreds from Telangana, AP attended event at Nizamuddin||Nearly 2,000 followers of the Tablighi Jamaat from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are estimated to have attended the March 15-17 congregation of the Islamic missionary movement in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has since emerged as a coronavirus (Covid-19) hotspot, raising deep concern among governments of the two states at a time when the pace of the disease’s spread has escalated.Also read: States rush to track down over 3K who attended Delhi eventTelangana officials said six people from the state, who attended the congregation, had died of Covid-19, and the government was trying to trace the people who they had been in contact with. Andhra Pradesh discovered 11 people who had been infected by the virus after attending the event; three contacts too tested positive.At least 25-30 people from each district of the two Telugu-speaking states attended the congregation, said a statement released by the Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday. Telangana has 33 districts and Andhra Pradesh 13 districts. The Andhra government has so far identified around 800 people who attended the Jamaat congregation. The Telangana government has identified 1,030 people who did so.“Officials are gathering information from the event organisers, police officials, the railway department as they travelled in trains, and from various other sources and tracking down everyone,” said the statement released by AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy ’s office on Tuesday evening.According to a bulletin issued by the Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday, as many as 17 new positive cases of Covid-19 had been detected in the state since Monday night. Out of these, as many as 14 were connected to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation: 11 of them had attended the event and three are relatives of attendees.Chief minister Reddy, expressing concern over the development, appealed to the people who attended the congregation and the people they came in contact with to voluntarily step forward for medical treatment. He ordered the health department and the police to coordinate and identify fellow travellers of the Jamaat, test them, and shift them to quarantine centres in case they exhibited any symptoms.In Telangana, health minister Etala Rajender asked all those who returned from the congregation to get themselves tested and remain under quarantine so that the disease doesn’t spread. Mohammad Irfan, a professor of electronics at the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Nuzvid, in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district, who attended the Nizamuddin event, said it was a peaceful congregation of Jamaat members to reaffirm their faith in Islam.He said no one exhibited any Covid-19 symptoms at the event. “We returned safely on March 18. Later, I was put in quarantine at Nellore government hospital along with a few others. So far, none of us has developed any symptoms for Covid-19 and we are safe. We are being taken care of by the doctors and government officials well. There is no need to create unnecessary panic about the Delhi meeting,” Irfan said on the phone from quarantine.Mohammad Akbar, who runs a business renting out tents for outdoor functions in Vijayawada, said he, too, had returned from the Delhi convention without any symptoms of Covid-19. “Maybe a small number of people might have tested positive for Coronavirus, but I can say 95% of those who returned from there are safe. As per the government instructions, I am maintaining home quarantine since my return,” Akbar said.According to the official statement, arrangements for the Tablighi Jamaat followers in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to participate in the congregation were supervised by Ikram Ali, leader of the organisation based in Hyderabad’s Mallepall, who took care of their accommodation and food.HT couldn’t reach Ikram Ali , whose phone was switched off.In Telangana, out of the 1,030 people who were identified as having attended the meeting, as many as 603 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits.“We conducted a joint operation in coordination with the health department since Monday night and started tracing the people who came in contact with those who attended the congregation,” said Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation commissioner Lokesh Kumar.Six people from Telangana who attended the congregation died in hospitals after they were infected by the Coovid-19 virus, a statement from the chief minister’s office on Monday night. On Tuesday, 15 more tested positive. Apart from Greater Hyderabad, the other districts that recorded a high number of travellers to Delhi included Nizamabad (80), Nalgonda (45),Warangal Urban (38) and Adilabad (30 ) .Telangana police said they were are on the lookout for those who came in contact with the six people who died of Covid-19, after returning from the Tablighi Jamaat event.Director-general of police, M Mahender Reddy, who held a teleconference with officials late on Monday, directed all district officials to immediately trace the contacts and put them under quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-from-telangana-ap-attended-event-at-nizamuddin/story-YFLGp8PPMqfPmcyxa2OI5I.html
01-04-2020||India||Study links climate crisis to low rainfall||Parts of India are facing a severe impact of the climate crisis with reduced rainfall and increase in dry, or no rain, and heavy rain days during the monsoon season, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) study on changes in monsoon patterns over 30 years has found.The monsoon, which generally begins in June and retreats by September, delivers around 70% of India’s annual rainfall. It is crucial for the cultivation of rice, wheat, sugarcane and oilseeds in the country where farming employs over half of its people. The monsoon is key to replenishing reservoirs, groundwater and addressing water shortages.The study found “significant decreasing trends” in the south-west monsoon from 1989 to 2018 in the Ganga basin states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, which are known to have among the most fertile lands in the country. Meghalaya, where Cherrapunji is known as one of the places with the highest precipitation globally, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh recorded a decreasing trend along with Himachal Pradesh. The study found a significant increase in heavy rainfall (6.5 cm or more) days in Gujarat’s Saurashtra and arid regions of Kutch and south-eastern Rajasthan, as well as northern Tamil Nadu, northern Andhra Pradesh, south-west Odisha, parts of Chhattisgarh, south-west Madhya Pradesh, parts of West Bengal, Manipur and Mizoram, Konkan, Goa and Uttarakhand.Goa has recorded the maximum monsoon rainfall over the past 30 years (2878.0 mm) followed by Meghalaya (2702.4 mm). Tamil Nadu reported the lowest (311.7 mm) followed by Rajasthan (414.2 mm). Pulak Guhathakurta, who heads the IMD’s hydrometeorology wing in Pune, said a Parliamentary standing committee had asked for a report on the impact of the climate crisis on monsoon in the recent decades. “The ministry of earth sciences presented this analysis to the Committee in February but it is being made public today [??],” said Guhathakurta, who has also conducted long-term studies on monsoon patterns with 100-year data. He said there is multi-decadal variability. “For example, 1940 to 1970 was a wet period for us and now we are in a dry period. But there is a clear imprint of climate change on monsoon which is something that farmers have been trying to deal with. The Ganga basin is recording a significant increase in dry days.” The IMD has put out individual detailed reports for states on variability in monsoon.In a press statement on Monday, IMD (Pune) said the monsoon rainfall shows high temporal and spatial variability. “Further, in view of ongoing climate changes, there have been significant changes in the mean rainfall pattern and their variability exclusively in terms of the intensity and frequencies of heavy rainfall events.” The IMD in January highlighted how monsoon onset dates had also changed in several parts of the country. “The onset and withdrawal dates for south-west monsoon recognised by the IMD were based on monsoon pattern between 1901 and 1940. But monsoon patterns including onset and withdrawal across the country have recorded significant changes in the recent decades and hence will be changed,’’ Union earth sciences ministry secretary M Rajeevan said in January.He said they will announce the new dates for monsoon onset to states sometime in April. All meteorological forecast and data are being shared with farmers.There was a bad start to the monsoon season last year with June being the driest in five years. “This monsoon will be bad. One challenge is when do farmers sow etc because of the unpredictable monsoon pattern but also because livestock is a major source of income for small and marginal farmers. Both fodder and water for livestock will be impacted if drought conditions extend. I fear there will be a deep crisis situation particularly for crops other than wheat and paddy for which there is no procurement policy. Markets are mostly closed owing to lockdown and outbreak. If you look at the past 10 years data, money earned by migrated labour comes into the village and used for agriculture. Now all those labourers have migrated back so there will be major stress on earning from the little agricultural plots in most parts of the country,” said GV Ramanjaneyulu, chief executive officer of Centre for Sustainable Agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-links-climate-crisis-to-low-rainfall/story-66vpO8oXoJdX1zc3DVOuMI.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Bihar man beaten to death for informing on Covid-19 suspects, say kin||A 24-year-old man was allegedly beaten to death on Monday for informing authorities about the return of two families from Maharashtra to their Bihar village, resulting in officials whisking them away for a Covid-19 test last week, and advising them to stay in quarantine, the victim’s family and the police said.Two persons have been arrested in the case.Babloo Kumar, the victim, also worked in Maharashtra’s Pune and returned to Madhaul village in Sitamarhi district two months back. His brother, Guddu, said Kumar tipped off government officials about the return of Munna Mahto and Sudhir Kumar.Also read: States rush to track down over 3,000 who attended Delhi’s Nizamuddin eventGuddu said a medical and police team took the families for tests and released them on March 25 with the advice of home quarantine. He said Kumar was assaulted on Monday. He was rushed a hospital in Muzaffarpur that declared him brought dead.Police registered a case of murder against Thaga Mahto, Sudhir Kumar, Vikash Mahto, Madan Mahto, Deepak Kumar and Munna Mahto on the basis of Gudu’s statement. Additional police director-general Jitendra Kumar said prima facie it appeared that Babloo was beaten to death over an old dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/killed-after-he-informed-on-covid-suspects-kin/story-4RdAHZkd0CcFKoTkeP9y8K.html
01-04-2020||India||Office sealed in Noida after 13 employees, kin test positive for coronavirus||The fire safety solutions firm ‘Ceasefire’ has been sealed by the district administration after 13 employees and 11 of their family members had tested positive for Covid-19 in Noida. The newly appointed district magistrate Suhas LY ordered the sealing and directed the mass sampling of people related to the firm.According to the health department, last week, the company was sanitised and locked but not sealed. On Tuesday afternoon, the company was sealed.On Monday, former DM BN Singh had to face the wrath of UP CM Yogi Adityanath for the trail of people who got infected through the employees of Ceasefire. Singh has been divested of his charge and attached to the Board of Revenue in Lucknow and a department inquiry initiated against him. An FIR has been filed against the company for hiding details of employees who had a travel history from the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/office-sealed-in-noida-after-13-employees-kin-test-positive-for-coronavirus/story-wjAeqmixg2g5O7mDo4zQcL.html
01-04-2020||India||Assam, Jharkhand report first corona positive cases||A Malaysian woman, part of a 22-member Muslim group, with 17 foreigners and five Indian guides that was picked from two Ranchi mosques in Jharkhand, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday. Meanwhile, a 52-year-old man tested positive in Assam’s Silchar. These are the first cases of Covid-19 in both states.Jharkhand health department’s principal secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “The state has registered its first positive case of Covid-19. The test report confirms coronavirus infection in one Malaysian woman, who was in the team of 22 people recovered from Ranchi mosques.”Meanwhile, Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma took to Twitter to break the news on Tuesday evening.“A 52-year-old person has been found positive for coronavirus and is Assam’s first Covid-19 patient. He is undergoing treatment at Silchar Medical College. His condition is stable,” Sarma tweeted. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-jharkhand-report-first-corona-positive-cases/story-eq4wlPI14TdaAGuu4lDGOM.html
01-04-2020||India||8 Indonesians who attended Nizamuddin event quarantined in UP’s Bijnor||As state governments began a massive exercise to identify thousands of people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin area that has emerged as a coronavirus epicentre in India, the Uttar Pradesh Police picked up eight Indonesians in Bijnor who had participated in the congregation, ANI reported. They were staying in a mosque. “The Indonesians have been home-quarantined. We have registered a case against five persons of the mosque,” ANI quoted Sanjay Singh, Superintendent of Police (Rural) as saying.Amid rising infections, at least 11 state governments and union territories put hundreds of people under quarantine and tested them for coronavirus. Earlier Tuesday, the government decided not to issue tourist visa to any foreigner who wishes to visit India and take part in Tablighi activities after it came to light that about 2,100 foreigners have come to India since January 1 and taken part in Tablighi activities in different parts of the country.Many of them have tested positive for coronavirus.A home ministry official said the ministry of external affairs (MEA) has been advised that missions may be requested to refrain from granting tourist visa to such foreigner who is likely to use it for Tablighi activities.About a thousand foreign nationals who are in the country to participate in Tablighi Jamaat activities could be barred from returning over violation of their visa conditions.A government official said on Tuesday that most of them had entered the country on tourist visas, but appeared to be involved in activities that require a missionary visa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-indonesians-who-attended-nizamuddin-event-quarantined-in-up-s-bijnor/story-AT0MjHLlxE0qJi0dOS8n9J.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: States rush to track down over 3,000 who attended Delhi’s Nizamuddin event||State governments across India scrambled on Tuesday to identify at least 3,200 people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi that has emerged to be the biggest Covid-19 hotspot in the country.At least 11 state governments and union territories put hundreds of people under quarantine and tested them for the dreaded infection. While results were awaited in many states, officials confirmed that congregation members had tested positive in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu, and the UT of Jammu & Kashmir.Delhi government officials identified 1,830 people from 19 states and Union territories who visited the congregation in Nizamuddin, which was held between March 15 and 17, but state governments said they suspected many more people, who were not registered with the sect, had visited the event. At least seven persons who attended the event – six in Telangana and one in Kashmir – have died of Covid-19.The state government has so far identified around 800 persons who attended the Jamaat congregation. “The officials are gathering information from the event organisers, police officials, railway department as they have travelled in the train, and from various other sources and tracking down everyone,” an official statement from Andhra Pradesh chief minister’s office said on Tuesday evening.Of the 17 fresh cases on Tuesday, 14 were related to the Jamaat meeting – 11 attended the meeting and three are their relatives.CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy appealed to the travellers from Nizamuddin and their relatives to voluntarily come and take treatment. Mohammad Irfan, a professor in electronics in Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Nuzvid in Krishna district, who attended the Nizamuddin conference, said, “There were no symptoms of anybody suffering from Covid-19 at the meeting. We returned safely on March 18. Later, I was put in quarantine along with a few others. So far, none of us has developed any symptoms,” Irfan said.The local administration isolated at least 20 villages after some people affiliated with the Jamaat told officials about their travel history. The officials said three villages in Hajin, one in Ganderbal, two in Shopian and seven in Pulwama, five in Srinagar, two in Budgam had been declared as red zones.Only eight persons at Hajin have tested positive and all of them have come in contact with the 65-year-old religious preacher, who died last week. The preacher had attended the gathering in Delhi on March 8 and 9 and left for Deoband in Uttar Pradesh on March 10. From there, he went to Samba district in Jammu on March 12. On March 16, he reached Srinagar.“The locality in Srinagar where the preacher lived was also sealed...Around 200 people are under administrative quarantine and more than 600 in home quarantine,’’ said a senior officer of Bandipore district.As many as 157 people from 20 different districts of UP participated in the Jamaat congregation, the state police have said, putting all district under alert. “We are not releasing the figures but most of people from UP who visited the religious gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin are still in Delhi. Only a few of them had returned to UP and they are being fully examined and their entire track record maintained,” additional chief secretary (ACS), home, Awanish Awasthi said. A senior police official said the presence of 157 participants of UP in the religious gathering was worrying as at least 24 people from the same gathering tested positive since Sunday and nearly 200 others started showing symptoms on Monday..In Uttarakhand, the government said 34 people attended the meeting and 15 were quarantined so far. At least 22 people, including 17 foreign nationals and five Indians, who were picked up from two mosques from Ranchi early on Monday attended the congregation, officials said. Ranchi SSP, Anish Gupta said, “All 22 were put in isolation centre under strict watch. Their medical examination is underway.”A number of state governments said they were still in the process of identifying attendees. A senior official of Bihar home department, who did not want to be named, said they have got the list of 86 persons who attended the Jamaat meet and administrations of all districts had been asked to get them tested and ensure home quarantine. The police have also issued instructions that all foreigner preachers in the state be tested.West Bengal home secretary, Alapan Bandopadhyay, said, “All those from Bengal who have participated in this event are being identified and will be immediately tested and put under mandatory 14-day quarantine.”“Some people from the state must have gone to Delhi. But identifying them will not be easy,” Haji Jameel Manzar, a Kolkata-based member of the Muslim Personal Law Board told HT. Police is seeking help of local offices of Jamaat to get details.Rajasthan DGP, law and order, ML Lather, said 17 people from the state attended the congregation and all of them are in isolation in Delhi “but still we are trying to identify if there were some more who attended the event”.Assam government said 356 persons from the state were present in and around the hotspot near Nizamuddin. Meghalaya chief minister’s office said 12 people from Meghalaya attended the Jamaat. All of them were in Delhi, the statement said. Seventeen persons from Himachal are in quarantine in Delhi. Eight persons from Kerala were in quarantine in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-rush-to-track-down-over-3k-who-attended-delhi-event/story-1JWYnICAnpCXi0CNqIACYJ.html
01-04-2020||India||2nd Delhi mohalla clinic doctor’s contacts being traced||A doctor couple from two mohalla (neighbourhood) clinics in Northeast Delhi are central to one of two coronavirus disease (Covid-19) clusters in the city. The 49-year-old husband who worked in a mohalla clinic in Maujpur was diagnosed on March 21 after being infected by a patient who returned from Saudi Arabia. His 48-year-old wife, who worked in a neighbouring clinic in Baburpur, and 17-year-old daughter tested positive for the disease on March 25 — presumably infected by him. So far, 10 people have been infected by P0, the index patient of the cluster, in this case, a 38-year-old Dilshad Garden resident who returned from Saudi Arabia. At least 3,800 people who came in contact with the index patient, the doctor, or his wife, including patients from the two mohalla clinics, are being tracked by the city’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme .“Both husband and wife are doctors and used to work in two clinics not very far from each other. We are monitoring all the people they came in touch with including those who visited their clinics,” said an official from Delhi’s health department. There are around 450 mohalla clinics across the city. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said last week that the mohalla clinics would continue to remain open after the doctors tested positive.“A mohalla clinic doctor, his wife and daughter have tested positive for Covid-19. This is a sad news but it has led to a lot of rumours that mohalla clinics will be closed. The mohalla clinics will continue to remain open because if we close them down then people will have to go farther, to bigger hospitals,” the CM had said.Delhi has reported 97 cases so far, of which 24 are from another cluster in Nizamuddin.The 38-year-old index patient returned from Saudi Arabia on March 10; she tested positive for the disease on March 18. Before that, she visited her 65-year-old mother and 35-year-old brother living in Jahangirpuri, who tested positive for Covid-19 on March 10. She also infected two other relatives – sisters aged 24 and 26 – living in Dilshad Garden. They tested positive on March 21.She also went to the evening clinic of the 49-year-old doctor (before she tested positive); the doctor tested positive of March 21. Later, another friend of the index patient – a 35-year-old man from Jahangirpuri – and his relative tested positive for Covid-19.The city’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme is tracking all people who came into contact with the doctor couple, as well as the 38-year old index patient . That includes almost 1,200 people who came in contact with the husband (including patients at the mohalla clinic, evening clinic, his family/friends etc.) and another 1,400 people who came in contact with the wife. Around 1,200 people who came in contact with the index patient are also being tracked. These people have all been quarantined at home and if they develop symptoms, they will be taken to a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-delhi-mohalla-clinic-doctor-s-contacts-being-traced/story-PcZukzXNblzBrvyy70Y3YL.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Now a disease hub, Jamaat defied series of anti-Covid curbs||Delhi Police on Tuesday registered a case against Maulana Saad, the head of the Tablighi Jamaat, and other officials of the group for defying a series of government orders that restricted gatherings in the city in a scaled manner between March 13 and March 21, before a full-fledged national lockdown was put in place on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).In the first information report (FIR), parts of which were reviewed by HT, the police have claimed that they have recovered an audio recording in which Maulana Saad was expressly heard asking people to “defy” the government’s lockdown and prohibitory orders. The charges include sections of the epidemic diseases act -- meant to punish a person not following directions meant to stop an epidemic -- and those relating to criminal conspiracy.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe police have also mentioned that on March 23, they apprised the officials of Tablighi Jamaat about the need to maintain social distancing in the building, which was not followed. News agency ANI late on Tuesday released a purported video recording of the conversation at the Nizamuddin police station. HT could not independently verify the video.The Jamaat, which issued a statement defending its actions earlier on Tuesday, said its centre -- known as a markaz -- is routinely occupied by followers who come from pre-scheduled events, and that hundreds of them were stranded as the government gradually tightened its curbs on people’s movement to stop Covid-19 from spreading.Over the past three days, close to 2,000 people have been evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat’s markaz building in Nizamuddin and 24 of them tested positive in New Delhi alone till Monday night, according to the health bulletin released by the government. At least 117 more who visited the complex have tested positive for Covid-19 across the country and close to 3,000 others are feared to have been exposed to the virus.According to health department officials, some of the people in the building may have tried to hide their symptoms such as fever by taking medication prior to being evacuated over the last two days. According to a home ministry official asking not to be named, around 164 -- including 146 foreign nationals -- left the facility and are spread in other parts of the national capital. On March 13, the day the Delhi government banned gathering of more than 200 people in the city as one of the key measures to prevent the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covis-19, the Tablighi Jamaat -- a Muslim missionary group -- hosted a congregation of over 1,800 people in its premises, according to multiple people aware of the matter.Those in attendance included preachers from across the country and several foreign nationals . The six-storey markaz building has residential rooms for guests, and can accommodate about 2,000 people. Even as some of the preachers left after March 13, other groups continued to pour in at the headquarters to participate in the programmes organised inside the building. The congregations continued till the evening of March 23, despite the Delhi government banning any form of religious events on March 16, further restricting gatherings to 50 peole or below, and then 20 people of below (March 19), and the police issuing prohibitory orders under Section 144 across the city on March 22. The Tablighi Jamaat, in a press statement issued on Tuesday, said that the people who were inside the headquarters were trapped because of the March 25 lockdown.A senior government officer, however, dismissed this contention, saying the matter should have never reached that stage. “By the first week of March, the coronavirus scare had already hit Delhi. Schools were ordered to close on March 6. For the first time, the Holi celebration was also cancelled by the state government. Even at the Resident Welfare Association (RWA) level, they had announced that Holi would not be celebrated. Advisories were issued by different departments. In that scenario, if the government issued order on March 13, the organisers of the mosque should have compiled. The impact of the damage would have been less,” said the official who asked not to be named.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the organisers were “highly irresponsible” and “extremely wrong” in defying the orders. He also said that lapses, if any, found on the part of any Delhi government officer would be acted upon. “If we find that any officer has failed to deliver his/her duty properly or there has been any kind of negligence, strict action will be taken.” After the evacuation of over 200 foreigners from the building, police have found that several of them violated visa norms by coming to India on a tourist visa rather than the mandatory Missionaries visa.Though the Markaz building is a venue for such congregations throughout the year, the largest influx of people from abroad and other states was on March 10 and 15, according to people aware of the developments. A police officer who is probing the case said: “The government order was widely reported by the media but the organisers paid no heed. At that time, there was no lockdown. All airports, bus stations and the train services were open and yet they continued to gather inside the mosque. The organisers should have asked their guests to vacate the headquarters and return to their home towns. It was their responsibility.” He asked not to be named.Police also said that on March 22, a day after the completion of the one-day “janta curfew” imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, section 144 was imposed across the city, and the Jamaat officials were asked to shut the centre. Under section 144, gatherings of no more than four people are allowed.“Section 144 was imposed across the city at 9pm on March 22. The following day, the local police also sent them a letter to shut the headquarters but they did not act. While some 1,500 persons left the mosque on the morning of March 23, another group of around 1,500 preachers came to the mosque in the evening. They should not have allowed the group inside,” another senior officer said. The Tablighi Jamaat’s statement said that the Delhi government sealed the city’s borders starting 6am on March 23, ”diminishing any chances of these visitors availing road transport for their journey back home”. The statement added: “Despite this challenging situation, with the help of Markaz administration, around fifteen hundred visitors left Markaz Nizamuddin by availing whatever meagre transport was available. On the evening of 23rd March, a further nationwide lockdown was announced by the Prime Minister with clear message for people to stay-put wherever they are. Under such compelling circumstances there was no option for Markaz Nizamuddin but to accommodate the stranded visitors with prescribed medical precautions.”The Jamaat’s spokesperson also shared a copy of the letter they wrote to Delhi Police on March 24 in response to the police’s directions to close the mosque. In the letter, they said they were trying to evacuate the people from the mosque but were yet to get curfew passes from the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM). The letter by spokesperson Maulana Yousuf mentions that while police advised them to get pass from the SDM, they were yet to get the curfew passes. In response, a second senior Delhi government officer, who did not wish to be named, said that the requests were sent too late. “They should have followed the orders in the days leading to the lockdown. The local administration was not clear about whether e-passes to the Markaz administration should be issued or not. The request for car passes for 17 vehicles came after the nationwide lockdown was imposed. It was kept in abeyance because there was confusion on whether issuance of the e-passes to them would have violated the lockdown norms as movement of every body, except those engaged in essential services, is banned during this period. The directions of the PM were clear, people had to stay where they are. Also, their request does not under essential services.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-a-disease-hub-jamaat-defied-series-of-anti-covid-curbs/story-GbqN4E7Bz7whMXb9NSjumM.html
01-04-2020||India||ICMR plays down signs of community transmission||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has come under scrutiny over the past few days for its continued insistence that there is no community transmission of Covid-19 in India, and delays in approving testing kits, parameters for which have been set at absurdly high levels, according to many experts.The National Institute of Virology (NIV) was also taking far too long to evaluate the kits — delaying the entire testing process, which was only last week opened to private laboratories. ICMR eventually opened up six more testing sites to start clearing the backlog.On Tuesday, a day when the number of cases in India rose by 146 (and number of deaths by 3), Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head, division of epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR, defended the organisation’s stand on both. He maintained that there is no community transmission and that at the stage of the disease India is, it cannot afford to compromise on the parameters of the testing kits.Gangakhedkar explained that a recent Union health ministry document on transporting of positive patients mentioning “limited community transmission” was actually referring to localised transmissions that have erupted in certain pockets of the country that are still manageable.“We are nowhere close to being in community transmission. If there was community transmission then I wouldn’t be recommending healthy people to not wear a mask. There is an increase in number but it is not an alarming increase. Look at other countries that are reporting cases in thousands, that’s what community transmission is,” he said.ICMR has already expedited the process of evaluating test kits, Gangakhedkar said in an interview. Explaining the very exacting 100/100 (sensitivity/specificity) parameter for validating all new testing kits, he said: “This is because we don’t want to compromise on quality. At the initial stage of transmission, only foolproof testing is needed so as to pick up maximum true positive cases. We need highly sensitive and specific results; we don’t need any false negatives or false positives at this stage in the outbreak.”Sensitivity or true positive rate is a measure of the proportion of infected people correctly identified. Specificity or true negative rate is a measure of the proportion of uninfected people identified as uninfected. ICMR has said that only kits with 100% in both will be approved.“Even false positives and false negatives samples are used to check the kit’s ability whether it is able to pick up the results accurately or not,” said Gangakhedkar.However, ICMR has also said kits approved by the US FDA and European CE will be allowed — some of which do not follow the 100/100 parameter ICMR has set for new kits.“Even in these, we have recommended the best available ones to open up more options in case we need to scale up,” Gangakhedkar explained.It usually takes a couple of days for serological test (blood test) kits to be evaluated and kits based on polymerase chain reaction test evaluation may take four to five days, he said, adding that “since National Institute of Virology was overburdened there was some lag period in evaluating the kits, which is why we opened up other six sites to validate kits testing that has helped speed up the process.”Gangakhedkar said it was difficult to put a number to the infections at which it could be said that India was in the community transmission stage. “Before community transmission, there has to be focal transmission. Even with focal transmission, that we are seeing in India at the moment, if you are able to get to the source of transmission, and manage the cases.... There is no particular number or percentage as such after which you can say community transmission has occurred.”India’s approach of not testing more widely has come in for criticism, but even those countries that test widely started doing so only after there was community transmission, Gangakhedkar added. At that stage, he said, the strategy would be “aggressive containment measures, ... mapping of clusters, door-to-door surveys, and aggressive testing.”“Right now, we are testing about 4,000 to 5,000 people a day across the country. This is a very small number. My feeling is that Delhi alone should test about 3,000 people a day — this would include the contacts of those positive but also all the health care workers, ambulance drivers, anyone who comes in contact every few days. Now that we have the kits, we should be more liberal with testing. I think, by nature’s design, community transmission must have started – I would be very surprised if it hasn’t – the number of cases are likely to surge by next week,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, who heads the Delhi expert committee on Covid-19 management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-plays-down-signs-of-community-transmission/story-sSqwyC8PSOSgMBRDockWbM.html
01-04-2020||India||States scramble as pilgrims transgress||Officials across the country began a frantic search for thousands of people who had been to the headquarters of a religious group in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area that has now emerged as the single-biggest source of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in the country, leading to at least eight deaths and 117 confirmed cases. The discovery of the hot spot at the six-storey building of the Tablighi Jamaat – called a markaz – triggered alarm in several circles of the government: the Delhi Police filed an FIR against functionaries of the centre for flouting social distancing rules, roughly a dozen states sounded an alert, and the Union government began the process to blacklist 275 foreign nationals belonging to the sect who purportedly flouted visa rules by claiming to be tourists.“So far about 2,137 people (who were at the centre) have been identified in different states. They are being medically examined and quarantined,” a senior official of the Union home ministry said on Tuesday, asking not to be named. The people quarantined and being searched for in the states are in addition to roughly 2,000 who were evacuated from the building since Sunday night and may have been exposed to the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen in the facility, where residents routinely dined and attended religious functions together.According to a health official in the Delhi administration, who asked not to be named, at least 400 among those who have been evacuated from the building since Sunday have been taken to hospitals with symptoms of the disease. They are being tested, this official said, adding that they are preparing for at least half of these symptomatic cases to be positive for the virus.Delhi health minister Satyender Jain said the gathering at the markaz flouted Delhi government’s orders. “The organisers have committed a grave crime. I have written a letter to LG (Lieutenant Governor) Anil Baijal to take strictest action against the organisers. We have given directions to the police to lodge an FIR as well,” Jain said, a day after the Delhi government ordered the filing of the first information report (FIR). The functionaries of the Tablighi Jamaat denied allegations of wrongdoing and said that their members routinely arrive for events that last 3-5 days, and that the people who were left behind in the facility were stranded by the lockdown announced last week. The largest cluster of cases that is linked to the mosque complex appears to be in the southern states of Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. In Tamil Nadu, 50 of the 57 new Covid-19 cases confirmed on Tuesday had visited the complex earlier this month. At least 500 others were at the building and are being sought out.Andhra and Telangana together suspect nearly 2,000 may have visited the congregation in Delhi.Delhi banned on March 13 any seminar or conference having more than 200 people. Three days later, it prohibited any form of religious, academic, political, social, cultural, personal gathering involving over 50 people, and then gradually tightened the curbs in subsequent orders.Government officials said the attendees flouted all these orders, and also those issued on March 19 (prohibiting the gathering of not more than 20 people) and March 21 (prohibiting the gathering of four or more people). Then on March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown in an unprecedented move that banned gatherings, and halted commercial rail and flight services.As the lockdown began, the police asked the organisers to close the markaz, according to government officials and a purported video recording of the conversation from March 23, released by news agency ANI. But they told police that they have asked the administration for approval to transport the visitors though they did not get it.Markaz Nizamuddin said it did not violate any provision of the law and offered its premises for setting up a quarantine facility. It also said it will cooperate with the authorities. HT contacted Mohammed Shoaib, spokesperson of the markaz, who did not respond to calls and text message seeking response on allegations that the organisation’s members had violated visa rules.The infections at Tablighi Jamaat came to light around March 25 when contact-tracing efforts in Telangana connected the markaz to the infections of 10 Indonesians who developed the disease and were hospitalised in Hyderabad. Six of those Indonesians have since succumbed to the disease.According to the Union home ministry official cited in the first instance, MHA wrote a letter to all states on March 28, asking them to trace all members of the organisation. The letter also refers to reports of foreign members who were visiting Tamil Naidu and Telangana testing positive, and flags the case of Indians who had travelled to a congregation in Malaysia last month. In Malaysia, the congregation was linked to 500 of the country’s 673 cases found till mid-March. The home ministry official said the arrivals of foreign nationals associated with the sect had begun on January 1, and about 2,100 of them visited India. Of these, around 216 were staying at the Nizamuddin-based TJ headquarters and 824 are believed to have dispersed to various parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-scramble-as-pilgrims-transgress/story-EMTdCz2be2TeSQDXmySAPN.html
01-04-2020||India||Govt cuts interest rate on PPF, NSC, Kisan Vikas Patra and Sukanya Samriddhi Accounts from April 1: All you need to know||The central government on Tuesday slashed interest rates on small savings schemes such as Senior Citizen Savings, Public Provident Fund (PPF), National Savings Certificate (NSC), Kisan Vikas Patra, Sukanya Samriddhi Accounts and Recurring Deposits in the range of 0.7% to 1.4% for the first quarter of 2020-21.The government has reduced interest rate on Senior Citizen Savings scheme from 8.6% to 7.4%, which will be effective from April 1, 2020 till the end of the first quarter on June 30, a finance ministry notification said.The interest rate of PPF has been reduced from 7.9% in the last quarter of previous financial year to 7.1% from for three months, it said. However, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), which is governed by a board of trustees, had on March 6, declared 8.5% interest rate for financial year 2019-20.Interest rates for small savings schemes are notified on a quarterly basis.The new interest rate for the girl child saving scheme Sukanya Samriddhi Account scheme in the first quarter of current financial year will now be 7.6% from 8.4% earlier.Interest rates on NSC have been reduced from 7.9% to 6.8% and Kisan Vikas Patra from 7.6% to 6.9%, the order said. “This has the approval of finance minister,” the notification said.After the reduction in interest rates, term deposits of 1-3 years will now fetch an interest rate of 5.5% from 6.9% applicable in the previous quarter, a reduction of 1.4%, the notification said.While the five-year term deposit will earn 6.7% from the current rate of 7.7%, the interest rate on five-year recurring deposit has been reduced sharply by 1.4%. The five-year recurring deposit will now fetch 5.8% interest instead of 7.2% in the previous quarter, it said.The interest rate on savings deposit has, however, been kept unchanged at 4%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-cuts-interest-rate-on-small-savings-schemes-for-q1-of-new-fiscal/story-WmeDldrZWgGbBpChmkxlPJ.html
01-04-2020||India||FRRO, immigration bureau probe irregularities||Organisations under the Union home ministry like the Bureau of Immigration and Foreigners Regional Registration Offices (FRROs) have a greater responsibility to monitor activities of foreign members of groups such as Tablighi Jamaat, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday.However, there is little that can be done by authorities if foreign nationals, including those who are part of a group, misrepresent the purpose of their visit to India, as was apparently done by Tablighi Jamaat members who came to India on tourist visas, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.“If members of even a large group apply individually for tourist visas and do not mention that the purpose of their visit is to join a congregation organised by a private entity, there is no possibility that anything can be done,” said a person who declined to be named.“Only if the persons are invited to events organised by Indian government entities or events that require clearance from the home ministry would Indian missions be brought into the loop. Then if the invitee applies for a tourist visa, he would be asked by the concerned mission to apply for a conference visa,” the person added.The people said the Bureau of Immigration and the FRROs have a greater role to play in scrutinising and monitoring the activities of groups such as the Tablighi Jamaat.They noted that members of the group that came for the congregation at Nizamuddin area of New Delhi should have applied for conference or missionary visas.Conference visas are granted to foreigners whose sole purpose for visiting India is to attend an international conference or seminar, and such events require prior clearance from the home ministry only if participants are from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and Sudan. If a conference is being organised by a private organiser, the entity should forward complete details of the participants to the foreigners division of the home ministry 60 days before the event.Missionary visas are granted to foreigners whose sole purpose for visiting India is “missionary work not involving proselytization”, according to the home ministry’s rules. While there is a list of foreign missionary organisations recognised by the Indian government for such visas, there is apparently no similar list for Indian organisations.While the Bureau of Immigration has shared lists of those who came to India from abroad with state governments, there is no specific information on the Tablighi Jamaat members as they didn’t travel with conference or missionary visas. Following the New Delhi gathering, Covid-19 infections have been recorded among participants from Kashmir to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.Weeks before the gathering in New Delhi, some 16,000 members of the Tablighi Jamaat had gathered for a four-day meet at a mosque outside Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia from February 21 to March 1. The gathering was joined by about 1,500 foreigners from a dozen countries.“Three weeks later, participants…had spread the coronavirus to half a dozen nations, creating the largest known viral vector in Southeast Asia,” The New York Times reported.More than 620 cases in Malaysia, most of the 73 cases in Brunei and 10 cases in Thailand were linked to that gathering, according to media reports. At least three coronavirus deaths have been linked to the event.Leading Malaysian jurist and scholar Mohammad Asri Zainul Abidin has questioned the apparent lackadaisical attitude among Jamaat members toward coming forward to be tested for the coronavirus.“The reason Allah sends his religion is for the well-being of the human being. The religion does not teach its followers to self-destruct,” he told Malaysia’s BenarNews.“There is [nothing] in the religion’s teachings that teaches about harming ourselves. [But] some members seemed to have failed in understanding this.”The Tablighi Jamaat had planned to hold another gathering at the island of Sulawesi in Indonesia during March 19-22 but this was cancelled at the last minute after a public outcry over Covid-19. More than 8,000 people who had already arrived for the event were put into quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frro-immigration-bureau-probe-irregularities/story-Hc3ip4fSXgvNz2KTwnrGSJ.html
01-04-2020||India||Navy’s ventilator to help 6 at a time||As the country prepares to handle a rising number of cases and meet its need for ventilators, which about 5% of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients may require, the Indian navy has pitched in with an innovative ventilator design that can cater to six patients simultaneously.Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, has manufactured this portable multi-feed oxygen manifold ventilator, the Navy said in a statement. “To cater to the requirement of oxygen supply for multiple patients during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, personnel from Naval Dockyard Visakhapatnam have designed an innovative ‘Portable Multi-feed Oxygen Manifold(MOM)’ using a 6-way radial header fitted to a single cylinder. This innovation will enable one Oxygen Bottle to supply six patients concurrently thus enabling critical care management to a larger number of COVID patients with the existing limited resources,” the statement said. A typical oxygen providing facility at hospitals comprises an oxygen cylinder feeding only one patient through a Ventimask arrangement. “A need was therefore felt to design a suitable portable arrangement that could provide oxygen through masks to a number of needy patients using a single-cylinder during emergencies which is the need of the hour,” the statement added. The preliminary trials of the entire assembly were conducted at the naval dockyard, Visakhapatnam, followed by rapid trials at the Naval Hospital, INHS Kalyani, in which the portable MOM was successfully set up within 30 minutes.After successful trials, Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, has started manufacturing 10 portable MOM with two 6-way radial headers, which can cater to 120 patients at makeshift locations, especially during the current Covid-19 pandemic.With close to 1200 cases having tested positive for Covid-19, India is ramping up its disease management capacity, and has already placed an order of 40,000 ventilators.A domestic manufacturer, Agva Healthcare in Noida, has been able to develop suitable ventilators and an order of 10,000 ventilators has been placed with the company. Supplies are expected to start by April 2. In addition, an order for 30,000 ventilators has been placed on Bharat Electronics Limited, which is going to collaborate with domestic manufacturers. Indian auto manufacturers are also preparing to manufacture ventilators.Separate orders are also being placed by states to procure more ventilators in case numbers surge.“…the government is taking all necessary measures to ensure there is no shortfall of necessary equipment,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-s-ventilator-to-help-6-at-a-time/story-zShfvHPGOlK2jb3kfW0GcN.html
01-04-2020||India||Supreme Court concerned over ‘fake news’ on Covid-19||Media should maintain a strong sense of responsibility, while disseminating news on coronavirus and should ensure that unverified and fake news is not published, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday after the central government drew the court’s attention to the possibility of people panicking due to “fake” and “inaccurate reporting” of news connected with Covid-19.Media should refer to and publish the official version about developments regarding coronavirus threat, the court said, while maintaining that it does not intend to interfere with the “free discussion” about the pandemic.“We expect the media (print, electronic or social) to maintain a strong sense of responsibility and ensure that unverified news capable of causing panic is not disseminated. We do not intend to interfere with the free discussion about the pandemic, but direct the media refer to and publish the official version about the developments”, the order passed by the court read.The apex court was hearing two petitions, one by advocates Rashmi Bansal and Anuj Gupta and another by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, that brought the issue of plight of migrant labourers to the notice of the court.The court , on Monday, asked the centre to submit a status report regarding the same. The government, pursuant to the court’s order, filed a detailed affidavit on Tuesday explaining the steps taken by it to combat the Covid-19 threat.In the affidavit by Home Secretary, Ajay Kumar Bhalla, the centre had also prayed that directions should be issued by the court to the print, electronic and social media to not publish anything without first ascertaining the factual position by way of a mechanism provided by the central government.“Any deliberate or unintended fake or inaccurate reporting either in electronic, print, or social media and particularly web portals has a serious and inevitable potential of causing panic amongst large sections of the society”, the affidavit stated.The bench of Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde and justice L Nageswara Rao underscored the need to prevent spread of incorrect information through social media platforms. It also noted that the migration of large number of labourers working in the cities was triggered by panic created by fake news that the lockdown would continue for more than three months. “Such panic driven migration has caused untold suffering to those who believed and acted on such news. It is therefore not possible for us to overlook this menace of fake news either by electronic, print or social media”, the court said in its order.In a bid to combat spread of fake news, the court directed the central government to publish a daily bulletin through all media avenues including social media platforms.“Centre’s prayer (to restrain media) is absolutely absurd. Controlling fake news is one thing while having pre-censorship is another thing. They are effectively saying that whatever the government says is the only version This prayer by centre is virtually a plea for pre-censorship of media and is unknown to any democracy”, said Mahesh Menon who teaches law at Daksha Fellowship.The Centre in its affidavit said that while action can be taken by authorities against those crating panic under the Disaster Management Act, a direction from the court will go a long way in mitigating any potential damage resulting from a false alarm. “Of course, a framework is currently in place under the Disaster Management Act but it is not in negation of Constitutional or fundamental rights. Article 19 (1)(a) which guarantees freedom of speech and expression is still very much in place. Part of the reason why things got out of control in China was there was no free media there and the state officially tried to suppress the information and facts”, Menon added.The court’s order does specifically mention that it will not interfere in “free discussion of the pandemic” but it also asks that the media “refer” to and “publish” the “official version about the developments.” It wasn’t immediately clear what this would entail. For instance, almost all state governments put out official bulletins with the number of confirmed cases and deaths , but the dashboard of the ministry of health and family welfare updates this with a significant lag. The Centre also informed the court that large-scale exodus of migrants, mostly daily wage labourers, was under control and that most of them have been taken to government shelters. According to the status report submitted by the centre, 666,291 persons have been provided shelters and 2,288,279 persons have been provided food.“I have instructions to state that no one is now on the road. Anyone who was outside has been taken to the available shelters,” solicitor general Tushar Mehta, the Centre’s second senior-most law officer, told the courtThe court recorded the submissions of the centre and expressed hope that all authorities will comply with the directives, advisories and orders issued by the union government.The hearing on Tuesday also included steps to be taken to avoid panic among residents of shelter homes. The central government suggested roping in the services of trained counsellors, and religious and community leaders, to counsel those lodged in shelter homes, a suggestion which the court accepted.The countrywide lockdown, which began on March 25, led to an exodus of labourers from large cities to their homes in distant towns and villages of other states. The situation was particularly dire in Delhi over the weekend, when tens of thousands crowded the Anand Vihar bus terminal in East Delhi to travel parts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Many of them violated the lockdown and set out on foot along with their families.In its affidavit, the government said that there is an institutional response monitored at the highest political and executive level, led by the Prime Minister.“Indian government gave an institutional response to the management of Covid-19 most scientifically and methodically. The situation was monitored at the highest political and executive level by the Hon’ble Prime Minister”, the affidavit said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-concerned-over-fake-news-on-covid-19/story-6q1uVSTcXwmwJmLNHummGL.html
01-04-2020||India||UP officials race to identify 157 at Jamaat gathering||Uttar Pradesh put all districts on high alert and launched a drive to identify 157 people confirmed to have attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi earlier this month.“We are not releasing the figures but most of people from UP who visited the religious gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin are still in Delhi. Only few of them had returned to UP and they are being examined and their entire track record is being maintained,” additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, said over phone.A senior state police official said on condition of anonymity that the list of 157 people had at least 28 people from Muzaffarnagar, 18 from Lucknow, 15 from Barabanki, 12 from Bijnor and 11 from Prayagraj. Also, the list contained eight people each from Varanasi and Meerut, seven from Saharanpur and six each from Ghaziabad and Sitapur, four from Baghpat, three each from Agra, Shamli and Pratapgarh, two each from Mathura, Hapur and Gonda and one each from Bahraich, Bhadohi and Balrampur.The officer said the district police chiefs were directed to immediately get medical examination of these people done and admit the Covid-19 infected to isolated wards. He said efforts were on to trace people who had come in contact with these 157 people. Abrar Ahmad, a Lucknow resident who attended the Delhi event, said, “I was contacted by the Delhi officials on Monday. They asked my address besides inquiring about my health and if I had any flu-like symptoms.”Later in the day, state minister Mohsin Raza urged clerics and preachers who had participated in the Jamaat to identify themselves and inform the district administration about their identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-officials-race-to-identify-157-at-jamaat-gathering/story-8ticpwXXKJUS1zN1puRfQM.html
01-04-2020||India||50 Jamaat congregation attendees test positive in TN, 515 put under quarantine||Of the 57 new people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, 50 had travelled to New Delhi and attended the religious conference organised by the Tablighi Jamaat in mid-March in the densely populated area of Nizammuddin, which has emerged over the last two days as a coronavirus disease hub that has left several states scrambling to find potential patients and spreaders.All of the 50 attendees — 22 from Tirunelveli, 18 from Namakkal, four from Kanyakumari, three from Villupuram, two from Madurai and one from Thoothukudi — have been placed under isolation at government medical college hospitals in their respective districts. They are all reportedly stable.“There were 1,500 persons from Tamil Nadu who attended a conference [the Tablighi Jamaat held] in Delhi recently. Out of them, 1,130 returned to Tamil Nadu. The rest of them stayed behind in New Delhi. Of the 1,130 that returned to the state, we have identified 515 across several districts... Out of these only, we have had a number of positive cases today,” Beela Rajesh, the state health secretary said at a press conference on Tuesday. All the 515 people were put under quarantine. “I would like to make a sincere appeal to each and every member who attended the same conference in Delhi, in your own interest and in the interest of your family and community, to please come forward and declare yourself so that we can help you, we can cure you and we can ensure that your family members don’t suffer and the entire community and state doesn’t suffer,” she added.State authorities were first alerted to the possibility of a larger spread emanating from New Delhi’s Nizamuddin area after a 54-year-old man, referred to as Patient 12, died in Madurai on March 25. He is reported to have come in contact with preachers who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat. Three of his family members also tested positive for the virus. HT could not independently verify this information.In Erode, which has emerged as one of the biggest clusters in the state, a group of preachers who attended the Jamaat reportedly reached the city on March 11. Ten of them later tested positive for Covid-19. The data with the TN state control office indicates that on March 30, Erode had 24 cases — the highest in the state — with 889 people under home quarantine for a 28-day period.The spread of the virus within Tamil Nadu was also likely triggered by Patient 5 and Patient 6 – both Thai nationals — who are admitted to the IRT Perundurai Medical College in Erode after testing positive for Covid-19. With Tuesday’s new cases, the number of Covid-19 affected persons in the state now stands at 124. At least 60 of the confirmed cases had attended the conference.According to the government officials, many of the attendees who have been traced are spread over several districts, including Chennai, Erode, Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Pudukottai, Erode and Nagapattinam, among others. Contact tracing of primary contacts of these attendees, and those still in Delhi, is underway. Of the remaining cases confirmed on Tuesday — those who did not attend the conference — one was a 43-year-old man who had travelled to Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, another was a 28-year-old man from Thiruvannamalai who is a co-worker of another patient who tested positive. There were also four persons from Chennai who did not have any travel history.“All the patients are stable and in hospital isolation,” a statement released by the state earlier on Tuesday said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-jamaat-congregation-attendees-test-positive-in-tn-515-put-under-quarantine/story-DgUlafDPuGrIouuHjCSReL.html
01-04-2020||India||Islamic missionary at centre of India’s Covid-19 outbreak||By early March, coronavirus disease (Covid-19 )cases were surging across the world. In India, where their number had just begun to rise, there was an air of caution though a lockdown was still several days away. Ignoring the pandemic, an estimated 2,500 Sunni Muslim men belonging to several nationalities, each identically dressed in a white gown and skullcap, checked into a five-storey establishment called Markaz in Delhi’s Nizammudin area, part of a yearly routine. Markaz is a clearing house for these committed teams of Islamic missionaries, known as the Tablighi Jamaat. Individual missions are small, consisting of four or five men, each booked on flights and trains to various states and countries. The building isn’t a mosque. It’s a facility with bare dormitories. “It’s actually a transit point, where logistics are planned,” said Navaid Hamid, president of the All-India Muslim Majlis-e-Mushwarat, a social organisation of the community.The authorities now fear the Markaz waypoint has become a coronavirus transmission hub, with 24 preachers testing positive in Delhi alone between Sunday and Monday.The Markaz facility is also known as the global headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat, a preaching movement founded in 1927 by Maulana Mohd Ilyas in Haryana’s Mewat. Tablighi Jamaat (Arabic for “group that propagates faith”) is one of the most widespread missionary movements in Islam globally but seeks to be low-profile. It is not a sect in itself. Members often describe the Tablighi Jamaat to be non-political, committed to nothing more than goading Muslims into following Islamic precepts. Participation is purely voluntary, and most members belong to professional occupations. “Our groups aren’t large. We can’t afford it. It’s at best three or four,” said Syed Irfan Malik, a resident of old Delhi, who travelled to Malaysia and Indonesia in 2017 as a preacher.Preachers usually stay in mosques and lecture people. They usually carry nothing more than foodstuff, sleeping bags, and cooking stoves.One key task is to make non-conformist Muslims ”return” to the faith. The missionaries frequently quote from the Quran, highlighting passages that speak of certainty of hellish punishment for sinners and rewards for the virtuous. Positive coronavirus cases among these preachers have set off alarm bells now, but the organisation contends its members were trapped because of the lockdown. The authorities made no arrangement to evacuate them in time, it said in a statement. “On March 21, 2020, a large group of visitors who had to depart by railways got stuck in the Markaz premises. On March 22, 2020, the Janata Curfew was observed and visitors were advised not to venture out until 9pm,” the statement said.According to the Markaz’s statement, on 24th March 2020, a notice was issued by the police, seeking closure of the premises. “The same was responded to on 24th March 2020, stating the compliance of the directions regarding closure of Markaz is already underway,” it said. However, a day before the notice, on March 23, around 1,500 preachers had already managed to leave for various destinations, leaving around 1,000 visitors “belonging to different states and nationalities inside the Markaz”, the organisation said.There were, however, at least three other Delhi government orders that the organisation appears to have violated -- on March 11, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal curtailed all gatherings to 200 people; on March 16, he brought this down to 20 and banned all religious gatherings; and on March 21, the Delhi government further brought down the limit on gatherings to five.A few of the preachers who left before the lockdown kicked in March 25 started developing symptoms, such as a temperature and cough, but nobody thought of the possibility of getting the coronavirus disease, a member of the Markaz said. Members continued to be locked up in cramped quarters because of the lockdown.Tablighi Jamaat has no central administrative structure and its activities are coordinated by volunteers. Without this, there were no general guidelines on Covid-19. An administrator of the Markaz house, however said: “During this entire episode, Markaz Nizamuddin never violated any provision of law. It did not let them (preachers) violate medical guidelines.”“Why did the authorities fail to move out the preachers to government quarantine facilities? Why were foreigners not separated from Indian nationals? The local magistrate should be sacked,” said Hamid of the Majlis-e-Mushwarat.Since the 9/11 attacks, the group has been under scrutiny everywhere, including in India, because members of terror outfits have been found to disguise themselves as Tablighi Jamaat members. “This is a conspiracy against us. Coronavirus is worrying but Allah will guard us,” said Malik, the former Tablighi Jamaat member quoted above.“The authorities seem to have failed to check the Markaz establishment for crowds because it is known to be filled with preachers in transit year round. It missed their radar,” Mohammed Akramuddin, a retired customs officer who resides in the area said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/islamic-missionary-at-centre-of-india-s-covid-19-outbreak/story-bS1Quwn15rD7MPUWF7KF8K.html
01-04-2020||India||PM relief funds to complement each other||The 72-year-old Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) has company -- the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES) fund, which was launched in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic. The former has won a reputation as a well-managed entity that, while caring for the needy in times of distress, also made prudent investments. Both PMNRF and the PM-CARES are public trusts recognized as such under income tax laws; donations to both are tax-deductible under Section 80(G) of the Income Tax Act, 1961. And both funds can be used by the Prime Minister of India at his discretion.Established in 1948 by India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru to assist people displaced from Pakistan after partition, PMNRF’s resources are to be used to “render immediate relief to families of those killed in natural calamities like floods, cyclones and earthquakes, etc. and to the victims of the major accidents and riots.” This clear set of purposes for which PMNRF can be used perhaps underlines the need for the creation of a separate fund to provide relief to those affected by the coronavirus or find themselves in similar situations of distress in the future.A quick look at PMNRF’s accounts over the years shows that it expenses are primarily under three heads: medical bills, natural calamity relief and ex-gratia payments for riot or accident victims.To increase its corpus, PMNRF also invests heavily in the debt market .According to its last available receipts and payments account, PMNFRF as of March 31, 2019 had a cash balance of Rs 1467.5 crore in banks. In financial year (FY) 2018-19, it invested Rs 250 crore in fixed deposits with IDFC Bank and also Rs 1301.3 crore in state development loans (SDLs) ,which are debt instruments issued by states to raise money.Between FY 2009-10 and FY 2018-19, PMNRF earned Rs 1,959 crore in the form of interest and dividends on its investments.In FY 2018-19, PMNRF paid Rs.160.8 crore of medical bills and disbursed Rs 51.6 crore towards ex-gratia payments to victims of accidents or riots.It also spent Rs 7.32 lakh on postage charges, as thousands of letters are despatched to beneficiaries and hospitals or other institutions.In FY18-19, PMNRF received Rs 534.2 crore in public donations, more than double the donations of Rs 236 crore in the previous year. An analysis of available data from 2009-10 to 2018-19 shows that the fund received its highest donation (Rs 608.6 crore) in FY 2014-15 when Narendra Modi came to power.During this National Democratic Alliance (NDA) era, the fund has been used for providing financial help to victims of acid attacks, floods, landslides and rail accidents. In 2009, it was also used for rehabilitation of some people affected by the Indian Ocean tsunami . In 2004, the PMNRF was used to provide relief to families affected by ethnic violence in Assam. A large part of the fund is used to pay the medical bills of poor people.While the financial results of the PMNRF for the current year will be made availably only after March, it started the current financial year with a total balance of Rs 486 crore in cash.HT spoke to two former officials who have handled the PMNRF is earlier regimes. Both said that it followed strict protocols on spending and top Prime Minister’s Office officials are often allowed to take decisions on behalf of the PM.One official maintained that a new fund was needed to pay for Covid-19 relief efforts because PMNRF funds are earmarked for other exigencies. The other official differed and said PMNRF could have been used for coronavirus relief efforts as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-relief-funds-to-complement-each-other/story-3SYDLlMgodRiP4DCYdmdRL.html
01-04-2020||India||17 Indian evacuees from Iran infected||As many as 17 Indian evacuees from Iran have tested positive for the coronavirus (Covid-19) at the army’s two quarantine facilities in Rajasthan and admitted to hospitals in Jaisalmer and Jodhpur, two officials said on Tuesday on condition of anonymity. They are among 1,036 people evacuated from Iran in batches from March 15 and put under quarantine in Jaisalmer and Jodhpur. Of the 17 tested positive, nine are in Jaisalmer and the remaining eight in Jodhpur. Another evacuee in Jaisalmer tested positive a fortnight ago.Iran is one of the world’s hardest-hit countries from the virus. It reported 123 more deaths on Sunday alone.The officials said the preliminary screening of all evacuees was conducted at airports before they were moved to the quarantine facilities. The army calls the quarantine centres wellness facilities created under Operation Namaste.The armed forces operate six quarantine facilities across the country at Hindan, Manesar, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Ghatkopar and Chennai.Five hospitals run by the armed forces are equipped to carry out Covid-19 tests and six more would be added to the list soon. The armed forces have earmarked 28 service hospitals for managing Covid-29 cases.The army is an important institutional pillar in the country’s fight against the pandemic. It is also taking aggressive steps to tackle the spread of the disease within its ranks. Two soldiers, including an army doctor, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-indian-evacuees-from-iran-infected/story-5hNeHq90MfgONqfNPoQi0K.html
01-04-2020||India||Test results delayed, labs struggle with sample load||India may claim to be testing only at about 36% of its capacity, but government laboratories testing for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) seem to be already burdened by the sample load, with many hospitals saying that the lag time for receiving test results has increased to three days.“The time that it takes for a lab to return test results has definitely gone up; earlier the results would be back the next day but now it’s been three days and we haven’t received the reports yet,” a senior administrator at a prominent private hospital in Delhi said on condition of anonymity.The 130 functional government laboratories across India have tested 42,788 samples so far, of which 4,346 were tested on Monday alone. Of the 49 private labs approved for testing, 399 tests were conducted on Monday, and in total these chains have done about 14,00 tests since they were allowed to test, starting on March 21.“Most of our laboratories are quick to send out results; it was taking time earlier when National Institute of Virology was the main lab doing confirmatory tests but things have improved now. If any particular lab is taking time then it should be seen as an isolated case, not a norm,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief of the epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). All laboratories performing Covid-19 tests have a capacity of conducting 13,000 tests per day. The 49 private chains have around 16,000 collection centres. The government is also procuring more testing kits, including rapid test kits from Singapore that are expected to arrive by this weekend (April 5).Some states such as Kerala have already procured the rapid testing kits that have been validated by the ICMR to begin surveillance to know the extent of disease spread within the state.The government has also placed an order for more test kits, including rapid kits, also known as point-of-care kits. An expression of interest was initially sent out by the ICMR for one million antibody kits, which later had to be revised to 500,000 kits because of a shortage in supply world over.However, rapid kits are not the best way to diagnose a disease -- they track antibodies, which means they can only diagnose a person if antibodies are present in his system (this is usually well after the infection sets in). This also means they will identify people who have been infected in the past -- because the antibodies tend to remain in the system. “These kits are meant mainly for surveillance or research purposes in epidemiological studies. For diagnostic purposes PCR-based tests are preferred,” said Dr Gangakhedkar. PCR stands for polymerase chain reactionApart from the lag time in laboratory testing results, the ministry is also taking time in updating the daily tally of cases and deaths on its dashboard. “I don’t think there is any lag time as we usually update our data on a daily basis. If in the past sometimes there has been some delay in updating the data, it is because we have to independently verify every single case with their actual address to assign the state and begin contact tracing. At times, the address on the passport is different from where the person lives, and we have to be accurate” says Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry.The reporting of data also entails filling up of different forms in details and that usually takes long, especially now that the positive cases are increasing. “Despite the rising numbers, our data entry operates are working very hard to ensure all details are documented as early as possible, and with precision,” added Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-results-delayed-labs-struggle-with-sample-load/story-tVqCf5Zg0mhvfuQ7VaZvdO.html
01-04-2020||India||TB vaccine appears to offer protection against Covid-19||The Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine to prevent tuberculosis, which has been given to Indian children since 1949, and which around 97% of the 26 million Indian children born every year received last year, appears to offer protection against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to US researchers who analysed the wide variation in the intensity of the disease in different countries. It also helps lower cases of Covid-19 in a country, the researchers found. The study, which will need large scale clinical testing, could, if it holds, explain why the spread of Covid-19 has been muted in India. The new study, by researchers at the biomedical sciences department, NYIT College of Osteopathic Medicine at the New York Institute of Technology found Covid-19 cases and deaths are higher in countries that do not have or have discontinued universal BCG vaccination of children, such as the US, Italy, Spain and France, compared to countries with universal and long-standing immunisation policies, such as India and China.Covid-19 cases and deaths in the United States, Italy and Spain have outpaced China, which was the epicentre of the outbreak that was first detected in Wuhan city in early December.BCG vaccination significantly reduced deaths from Covid-19, with the strongest reductions in countries that established a BCG vaccination policy earlier, found the study, published in the preprint health sciences server, medRxiv. The BCG vaccination benefits held after factoring in cultural norms, mitigation efforts, and health infrastructure.The study found a direct correlation between how early the policy was established and the elderly population that would be protected. “Countries that have a late start of universal BCG policy, such as Iran in 1984, also had high mortality, consistent with the idea that BCG protects the vaccinated elderly population. We also found that BCG vaccination also reduced the number of reported Covid-19 cases in a country,” said the study titled “Correlation between universal BCG vaccination policy and reduced morbidity and mortality for Covid-19: an epidemiological study”.The study recommends BCG vaccination as a potential new tool in the fight against Covid-19.India started BCG vaccination of children in 1949, and currently 97% of 26 million children born in India receive the BCG vaccine free. India’s universal immunisation programme, under which the BCG vaccine is given, went up to the current figure of 97%, according to the ministry of health and family welfare data, up from 92% in 2015-16, as was recorded by the National Family of Health Survey 4. It is manufactured in India, and costs less than Rs 100 per vial in the private sector.“BCG coverage is highest among all vaccines given to children under five years under the universal immunisation programme. It’s given to newborn babies at birth, or up to one year if vaccination is missed at birth,” said Dr Pradeep Haldar, deputy commissioner (immunisation), ministry of health and family welfare. Vaccination is above 95% across all states, including the empowered action states with universal immunisation coverage of less than 85%.BCG vaccine contains a live, weakened strain of Mycobacterium bovis, a cousin of M. tuberculosis, which is the bacteria that causes tuberculosis.“The BCG vaccine is an immunomodulator that boosts immune response to offer broad protection to respiratory infections. Even more protective is a vaccine from Mycobacterium indicus pranii (MIP), which has been isolated and sequenced in India at the National Institute of Immunology. It’s approved for use against leprosy and septicaemia, and PGI Chandigarh recently evaluated its translational application as an immunotherapeutic against severe acute respiratory syndrome (a coronavirus like Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19). The results have been sent for publication,” said Dr NK Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research.Australia, Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom have already announced that they will begin large-scale human trials to see whether BCG vaccination protects health workers from Covid-19 by triggering an immune response to reduce symptoms, prevent severe illness or prevent infection. Australia announced on Friday that it will begin BCG vaccine trials with around 4,000 physicians and nurses, who are at higher risk of becoming infected with the respiratory disease than the general population, and in older persons, who are at higher risk of serious illness.Netherlands has recruited around 1,000 health care workers in eight Dutch hospitals to either receive the BCG vaccine or a placebo.“BCG vaccination produces non-specific immune effects that have been shown to boost response against non-mycobacterial pathogens, and using it to improving innate immunity against Covid-19 would buy time to develop a specific vaccine against the disease,” said a scientist from the Indian Council for Medical Research who spoke on condition of anonymity.BCG vaccination significantly increases the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, specifically IL-1B, which play a vital role in antiviral immunity.“BCG vaccination has been shown to produce broad protection against viral infections and sepsis, raising the possibility that the protective effect of BCG may be associated co-occurring infections and sepsis-related deaths,” said Dr Ganguly.The broad use of the BCG vaccine across a population could reduce the number of carriers, and combined with other measures, could act to slow down or stop the spread of Covid-19, according to the US study.The study answers why Covid-19 spread in China despite children getting BCG vaccinated since the 1950’s. “During the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976), tuberculosis prevention and treatment agencies were disbanded and weakened. We speculate that this could have created a pool of potential hosts that would be affected by and spread Covid-19,” said the study.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tb-vaccine-appears-to-offer-protection-against-covid-19/story-lHholAkFWyOW5HSWI3A4zM.html
01-04-2020||India||Long-term containment measures key as Covid-19 cases may rise after lockdown: Study||India needs to urgently think of long-term infection containment measures because the ongoing 21-day national lockdown is unlikely to be enough to reverse the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases and rate of transmission (although it will help), a new study has suggested.The paper, based on mathematical modelling of disease and demographic data by two researchers at the University of Cambridge, also concludes that old people in India are at particular risk of contracting the infection at home – more than global hotspots such as China and Italy – because of the high number of three-generational households in the country.The finding comes amidst a debate on whether the hard lockdown should be extended with the government clarifying on Monday that it had no immediate plans to impose further curbs beyond April 15.But that may be a mistake, the study suggested.In their analysis, the researchers found that while a 21-day lockdown led to an immediate decrease in the number of infected people, the number rose sharply after the curbs were lifted. A second scenario in which a 28-day lockdown was imposed after five days of easing also showed that the number of infected people rose once the second lockdown was lifted.But in two scenarios, the rate of new infections decreased. The first was a protocol of three consecutive lock downs of 21 days, 28 days and 18 days spaced with five days of suspension. If a single lockdown had to achieve the same impact, it would have to last 49 days, the modelling showed.“While these numbers are hypothetical, it underlines the need to think of different strategies of containment after 21 days of lockdown. It also shows that the rate of rise of infection is steeper than the rate of decrease and it takes less time for infections to double and more time for it to halve,” said Ronojoy Adhikari, one of the authors of the paper.“This essentially means that for every day of non-lockdown, we need more than one day of lockdown,” he addedThe paper, slated to be published in the Physical Review Research Journal, noted two big differences between India and other global hotspots such as China and Italy: the big numbers of three-generational families residing in the same homes and the large number of young people.Secondly, the model also showed that unlike Italy and China, the above-60 population and the below-30 population were in close contact at homes. Because the former demographic is high-risk for Covid-19, it made the home very important for anti-infection policy.“This indicated that social distancing and isolation protocols are not just for workplaces and public spaces, but also for homes. Because of India’s huge youth population, they are at greater probability of contracting the disease, and then bringing them into homes and transmitting it to older people, who have high fatality risk,” said Adhikari.The authors suggested three long-term responses: Social distancing and isolation to be practised in homes, especially by older people; a close watch on schools and colleges to check for young people catching the disease; and extensive testing to find out the extent of the outbreak.“We suggest that even when the national lockdown is over, we need to look at keeping schools and colleges shut for some time. Or look at local lockdowns in hotspots, determined by extensive testing,” Adhikari added.The study has made two important assumptions: that all cases of Covid-19 are symptomatic, and that the impact of the lockdown is instantaneous without any lag in implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/long-term-containment-measures-key-as-cases-may-rise-after-lockdown-says-study/story-78QNbNhiiqjszHhpbd8pBP.html
01-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Genesis of India’s biggest coronavirus hot spot||On March 25 as Indians woke up to the first day of a three-week lockdown to stave off the Covid-19 epidemic, disease surveillance officials in the national capital had just begun uncovering a problem that would soon turn into an epidemiological headache spanning 19 states: hundreds of members of a religious sect may have already taken the infection to far reaches of the country, sharing flights, buses, trains and community events even before the country could be shut down. Tips about an infection hotspot at the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin headquarters began trickling in to the Delhi Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme office that week, leading the district surveillance officer (DSO) to dispatch a team on March 26. Six people were found with symptoms at the building, isolated and sent for testing. Click here for complete coronavirus coverageOn March 29, the six were confirmed as having Covid-19. A day later, the number grew to 24. The reports of the 441 people from the Markaz suspected to have the disease are still awaited. IMPORTED INFECTION?The origin of the infection in the sect possibly goes back to February 27, when 16,000 members began a congregation at the Sri Petaling mosque in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Over four days, hundreds of worshippers prayed shoulder-to-shoulder inside a mosque complex similar to the one in Nizamuddin, while some guests posted selfies as they shared food, social posts from the event would later show. Among the attendees were those from China and South Korea -- two countries with high rates of coronavirus infections at the time. Two weeks later, Malaysia’s cases grew to nearly 670 -- 500 of these had been at the congregation, known as an Ijtema. As the foreign attendees headed back home, Brunei confirmed 50 cases linked to the gathering, Singapore identified five, Cambodia 13 and Thailand at least two.Around the same time, in mid-March, Indonesia cancelled a Tablighi Jamaat Ijtema, but not before thousands had already gathered on the Sulawei islands.In India, officials are now drawing connections to cases in these countries. According to immigration data accessed by HT, at least 227 foreigners were among the estimated 8,000 who had been at the Nizamuddin headquarters in March – overlapping with other visitors in the six-storey, hostel-like facility with common cooking and dining facilities.These foreigners included people from Malaysia and Indonesia (where large crowds had already gathered) and China, where infections had by then been widespread.A significant number of the international arrivals took place around March 10, according to officials in the Delhi Police. It wasn’t until later that the Indian government made quarantine mandatory for arrivals from China (March 13) and banned flights from Malaysia (March 17).Some of the people who arrived, either with the infection or were subsequently infected at the building in Nizamuddin, began travelling before the outbreak turned into a serious crisis for India. It is these people whose illness would later connect back to the building in Nizamuddin as disease surveillance officers in several states started separately sounding out their Delhi counterparts.THE INDONESIAN GROUPThe most important alert came from Telangana, where officials found a group of 10 Indonesians who had boarded the Andhra Pradesh Sampark Kranti in Delhi on March 13 to arrive at Ramagundam in Telangana the following day. From there, they group went to Karimnagar in autorickshaws, took part in an Ijtema a day later and spent nights at a local madarsa. Around March 16, some of their local associates noticed their symptoms – bringing to light what would be the earliest confirmed case linked to the Tablighi Jamaat’s Delhi centre.According to a health official aware of the contact tracing, the alerts were sent to the Delhi IDSP between March 20 and 24. “Our surveillance officers went to the Nizamuddin area last week to investigate after we received reports from several states that the people who tested positive there had a history of travel to the area. That’s when we discovered that there were so many people living in the compound and started screening them for symptoms,” said an official from Delhi IDSP cell. Another alert was sent from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh around the same time when a 52-year-old man tested positive; he had been at the Delhi building.In all, six of the approximately 12 people linked to the Tablighi Jamaat have succumbed to the infection in Hyderabad.“It was rigorous contact tracing exercise conducted by the Telangana government for a section of cases reported in their state that led to the zeroing-in on the infection source in Delhi. It was followed up here and the cluster was discovered,” said the official cited above, asking not to be named. KASHMIRI PREACHERThe second alert came from Kashmir. On March 25, a 65-year-old preacher who tested positive for Covid-19 succumbed to his illness in Srinagar. When health department officials worked back his travel history, they found that he had left the Tablighi building on March 9 after staying there for two days.The man then went to Deoband (March 9-11) – a town considered as being historically linked to the Jamaat – before travelling to Samba (March 12-16) and finally reaching Srinagar, where he was based and was known as a prominent Islamic preacher. According to officials, it was his reputation as a prominent preacher that came to attention when he died, triggering alerts that were sent to Delhi as well as Uttar Pradesh.ANDAMAN ISLANDSOn March 24, the day before the domestic flight ban kicked in, a man in his late 20s reached Port Blair and started showing symptoms for the disease. The individual tested positive on Sunday, triggering the contact-tracing exercise that placed him at the building in Nizamuddin a week ago.Routinely, officials alert their counterparts in other states if the contact-tracing determines that a Covid-19 patient was in close vicinity to others. According to disease surveillance official, he took a flight with a stopover at Kolkata. At least one other person who was with him on the flight has also tested positive.(With inputs from Reuters).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/genesis-of-india-s-biggest-hot-spot/story-uNnkA8Rb5ZJlUJ9meXhIPN.html
01-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: ICMR nod to 3 more private testing labs, total 29 now||New Delhi The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex biomedical research body, on Wednesday approved three more private laboratories to test for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking to 29 the number of private facilities that can collect samples at 16,000 centres.ICMR, however, has not expanded its criteria for people to be able to take the test. Experts have raised concerns over tests not being carried out aggressively or randomly enough, saying that a ramped up approach could stop a silent spread of the highly contagious pathogen SARS-CoV-2.“These 29 lab chains will add to the testing capacity as they have 16,000 collection sites across India,” said Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry.On Wednesday, ICMR asked for bids for procurement of antibody (blood test) kits to scale up their testing. Through the day, sample collection and testing was slow because kits were in short supply and traffic movement was restricted due to a nationwide lockdown.“We’ve got the government approval and have the infrastructure and trained manpower in place. All we need now is an uninterrupted supply of diagnostic kits for us to begin testing,” said Dr Navin Dang, founder Dr Dangs Lab.Arindam Haldar, CEO, SRL Diagnostics, said: “…ICMR has chosen two SRL clinical reference labs, based at Mumbai and Gurgaon, to conduct these tests… We have initiated testing, but currently there is a shortage situation for approved commercial kits for testing and PPE for sample collection, and we are trying our level best to bring the supply situation to match possible demand... The commercial kits are in short supply...” However, ICMR has so far approved of three commercial testing kits that should be available in market in a few days.Neuberg Diagnostics Private Limited, a start-up in the segment, has also been approved for testing. “…Neuberg will be scaling up its capacity up to 2,000 to 2,500 tests per day as per ICMR guidelines by next week,” said GSK Velu, chairman and managing director.ICMR is in the process of fast-tracking approvals for commercial testing kits. “Our nodal laboratory in National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune is looking at the quality of kits… Apart from FDA and European CE approved kits, ICMR-certified kits will also be eligible to be used for testing in labs across India,” Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR, said recently.ICMR on Sunday had confirmed that close to 60 private laboratories had approached them for registration that is mandatory for being able to conduct Covid-19 tests.The primary criteria for the labs that will be approved is for them to have National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration accreditation, at least biosafety level-2 laboratory, sharing real-time testing data with the government and testing done only after there is a prescription signed by a qualified physician who has followed testing criteria laid down by the ICMR.There are about 116 government laboratories that ICMR has earmarked for Covid-19 testing, including 72 of ICMR’s own viral research and diagnostic laboratories (VRDLs). Thirty-one of the government laboratories have so far been approved for both preliminary and confirmatory testing across India.The base price should not exceed Rs 4,500, including 1,500 for preliminary testing and 3,000 was confirmatory testing, even though the government has asked the labs to offer the test for free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-nod-to-3-more-pvt-testing-labs-total-29-now/story-YjqLFWjm0h2mHFBmco89UJ.html
01-04-2020||Today's||To get health right, India must focus on nutrition||The key priority for India now is the nutrition battle. Good nutrition not only provides energy, but also immunity to the body. It is thus appropriate that in the current context — as citizens battle the coronavirus pandemic — we pause and reflect on India’s nutrition challenges.The average Indian consumes about 2,225 calories a day, about 10% less than recommended. However, the bottom 25% of Indians consume only 1,800 calories and are undernourished. Tragically, at least 10% —some estimates indicate 40% — of food grown in India is wasted due to lack of post-harvest storage, poor market linkages, low levels of food processing, and an inadequate cold chain. Once these problems are solved, we will be in a better position to address the challenge of malnutrition.While, based on consumption data, it is debatable whether Indians have increased calorie intake, when examined from the production side, the data is unequivocal. The Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that between 1960 and 1980, India produced about 2,000 calories per person. From 1980, with per capita GDP growth rapidly increasing, the country has been producing an extra 100 calories per person per decade. Today, at 2,450 calories per person, India produces what it needs, and with better food processing and less wastage, it can solve its calorie-deficit problem.However, India faces a second challenge, which is the quality of nutrition. Using the EAT-Lancet report on what adults should consume, a leading newspaper estimated that while Indians should be getting 850 calories from carbohydrate sources, we get 1,200 from it. And while we should be getting 900 calories a day from protein sources, we get only 310 calories from them. Interestingly, Indians get 232 Kcals from fats against the recommended 450 Kcal. We under-consume fats, especially the good unsaturated variety. On the protein front, while there is a divergence of opinion on how much protein we should consume, there is consensus that Indians consume too much simple carbohydrates (rice and flour), and not enough complex carbohydrates or proteins.The consequences of lack of protein on public health are stark. Underweight children, wasting, stunting and anaemia, all caused by lack of protein, are worse in India compared to not just the world, but even the rest of south Asia. For instance, wasting levels (low weight to height ratio caused by low muscle mass, which is, in turn, caused by low proteins), in India are 21% compared to 11% in the rest of south Asia and 7% globally. Protein and iron deficiencies are big public health issues in India.The causes for the lack of protein in the Indian diet is probably less cultural (more than 70% of Indians are non-vegetarian and the milk culture more than compensates for the lack of a meat culture in the vegetarian parts of India), and more economic. Even if one were to casually open the websites of leading e-tailers in India and Britain, one will see that the price of milk and chicken is equal or greater in India compared to Britain, while the price of rice and wheat in India is half of that in Britain. If one then factors the vast amount of rice and wheat that is sold in the public distribution system, carbohydrates in India are cheap. Relative to the world, our protein prices are high, and our carbohydrate prices are lower. Little wonder that we under-consume protein and over-consume carbohydrates.The reason for this disparity can be attributed to the focus on bridging the calorie deficit through rice and wheat that Indian policy makers have rightfully had over the last few decades. Most of the subsidy given to food and agriculture goes to rice and wheat through minimum support prices and the public distribution system. This makes wheat and rice attractive not only compared to milk and meat, but also compared to coarser grains like jowar and bajra, which are inherently cheaper to grow. On the other hand, a combination of low productivity and high import duties on meat and milk have kept protein prices among the highest in the world.The bigger issue in our country, therefore, is the poor quality of nutrition and immunity driven by low protein, low fat, high carbs, high sugar and low micronutrients. Our nutrition policy has served us well in the quest for calorie sufficiency, there is now an urgent need to pivot from quantity of calories to quality of calories. There is a need for us to move to the next frontier in the battle for a healthy and safe India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-get-health-right-india-must-focus-on-nutrition/story-GBFxUIIuoToSYMlaaj9nbL.html
01-04-2020||Editorials||Don’t communalise the battle against Covid-19||The Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Nizamuddin was, as this newspaper has argued, gravely irresponsible and most likely criminal. It should not have been held when social distancing norms were in force, and the government had issued clear directives against large congregations. It has singularly led to a spike in cases, with efforts to trace everyone present in the complex continuing across states. Action must be taken against the Jamaat leadership. At the same time, it is important not to communalise the issue. There has been an unfortunate, disturbing trend of using this episode to blame the entire Muslim community, and perpetuate stereotypes about them. This must be resisted. Not only is it wrong, India cannot afford the deepening of the Hindu-Muslim divide at a time when every citizen — irrespective of religion, caste, class, gender and age — is confronting a common enemy.In fact, the Nizamuddin gathering, where the leader of the sect seems to have made light of the Covid-19 pandemic, and also advised against social distancing, is a reminder that every religious leader, every sect, every religious institution, must come together with a common message at this time. This message must focus on science, the need to obey government orders, help the poor and the more marginalised segments given the economic disruption to their livelihoods, and co-operate with frontline workers — particularly the medical fraternity. Religions offer faith, solace and hope; they help people tide over difficult moments. This is one such moment. Use religion to unite, not divide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/don-t-communalise-the-battle-against-covid-19/story-eropPGKjM4qJyFF2zEzdFN.html
01-04-2020||Editorials||The pandemic in the US||A month ago, media platforms broadly aligned with United States (US) President Donald Trump termed the coronavirus a “hoax”. Just a week ago, Mr Trump was tempted to ease restrictions and was arguing for restoring economic activity by Easter (April 12). But if the surge in cases, and the extent of the spread in cities such as New York, had not made the dangers of the pandemic clear to the administration, projections put forward by scientists appears to have finally done so this week. Anthony Fauci, the top infectious diseases expert in the US, and Deborah Birx, who is coordinating the coronavirus response for the White House, told Mr Trump that the country could see anywhere between 100,000 to 240,000 deaths due to the virus. Mr Trump subsequently extended restrictions, and warned Americans that a painful two weeks lie ahead. The crisis in the US is illustrative. For one, the pandemic has brought forth the fragility of power as conventionally calculated. The US has resources, research capacity, infrastructure, talent and health care systems — yet Covid-19 has crippled the country, just as it shook the foundations of China, and has now destabilised Europe. While there has been a growing inward turn in the US over the past decade, expect this crisis to see it retreat even more, as it focuses on domestic reconstruction. Two, the crisis also shows the importance of leadership. It is clear that the president, who seems to care little for science or expertise, was reckless in not taking the threat seriously. Delays in imposing restrictions, slow testing, and the failure to ramp up the health system have contributed to the spread of the infection. While it is not clear how this will play out in the election scheduled for later this year — if the election takes place at all on time — the impact of weak leadership in an emergency is obvious. Three, the US appears to be facing the same constraints as many other countries at the moment, which once again shows the global nature of the challenge — from the shortages of personal protective equipment for health workers and ventilators for patients to a halt on economic activity and unprecedented unemployment. Hope for the US lies in the fact that it has the best science infrastructure in the world, which makes it likely that an eventual vaccine will emerge in the country; a resilient private sector and spirit of entrepreneurship, which will help in the recovery; and global economic and strategic dominance, which will allow it to leverage the international system. But the crisis has underlined that no one is, quite literally, immune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-pandemic-in-the-us/story-mveontuwxIioj5zRtGZttL.html
