04-04-2020||News||Reforming the World Health Organization | Opinion||The spread and scale of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have seen calls for strengthening international cooperation in the area of public health, both at the regional level and multilaterally. The Group of Twenty (G20)  video summit on March 26 decided on better data-sharing and enhanced cooperation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the call for cooperation on Covid-19 within the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, and urged the G20 about the need for reforms at the World Health Organization (WHO). This is critical as WHO is the lead global and United Nations (UN) agency on public health. Its institutional arrangements must be able to strongly push global cooperation in public health and support developing countries in real-time. The last major global crisis was the 2008 financial meltdown. At that time, the most important economies came together in the G20. The response then required the largest players to take concerted action. Global public health emergencies involve people across the world. Voices from developing countries must be part of the decision-making process. As an intergovernmental body, WHO is not immune to global power-play as is being witnessed by reports of the director-general having shied away from naming the virus after the country where it originated — China — and delaying the declaration of a pandemic. Moreover, only a quarter of its budget comes from contributions from UN member-states, and the real money to power its work is from voluntary funding by countries and organisations. WHO, as a global convener, plays a key role in standard-setting in public health. This is a matter of much importance to the “haves” of the global economy, especially those with a vibrant pharmaceutical industry. The United States is the largest contributor, but the Chinese have also recognised WHO’s importance, and the previous director-general was their nominee. The main decision-making body at WHO is the annual World Health Assembly (WHA), attended by all member-states. Then, there is the Executive Board (EB) comprising technically qualified persons from 34 countries, elected based on geographic representation from across the globe. With demands for a better, real-time response from WHO, the EB should be made a standing body with the elected countries having Geneva-based permanent representatives on it. The EB should meet when required and direct action by WHO. The EB also needs to go beyond only geographic representation and ensure that major stakeholders such as the largest economies and those with the largest populations are always on it. At the UN, there is a precedent for this in the composition of the board of UN Women which, apart from representation from different regions, also has representation from the largest donors. And, then there are the issues revolving around drugs and medical science. This is a huge and lucrative industry where Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) count above all, and there is little willingness, for collaborative research even in times of crisis. Neither WHO nor any multilateral organisation is involved in drugs research. They must be involved in rolling out new drugs in developed countries. Affordability will be a key, and the past record is not exemplary. WHO, along with others such as the World Trade Organization, must find ways to make affordable access to such key drugs in critical times possible. It is time to use the crisis to launch much-needed, long-due reforms and overhaul WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/reforming-the-world-health-organization-opinion/story-aChEkZcpUj3jZ5eoUCzmhI.html
04-04-2020||News||Reflections on surveillance in the middle of a pandemic | Opinion||We live in an age marked by one overarching phenomenon — surveillance. Operationalised through electronics and analysed through algorithms, everyday surveillance of the minutiae of our lives has become the defining feature of our times. The data exhaust from our mundane, everyday lives is collected, collated and analysed; and returned to us in many forms such as recommendations on what else we’d like to buy on shopping apps, the manner in which our social media feeds are ordered, and as activists have found out, even government officials showing up at their doorsteps. Much ink has been spilled in describing the many ways in which such surveillance can be harmful, especially in the hands of private corporations and authoritarian regimes.But, as with everything, the phenomenon of surveillance itself is value neutral. It is neither inherently good or inherently bad. Its harm and benefits are made operational by the manner in which it is deployed. While there are excellent reasons to stop collecting and collating so much data about users; there are some spaces in which surveillance is a vital tool. One of those areas is public health. Surveillance as a tool to study and safeguard from epidemics is a method as old as modern medicine itself. Since the time of Hippocrates, observation and analysis of data has been the cornerstone of modern medicine. Throughout history, attempts at early detection and effective surveillance of diseases have helped not just curb the spread of communicable diseases, but also understand diseases themselves and develop treatment paradigms. Polio is a case in point. The complete eradication of polio in India was a resounding victory for effective surveillance and reporting.The World Health Organization (WHO), the public health arm of the United Nations (UN) lists integrated disease surveillance as part of its important functions. In such surveillance, countries are required to report any cases of notifiable infectious diseases to WHO. The data thus collected helps analyse the spread and severity of the disease, and to quickly and efficiently put in place protocols to handle the crisis and contain the spread in the case of an epidemic. Disease surveillance, in order to be effective, must be continuous and systematic. This automatically means the continuous collection of data from everywhere.In comparison to the kind and amount of data that data brokers have about our everyday habits, the amount of viable health data that is available for analysis even in countries such as the United States and Britain is abysmal. Even within the much-vaunted National Health Service (NHS) in the United Kingdom, datasets are sparse and often disconnected. This makes it harder for doctors to trace patients’ histories across regions or find common threads among diseases and treatment protocols within the system.In case of the coronavirus pandemic, finding those who carry the virus and preventing others from coming into contact with them is so far the only effective means of preventing the spread. But here, it is the process of finding that has set off surveillance and privacy alarm bells. Whether it’s European, Israeli and Chinese governments accessing mobile phone location data to ensure that people are obeying lockdown orders or the Karnataka government publishing online the names and contact details of people who have returned from abroad, breaches of individual privacy in these pandemic times are becoming commonplace.In cases where diseases carry stigma — such as HIV — knowledge of disease history and a breach in anonymity of cases can be particularly harmful. We have already seen this in India with coronavirus cases, where individuals and families face social ostracisation. Several Indians have even taken to ostracising doctors who are working at the frontlines of the fight against the coronavirus.It is in this context that privacy must be taken into consideration by government agencies while continuing to battle the pandemic. As several commentators have pointed out, measures taken during extreme situations have a sneaky way of becoming business-as-usual, even after the emergency is over. And as we know from several generations of caste discrimination, social ostracisation sticks very easily. One other clear upshot of privacy violations is that a fear of ostracism and mistrust of authorities could prevent people from coming forward to report their symptoms and travel history. With no protocols for data security and preventing personal details of individuals from becoming public; case surveillance in the Internet age can lead to dangerous consequences. The phone numbers and addresses of specific people, for instance, can easily be culled from a public database of people returning home from abroad. Linking this one database to many others can also reveal many other details of individuals, to anyone who comes looking.In such a situation, while it may seem like it’s a worthy trade to sacrifice individual privacy to contain the pandemic, it is decisions taken in the eye of the storm that will ripple outwards, creating situations and precedents for future emergencies. A pandemic in the age of digital surveillance and big data compounds public vulnerabilities; adding to the looming health and economic crises. This is, therefore, the best time to ask questions about the efficacy of the surveillance in each administrative block — from individual villages and residential complexes to nation-states and WHO itself. What is the information that it is important to know, who absolutely requires to know, how much of it requires dissemination, how can it be effectively collated and reported, and how may we protect the individuals who are already dealing with fear and uncertainty are the important questions to ask.Vidya Subramanian is a post-doctoral fellow, Centre for Policy Studies, IIT BombayThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/reflections-on-surveillance-in-the-middle-of-a-pandemic-opinion/story-pF5LqvFeOOjCUFVpKBxlgM.html
04-04-2020||News||Is isolation the new normal? | Opinion||Solitary isolation or confinement used to be a punishment given to prisoners. But now it has become something that we accept as part of our daily lives, thanks to the lockdown. These are conditions we are imposing on ourselves to survive an enemy that we cannot see, but which can attack us if anyone from the larger social group has been infected and gets close to us. We have to assume everyone is a possible host to the virus. And then we have to arm ourselves with masks and gloves — and if possible keep others at a distance of at least six feet. This further reinforces the hostility that urban dwellers already feel as their familiar world of close proximity and interactive behaviour comes crashing down. The individual no longer works with a group for social good, and sees himself or herself, alone, at war with the world.As supply chains are broken, as the world face a shortage of medicines, hospital beds, food, jobs — we are back to the survival of the fittest, foregoing the niceties of civilised behaviour. We have now come to stage three of the psychological impact of the lockdown — from shock, to acceptance, to mistrust. And there will be a need to convince some people once again that the government will take care of their concerns.We have already seen some of this aggression break out as individuals feel that they have to hit out at authority to survive. People are attacking doctors, beating up police officers — turning on anyone who they think might destroy their already shrinking universe. They are not “idiots” as some TV channels call them, but genuinely disturbed and increasingly insecure. There are also other issues of social isolation that governments will have to sort out. While many of us are fortunate enough to be able to lock ourselves in our homes and get by, there are many who are unable to do so — so one has to think carefully what social isolation means to them. For instance, the elderly, the children, the physically and mentally-ill, the disabled, the poor, the street dwellers, the rural economy, the daily-wagers. As we embrace this new normal, we often forget that there are large swathes of society who cannot disengage from the rest of us. This is a social order that was built on social dependency, not on the premise that all men and women are equal islands. What, in these circumstances, happens to the poorest of the poor — to paraphrase Mahatma Gandhi. However, another serious impact of the lockdown is how important Twitter, Facebook, Google, WhatsApp are becoming. We would be completely isolated if it were not for this virtual world. The danger is that (as we saw during the riots in Delhi) hysteria can be whipped up through images, and a constant barrage of information which comes through unfiltered. The virtual world is turning us into lonely machines reaching out into the unknown, without the comfort of a loving touch, or gentle words whispered into our ears, even when we are sick or dying. That is the extreme wound that Covid-19 has inflicted: The sorrow of dying alone without anyone by your side.But even those of us who will (hopefully) live on to see the end of the virus or at least its decline, will have changed forever, with the six feet of social distancing creating uncivil cracks in our behaviour and leaving gaps where there were families and homes. Large get-togethers may also be a thing of the past as we look at everything through the prism of safety and security. Keeping it digital may be a format we have to follow for a while. As families, we are together in our homes, finding bonds and joy with each other. I am spending more time with my parents, talking more to my children and husband, writing more and exploring my inner world much, much more, as the exterior world is reduced to heartbreaking images on my phone or iPad or TV screen. Our interiority might make us better people as we understand and appreciate those close to us. But what does it do to those who rely on physical connectivity for survival? There is more social disruption on the horizon as Covid-19 makes the difference clear between those who can live secure in their ivory towers and those who cannot. Kishwar Desai is chair, The Arts And Cultural Heritage TrustThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/is-isolation-the-new-normal-opinion/story-RD6n74BXuC5YO3ViancWPP.html
04-04-2020||News||Covid-19: Define social security for migrant workers | Opinion||Migrant workers leaving New Delhi after the lockdown’s announcement raise decades-old unaddressed questions. Who are these migrants? Why are they leaving their places of work and returning to their villages? And what rights do they have?Migrant workers constitute a large part of the informal sector of India’s economy. There are around 60 million interstate migrant population in India, with a significant proportion being seasonal or short-term ones. According to the Report of the Committee on Unorganized Sector Statistics, 2012, they constitute 93% of the overall workforce and contribute 50% towards the Gross National Product (GNP). Yet, such a large workforce lacks clear legal protections. There are laws aimed at the informal sector, covering working conditions and social security of its workers, but none of them directly deals with jobless migrants leaving cities.According to the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) of 2017-18, 71.1% of the workers in the non-agricultural sector with a regular salary didn’t have a written job contract; 54.2% were not eligible for paid leave; and, 49.6% for any social security benefits. The report, Employment in Informal Sector and Condition of Informal Employment of 2015, shows that 82% of those employed in both the agriculture and non-agriculture sectors (except crop and animal husbandry) didn’t have a written job contract; 77.3% didn’t get paid leave; and, 69% were not eligible for any social security benefits. Given the lack of legal mandates, migrant workers have simply been left to fend for themselves during a crisis as serious as a pandemic. This requires urgent correction.For context, India’s Industrial Disputes Act,1947 was enacted for the investigation and settlement of industrial disputes. However, this Act applies only to the organised sector. It was not meant to provide social security and welfare to the casual worker, and doesn’t have provisions to deal with the current situation in Delhi and other Indian cities under lockdown.Much of this legislation was enacted soon after Independence and fails to meet the social security needs and other welfare aspects of the informal workforce today.Take the Minimum Wages Act of 1948. It has not been effectively implemented in most parts of the country as, according to the Economic Survey 2018-19, this law does not cover all wage workers. Among the more recent attempts at enacting protection legislation is The Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008 is a more recent attempt at enacting protective legislation. But only about 5% to 6% are enrolled for social security benefits under it. This is because policy-framers insist on a scheme-based welfare regime rather than a statute-based social security regime.Then there’s the Inter State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979. It mandates registration of establishments employing inter-state migrant workers, but not the workers themselves. The Act imposes obligations on the contractor employing such migrants to ensure basic labour rights. But till December 2016, it had seen merely four prosecutions.In December 2016, the government informed the Lok Sabha that there is no data available on migrant workers in various states and that no insurance scheme has been proposed exclusively for them. Finally, in an attempt to revamp the ecosystem of labour and industrial law, the government of India then introduced four labour codes. Among those, the draft Labour Code on Social Security & Welfare, 2018 provided for the integration of schemes and benefits across the country and recognised the rights of workers to access these benefits throughout the country. However, it dropped the word “welfare”, and diluted or omitted certain provisions regarding workers’ welfare. Unfortunately, the latest Social Security Bill, 2019, is silent as well on whether special protections apply to migrant workers. Under the Bill, important areas such as employment injury benefits and provident fund for workers in the unorganised sector are left to the discretion of states. To address these lacunas, here are a few steps:One, migrant labour must be factored into any legislation or scheme on social security for unorganised workers. They must be treated at par with other workers in the destination state as well as should be allowed complete portability of welfare schemes, access to healthcare and allied benefits.Two, instead of classifying them in various classes and categories, there should be only one class of worker. For this, the definition of workers given in Section 2.140 of the draft Labour Code on Social Security & Welfare, 2018, should be adopted.Three, there should be a definitive move to a statute-based welfare provision from a scheme-based welfare, because the former empowers both, the latter empowers only the State.Four, in a changing business scenario, there is a need to decode the web of complex supply chains to identify principal employers and impose on them liabilities and obligations for social protection. Five, the business model of e-commerce, which is layered with complex architecture, should be studied and tweaked to ensure social security and welfare of the workers. Their business model avoids giving social security for workers by treating them as partners in progress but not in welfare.Six, provide social security where there is no well-defined employer-employee relationship. For example, in MSMEs. Nine, ensure a minimal definition of social security to all. Basic necessities such as health care, old-age security, unemployment insurance, the minimum wage should be provided by the State. Ten, social security should be visualised and conceptualised as a preventive measure — skilling, minimum safety in occupational conditions, insurance against the pandemic, epidemic, natural disasters and climate change.Finally, frame an implementable, accessible and reliable social security. In this regard, the self-help group model can be scaled up and provided with legal and statutory architecture.Suman Doval is a Delhi-based lawyer and mediator. He practices Commercial & Constitutional Litigation & ArbitrationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/address-the-gaps-to-help-migrant-workers-during-this-crisis-opinion/story-1TTIFickk6Ix5L4nGYDZBN.html
04-04-2020||News||India is on the right path in its fight against Covid-19. But the road ahead is long||When the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) reached this country at the end of January, Indians woke to the possibility of a deadly, insidious and highly transmissible virus coursing through a densely-populated landscape. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrestled with a conundrum — to wait for it to become serious enough to attack or to pre-empt its advance and take action that required people to make sacrifices now. Modi decided to protect India by all means possible from the greatest health security threat of our times. By global standards, and in contrast to developed countries, he was ahead of the curve in fighting the war and took precautionary measures to limit its spread. The government took decisive measures to prevent India from moving to stage three: Community transmission — through border controls, visa suspensions, testing, quarantining of passengers, and a ban on international flights. The “Janata curfew” (people’s curfew) and the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by Modi on March 24 was a clarion call to fight the pandemic together. This call must be heeded. And the World Health Organization (WHO) was right in stating that political positioning and point-scoring must be avoided to focus on readiness, response and recovery. All of India, all in government, all of society stood by the government in its efforts not just to contain the virus, test, stop community spread, and treat, but also to build morale and contribute to global efforts to find a vaccine and cure. This was praised by WHO, G20 and the regional and global communities. To demonstrate a karma yogi’s universal empathy and compassion for those facing hardship and distress, special economic relief packages and social welfare measures are being implemented. The PM-CARES Fund is welcome. Philanthropy is flourishing.The breathing space provided by the lockdown must be used to augment the infrastructure needed for quarantine and hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients if the worst-case scenario comes to pass. From testing capacities to protection gear for health workers, from ventilators and hospital facilities to medicines, India needs to manufacture, import, procure, build and supply on a massive scale. Partnership with all stakeholders — private sector, civil society, law enforcement and even the armed forces for their logistical capabilities — will be crucial. In the next few weeks, critical questions must be answered. Will the lockdown break the chain of contagion? Will Covid-19 die with the heat of the Indian summer and return in winter? How do we phase in normal economic activities after April 14 and restore road, rail and air connectivity within India and internationally? How do we best calibrate, pace and sequence resumption of normal work and social patterns to beat the virus and save the economy?Modi must be preparing for both the best-case scenario and the worst-case scenario until the vaccine and therapeutics are available (which they are likely to be in 12-18 months, according to WHO). Vaccine development is a long and painstaking process — from isolating the virus, clinical trials and testing, pilot production, full-scale manufacturing, purchase by governments and health systems, dealing with patent issues, distribution and use on a mass scale to inoculate and fortify the population. Hope springs eternal in our hearts that a miracle will deliver the vaccine sooner. Promising ones are already being developed and tested in the biotech/pharma realm with public-private partnership at national and international levels — German firm Curevac/German government, the US National Research Institutes supported by the global coalition founded by India and Norway, Israel’s Institute of Viral Research, Pasteur Institute of France and the Indian Council of Medical Research and Serum Institute of India. Influenza has posed the greatest threat to public health. WHO’s classification of pandemic phases is based on influenza and previous H1N1, SARS and swine flu outbreaks also originating from China and the Far East. India will hopefully shape and strengthen existing and potential norms, mechanisms and funds for a more effective and comprehensive global influenza pandemic prevention,detection and response architecture, building on but going beyond the WHO 2011 and 2017 Pandemic influenza Preparedness Framework. If victory over Covid-19 is to be sustainable, the world must come together now for the future.Lakshmi Puri is a former assistant secretary general, United Nations, former deputy executive director of UN Women and former acting deputy secretary general of UNCTAD. This is the second in a three-part series by the writer. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-is-on-the-right-path-in-its-fight-against-covid-19-but-the-road-ahead-is-long/story-M9cpmUZVtJYgFOrFoQBpyI.html
04-04-2020||News||How India and the world must respond to Covid-19 | Opinion||The WhatsApp universe would have us believe that Nostradamus predicted the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) and that the authors Sylvia Browne and Lindsay Harrison, too, foresaw this in their book End of Days: Predictions and Prophecies about the End of the World.In a life-imitating-fiction moment, people are amazed at how prescient Steven Soderberg’s 2011 masterly science fiction film, Contagion, foreshadowed just such a pandemic with wide-ranging effects. That Dr Lipkins, the virologist consultant for the film tested positive for Covid-19 adds to an eerie feeling about the virus’ surreal reach and power across time and space. Foretold or not, the scale, scope and rapid spread of Covid-19 has taken the world by surprise and caused a tectonic shock to global public health, economy and society. The United Nations called it the most challenging crisis since World War II.Our deepest fears about individual and collective vulnerability and the mortality of the human race itself in the face of this highly-contagious pandemic have been stoked. This is especially because there is no immediate vaccine or proven cure yet. Theories about whether it was a spontaneous, accidental or deliberately perpetrated outbreak, and about the origin of the virus from animal-to-human being a blow back from nature are abound. We may perhaps never find out, but we must learn lessons. The need for a truly global, empowered and effective bio-surveillance and forewarning mechanism to prevent, detect and track viruses at inception within countries for the global public good has been underlined. The biggest dilemma in shaping and executing public policy to contain the pandemic is to banish an apocalyptic sense of doom and gloom. At the same time, a morale-raising message about the seriousness of the pandemic and the do-or-die socioeconomic choices people need to make to win the war against Covid-19 need to be conveyed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has managed to do just that with the media playing a largely positive role. The coronavirus outbreak began in China and gripped its Hubei province of 60 million people and Wuhan, its glittering capital, in December 2019. It then spread as a global pandemic to 163 countries in all continents with nearly 858,000 infected and over 40,000 dead, and counting.It went on to affect the rest of Asia and particularly affected Europe and the United States. The latter is now the country with the highest number of cases and fatalities, outstripping China . It is being reported that after being secretive and in an initial state of denial about gravity of the outbreak, China moved to curb its spread within China with iron-curtain efficacy, military ruthlessness and logistical prowess. It has now declared that it has flattened the curve with only a few new cases and deaths. A video of the Governor of Wuhan claims it as a victory of the Chinese system of discipline and control over people‘s behaviour.While it is comforting that China, the original epicentre of the virus, has been able to flatten the curve, it owes the world some answers . How did China reach the present stage? What lessons were learnt? How did Chinese authorities manage to lock off huge parts of the country affecting 800 million people? And now, how are they opening up Wuhan once again domestically and internationally? Equally important: How are they using pharmaceutical and virological knowledge and capital to find and share data, a possible cure and vaccine with the rest of the world? Can democracies — developed countries like those in Europe and North America and a large, developing, densely-populated country of 1.3 billion like India with a federal polity, socioeconomic and cultural complexity and plurality — discipline their populations into complying with social distancing norms to flatten and bend the curve? As the Nizamuddin case shows, one dereliction can trigger a cluster contagion and be one too many. Countries like India have mounted unprecedented and comprehensive prevention, transmission control, mitigation and response efforts. It has forced the government to impose a total lockdown affecting 1.3 billion people. This is a truly staggering, but necessary, response.Transformational behaviour change is the key to success. The impact of Covid-19 is being acutely experienced at the community, province and national levels. Governments have the primary responsibility. It is a time when we erect walls, fences and ensure border controls, but it is also a truly global existential crisis requiring a concerted global response, action and solidarity. The World Health Organization and the United Nations along with all countries must work to make sure that end-of-the-world prophesies about the pandemic do not come to pass.Lakshmi Puri is a former assistant secretary general, United Nations, former deputy executive director of UN Women and former acting deputy secretary general of UNCTAD. This is the first of a series of three articles by the writer. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-india-and-the-world-must-respond-to-covid-19-opinion/story-Rjwi7q3xJC59kvpN4LZedO.html
04-04-2020||City||35-year-old Faridkot money exchanger tests positive for Covid-19||A 35-year-old Faridkot-based foreign money exchanger, who visited New Delhi before the lockdown was imposed, tested positive for the coronavirus on Saturday, becoming the first person in the district to be infected by the disease. Police sealed Harindra Nagar locality in the town where the patient lives. Deputy commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said, “The locality was cordoned off as a preventive measure so that no outsider can enter the area,” he added. Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the patient was admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, on April 2 after he complained of Covid-19-like symptoms. “He tested positive as per report received from the virology laboratory of the Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar. His condition is stable right now. He does not have any foreign travel history but visited New Delhi on March 12,” he said.“He had cold and had fever on March 21, but instead of informing the health department he visited a private doctor for treatment. Later too, he consulted another physician on phone,” said the civil surgeon.“We have collected 24 samples of the persons who were in contact with the money exchanger. They have been sent for Covid-19 testing. A 54-year-old paternal aunt of the patient has been admitted to the isolation ward as she reported of coronavirus-like symptoms. His mother, wife and a seven-year-old daughter have been kept under home quarantine. The tracing of all the persons came in contact with him is under process,” he added. .Visited DMC, 2 private clinics in Ludhiana earlier The man who tested positive for Covid-19 had visited the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and two private hospitals in Ludhiana before getting admitting to the Faridkot medical college. All the three hospitals refused to admit him and advised him to go to thee civil hospital. His uncle said, “But when fever did not go away even after more than a week he went to DMC, Ludhiana, and two private hospitals there on March 31. But all of them refused to admit him. They advised him to visit the civil hospital after which he came back to Faridkot and got admitted to the medical college on April 2,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/35-year-old-faridkot-money-exchanger-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-yhouRvSSCmyduHDb14DWCM.html
04-04-2020||City||Covid-19 outbreak: 8 new cases surface in Punjab, tally reaches 65||Eight persons were tested positive for novel coronavirus in Punjab on Saturday, taking the total count of those infected by the disease in the state to 65. In Amritsar, three family members of Bhai Nirmal Singh’s 58-year-0ld associate were tested positive for Covid-19, with the number of people infected by the former hazoori ragi of the Golden Temple reaching seven.On Friday, two close contacts of Nirmal Singh, who died on Thursday after he was found infected, were tested positive in a report of the viral research and diagnostic laboratory of the Government Medical College, Amritsar.They are Nirmal Singh’s US-returned aunt, a ragi who accompanied him to Chandigarh for a religious congregation.“The wife, son and 9-year old grandson of Nirmal Singh’s associate have been tested positive. They are being treated and are stable,” Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said.“At present, 10 coronavirus positive patients, including one patient from Pathankot and one from Faridkot, are admitted to the GNDH’s isolation ward. All are stable and are recovering,” she added.Infected man’s wife tests +ve in prelim scan“A family member of a 67-year-old man of Krishna Nagar, Amritsar, who was tested positive for coronavirus on Friday and was the first case of community spread in Amritsar, has also been admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital. His wife, two sons, daughter-in-law and an 8-month-old granddaughter were also quarantined at GNDH, with his wife testing positive in preliminary test. Her confirmatory test report will come on Sunday,” said Dr Johal.Infected woman’s 2 kin,panch infected in MohaliIn Mohali, two women residents of Sector 91 who are close contacts of a coronavirus-infected Ludhiana woman, tested positive for the disease on Saturday.A 42-year-old panch of Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi also tested positive for Covid-19, taking the count to 15 in the district.The Sector-91 women, aged 55 and 80, are relatives of the 69-year-old woman from Ludhiana’s Shimlapuri area, who tested positive on April 2, and was staying with them. The Ludhiana woman was rushed to Fortis Hospital in Mohali on March 23 after she experienced a sudden drop in her sugar levels, diarrhoea and difficulty breathing, but was later shifted to Ludhiana, where her report on April 2 confirmed she was Covid-19 positive.Faridkot money exchanger positive In Faridkot, a 35-year-old foreign money exchanger, who visited New Delhi before the lockdown was imposed, tested positive for the coronavirus on Saturday, becoming the first person in the district to be infected by the disease.Police sealed Harindra Nagar locality in the town where the patient lives. Deputy commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said, “The locality was cordoned off as a preventive measure so that no outsider can enter the area,” he added. Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the patient was admitted to the isolation ward of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, on April 2 after he complained of Covid-19-like symptoms. “He tested positive as per report received from the virology laboratory of the Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar. His condition is stable right now. He does not have any foreign travel history but visited New Delhi on March 12,” he said.“He had cold and had fever on March 21, but instead of informing the health department he visited a private doctor for treatment. Later too, he consulted another physician on phone,” said the civil surgeon.“We have collected 24 samples of the persons who were in contact with the money exchanger. They have been sent for Covid-19 testing. A 54-year-old paternal aunt of the patient has been admitted to the isolation ward as she reported of coronavirus-like symptoms. His mother, wife and a seven-year-old daughter have been kept under home quarantine. The tracing of all the persons came in contact with him is under process,” he added.First case in Pathankot In Pathankot district, the first case of Covid-19 was reported in Sujanpur town where a 75-year-old woman tested positive for the disease. Deputy commissioner GS Khiara said the woman was brought to Pathankot civil hospital on April 1 with some complications and was referred to the Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar.He said the woman is a resident of Shekhupura Mohalla where she is living with her nine family members. The DC said police and health teams were sent to seal the area where she lives. Her contact tracing was started and her family members were quarantined in a private hospital, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-outbreak-8-new-cases-surface-in-punjab-tally-reaches-65/story-bydiHhSzryFsVc5kIp67rK.html
04-04-2020||City||Covid-19: Punjab announces Rs 50 lakh insurance for cops, sanitation workers||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Saturday announced Rs 50 lakh insurance cover to its police personnel and sanitation workers engaged in the front-lines in fighting covid-19. This follows the Centre’s decision to provide a similar cover to health workers. In an emergency meeting that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh chaired through video conferencing, the cabinet also authorised its procurement committee for covid-19 to make all purchases for management of the outbreak on an urgent basis. The committee has been authorised to make spot purchases and exigency procurement, bypassing normal procedure, in exercise of powers under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005. The cabinet also allowed this committee to buy essential and emergent medical items at prevalent market prices, as these has risen substantially, due to widespread demand. The cabinet decided that licences of private hospitals denying treatment to covid patients would be cancelled. The health department informed the cabinet that testing will be far more rapid in the state, once these kits and final guidelines from the Centre arrived. Rapid testing will be done for symptomatic and asymptomatic cases at all hot spots, while symptomatic cases will be similarly tested in non-hot spot areas. The department said it had started community testing in hotspots. The cabinet has warned those with foreign travel history, who were yet to inform authorities, to come forward or face impounding of passports. All retiring health department employees were also granted extension by three months. The CM has also directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to security plan for smooth procurement of wheat. The CM emphasised that the state must procure every grain, though, in staggered manner. The cabinet also decided that details of procurement arrangements be notified by April 7-8.To stagger harvesting, combines will be allowed to operate from 6 am to 7 pm, a spokesperson said after the Cabinet meeting, adding that to ensure smooth and speedy operations, maximum number of labourers shall be permitted for unloading. The government is also working with arhtiyas and sheller owners to add 3,000 purchase centres this year to prevent crowding and follow social distancing norms. Coupons will be issued to farmers and others involved. The number of purchase centres will be 1,820. Submit proposals to cut expenditure by Apr 8, depts toldsThe Cabinet also ordered expenditure cut by all government departments and ordered them to submit detailed proposals for this by April 8. Finance minister Manpreet Badal told the cabinet that the state would suffer Rs 5,000 crore revenue loss in April, and the figure would only go up.Strap/BlurbCabinet decision ACS Vinni Mahajan-led committee authorised to make purchases related to COVID-19 management; procurement arrangements to be notified next week||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-punjab-announces-rs-50-lakh-insurance-for-cops-sanitation-workers/story-Wl9YHhM1LZDEebupdX2JBI.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Fire in manufacturing unit in Manesar; three firemen suffer minor burns, no other casualty reported||A major fire broke out at a manufacturing unit in Manesar’s Sector 8 Saturday evening. Three firemen suffered minor burn injuries while dousing the flames. No other casualties were reported. According to fire department officials, the call came at 6.08pm from the security guards of the company where the blaze took place. A total of nine fire tenders were used to douse the flames in nearly four hours.Fire department officials identified the company as Vulcan Cold Forge Pvt Ltd, which manufactures nut bolts.Assistant divisional fire safety officer IS Kashyap, said that due to the 21-day national lockdown, enforced by the Central government to combat the spread of Covid-19, the establishment was locked from the outside and no employees were present in the building, barring two guards.“The fire broke out on the second floor of the building, the topmost floor. We had major difficulty in accessing the site of the fire and had to use a 42-metre hydraulic ladder to find our way inside. There was heavy chemical content due to which it took nearly four hours to douse the blaze,” said Kashyap.Fire department officials said the topmost floor of the building was also gutted, where packaging items, along with chemicals, to clean nut bolts were stored. However, there was no damage to the first and ground floors of the building.Kashyap said the electric panels of the building had been shut as no one was using the premises and it is highly unlikely that a short-circuit could have caused the blaze. He said that a high concentration of chemicals, used for ensuring nut bolts are rust-free, may have got mixed, resulting in a chemical reaction and causing a fire. However, work on finding out the exact cause of the fire is still underway.A total of seven tenders of the Haryana fire services – from Manesar, Sector 37, Bhim Nagar, Udyog Vihar, and Sector 29 – were pressed into service, while two fire tenders each from Honda and Maruti was also sent“The fire was intense; owners and guards of nearby factories also started panicking that the fire may spread to their establishment. We, fortunately, managed to control it within two hours. During the operation, the water which was being used by the firemen for dousing the fire, mixed with the chemicals resulting in the emission of chemical steam which led to three firemen suffering minor burn injuries,” said Kashyap.He said the three firemen, one from Bhim Nagar and two from the Sector 29 fire brigade, suffered minor chemical burns in their skin and as a precautionary measure were taken to a private hospital in Sector 5.Fire department officials said it is being verified whether the owners had procured a No-Objection Certificate (NOC) from the fire department. Kashyap, however, said all fire systems were found to be operational, prima-facie.He added that one fire tender has been put on stand-by at the site as a precautionary measure, as chemical-related blaze can result in the emission of sparks later on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-fire-in-manufacturing-unit-in-manesar-three-firemen-suffer-minor-burns-no-other-casualty-reported/story-kZqAkC912risrCrckXHapO.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Grassland near Basai rail overbridge set on fire, second case in under a month||The vast field of dry grassland, stretching along the Rewari-Delhi railway line in Basai, near the Basai railway overbridge (ROB), was set on fire on Thursday, much to the annoyance of those living in Sector 37D, located nearby. This is the second such incident in Basai in less than 30 days.On March 9, a fire had taken place within the Basai waste treatment plant, causing pollution in the area. The blaze had left a trail of smoke and fly ash over the skyline in the area, settling on rooftops, balconies, roads, etc.Spotted by residents from their balconies, many clicked pictures and shot videos of Thursday’s blaze, with trains passing through. They later shared these posts in a WhatsApp group for civil defence – a newly created social platform of volunteers and top officials of the district in view of the Covid-19 outbreak - with complaints raising concerns on air pollution. Some alleged that the blaze was caused by railway employees.The residents said they spotted the fire around 1.30pm and it lasted for five-to-six hours. They said a team of fire tenders reached the spot around 5pm and they took nearly 30-40 minutes to douse the flames.Harish Sharma, assistant sanitary inspector, municipal corporation of Gurugram (MCG), said, “It took us half an hour to put out fire. We will inquire into the issue. Residents told us that fire incidents keep taking place in the grassland.”The residents said they are concerned about air pollution in the area and they want a proper investigation into Thursday’s fire incident and a lawful action against the culprits.“We requested the MCG officials to inquire into the fire incident and take action. Since October last year, fire incidents in the grassland in this area have taken place five times. This is an offence and we want proper action and a check on it,” said Yadvendra Singh, a resident of NBCC Green View residential society, Sector 37D.However, railway officials denied that the fire was caused by railway employees, when asked.“Our personnel did not set the grassland on fire. We got many calls from residents and we told them that this was not done by our men at all,” said a Railway official, requesting anonymity.The Supreme Court has banned burning of grass, leaves and other materials which might cause air pollution. The Haryana state pollution control board (HSPCB) is the nodal authority to take action and fine source generators.Shakti Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, Gurugram South, said, “I will speak with the Indian Railways regarding this, as well as the MCG and and the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and take action accordingly to make sure this does not happen again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-grassland-near-basai-rail-overbridge-set-on-fire-second-case-in-under-a-month/story-EmsVXnZQzo537MPYMJ0jzL.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram sees 57% drop in crime rate since lockdown||According to the data provided by the police on Friday, Gurugram has witnessed a 57% drop in crime rate in the wake of coronavirus outbreak and the ensuing lockdown. Police said they registered a total of 171 cases of crime in Gurugram between March 25 and March 31, 2020. In 2019, during the same period, the number of cases filed stood at 396. The cases chiefly include murders, thefts and snatching, among others. The data showed that in 2020, 14 cases of crime against person (murder, abetment to suicide, assault and others) were registered between March 25 and March 31. In 2019, 38 such cases were filed. Similarly, crimes against women, including rape and harassment, also declined from 17 cases in 2019 to four this year over the stated period. Number of cases of vehicle theft witnessed a drop from 85 to seven. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “There has been a dip of 57% in crime rate across the city. We compared the data of cases registered between March 25 and March 31, 2020, to the data of same time period of last year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-sees-57-drop-in-crime-rate-since-lockdown/story-3KAHGx1MkVD68wMPwnBdPK.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||One Jamaat attendee tests positive in Pataudi||A 27-year-old man, a resident of Pataudi, who attended the March 18 Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total count of active coronavirus cases in the district to 16. The district health team collected samples of his four family members and sent them to the quarantine facility in Sector 9 and the patient was admitted to the isolation ward in Civil Hospital, Sector 10.On Thursday, a 38-year-old man from Devi Lal Colony, who was also a Jamaat attendee, was confirmed to have contracted Covid-19. The Gurugram police have identified more than 25 persons from old Gurugram, who were part of the congregation. Mohammed Akil, the commissioner of police, said, “We initially identified 10 persons (on Wednesday) and later 12 more. There were additional 12 persons, who, after attending the Jamaat, visited Gurugram and later left for different districts. The information has been shared with the police teams of the respective districts.”The police identified 11 immediate contacts of the 38-year-old Covid-19 patient, which included eight family members and three neighbours. All the identified persons are in the quarantine facility at Government Post Graduate College in Sector 9. Health department officials said their test reports are negative for now.So far, 16 cases have been reported from the Gurugram district, of which nine have recovered. Seven undergoing treatment include a 50-year-old woman of Sushant Lok-1, two 23-year-old women from Sector 47 and Sector 39, a 40-year-old man and his father from Sector 54 and the two persons who attended the Jammat congregation in Delhi.Free accommodation and meals for medical staffTo ensure the safety of medical staff and health workers, who are attending to Covid-19 patients, the state public works department has ordered to provide free accommodation and meals to the staff at all PWD rest house across the state. In an order issued from the Chandigarh headquarter on Saturday, the district administration was told to provide free boarding and lodging to the doctors, paramedics, and essential services staff attending to Covid patients after duty hours so they don’t have to put the lives of their family members at risk. The boarding would include meals. Officials in Gurugram said the decision will help frontline workers, who are susceptible to the disease and arrangements will be made accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/one-jamaat-attendee-tests-positive-in-pataudi/story-EwRZBTHpERtoZC5Bhg9PCM.html
04-04-2020||City||Coronavirus: Ludhiana admn allows farmers to harvest, sow crops||In view of lockdown due to novel coronavirus, the district administration has allowed farmers and farm labourers to harvest and sow crops. An order in this regard was issued by district magistrate-cum-deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal on Saturday.While providing information, Agrawal said the orders were passed keeping in mind the time of harvesting of crops. He said that during the harvesting season, the combine harvesters will be allowed to operate only from 9am to 7pm while the shops selling spare parts of farm machinery besides the workshops dealing in farm machinery will be allowed to open only for three hours, that is, from 5am to 8 am. The repair of the farm machinery will be carried out only inside the workshop compound, he added.Agrawal has directed the chief agriculture officer to ensure that all the directions issued by the government for checking the spread of COVID 19 are complied with by the farmers, farm labourers, combine owners and others at the spare part shops.“All persons should maintain a distance of at least 1.5-2m among each other. They should wear a mask and gloves during work,” said Agrawal. He added that it is necessary that the machinery is sanitised from time to time. He also directed that not more than 10 persons should gather at one place at any given time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-ludhiana-admn-allows-farmers-to-harvest-sow-crops/story-Nbx6yaGUXLoIEN2koh273J.html
04-04-2020||City||Coronavirus: Ludhiana’s DMCH announces 24x7 helpline for medical consultation||With an aim to help the sick and needy in the lockdown, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) has started a 24*7 helpline service number -- 9915322741 -- to provide medical services to the people.A group of more than 50 volunteers including 15 senior consultants, nurses and paramedical staff of the hospital also provide medical services at the doorstep within a seven kilometres radius of the hospital.The hospital authorities said that more than 21,000 people including those from other states have been provided medical consultation through this helpline facility.Secretary of DMCH managing society, Prem Kumar Gupta, said, “The doctors and nursing staff of Hero DMC Heart Institute led by Dr Gupreet Singh Wander formed a pyramid system of consultation. They had started the service around ten days prior to the lockdown.”“The helpline has been set up to guide the patients about their health problems on the phone and provide a unique facility of contacting the concerned doctor and paramedical staff,” he said.“Several high risk patients are making use of this helpline service and the team is answering around 300 to 400 calls daily. Besides Punjab, patients from neighbouring states including Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have also been provided medical consultation,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-ludhiana-s-dmch-announces-24x7-helpline-for-medical-consultation/story-EQxXg3WrFZ6c5enmHUyOjI.html
04-04-2020||City||Switch off only lights, keep other appliances on at 9pm today: PSPCL||Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to the country to switch off lights on Sunday at 9pm, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has asked its domestic consumers to keep other domestic appliances on. An official said this was necessary to maintain grid stability due to the drop in load. As a precautionary measure to meet any exigency, the corporation has asked senior officials to remain present from 8pm to 10pm at all generation plants, and load dispatch centres, to meet any exigency.VK Gupta, spokesperson of All-India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF), claimed that it had flagged the issue of a possible grid collapse at the highest level. He added that after their intervention, the Power System Operation Corporation Ltd (POSOCO) anticipated that there will be a total domestic lighting load reduction of 13000 MW across the country. In the northern region, it will be around 3500 MW. In Punjab and Haryana there will load reduction of 200 MW each, which was not major.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/switch-off-only-lights-keep-other-appliances-on-at-9pm-today-pspcl/story-qVIorwBkxFHUasVjqqilVL.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Man remains stuck in Ghana, his wife, son battle coronavirus in city||After a 43-year-old woman with no history of international travel tested positive for Covid-19 along with her 14-year-old son, her husband, who is currently in Ghana, is trying to return to his family. The woman and her son are currently undergoing treatment at Fortis Hospital, in Mulund.The Chembur-based family was plunged into uncertainty after the woman was diagnosed with Covid-19 on March 27. She had developed symptoms around March 19 and had intimated Kasturba Hospital twice, but the hospital refused to test her for the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19 because she had neither the required travel history nor contact with anyone who had tested positive.“She went to a local physician who prescribed antibiotics that didn’t improve her condition, but did delay the diagnosis. Finally, on March 27, she approached a private laboratory that found her positive for Covid-19,” said her husband who went to Ghana for a business trip on March 9 and has been stranded there due to travel restrictions and the lockdown in the wake of the outbreak.After his wife’s diagnosis, health workers from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) tested the rest of the family and their close contacts. On March 29, their 14-year-old son, one domestic help and the woman’s mother were all diagnosed positive. “I was helpless as I was hundreds of kilometres away and I couldn’t do anything about it,” said the husband.At present, the woman is in the intensive care unit (ICU) at Fortis Hospital, where she has been kept on minimal artificial breathing support. The only silver lining has been that their nine-year-old daughter, who suffers from a rare neurological disorder that affects brain development, has tested negative. She is now in home quarantine, with one of the family’s domestic help. “She is at my mother’s place, who is 78 years old,” said the man. However the girl is struggling to adjust to these unfamiliar circumstances. “She is having seizures regularly as she can’t find her mother and brother. My wife, who is admitted in ICU, keeps worrying about her, which is also affecting her recovery,” said the husband, who has appealed to the ministry of external affairs and the Prime Minister’s Office to bring him home to his family. Family members have also started a petition, on change.org which has already received 9,000 signatures, in the hope of attracting the attention of the government authorities.“I know everything is closed down but still, the government is running emergency services across borders. I need passage to come back to my family who need me. This is a plea to the government from a father,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-remains-stuck-in-ghana-his-wife-son-battle-coronavirus-in-city/story-0rHE0KOdRUbo1L23VHe51L.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||M3M Golf Estate: Expats, residents, staff unite to keep each other safe amid Covid outbreak||Seiko Uchida, a Japanese resident of M3M Golf Estate located in Sector 65, has been working hard to ensure the expat community of the society can reach out for help and support during the nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The condominium located on Golf Course Ext Road has clusters of communities from Japan, South Korea, Vietnam, Uzbekistan, England, Italy and a few other European countries. Uchida, a member of the condominium’s volunteer task force, was put in charge of conveying messages to the expat community, which includes close to 50 expat families.“Due to cultural differences and language barriers, these people did not want to be added to the residents’ group. So I am passing on all messages to them via separate groups. I try to assist them as much as possible. Some of them don’t have drivers now, so I take them out for grocery shopping,” Uchida said. She added that before the Covid-19 outbreak, she wasn’t even aware of the presence of the large expat community. It was only when they were forced to form groups and exchange information that she came across them. The society, which started occupancy in 2017, has close to 490 families living on the property. Being part of a relatively new society, most peoples did not know their neighbours. But residents feel the pandemic brought the society together to actively fight as a community. The task force, comprising a group of 22 volunteers from 11 towers, was created in a few hours when the precautions to be taken during the lockdown were being decided. “Being a new society, we did not have any existing resident’s body. So forming one was an urgent requirement. Surprisingly, we were able to form one in a matter of hours,” Anindya Sarkar, a resident, said. The task force is responsible for extending emergency services to residents who are in quarantine and also to senior citizens unable to step out. The group includes resident doctors who provide consultations. The society set up two helplines, one for each tower and a central helpline for them to reach out for any support. Families in quarantine often use it to place orders for daily needs. The same can also be done via email, Sarkar said. To restrict the movement of staff, the society has accommodated close to 70 members of staff in vacant apartments. The staff is responsible for housekeeping, maintenance, security and horticulture. “We did not want the staff to increase the risk of bringing in the virus so we decided to provide them with accommodation inside. Selected members of staff who were living alone in the city were picked for this,” Arvind Kumar, head of facilities management at Golf Estate, said. He added that residents came forward to make their stay comfortable by donating mattresses, bedsheets and pillows. Each room houses only two members of staff. They have also set up a fund to provide monetary assistance to them and tied up with an NGO to provide relief to daily wagers.The in-house staff is being provided with food by the condominium’s club kitchen. The kitchen and its staff remain functional and are open to orders from residents who are unable to cook. “The kitchen provides three meals for the staff every day. In case any resident wants to, they can place an order as well,” Kumar said. While the condominium has no strict rules to stop residents from taking walks within the over 56-acre property, it does ask residents to maintain social distancing, even when walking with family members. Pet owners taking their dogs for walks have been strictly asked to not go beyond the pet relief area. During the lockdown, life has slowed down but residents say they are taking the time to observe the little joys of life. “The other day, someone shared pictures of birds that flew into their balcony on the WhatsApp group. People are finding the time to do these small things now,” Sarkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/m3m-golf-estate-expats-residents-staff-unite-to-keep-each-other-safe-amid-covid-outbreak/story-Wn6kGxon0ByEK3TI3OOKOO.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||In Kandivli: Society reduces stress, waives maintenance||A cooperative housing society (CHS) in Kandivli (West) has decided not to charge maintenance or repair fees during the lockdown period and two subsequent months.The managing committee of Shanti Apartments No1 CHS waived off the charges considering the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown on its residents. Currently, exemptions are in place from April 1 to June 30 for residents of the 239 flats across seven buildings and one tower.“Citizens are already under tremendous stress. We did not want to extend this by asking them to incur additional expenses. Maintenance charges vary from building to building. We may consider extending these exemptions for another three months but the guidelines will be assessed once the situation is under control again,” said Ketan Jangla, chairman of the society. “While a majority of the flats had already been renovated, 50 flats were undergoing repair work. We were charging ₹6,000 per flat, so the repair work tally of ₹3 lakh has been entirely waived off,” Jangla said. Meanwhile, all common areas, gardens, and stairways are being sanitised once a week while lifts are sanitised daily. “Vendors selling daily essentials have been asked to bring their carts outside the society,” said Rajesh Shah, society secretary.Shah said four security guards have been provided temporary living facilities in one of the wings where cooking amenities are available. “Entry of domestic help has been restricted but they are being paid a full salary,” said Shah. Senior citizens living in the society have been asked not to leave their homes and volunteers are helping with their essentials, including medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-kandivli-society-reduces-stress-waives-maintenance/story-NVKwQlfmmxippGnS6hdi9K.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Pet owners from sealed buildings are in a fix||Housing societies following a complete lockdown have left resident pet owners in a fix.Most pets are trained to relieve themselves outside their homes and now with the restrictions, many pets are turning restless. Sankalp Rastogi, 36, is not allowed to walk his labrador inside the building compound anymore. “Our society went into complete lockdown from Friday after a member tested positive for Covid-19,” said Rastogi, a resident of a society in Andheri (West). His dog has now stopped eating well and is constantly crying.Khar resident Santoshi Gupta, 23, is facing a similar problem as has been finding it difficult to take her two-year-old beagle out. Pet groomers believe the key is to keep pets engaged through the day. “Pet parents should find ways to keep their pets engaged in activities,” said Devanshi Shah, 27, founder of PetKonnect. “One can lay pee-mats or newspapers for the pet. In a day or two, the pet will get used to the change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pet-owners-from-sealed-buildings-are-in-a-fix/story-KFeRADdIHvdVudZzIfwyqK.html
04-04-2020||Noida||Stranded migrants struggle for food in Noida, despite govt assurances||On a bright Friday afternoon, Sushila Devi, a migrant worker, stood under the shade of a tree, waiting nervously for her first meal of the day. Along with thirty-odd people, Devi, who is from Bihar’s Beguserai, had walked over five kilometres from Garhi Chaukhandi village to reach near a temple in Sector 61 after someone told them that a food distributing van that would pass by in the afternoon. Risking being corned by the police for venturing outside amid the lockdown, the group of migrant workers said they had no choice to reach the spot after failing to get any dinner the previous night. Soon, a police jeep arrived and the police officers questioned them why there were on the roads even when ration and meals are being sent to their neighbourhoods. Some workers mustered the courage to tell the police officers the ration and meals were not being served in their area regularly and even if the food van comes once in a while, it not everyone gets food.Meanwhile, a food distributing vehicle dispatched from the community kitchen at Sector 61, passed by and a bunch of policemen stopped. The police officer distributed the food and around 3pm, the workers had their first meal of the day.“Call 144 and food will reach your place,” a police officer told the workers and gave them the phone numbers of a couple of other helplines set up to provide food and shelter to those in need. Devi, however, was sceptical about how useful the helpline numbers would be for her and her family. “We have tried the helpline numbers a lot of times and it is a very long and complicated process to get food through them. Moreover, those who distribute meals sometimes do not visit, and sometimes when they do visit the staff insists that only those whose names are in the “list” would get the food. The ration is also only for those who have ration cards. The ration also doesn’t reach the beneficiaries despite requests,” Devi, who is stuck in the city with no work and little money, said.“Most of our have neighbours have left, my family and I couldn’t leave as we did not have enough money to make the journey back home. We don’t have land back in the village, and the contractor who got us job here at a factory in Sector 63 has said that we will get out due wages if we stay back in the city,” she said.The administration has set up more than 28 community kitchen across the Gautam Budh Nagar district that serve food and distribute it in vans to migrant workers, homeless people and those livings in slums, but many of the intended beneficiaries such as Devi said they do not get food regularly and are left out of the distribution loop.To avail the relief service the administration has set up, such providing accommodation at shelter home and giving food at community kitchens, the migrants call the helpline numbers but said the officials keep directing them to call another number and the loop keeps repeating itself.Shivani Shakya, a daily wage earner who is from Farukhabad lives in a shanty in Sector 68 with nine people including two children had also been battling hunger for the past few days.“We have been calling on the helpline numbers that the police officials gave us, and all we got was more numbers to dial. Sometimes they assure that food has been sent, but the food never arrives. The food van seldom visits our area and when it does, sometimes we manage to get meals, sometimes we don’t as they say that only those with their name in some list will be served,” Shivani, who works at a garment factory in Sector 65, said.According to the slum dwellers in Sector 68 no food had reached them till 3pm on Saturday. When HT called one of the helpline number released last month, which happens to be one of the district magistrate’s office number – 0120-2544700, the reply was: “Yes, we are helping, but its better if you call at the new toll free helpline 1800-4192211. They will definitely help.”Upon calling the toll-free, the operator said, “We will definitely dispatch food, but it would be better if you call 0120-2435027”. On calling the third phone number, the reply was,” The location in Sector 68 mentioned by you is near the community kitchen in Mamura. Give a call at 9205691572, the person who will answer the phone is managing the centre and the food distribution there and he will help you.”Officials at the community kitchen at Mamura, reached through the above-mentioned number, explained how the food was reaching everyone and then gave this reporter another number to get food distributed at Sector 68.“Dial 9971282306, he is the supervisor and will help. He had dispatched the food vehicle, and if you will inform him the said stranded labours in the area will also get the food,” an official, who did not wish to be named, said. “Food is being sent to all the areas, however, if anyone has behind they can call at the new toll free 1800-4192211,” said the supervisor and the loop did not end after the sixth call as well.After making a couple of more calls, the migrant workers at Sector 68 finally got the first meal in the evening around 5.30pm.When reached for a comment on the efficiencies of the helpline, district magistrate Suhas LY had first said he would speak on the matter at a later time, but despite repeated attempts remained unavailable till this story was published.Despite repeated attempts, additional chief executive officer, Noida authority, Praveen Mishra, who is in charge of the ten community kitchens in Noida, remained unavailable for comment as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/stranded-migrants-struggle-for-food-in-noida-despite-govt-assurances/story-HMJV0SKiGBzqkyRxtS3mmI.html
04-04-2020||City||Curfew: Ludhiana postal staff go the extra mile to help out needy||Amid the lockdown imposed by the government to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, different non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and individuals have risen to the occasion and gone the extra mile. The staff members of the department of posts, Ludhiana, are also among the brave warriors, who are not only facilitating the public with banking and delivery facilities, but also coming to the aid of the needy.The postal department began its social service in the district on Wednesday. The in-charge of a post office said they were taking the help of postmen to locate the needy people.Sarita Madaan, sub-post office master of the Rajguru Nagar branch, said, “Postmen are usually familiar with the area. They are assigned different beats where they go and deliver mail. Through them, we are able to learn about the condition of the people, especially those who are living without food. We are trying to help out such people.”“All the staff members in my branch have expressed the desire to contribute to the cause,” she said.“We are donating packets of the food items, including wheat flour, pulses, salt and cooking oil to the needy. On Saturday, our team distributed food items in a settlement near the Barewal Road and Guru Amardas Colony,” said Madaan.Similarly, Kamikar Singh, postmaster, Focal Point branch, said the staff, on field duty on a rotational basis, have been distributing food items among the people.“If any account holder with the post office is facing difficulties with withdrawal of money, the postal department is ready to provide them the money at their doorsteps after proper verification. From next week, we have planned to implement a new strategy where our staff can effectively do the social work while performing their official duties,” he said.The social work, being carried out by the postal department staff, was recently acknowledged by Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. He appreciated the postal department staff of Punjab for their philanthropic work at a time of crisis on his Facebook account.Senior superintendent of post offices Amanpreet Singh said, “The Indian Post has allowed the staff to carry out the philanthropic work while performing the official duty during the ongoing global health emergency.”“Postmasters of various branches are regularly updating me on the work that are carrying out. I have received the updates from post office branches of Focal Point, Rajguru Nagar, Sidhi Peeth Chowk, Dhandari Kalan and Lohara,” he said.“While I fully support the voluntary initiative taken by the staff, I ask them to take all the precautionary measures when they are on duty. I have asked them to purchase more masks and sanitisers on their own and send me a bill for the same, since the centralised procurement will take time,” he added.The head post office in Ludhiana covers 45 offices in the urban areas and 11 branch offices (BO) in 85 villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-ludhiana-postal-staff-go-the-extra-mile-to-help-out-needy/story-Y69rDpJaODPDJDHitQ9PdL.html
04-04-2020||City||50-yr-old becomes Ambernath’s first coronavirus case||Ambernath recorded its first case of Covid-19 after 50-year-old man tested positive for the coronavirus on Saturday. The man had returned to Uttar Pradesh and was admitted to KEM Hospital for a heart ailment and diabetes.“The man is suspected to have caught the infection at the hospital. His family members have tested negative,” said Suresh Patil, health officer, Ambernath Municipal Council.Kalyan saw two new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total count to 24 in Kalyan-Dombivli. A six-month-old baby and a 60-year-old woman from Kalyan tested positive after a 65-year-old man of the family was infected. All three are admitted at Kasturba Hospital. The man had gone to Jalgaon last month.The 57-year-old man from Dhobi Ali in Thane who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, owns a stationery shop and had travelled to Surat last week.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “We have quarantined his wife, daughter, son and daughter-in-law. They will be tested too.”Thane has 16 Covid-19 cases and Mumbra recorded its first positive case on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/50-yr-old-becomes-ambernath-s-first-coronavirus-case/story-Nvf6zbSvNsnRdjUu2wEBBP.html
04-04-2020||City||12 Dadri residents quarantined after coming in contact with Jamaat men||The Gautam Budh Nagar health department has put 12 Dadri residents in quarantine after they came in contact with two men from Hardoi who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month. One of the two Hardoi men was later found infected with coronavirus, the police said. After attending the Tablighi congregation, the two Hardoi residents had visited two mosques in Dadri in March. The health department has advised people to stay away from the two mosques — Noorani Mosque and Madina Masjid — where the suspects had stayed, the police said.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the Greater Noida police received information from its Hardoi counterpart that one of the Hardoi men has been found positive for coronavirus. Singh said that the Hardoi police launched an investigation and found that the two men had attended a programme at Nizamuddin Markaz in second week of March. “The two persons had left Nizamuddin and reached Masjid Kaila Bhatta in Ghaziabad on March 15. There they joined a local group, and nine persons from the group visited a mosque in Dadri on March 17,” he said.The group stayed in Noorani Mosque till March 23 and met some people. The same day the group members shifted to Madina Masjid in neighbourhood and also met some people. During their stay, some of them had fallen unwell and consulted a local doctor, the police said, adding that the group left Dadri on March 28 and dispersed to their homes.Upon getting information, the Greater Noida police said that they formed teams which visited the two mosques. “We identified 12 persons who are workers and imams of the two mosques. They had come in contact with the Jamaat group last week. The health department has collected their samples for medical examination. The 12 persons have been quarantined in Noida district hospital’s new building in Sector 39,” Singh said.Of the nine persons in the group, seven are residents of Ghaziabad. The police and health departments are trying to trace people, who would have come in contact with the two Hardoi men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-dadri-residents-quarantined-after-coming-in-contact-with-jamaat-men/story-7sWMzT56ibyIjiyRe1n9CO.html
04-04-2020||Noida||Shut OPDs, take up only emergency cases, State tells pvt hospitals in GB Nagar||In an order issued Saturday, the Uttar Pradesh government has directed all private hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar mandatorily close their out-patient departments (OPDs) and only attend to emergency cases in view of the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The state would also fix timings for private hospitals. The order added that the medical staff of private hospitals should go to patients’ homes for treatment. Doctors are also encouraged to use technology to attend to patients suffering from regular seasonal diseases. They have been told to give consultation to patients telephonically or through video calls.The district administration has been asked to prepare passes for the medical staff of private and government hospitals so they can reach patients in times of emergency. The phone numbers of doctors in private hospitals will be made available to the public.“As per the orders of the state government, we have asked all private hospitals to address patients’ problems telephonically or through video calls. Medical staff of private hospitals has been asked to maintain social distancing while treating patients. We are in touch with the Indian Medical Association of Noida to resolve the issue of regular OPDs. We will ensure that no citizen faces any health crisis in the district and for that all the measures have been taken,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.The Noida chaptem of IMA stated Saturday that they would lend their complete support in fighting against the high infectious Covid-19. “Private hospitals have started consulting patients on the phone and through video calls. We are maintaining social distancing while treating patients. All OPDs are shut in the district as a precautionary measure,” IMA-Noida president said.“We have demanded Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits for our doctors and medical staff working with Covid-19 patients. We have also asked the state government to provide to our medical staff an insurance cover similar to the one offered to government hospital doctors handling Covid-19 cases. We are with the government in this fight against the virus but we have to ensure the safety of our members as their life is also at risk,” Dr Sharma said.The IMA president has also demanded strict legal action against Covid-19 patients who misbehave with medical staff. “The whole country is fighting the battle against Covid-19 and such behaviour can hamper the morale of the medical professionals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/shut-opds-take-up-only-emergency-cases-state-tells-pvt-hospitals-in-gb-nagar/story-EJsxQWOHLn60GtPthsu8EI.html
04-04-2020||Noida||At least 500 FIRs registered in Gautam Budh Nagar since lockdown started, 289 arrested||Till April 3, day 9 of the 21-day nationwide lockdown, the Gautam Budh Nagar police had registered 507 FIRs against violators, fined more than 4,700 vehicles and arrested 289 people. On March 24, the prime minister had announced a three-week lockdown starting March 25 to combat the spread of the coronavirus disease. Only essential services and vehicles and people engaged in these services were exempt from the lockdown. However, the first day of the lockdown saw residents throw caution to the wind, forcing the Gauatm Budh Nagar police to crack down.“Compliance is being ensured in the district and stern action is being taken in case of any violation. Till April 3, 507 FIRs had been lodged against violators of the lockdown and Section 144 (which forbids gathering of more than four people) in Gautam Budh Nagar. In this regard, 289 people have also been arrested,” said commissioner of police, Alok Singh in a statement released by police.Police officials also said that 33,426 vehicles have been screened and 4,740 challans issued, while 373 vehicles have been seized for infractions. Police has also recovered ₹85,200 as penalty from violators.“Three complaints were registered under the Essential Commodities Act and three people were arrested for the same. In the entire district, 132 barriers have been put up and only people engaged in essential services are allowed to move,” the police commissioner said.Police officials are patrolling the district while units of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) are also carrying out flag marches. The department has also deployed drones to monitor the situation, police said.A dozen men were arrested by the Sector 20 police on April 1 in Sector 16, thereby violating section 144. Badalpur police also nabbed two men on April 2 for circulating messages on social media that could have created disharmony. Bisrakh police also arrested a shop owner for allegedly selling goods at increased prices on March 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/at-least-500-firs-registered-in-gautam-budh-nagar-since-lockdown-started-289-arrested/story-cWkMlZzFdTsL9CP2iTHFKL.html
04-04-2020||Noida||State health minister reviews pandemic handling in GB Nagar||State health minister Jai Pratap Singh on Saturday reviewed handling of Covid-19 pandemic in the district. He held a video conference with Dadri MLA Tejpal Nagar, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, Jewar MLA Jewar Dhirendra Singh, Gautam Budh Nagar MP Dr Mahesh Sharma, police commissioner Alok Singh, district magistrate Suhas LY and Greater Noida chief executive officer Narendra Bhooshan, among others.All top officials were briefed about measures being taken to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease in the district, which has so far reported 58 positive cases. Senior IAS officer Narendra Bhooshan said, “Following instructions from the UP government, we have formed a team consisting of all senior officers from health department, district administration and police, among others to contain the spread of coronavirus. We are regularly reviewing ongoing measures to ensure people in quarantine at homes get all essentials and migrant workers get food and other essential services. Our effort is to follow all instructions of the state government and effectively contain Covid-19 cases,” said Bhooshan.Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said they have formed a toll-free helpline (18004192211) where those in need of essential items or services or those showing any symptoms of Covid-19 can call for assistance. The most common symptoms of Covid-19 are fever, tiredness and dry cough. The police commissioner said they have sealed all borders of the district be it towards Delhi, Ghaziabad or Bulandshahr. “We have created 132 check points for smooth movement of vehicles delivering essential items/services in the district. The police is also reaching out to those who call for help,” Alok Singh, police commissioner, Gautam Budh Nagar. During the meeting, Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh said all urban and rural areas must be effectively disinfected to check spread of Covid-19 to other areas. “We have given proposal for a video conferencing so that proper communication can help in containing coronavirus in our district, which has become a hot spot,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/state-health-minister-reviews-pandemic-handling-in-gb-nagar/story-NbtUcq5LUyatiLNQUnck5J.html
04-04-2020||City||30-year-old Andheri resident loses ₹1.40 lakh to cyber fraudsters||A 30-year-old Andheri resident lost ₹1.40 lakh to cyber fraudsters after he ordered groceries online o Thursday. The complainant, Jitesh Muni, looked for the nearest grocery shop online and called on the number displayed. The fraudster told him that it would take the goods would be delivered in 48 hours owing to the high demand and because the store had to get the goods from their godown. He further told Muni that they accept only online payment. The fraudster asked Muni to share his ATM card details to carry out the transaction. After Muni gave his card details, the fraudster cheated him of ₹1.40 lakh, following which he approached the Amboli police station.“We have registered a case against an unknown accused under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Information Technology Act,” said a police inspector from Amboli police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/30-year-old-andheri-resident-loses-1-40-lakh-to-cyber-fraudsters/story-F3X5AKFaAmzJHny9VrWsKK.html
04-04-2020||Noida||Noida authority provides food to thousands of daily wagers||The Noida authority is providing food to thousands of migrant labourers and other needy people across the city who have been rendered jobless due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus, officials said on Saturday. For this purpose, the authority has set up five community kitchens in Harola, Mamura, Sorkha, Bhangel and Sector 14A (near Shani Temple). To serve quality food to the needy, the authority staff are also having meal with the needy, the officials said.In this initiative, several NGOs and private companies such as Samsung, Akshay Patra, Ironman security firm, Rajasthan Kalyan Parishad, DLF, and Radha Swami society have come forward to help the authority, said the officials. The authority has formed five teams to monitor the cooking operations and delivery to the needy. The Noida authority chief executive officer, Ritu Maheshwari, has directed the staff to ensure food is delivered to the right people.“We are maintaining a database of all those who are being served food daily. The Noida authority, along with NGOs, served food to 37,246 people on Friday. The authority is providing food in morning and evening daily,” said Maheshwari.The authority teams are reaching out to those living in slums, villages and at closed construction sites, where most of the migrant workers live. The Noida authority alone employs at least 8,000 migrant labourers, who work at its different construction and maintenance sites. If required, the authority will increase the capacity to ensure no homeless man stays hungry in the city during the lockdown that is ordered till April 14, said the officials. The authority has started providing food to the needy after instructions from the Uttar Pradesh government that wants people to stay home and maintain social distancing so that Covid-19 spread can be contained effectively. However, some people are still not getting food regularly. At least 150 migrant labourers from Bihar staying in Sector 37 complained that they have failed to get food daily. “We could get only khichdi some times since March 25 when the nationwide lockdown came into force. We want to go home but cannot do so as the borders are sealed and there is not transport facility,” said Gulshan Kumar, a migrant labourer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-provides-food-to-thousands-of-daily-wagers/story-Vf1YYoBbbfPi4kskTxVVjP.html
04-04-2020||Noida||Residents object to quarantine facility in housing tower, builder agrees to provide space elsewhere||Apartment owners of Antriksh Golf View apartment complex in Sector 78 have objected to the builder’s plan to convert vacant flats in the housing towers into quarantine facilities.The developer Antriksh Group had asked the district administration to use vacant flats as a quarantine facility, but residents said this move will put their health at risk. After the residents got together and registered their protest, the builder said he would provide space for setting up quarantine facilities in other residential complexes that are completely vacant currently.The builder had requested the administration to converting vacant flats into a 100-bed quarantine facility to aid the government efforts to contain the coronavirus spread. The builder has offered vacant space on the ground floor of the housing complex, where at least 5,000 people are living. This project has 15 residential towers with 1,500 flats. At least 30% of these flats are lying unused.“We have written to district magistrate Suhas LY and the UP government to avoid converting our housing complex into a quarantine facility. The move will put at least 5,000 people living here at risk of contracting Covid-19 because the entry and exit will be common for all flats, be it occupied or vacant. We will not let it happen,” Brijesh Kumar Singh, an apartment owner, said.Apartment owners on Friday and Saturday came out of their flats and congregated on the road outside their complex to register their anger against the move.“The builder should have at least consulted us before asking the administration to use the vacant flats because we have a right over this complex. We hope that after our objections, the administration will stop converting the society into a quarantine facility,” Davendra Kumar, another apartment owner, said.Antriksh Group promoter Rakesh Yadav said the apartment owners do not need to worry at all.“We have vacant housing projects in Noida and Greater Noida sectors, where no apartment buyer has shifted as yet. We will provide vacant housing towers at other locations, including the ones in Sector 150, Noida, and Greater Noida West. In this time of crisis, we are ready to work with the government. We have pledged to provide space so that at least a 200-bed quarantine facility becomes ready. Apartment owners in Sector 78 need not worry at all. We will not convert vacant flats in Sector 78 project into a quarantine facility,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/residents-object-to-quarantine-facility-in-housing-tower-builder-agrees-to-provide-space-elsewhere/story-34rpomcolmRgPKXZSDwJGK.html
04-04-2020||City||Three-tier system to deal with Covid-19 cases in UP||The Uttar Pradesh government has devised a three-tier system to deal with suspected and positive cases of Covid-19 in the state. In this connection, the Ghaziabad health department Saturday opened a 30-bed facility at Muradnagar and shifted all Covid-19 patients from MMG Hospital to the new facility.Under the new system, the government has identified different health centres under L1, L2 and L3 levels with L1 catering to non-critical Covid-19 patients, while L2 and L3 will deal with more complicated and critical cases. “On the same lines, we opened up our community health centre after converting it into fully operational L1 facility for Covid-19 patients. Until now, these patients were admitted to the isolation ward at MMG Hospital. They all have been shifted to Muradnagar facility now. Next in line is the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital which will come up as exclusive 100-bed L2 facility. We will also have five ventilators there,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, said.“The Sanjay Nagar Hospital will be ready to take in Covid-19 patients in another four or five days. It will deal only with positive cases with health complications. The other critical cases of Covid-19 will be sent to Delhi or to the L3 facility at Meerut Medical College. For isolation wards, we will be taking up hostels of colleges. A search is on to find such colleges,” Dr Gupta said.Once the three tier facilities come up, the isolation wards at MMG Hospital and Sanjay Nagar hospital will be freed up. The hospital will then return to attending general patients.Amit Mohan Prasad, principal secretary (health), said Saturday that a notification for six L2 hospitals in UP, including the one at Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital in Ghaziabad, has been issued.“For L3 critical care facilities, we have hospitals at Prayagraj, Jhansi, Lucknow, Meerut, Gorakhpur and Saifai. We have also identified 50 private hospitals that have been given five days’ notice to make arrangements for us to keep Covid patients. The CM is in the process of setting up a ₹100 crore Covid Care Fund for provision of equipment, testing facilities, face masks, sanitisers etc for the three-tier health facilities,” he said.The officials also said chief minister Yogi Adityanath Saturday spoke to former chief minister and Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati and sought her help in persuading her MLAs to contribute towards the Covid Care Fund.Adityanath on Saturday evening also held a video conferencing with all MLAs and MLCs and requested them to contribute ₹1 crore from their local area development funds and also a month’s salary towards the Covid fund.“We need to strengthen the health system to deal with the coronavirus. At present, we have eight operational laboratories. We had zero before coronavirus came to light. We need to set up a series of L1, L2 and L3 facilities to deal with Covid-19 cases. We have also been successful in coming up with 24 L2 hospitals. Apart from MLAs and MLCs, I have also requested industries to contribute towards the Covid fund from their CSR (corporate social responsibility) funds. The fund will help us get more personal protection kits, three-layered masks, N95 masks and other items that our health professionals need,” Adityanath said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-tier-system-to-deal-with-covid-19-cases-in-up/story-VReEC8jewDRKxeO2C1bqyJ.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Common spaces in 350 condominiums to be sanitised in week-long drive||In a week-long drive, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will sanitise common spaces of about 350 condominiums, gated colonies and residential sectors falling within its jurisdiction, said officials on Saturday. According to MCG officials, they will also sanitise the premises of around 250 banks and ATMs, 70 community centres, 700 parks, grocery shops and chemist stores as part of the drive that started on April 2. The MCG has constituted nine teams for this task and every day, 40 banks and ATMs, 60 residential spaces and 120 parks are cleaned. Each team has 10-12 members.MCG commissioner, Vinay Pratap Singh, said that the drive is being carried out at sites that people tend to visit often during the Covid-19 pandemic. These locations are being disinfected and sanitised on priority, to reduce the spread of Covid-19. “While we are appealing to the residents to stay indoors, we also realise that they need to venture outdoors for procuring essential items. We have, hence, identified such locations across the city and are using isopropyl alcohol hydrochloride to disinfect and sanitise these places, on priority, to ensure virus and bacteria do not stay on surfaces,” Singh said.MCG officials said that RWAs of condominiums, gated colonies, residential sectors, and those running grocery stores and chemist shops, which are not covered in the drive, can also reach out to the MCG directly for getting their premises sanitised after April 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-common-spaces-in-350-condominiums-to-be-sanitised-in-week-long-drive/story-yLBo1LiK4cim6fDyJ2heyO.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Locals violate coronavirus lockdown orders to view peacocks in south Mumbai society||After peacocks were spotted at Khareghat Colony in south Mumbai earlier this week, the Parsi residential colony near Malabar Hill is attracting a large number of visitors despite the lockdown currently in force. Videos and photos of peacocks at the colony were circulated widely on social media.“There have been a few instances where people have entered the society looking for these birds. Alert residents have immediately asked the security staff to ensure they are taken outside,” said Karzan Engineer, a resident of Khareghat Colony. “People are not only endangering the lives of residents, but also their own by stepping out when the lockdown is in place,” he said.On Tuesday and Wednesday, two peacocks and three peahens were photographed by a Khareghat resident. The birds are frequently seen in the area, said residents, and last year, one resident had counted 32 peacocks across Doongerwadi. Resident Nariah Daruwalla said, “Owing to less vehicular traffic and noise pollution, the number of peacocks visiting at a time has increased.”Malabar Hill resident Darshan Khatau also spotted peacocks at his building. He clarified that the birds have always been visible around the Tower of Silence in Doongerwadi and Raj Bhavan. “Human inactivity combined with movement of insects, rats etc. allow these peacocks to move closer to residential areas for food. It is nothing new,” said Khatau.Environmentalist Rashneh Pardiwala said, “Not just peacocks, mongoose, monkeys and variety of birds are being spotted by residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/locals-violate-coronavirus-lockdown-orders-to-view-peacocks-in-south-mumbai-society/story-HodECAHkqeZDFAKskFSPmI.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Hydro plant on alert, citizens asked to switch off only lights: Maharashtra prepares for PM’s solidarity call||Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to turn off lights for nine minutes at 9pm on Sunday, Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has put its Koyna hydro-electric power station on alert to ensure electricity supply in the state is not affected.In a statement issued on Saturday night, the state discom said, “The electricity grid is robust and stable to handle the variation in demand. All electrical appliances can remain on during this period. Citizens must not switch off the main switch.” It further said that street lights and lights for all essential services will remain on during this period. Earlier in the day, state energy minister Nitin Raut in a letter to the principal secretary, asked to co-ordinate with power companies to submit a plan immediately. The sudden drop in demand for nine minutes followed by the spike when everyone switches on lights could lead to a high voltage surge, which electric grids may struggle to handle. Officials said hydro-power is an important element in the grid management plan for Sunday night. Koyna Hydro and Tata Power Hydro will be fully available, with experienced operators in their control rooms, for system operation.On Saturday, Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Ltd (MSETCL), or Mahatransco, said it estimates the state’s electricity demand would see a drop in the range of 1700-1750 megawatts (MW) on Sunday night. MSETCL has prepared a 20-point action plan to mitigate any fluctuations. People are also advised to switch off only lights and leave on domestic appliances like fans and air conditioners.Officials from the state discom said it is easier to ramp up hydro-electricity compared to thermal power and Koyna has a capacity of close to 2,190 MW. “The hydro power plant is on alert to ramp back the load on the grid. So once the nine minutes are over, restart is quick,” said an MSEDCL official.State energy minister, Nitin Raut, on Friday urged citizens to only light candles and diya, without switching off lights as this could cause multi-grid failure. “It takes 12-16 hours to service one power station. If a grid collapses, it will take a week to restore things to normalcy. This will affect essential services,” said Raut. Vishwas Pathak, BJP spokesperson and a member of the Maharashtra State Electricity Board, said “unnecessary doubts” are being raised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hydro-plant-on-alert-citizens-asked-to-switch-off-only-lights-maharashtra-prepares-for-pm-s-solidarity-call/story-9716MH8jzO5RiamP8sQtxK.html
04-04-2020||City||Thane hotel association feeds 2,000 people twice a day||Thane Hotel Owners’ Association are providing food to 2,000 people twice a day since Friday. “Many cannot afford to buy groceries. Around five cooks are cooking for 2,000 people twice a day and food is distributed in various parts of Thane,” said Ratnakar Shetty, president, Hotel Owners’ Association, Thane. “This is a voluntary initiative and hence only those cooks who stay nearby and have no health problems are asked to come to work. Being in the food business, we understand how important it is to have atleast one meal daily,” said Kushal Bhandari, member of the association. They are identifying areas where no NGO or organisations are able to reach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-hotel-association-feeds-2-000-people-twice-a-day/story-w0ETZaQBnaBy6irloAR7mL.html
04-04-2020||City||Bhiwandi police ask shops to close after 5pm||Bhiwandi police have asked shops selling groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy products and meat to shut after 5pm. Shop owners have been advised to remain open only between 5am and 5pm. “We still see people outdoors claiming to have stepped out to buy buying essential goods. It becomes difficult to gauge who has a genuine reason so we have asked shops to shut in the evening,” said Rajkumar Shinde, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Bhiwandi.The Bhiwandi police have clamped nakabandis at 16 locations and are also drone-patrolling and distributing food and essentials to the needy. They are also ensuring provisions reach those in the tribal areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhiwandi-police-ask-shops-to-close-after-5pm/story-GLQ2TnGOoKOMTkfq46UtrJ.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||2 IIT-B projects selected to develop fast-track solutions to Covid-19||Two projects by the department of biosciences and bio-engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) have been selected by the central government to develop fast-track solutions to fight Covid-19. The Department of Science and Technology’s Science and Engineering Research Board (DST-SERB) has approved five research projects from various organisations in the country to combat Covid-19 and related respiratory infections. Two of these projects are from IIT-B, one each from IIT Delhi, IIT Kanpur, and the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bengaluru.Professor Sanjeeva Srivastava from IIT-B is working on the project ‘Identification of global metabolite biomarkers in Covid-19 infected patients for target therapy.’ Biomarkers are naturally occurring genes or molecules that can indicate the severity of a disease. Kiran Kondabagil, another professor, has been selected by DST-SERB for the project ‘Antibody-based capture of 2019-nCoV and its inactivation using lipid-based in-situ gel’. Both projects are along the lines of finding a cure or therapy to the novel coronavirus, which has so far affected over 200 countries and killed over 51,000 people worldwide.“These are two projects that we have got funding for. They are all research-related projects. That’s the only information we can reveal right now,” said Milind Atrey, dean, research and development, IIT Bombay. Officials did not divulge details of the grant but the DST-SERB is likely to allocate funds to the tune of Rs1.25 crore to the four institutes. IIT-B director Subhasis Chaudhuri said, “We are happy to note that DST-SERB has selected projects of two of our colleagues to develop fast track solutions for Covid-19. We wish them success in this endeavor.” Meanwhile, the DST-SERB has set up a rapid response centre at the Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, IIT-B, for which the centre has allocated Rs56 crore. The Centre for Augmenting WAR with Covid-19 Health Crisis (CAWACH) will identify up to 50 innovations and startups that are in the area of novel, low-cost, safe and effective ventilators, respiratory aids, protective gear, novel solutions to control Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-iit-b-projects-selected-to-develop-fast-track-solutions-to-covid-19/story-NP3GJSfN0YAiK2rYLm1bPP.html
04-04-2020||City||8,900 contacts of Mumbai’s coronavirus patients traced||The authorities have traced around 8, 900 close as well as extended contacts of the 278 patients in the city who had been tested positive for coronavirus until Friday. Around 900 of these contacts live either in slums or congested areas owing to which they have been provided with special quarantine facilities by their respective civic ward offices. Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday had announced that patients above 60 years of age will be shifted to five big hospitals, as the elderly and those suffering from comorbidities are at a greater risk of contracting the virus.The corporation said senior citizens and patients with comorbidities will be shifted to Kasturba Hospital, St George Hospital, Seven Hills Hospital, Nanavati Hospital and Saifee Hospital. Patients below 60 years as well as asymptomatic patients will be send to the Covid-19 isolation centres located at Nagpada, Bandra (West), Andheri (West), Borivli, Powai and Govandi. On Saturday, the corporation has set up 10 clinics in the densely-populated areas of the city as well as across more than 241 containment zones. The swabs of citizens will be collected for testing for coronavirus everyday at these clinics between 9am and 1pm. The decision to set up the clinics was taken by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi in the wake of the substantial rise in the cases in the city.Mumbai recorded 99 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the total number of positive patients in the entire Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to 454. Two of these patients are from Dharavi. Until now, five people from Dharavi have tested positive for Covid-19 who have no travel history.Ninety-six other patients who developed symptoms have also been admitted to quarantine centres and their test results are awaited. Meanwhile, the firefighters at city’s 34 fire stations have also stepped up efforts to provide relief during the lockdown. Some eateries have started delivering food packets to the closest fire stations. These packets are distributed by the firefighters to the homeless as well as to those migrant labourers who have been stranded due to the lockdown. The families of the firefighters have also been cooking food for the needy which is distributed by the fire safety personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-900-contacts-of-mumbai-s-coronavirus-patients-traced/story-3SMf0THHzurGg4XT72lshI.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Private doctors don’t need PPE kits, should open clinics: Tope||State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday again requested private doctors to start their clinics and hospitals so that people do not have to face difficulties in getting treatment. He also said that private doctors don’t need personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and N95 masks to treat patients who have no symptoms of Covid-19 as chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has urged citizens to visit dedicated government hospitals if they show symptoms associated with Covid-19.“Private doctors do not need PPE kits and N95 masks to treat patients having no symptoms of coronavirus. The demand made by the private doctors is not fair. They can use triple layer masks and start their services for the people. The CM has also asked citizens not to visit private doctors and hospitals if they have symptoms such as cough, cold, fever and pneumonia and instead visit dedicated government hospitals for coronavirus,” Tope said.The minister said he feels stopping services to all patients based on apprehensions is unfair for a noble profession like doctors and urged all doctors to start their services again.The Ayush ministry has trained nearly 250 doctors who will now train 1.25 lakh doctors in how to deal with such situations. “The government wants to make available sufficient doctors and medical staff, and thus have given a week-long training to 250 doctors. They will now be giving training to some 1.25 lakh ayurved, unani and homeopathy doctors who can be used for an emergency situation,” Tope said.He asked ayurved, unani and homeopathy doctors to upload their suggestions about treating coronavirus on the Ayush ministry portal before suggesting the same to people. The minister reiterated that the government is considering lifting restrictions in phases after April 14 but added that this would only be possible if people follow the restrictions properly. “Rising number of cases is not in the interest of the state,” he said.Tope said the state has 25,000 PPE kits, 2.5 lakh N95 masks, 25 lakh triple layer masks and over 3,500 ventilators at government and private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/private-doctors-don-t-need-ppe-kits-should-open-clinics-tope/story-Mmyz8Fcdxh1F8DobTYkluI.html
04-04-2020||Delhi||Parents, kids get tips from Kejriwal, experts in live session||Creating awareness about the Covid-19 pandemic among children, engaging them in activities and sensitising them about their responsibilities towards the society were among the suggestions made by the Delhi government to parents during a session — ‘parenting in the time of corona’ — held Saturday.The live session, organised to help children and their parents cope with the ongoing lockdown, was chaired by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “It’s a challenging time for us all. But, we will have to turn this crisis into an opportunity in every possible way. Parents should try to take it as an opportunity to spend as much time as possible with their children. They should engage them in different activities to understand them better. They should educate their children about the prevailing situation,” he said.Kejriwal was joined by education minister Manish Sisodia, director of the directorate of education (DoE), Binay Bhushan, and experts, including educationist Seemant Dhadwal, as panellists. Parents and children were asked to send their questions via SMS, on WhatsApp groups to their school teachers or on Twitter accompanied by #parentinginlockdown. A senior government official said that they shortlisted the most-asked questions for the session.Responding to a question, asked by many parents, about tricks to convince their kids, as young as four to five years, to stay home, Kejriwal said, “Parents will have to make their children understand the nature of the coronavirus. They will have to tell them how it transmits from one person to another. It’s important that the children know that one person can transmit this virus to others, just by a touch or sneeze. This is how they can help their kids understand that they can also catch the infection if they go out and there is a need for complete social distancing in this prevailing situation,” he said.Many parents asked experts how to protect their children from the prevailing “sense of negativity” due to the pandemic. Educationist and chief executive officer of Meraki Foundation, Dhadwal, asked parents to ensure that their children take a break from social media every day. “All social networking sites are full of Covid-19 news items. It’s important that the kids do not read only about that throughout the day. Parents should engage their children in activities of their choice. They should regularly ask children how they feel about the lockdown. They should listen to their apprehensions and queries regularly, to avoid any long-lasting impression on their young minds. It’s important to create a positive environment at home,” he said.The panel suggested parents plan a daily routine with their children and participate in their activities. “Generally, both parents and children complain that they do not get enough time to spend with each other. This is the best opportunity for them to spend quality time at home and understand each other well,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal also suggested parents to set an example for their children by helping those in need, including homeless people, daily wagers and domestic helps. Among other queries raised by the children were if their summer vacations would get compromised due to the lockdown, how to avoid boredom at home and ways to continue learning at home. Besides, students of classes 9 and 11 also asked about their pending exams. “We have already announced that we will evaluate students of these classes based on the exams we took before the lockdown and their internal assessments. None will be asked to write exams again,” Bushan said.Meanwhile, some parents also asked the government why private schools are charging a fee during the lockdown. Kejriwal said that he had also received messages from parents, saying that it’s difficult for them to pay the school fee during the lockdown. Sisodia said, “Parents need to understand that private schools pay the salaries of their staff from that fee only. We understand the challenges of parents as well, but they also have to think about those who won’t be get paid if the schools do not receive the fee. If parents have any suggestions regarding this issue, they can share it with us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parents-kids-get-tips-from-kejriwal-experts-in-live-session/story-4mbDDzMN8s58yWic1GmhDJ.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown violation: 4,337 vehicles seized, cops file 18,262 FIRs||To discourage people from defying lockdown and prevent youths from unnecessarily roaming around, in the city, the police have cracked down on the motorists and seized 4,337 vehicles across the state, till Saturday afternoon. The drive of seizing vehicles has been intensified to prevent the spread of pandemic coronavirus which has claimed 26 lives in the state so far.Home minister Anil Deshmukh, on Friday, on Twitter, said that people who are unnecessarily roaming around in their areas on vehicles, stern action will be taken against them and their vehicles would be seized by the police.“The state police has so far seized 4,337 vehicles and collected fines of over ₹42 lakhs from those who violated laws,” said Vinayak Deshmukh, assistant inspector general of police (law and order).The police across all the districts in the state have also registered around 18,262 FIRs till Saturday. “These cases were registered against those who were not following the orders of movement restrictions under section 144 of CrPC and not shutting down shops, and roaming freely in public,” said Deshmukh.In many districts, cases of clashes of police with the public were also reported. At some places, police resorted to lathi-charge to disperse the crowd.Cases of attacks on policemen were also reported. Deshmukh said that the police registered around 46 cases of assault on policemen across the state, during the lockdown. In these cases, 160 offenders were arrested, he said.In Mumbai, around 100 FIRs have been registered by the police on Friday, in connection with the breach of lockdown. In these cases, nearly 166 people were booked and 137 were arrested. The arrested offenders were later released on bail. Since March 20, a total of 888 cases have been registered under section 188 of IPC and 1,332 were arrested in Mumbai.Pranaya Ashok, DCP (operations) and spokesperson for Mumbai Police said, “Till now we are concentrating on making announcements and registering FIRs to control the crowd. Apart from this, we are using our Twitter handle to appeal to people to stay at home.”When asked if more manpower and drones will be needed as the number of containment zones is increasing, Ashok said, “As of today we can manage the containment zones with the existing manpower. We will use additional manpower if needed.”66 FIRs against rumour monger“A total of 66 FIRs have been registered across the state till now for spreading misinformation and rumours related to Covid-19. Further, many cyber fraudsters are trying to cash in on the lockdown by circulating phishing traps. We have made a list of such frauds and issued an advisory on our Twitter handle,” said Balsing Rajput, superintendent, Maharashtra cyber department.Cops enhance their safetyThe Mumbai police force has enhanced their safety measures after a deputy commissioner rank officer was hospitalised following complaints of dry cough and exhaustion on Thursday. As a precautionary measure, his samples were collected, which turned out negative. The officer has been commended in ensuring implementation of lockdown, especially to keep a tab on vehicles trying to get out of the city. “The officer was on roads while trying to ensure that there are no violations of lockdown, exposing him to dust and heat,” said a high-ranking police officer. The officer had conducted meetings with his junior officers as well as seniors. The police personnel who are at the forefront in dealing with several citizens, some of them in dense slums, have been asked to ensure that they maintain social distancing. On Saturday, home minister Anil Deshmukh distributed personal protective equipment to policemen for their safety while performing the duty.No toilets, sheds for cops on roadA DCP rank officer said that policemen are continuously manning the streets and implementing effective lockdown without proper basic requirements. “The policemen are on the street 24x7 and many places do not even have basic toilets and sheds. Police personnel especially the women are facing difficulties,” the senior officer said. Policemen are forced to take safety precautions.Senior officials are giving pocket hand sanitisers to all field officers and constables who are doing patrolling on street and dealing with control room calls which are related to Covid-19 suspects. The cops are taking extra precautions to avoid getting infected with the deadly virus. “The entire police station is being disinfected at regular interval of two to three hours and the cleaning staff members have been specially told to sanitise the handles, table, chair, armrests, etc at the police station premises,” said an officer. Also, hand sanitiser has been kept at the welcome desk, where the guests are desisted to use the pen while making their entry in the register. All the constables, who are doing patrolling or dealing with control calls related to Covid suspect have been given facemasks, hand gloves and pocket sanitisers. So that after every interaction they can use sanitisers on their hands.Meanwhile, the Mumbai Police Twitter handle on Saturday continued to receive several tweets from people across Mumbai’s suburbs complaining against people gathering in one place in their areas. The Mumbai Police relayed the information to the main control room for further action.600 cops tested; 422 negative, report of rest awaited:Around 600 policemen have been tested for Covid-19. 422 of them have tested negative. Reports of others are yet to come, said a police officer. The policemen to have undergone the testing are involved in escorting the Covid-19 patients from their homes to hospitals, manning the quarantined and isolation centres and deployed in security bandobast at over 200 no-go containment areas in the city.Seinor inspector provides a month’s ration for 200 staffersVijayalaxmi Hiremath, senior inspector of Bandra police station has bought ration for nearly 200 staffers at the police station. She said, “My staff is working round the clock to ensure that people follow lockdown. To help my staff and their families I bought food grains for them from my salary.”(With inputs from Pratik Salunkhe and Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-violation-4-337-vehicles-seized-cops-file-18-262-firs/story-O8pSjmE1uJ87aqDKsq01sK.html
04-04-2020||City||4 get bail in cases related to spreading rumours about Covid19-infected Islampur family||PUNE Four persons were arrested on Wednesday and released on bail on Saturday in Sangli for spreading rumours about the members of the Islampur-based family which has 25 Covid-19 (coronavirus) affected family members.The four arrested have been identified as Amit Bajrang Kadam, 30, a resident of Islampur; Rohit Shivaji Nalawade, 26 Malwadi, Sangli; Jaydeep Shivaji Nikam, 39; and Amit Sadanana Jadhav, 30, both residents of Walva, Sangli.“It was a text message that had multiple things written about the family. Under the Disaster Management Act, we took quick action against them. A case was registered on April 1,” said police inspector Narayan Deshmukh of Islampur police station. He is also the investigating officer in the case.The text message that was circulated by the four men alleged that the family members were provided safe passage from the airport to Islampur by a Nationalist Congress Party member who holds an office in the state cabinet. The family members have refuted these allegations and so has the politician, said police.The four arrested men were booked under Sections 188 and 505(2) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 52 and 54 of the Disaster Management Act.“There are rumours about us having received support from a politician. There is also false news being spread about us having had a function in our home where we invited all members and put them in danger,” said a family member who has tested negative.The family members who have tested positive are now in Miraj government hospital while few others who have tested negative are in an institutional quarantine facility in Uran Islampur, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-get-bail-in-cases-related-to-spreading-rumours-about-covid19-infected-islampur-family/story-KGDEDsaAi3LSBL32KmYbSI.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||52 new Covid-19 patients found in Mumbai, count 330; 4 deaths||Fifty-two new coronavirus cases were detected in Mumbai on Friday while four COVID-19 patients died in the city during the day, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said.The number of coronavirus cases in the country’s financial capital thus rose to 330 and the number of those who succumbed to the disease reached 22, the BMC said in a statement in the evening.On the other hand, 14 coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals following recovery, taking the number of discharged patients in the city to 34, it said.Of the four patients who died, three had `comorbidities’ (pre-existing health issues) while another had “age-related risk factors”, the statement said.The municipal corporation also said that it has started “fever clinics” near containment zones (created around spots where coronavirus patients were found), and so far 85 persons with symptoms of flu have been screened at 16 such clinics.More than nine lakh people have been surveyed and screened for coronavirus infection in the city, while “high-risk contacts” of confirmed patients living in dense areas have been shifted to lodges and hostels, the statement said.As of Saturday afternoon, the number of coronavirus patients in Maharashtra had reached 537.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/52-new-covid-19-patients-found-in-mumbai-count-330-4-deaths/story-YsCHcQZLcEgtDrESTTkZbJ.html
04-04-2020||City||HP Police book 42 Tablighi Jamaat workers||letterschd@hindustantimes.com Himachal Pradesh Police have booked 42 workers of Tablighi Jamaat,while 257 with a travel history to Delhi’s Nizamuddin mosque, the hot spot for coronavirus infection, have been quarantined.As many as the 73 persons had been quarantined in Baddi, 20 in Chamba, 40 in Kangra, 23 Shimla , four in Mandi, 59 in Sirmaur and 39 in Una district, where three members of Tablighi Jamaat had been tested positive for coronavirus . All have now been isolated at the government-run Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College Tanda in Kangra distrct .After three members of Tablighi Jamaat were tested positive in Una, the administration did not relax the curfew for the second day on Saturday. Police have filed 15 FIRs and booked 42 Tablighi Jamaat workers under Section 180 and 254 of the Indian Penal code (IPC). Maximum FIR against them have been filed in Una, while 11 members of the Jamaat were booked in Shimla.All eleven members have been quarantined in Government Degree College Nerwa. Four cases were registered against Jamaat members in Mandi district. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday convened a high-level meeting with the officials of administration, police and intelligence agencies. The government has already directed the civil administration and police officials to hold meetings with the religious leaders and urge them to help police in identifying the members of the Jamaat. Local administration has also sought help from State Waqf Board members to trace and quarantine the Tablighis.Chief minister also directed the officers to keep strict surveillance on persons of Nizamuddin’s Tablighi Jamaat. He said that focus should be that persons with any travel history are identified at the earliest to contain the virus spread. He said that they should be kept in home quarantine or isolation. State BJP president Rajiv Bindal castigated Congress chief Kuldeep Rathore for flaying Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his call to light candles and flashlights for nine minutes on Sunday . “On the one hand the government was battling to contain Covid-19 spread, on other the congress leaders instead of lauding efforts of the government were criticising it” said Bindal in a statement issued here on Saturday. Bindal described Tablighi members as human bombs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-police-book-42-tablighi-jamaat-workers/story-gmVVnzcMyqkplagtTRsq5M.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Coivd-19: Raj Thackeray says Modi should have clarified on lockdown||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have clarified things on the lockdown, instead of asking people to light candles.“The Prime Minister should have clarified on the steps being taken and how he is going to handle the economy. This would have given hope to the country” said Thackeray. “There is a fear among the daily wagers and it is the duty of those in power to clarify things and assuage them,” he added.He said that lighting candles was alright as there was nothing much to do at home.He said that such lockdown is playing havoc with the economyHe also came down heavily on those indulging in black-marketing of essential goods and said they need to be bashed up and those videos should be made viral.He warned that he feared that if the citizens continued to roam on the streets, the lockdown would be extended, and adversely affect the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/coivd-19-raj-thackeray-says-modi-should-have-clarified-on-lockdown/story-C3dpNOkNYLvWHNCWWUuh0H.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Man promised liquor at doorstep amid lockdown, duped of ₹30k||A 37-year-old man was recently duped of ₹30,000 by a cyber fraudster who promised to deliver liquor at his doorstep amidst the coronavirus lockdown, in Agripada area. The victim is a branding communications manager at a multi-speciality hospital. According to Agripada police, the manager received a missed call on his mobile phone on March 29. When he called back, the fraudster impersonated as a local wine shop owner in Byculla and offered liquor at his doorstep, as he was a regular customer.The manager then ordered five black label bottles and paid ₹20,000 in advance using a digital wallet. The fraudster asked for an additional ₹10,000 as the demand was high. The manager paid the additional amount too. When the liquor was not delivered, the victim called the fraudster multiple times and he assured him that it was on its way. After that, the fraudster blocked his number. The manager then approached Agripada police and lodged a complaint.Police filed an FIR under sections of the IPC and IT Act against the unidentified fraudster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-promised-liquor-at-doorstep-amid-lockdown-duped-of-30k/story-oxnXzudU1zAUgSpRoKTAoM.html
04-04-2020||City||Ex-hazoori ragi’s last talk with kin puts his treatment at Amritsar GMC under a cloud||An audio clip of former Golden Temple ‘hazoori ragi’ (traditional Gurbani singer) Nirmal Singh Khalsa’s last phone talk with family members alleging lack of proper medical care for Covid-19 patients, which went viral on social media on Saturday, has evoked sharp political reactions, including demands for an apology from the chief minister. In the audio, Nirmal Singh can be heard complaining of lack of proper treatment at Amritsar’s Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, which is a part of Government Medical College, and urging his family members to shift him to some other hospital. After developing Covid-19 symptoms, Nirmal Singh was admitted to the hospital on March 30 and he tested positive for the virus on April 1. He breathed his last at 4.30am the next day.In the audio clip of his last conversation, Nirmal Singh is poignantly telling his family that doctors were not giving him medicines and that he will rather commit suicide. His family members, especially his son named Amiteshwar Singh, is heard giving pep talk and even saying ‘I love you, daddy’, in a voice crackling with emotions.While confirming the authenticity of the touchy audio clip that has brought the arrangements to treat Covid-19 patients in the state under a cloud, his son said, “Poor arrangements were responsible for my father’s death. We kept on raising our concern before the authorities of the Government Medical College and they kept assuring us that my father will recover.”“I would like to raise another question that why have not any of my other family members, except my sister, diagnosed with Covid-19. My wife, my son, my mother, my grandmother and grandfather, who is 95, have tested negative despite the fact that we lived together. Doctors are not yet clear on my sister’s status and they will conduct a confirmatory test,” he said.He said the conditions at the hospital were unhygienic. “There was a great rush at the hospital and fungus could be seen on the beds for patients. I feel, he contracted the virus at the hospital. Negligence and poor medical arrangements killed my father not Covid-19,” he said.Notably, Nirmal Singh was asthmatic. One-and-half hour after the phone call, special chief secretary of Punjab Karanbir Singh Sidhu had shared on social media that “Bhai Nirmal Singh has been put on ventilator a few hours back in the hospital. His risk factor increased due to his bronchial asthama”.Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said she could not comment on the matter as the college didn’t come under her jurisdiction. GMC principal Dr Sujata Sharma, and medical superintendent of the hospital Dr Raman Sharma did not take the phone call despite repeated attempts. Meanwhile, Sikh activist Baldev Singh Sirsa lodged a complaint with Amritsar commissioner of police Sukhchain Singh Gill, seeking action against the alleged “negligence shown by the doctors of GMC that led to the death of Khalsa”. He also alleged that doctors of SGPC-run Guru Ram Das Medical College were also to be blamed as Khalsa was initially admitted there.Khalsa was given VIP treatment in special room: OP Soni Minister for medical education and research OP Soni said, “After Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa tested positive for coronavirus, he was treated in a separate room and not the isolation ward. He was given VIP treatment. He was given a dose of the medicine and next dose was to be given after four hours. However, Khalsa lost heart after coming to know that he was positive for the virus and that deteriorated his health.”He said that after the audio clip started circulating, he met college principal, doctors on duty and medical superintendent of the hospital to inquire into the matter in the presence of Amritsar deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ex-hazoori-ragi-s-last-talk-with-kin-puts-his-treatment-at-amritsar-gmc-under-a-cloud/story-HEp3IIOWdJ1ixMZNqI1FON.html
04-04-2020||City||44 Tablighi Jamaat members quarantined in Bathinda||The district administration has quarantined 44 members of the ‘Tablighi Jamaat’ here on Saturday. The administration traced members of jammat who were staying across district and took them to the civil hospital for collecting samples.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said that all jamaat members who have been quarantined are asymptomatic but have been kept in isolation. Their swab samples have been sent for testing.He said that results of samples of eight other jamaat members, taken on Friday, have been found to be negative.Six of the 44 members are residents of Bathinda while the rest are from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and were staying at different mosques in district.The DC said that it is yet to be verified if these members were part of jamaat’s congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in March. Jamaat members from other states have come to Bathinda in March. Bathinda SSP Nanak Singh said that the jamaat members have been quarantined at different quarantine centres.Two UP men quarantined in MogaThe district health department admitted two men, who recently came from Uttar Pradesh, at the isolation ward of the Moga civil hospital on Saturday.SMO Dr Neelam Bhatia said they received information that four persons from Agra are staying at Chuhar Chak village in Moga. “A team went for inspection and found the two persons, who had come to the village on April 1. Both are asymptomatic but have been quarantined as a preventive measure.”Two others came to the village in the second week of March, so they have already completed the quarantine period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/44-tablighi-jamaat-members-quarantined-in-bathinda/story-StUf8mP4U2cwCgJAwylFJL.html
04-04-2020||City||Amid curfew Bathinda villages launch war on drugs||Amid curfew in state to stop further spread of coronavirus, villagers of Bathinda district have launched war on drugs as well.Residents are resorting to putting up checkposts at entry points of the villages to stop suspected people from getting in to stop spread of coronavirus and drug smuggling.In the last 24 hours, at least four videos have emerged on the social media where villagers claimed to have apprehended drug suppliers and addicts.In a video from Bandi village, on Friday, at least eight persons were apprehended by residents for alleged drug consumption and supply. The accused can be seen confessing that they came to purchase drugs.In another video from Mansa Kalan village under Maur police station, villagers apprehended a Punjab Police cop and two others for allegedly trying to purchase drugs.In yet another video from Kaleke village near Rampura Phul, a man was apprehended by villagers for allegedly supplying drugs. A similar video emerged from Bhunder village where people claimed that a man in civvies (who is actually a Punjab Police cop) and his associates are involved in supplying drugs.Due to curfew in Punjab since March 23, drug supply has dried up and addicts are feeling the heat of the situation. Due to this, there is a considerable rise in addicts getting registered at OOAT clinics and approaching OPDs of the psychiatry departments of hospitals for drug deaddiction.Bathinda senior superintendent of police Nanak Singh said that people in the video from Bandi village are addicts and had come to purchase drugs. A case has been registered under the NDSP Act against the supplier and apprehended people in the video.Regarding the video from Mansa Kalan village, the SSP said that a case under NDPS Act has been registered against head constable Bhupinder Singh and others.He said that the accused cop is an addict and is being dismissed from service. He claimed that he is unaware of the video from Kaleke village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-curfew-bathinda-villages-launch-war-on-drugs/story-u5DLC8J9IrylfLZX47fmHN.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Shahrukh Khan offers his office for quarantine facility||Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan offered his four-storey personal office space to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to expand quarantine spaces, as Mumbai battles Covid-19 outbreak. This quarantine facility is equipped with all essential facilities to quarantine women, children, and elderly persons.BMC via its official social media handle on Saturday thanked the actor for his contribution.Presently, Mumbai has over 900 isolation facilities in 23 private, government, and Municipal hospitals.This comes alongside a number of announcements made by the actor on April 2, of contributions to Maharashtra chief minister’s relief fund, contribution of 50,000 personal protective gear kits for doctors to the Maharashtra and West Bengal Government, among others.The actor said on social media, “In these times it’s imp to make everyone around you working tirelessly for you.. not related to you.. perhaps even unknown to you... to feel they are not alone and by themselves. Let’s just make sure we all do our little bit to look after each other. India and all Indians are One Family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-shahrukh-khan-offers-his-office-for-quarantine-facility/story-4uH541KsBlaqmUlJGiXHuI.html
04-04-2020||Pune||MCCIA raises Rs 8 crore fund, Ajinkya Rahane, Kedar Jadhav pitch in||The Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) has so far raised Rs 8 crore fund towards the purchase of ventilators, N95 masks and personal protective equipment (PPEs) for the medical staff dealing with the crisis in the city.Prashant Girbhane, director general, MCCIA, said they have received donations from many industrial houses in the last few days.Cricketers Kedar Jadhav and Ajinkya Rahane made the most recent donations to the MCCIA fund. Jadhav said, “It is everybody’s responsibility to pitch in whatever way and capacity in these tough times. The doctors are doing their best to look after us and keep us healthy, hence it is our duty too, to keep them healthy and make sure that the doctors are not affected.”Rahane said, “It is an unprecedented situation that humanity is facing. We all need to do our bit to contribute, to the extent possible. I admire the lifesaving efforts of our doctors and nurses and other staff who are dealing with it all on the front foot.”“Humanity needs to win this match sooner than later. I am grateful that I have an opportunity to make my tiny little contribution, like many others have done and are doing,” he said.Girbhane said, the MCCIA is using these pooled resources and the corporate strengths of its member organisations to procure PPEs, N95 masks and ventilators. “We have placed orders for a few thousand PPEs and are expecting them to be with us by early next week. MCCIA has already handed over a stock of ventilators and N95 masks to the government authorities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mccia-raises-rs-8-crore-fund-ajinkya-rahane-kedar-jadhav-pitch-in/story-I7aWLXvIkAc8EkYJnCY23L.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Better policies necessary to cure gender inequality||To commemorate International Women’s Day this year, Time magazine released 89 new Time covers to address the imbalance of the magazine over the years. Till 1977, the Time cover was even called “Man of the Year” which got replaced with “Person of the Year”. Even then men continued to dominate. This exercise conducted by Time is very significant and it got over 600 names from which the 89 were shortlisted. They include politicians, scientists, activists, sportswomen, artists and others who have contributed greatly in their fields and in many cases made a difference. All it took was the effort to look for them. This list is long overdue.Last week, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) shared the Gender Norms Social Index with data from 75 countries covering 80% of the world population that showed that there are deep ingrained biases against women across the world. The data shows that while men and women vote at similar rates, only 24% of parliamentary seats are held by women and there are only 10 female heads of government out of 193. Women in the labour market are paid less than men, and are much less likely to be in senior positions: less than 6% of CEOs in S&P 500 companies are women. And while women work more hours than men, this work is more likely to be unpaid care work.These facts are very interesting because they point to deep biases which will need a lot of work to get past. We all hold biases which we don’t question. The fact that Time did not have a woman on the cover for more than 75 years shows bias, because clearly it is not that there were no deserving women. Some of those included women who were well known even in their times – Virginia Woolf, Amelia Earhart, Frida Kahlo, Rosalind Franklin, Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, Rosa Parks, Golda Meir, Simone de Beauvoir and Indira Gandhi. among others. The number of women hidden figures in Indian history is also a long list and we need to recover her-story as well.In India, the statistics on women’s equality and visibility are not very encouraging. Women represent only 29% of the labour force. More than half of the work done by women in India is unpaid, and almost all of it is informal.Though they comprise almost 40% of agricultural labour, they control only 9% of land. Further, nearly half of India’s women do not have a bank account and 60% of women have no valuable assets in their name. In addition, they are victims of violence with the rate of crimes against women at 53.9%.On the one side are these statistics on women’s equality and empowerment in India, while on the other side we are seeing changes in our cities.In Gurugram, women are visible in both in the formal and informal workforce. To increase these numbers, we need better policies as well as enabling conditions such as good public transport and safe public spaces. But good policies also need strong implementation. Last year, the education department announced free bus rides for all girl students of state government schools. Unfortunately, many schools did not send the requisite details about the girls to be able to avail of the benefit. Such a scheme, if well implemented, can lead to less female dropout from schools, which, in turn, can result in more girls in higher education as well as in the work force.In Delhi, the free bus ride scheme for women has resulted in increased ridership of women, particularly from the lower and lower middle classes. While no evaluation has yet been done, anecdotal evidence has been positive. Women workers in India are known to walk even up to 5km to access their workplace, as per the last census data.Gendered inequality is a global concern and it is estimated that, at the current rate of progress, it will take 108 years to achieve gender equality. I don’t think women are willing to wait another century for equality!@viswanathkv(The author works on issues of women’s safety and rights in cities)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/better-policies-necessary-to-cure-gender-inequality/story-fodlXlMMmeOue9LuKqPuIO.html
04-04-2020||Pune||In a few weeks, Pune railway division to get 25 isolation coaches||Within the next couple of weeks, 25 isolation or quarantine coaches will be ready in the Pune railway division, as the work for making the coaches has already begun in the division and across the Central Railway (CR) at various divisions. A total of 482 coaches with a capacity of 16 beds each has been allocated to CR by the Indian Railways and since last week, the process of converting the coaches into isolation rooms, has started. “Central Railway has been allotted a total of 482 coaches which are in the process of being converted into isolation or quarantine wards. The work began last week at Parel and Matunga workshops under CR and other than that at coaching depots which are based in Pune railway division, Mumbai, Nagpur, Bhusawal and Solapur. At each coaching depot, 25 such coaches are being made,” said CR chief public relation officer Shivaji Sutar. For making the isolation coaches, non-AC sleeper coaches are been used, while one Indian style toilet is to be converted into the bathroom. It is to be equipped with a bucket, mug and soap dispenser. The first cabin near the bathing room is been provided with two hospital or plastic curtains transversely in the aisle so that the entry and exit to the entire eight cabins can be screened off. This cabin will be used as store room and paramedics area. Two oxygen cylinders will also be provided by the medical department for which suitable clamping arrangement on the side berth side of this cabin is provided.“It is a contingency plan by the CR and will act as a support system to the existing hospitals. We have been given instructions by the central government about usage of these coaches whenever necessary. Once they are ready, it can be used whenever necessary,” added Sutar. Both middle berths are going to be removed in each cabin. Extra bottle holders are provided in each cabin for holding medical equipment, two for each berth. Extra three peg coat hooks, two per cabin will be provided. Also mosquito nets will be installed on windows and ensure proper ventilation too, added Sutar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/in-a-few-weeks-pune-railway-division-to-get-25-isolation-coaches/story-YOb1TPwnyBeUOupoGO9e1O.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Bandra, Kurla saw highest dip in transport-caused pollution||A study of pollution in Mumbai during the lockdown has shown that Bandra and Kurla, which generally witnesses high traffic congestion, has seen the maximum decline in transport pollution over the last two weeks.The study released on Saturday said that Bandra and Kurla, connected by Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), have improved air quality as most offices at BKC are using the work from home (WFH) model during the lockdown. Both areas have shown maximum reduction in nitrogen oxides (NOx) levels. From March 17 to 22, Bandra saw an 81% decline in nitrogen dioxide (NO2) while NOx levels in Kurla went down by 92%. Thereafter a steady decline has been observed till April 1.The details were part of an assessment of Central Pollution Control Board (CBCB) data prepared by anti-pollution campaigners Waatavaran Foundation. Vehicles and thermal power plants are major sources of NOx while vehicular emissions, burning of fossil fuels like coal and oil contribute to NO2 pollution. Both gases affect the human respiratory system.The analysis calculated the percentage drop for five pollutants from March 17 to April 1 with NO2 levels falling by 87% over two weeks, PM2.5 by 72% and PM10 by 68.9%, NOX (calculated in parts per billion) by 88.39%, and carbon monoxide (CO) by 74%. All these major pollutants affect the overall air quality index (AQI) in the city. Borivli, Colaba and Powai had the cleanest air in the city. While Borivli’s monitoring station is located inside the Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Colaba and Powai have a major advantage of sea breeze, the assessment said. The least decline in pollutants was observed across Sion and round the international airport in Andheri.“The unprecedented lockdown scenario has provided valuable lessons through the WFH model, which can be inculcated in the long run to help improve air quality,” said Bhagwan Kesbhat, founder, Waatavaran.On Saturday, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) also released its air quality assessment during the lockdown, which was similar to Waatavaran’s assessment as they both used the same data set. “Stringent travel, construction restrictions and shutting down of non-essential activities have led to an improvement in air quality. Particularly, contribution of re-suspension road dust has reduced PM2.5 considerably,” said E Ravindran, member secretary, MPCB. “Data from the lockdown period will be used for enhancing city action plans.” Pulmonologists said there was a significant drop in patients suffering from lung-related ailments during this period due to cleaner air. “Everyone is wearing a mask, which helps improve hygiene too,” said Dr Sanjeev Mehta, pulmonologist, Lilavati Hospital in Bandra.Meanwhile, between April 2 and 4, researchers identified a marginal spike in PM10 (breathable particulate matter of 10 micron size or smaller). “This is due to a rise in temperatures and increase in dust in the city’s air due to easterly winds. It will continue for at least two more days,” said Gufran Beig, project director, System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bandra-kurla-saw-highest-dip-in-transport-caused-pollution/story-iDNEO2yN4lxcoBfFSRhjmK.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||MbPT to build floating quarantine centre for 2K patients||The Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) is in talks with owners of cruise vessels to set up a floating quarantine facility that can accommodate 2,000 patients. Apart from this, the homes of sailors in Wadi Bunder will be used to set up 500 beds, while the vacant flats in MbPT’s residential quarters have also been readied to accommodate quarantined patients or front-line staff. In a statement released on Saturday, MbPT has also said that its hospital now has a Covid-19 section with two separate isolation wards for suspected coronavirus patients and confirmed patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mbpt-to-build-floating-quarantine-centre-for-2k-patients/story-LMsfOpe40cUR2xXJ8MLxUK.html
04-04-2020||City||Pre-monsoon work can start: Thane collector||The Thane collector had asked district authorities to permit pre-monsoon works. With most government offices working less than its total capacity, the pre-monsoon work might get delayed. Monsoon preparedness usually starts from April every year. Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar said, “Pre-monsoon works such as road repair, sewage work, nullah cleaning, strengthening the power network, repair of utility cables and maintenance work are carried out before monsoon. The department can carry out these works but the contractors and labourers hired should carry a valid identity card with them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pre-monsoon-work-can-start-thane-collector/story-03vr5htM6zmhOH9NDFvHoO.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Bhiwani Mahapanchayat’s ‘Janata Rasoi’ provides meals to 7,000 people daily||Bhiwani Mahapanchayat has shown great enterprise and tried to ease the distress of marginalised individuals during the lockdown as it has been serving food to over 7,000 people on a daily basis since March 23.Sampuran Singh, convenor of the panchayat said they had started a ‘Janata Rasoi’ in Bhiwani city to ensure that the 21-day-long lockdown does not leave anyone starving in the city.“This community kitchen provides lunch and dinner to over 7,000 persons a day. We are receiving 1,000 persons’ food from Bhiwani jail and food for 1,500 persons from Rohtak’s Sunaria jail. Our volunteers have been distributing food items at the doorstep of the needy. We are sanitising our food four times a day”, he added.However, the local people are paying money to run the ‘Janata Rasoi’. This kitchen offers roti, rice and other items to the people. The mahapanchayat has hired a few cooks to prepare the meals.Moreover, around 100 persons including women and school-going children are working here free of cost to prepare meals.10-year-old Muskan of Bhiwani said she along with her parents and brother, has been helping other volunteers in preparing meals for the needy since Monday. “After the lockdown was imposed across the country, I had asked my parents to help the migrant and needy by doing some social service”, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bhiwani-mahapanchayat-s-janata-rasoi-provides-meals-to-7-000-people-daily/story-UMzt9n7GfJEp470SIop5LM.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai woman dies after car rams into rickshaw, doctor held||A man was arrested for ramming his car into a rickshaw and killing a 38-year-old woman passenger on Friday morning. The accused is a doctor attached with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and associated with making plans in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic The accident occurred at Chembur Naka at R.C Road at Chembur around 9.30am on Friday. The doctor and his colleague were coming from Navi Mumbai and heading towards a civic-run hospital in Bandra. They took the Sion-Trombay Road while the rickshaw was heading from Amar Mahal junction towards Mahul. “As the signal at the naka was not functioning due to less traffic, the two vehicles collided,” said Jayprakash Bhosale, senior police inspector, Chembur police station.The victim, Hasina Shaikh, a resident of Ganesh Nagar in Chembur was going to her daughter’s house nearby after buying groceries when the incident occurred. She was taken to a nearby hospital where she succumbed to her injuries.Chembur police arrested the doctor who was later granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/woman-dies-after-car-rams-into-rickshaw-doctor-held/story-SOxKRrk2xkrS9IcwPVjroJ.html
04-04-2020||City||Decongesting jails: Devender Pal Bhullar released on 42-day parole||In a bid to decongest jails following coronavirus outbreak, the Amritsar Central Jail authorities on Saturday released Devender Pal Singh Bhullar, convicted under the now-scrapped Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, in connection with a terror attack on the then Youth Congress chief Maninderjeet Singh Bitta in 1993, on a six-week parole. “Bhullar has been given early parole due to coronavirus. This leave will be deducted from his regular parole,” said Arshdeep Singh Gill, superintendent of Amritsar jail. Bhullar was convicted and awarded the death penalty in 2001 by a TADA court for triggering a bomb blast in New Delhi in September 1993, which killed nine persons and injured 17 others, including Bitta.Bhullar’s death penalty was commuted to life imprisonment by Supreme Court in 2014 after it concluded that there was an inordinate delay on the part of the President in deciding Bhullar’s mercy plea.This September 2019, the Centre decided to release eight Sikh prisoners, including Bhullar, on the occasion of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. The government had said that it was granting special remission to eight prisoners.Opposing the release of Bhullar, Bitta in his petition alleged that Bhullar had been holding durbars within jail premises because of his political nexus.In December 2019, a bench of the Supreme Court led-by justice RF Nariman directed the Union government to maintain status quo on the release of Bhullar.“Till now, we have released 529 inmates and the process of releasing more is underway,” said the jail superintendent. Some of the inmates have been released on parole while some have been granted interim bails. Having a capacity to accommodate 2,200 prisoners, the Amritsar jail has 3,400 inmates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/decongesting-jails-devender-pal-bhullar-released-on-42-day-parole/story-FP1MvXZhMphlkIZ0DIjDgO.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Solapur man trains 2.5K teachers for online teaching amid lockdown||As thousands of government schools struggle to keep up with the demand for online learning during the lockdown, a Solapur-based teacher is offering a solution to the problem. Rajkiran Chavan, a 36-year old teacher who teaches at a government-aided school in Solapur is training nearly 2,500 teachers from across the state to equip them with the basic skills required for online teaching. Using social media platforms, the primary school teacher is trying to teach how to use a simple mobile phone to shoot videos, make small presentations and present academic content more effectively to make it interesting for students. “I had conducted sessions with teachers even in the past but the current situation was alarming because suddenly all learning had to stop because students from low-income families barely have any access to high-end technology. Even in places where they do have phones, teachers are not equipped to teach online. The idea was to ensure that teachers are not just trained but develop an interest in online teaching-learning,” he added. Chavan said that while most teachers can shoot videos, that alone does not ensure online learning. “Training to understand the technology is not enough to be a good online teacher. For that, one needs to understand how to present the topic in question using multiple techniques and mediums so that it doesn’t become boring. For instance, instead of showing a simple PPT on video, teachers can make an animated PPT which interests young students,” he added. Meanwhile, several teachers from civic schools in the city are now using messaging applications to conduct group videos to teach their students over the last few days. “It is the easiest thing to do considering most of us don’t have the necessary training to use more sophisticated applications. We have created a database of students and we call them for a half an hour class whenever possible to finish where we left before the lockdown,” said Aneesha Palite, a teacher from a civic school in Kandivli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/solapur-man-trains-2-5k-teachers-for-online-teaching-amid-lockdown/story-lxMtW6MO5Dp3FVqMXBZHHI.html
04-04-2020||City||HP raises ₹453 cr loan for development, paying salaries||With economic activity at a standstill due to the covid-19 outbreak, resource generation for governments has also stalled. To fund important development work and also pay salary bills of its 2.7 lakh employees for March, the Himachal Pradesh government has raised a loan of Rs 453 crore from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), taking the total debt burden on it to Rs 58,253 crore. The total salary bill of the state government is around Rs 12,500 crore, which turns into a monthly cost of Rs 1,000 crore, on average. The state’s debt has doubled since 2012, when it was Rs 28,207 crore and has now translated into a a per capita debt of Rs 73,000 on each state resident. Dearness allowance is also payable to 1.8 lakh (around 66%) of employees. The state spends 32% of its budget on paying pension to its employees and another 10% on salaries. Another 15% goes in interest payments. Disbursal of loans to farmers takes up another 10%. Finally, only around 25% is spent on development works. Successive state governments have failed to mobilise resources and tax collection also dipped after the good and services tax (GST) was implemented across the country in July 2017. It will be a difficult climb back for the state’s economy after restrictions end, as the state economic survey, this year, had already predicted a slower pace of 5.6% from 7.1% in the previous fiscal. The only positive in the survey was the 6.6% increase (by approximately Rs 12,000) in per capita income in the state to Rs 1.95 lakh in 2019-20 over 2018-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hp-raises-453-cr-loan-for-development-paying-salaries/story-qrPsg5PiKStiRLAOEaDxQP.html
04-04-2020||City||Mewati govt medical college is exclusive Covid-19 hospital in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Ramping up its preparations to tackle the coronavirus outbreak, the Haryana government on Saturday announced that the Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College at Nalhar in Mewat district will now be an exclusive Covid-19 hospital. The college has a capacity of 600 beds.Presiding over a meeting of the crisis coordination committee via video conferencing here, Haryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora directed that exclusive Covid-19 wards are made in four medical colleges of the state.Private laboratories should be identified in each district that could be designated for Covid-19 testing and along with this, the availability of rapid testing kits should be ensured.She directed that the order for rate capping of vegetables has already been issued and all deputy commissioners should ensure that the shops and street hawkers did not sell the vegetables beyond the capped rate. The rate capping order should be widely circulated on social media so that people can be made aware about the rates. She said that the rate capping of moong dal and mustard oil should also be done.In districts and villages where positive cases have been reported, the number of milkmen supplying milk should be brought down and focus should be on increasing the supply of packed milk.She said it should be ensured that petrol pumps on highways remain open.She said thermal scanning and social distancing of sadhus in dharamshalas should also be done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mewati-govt-medical-college-is-exclusive-covid-19-hospital-in-haryana/story-S4u0gXV3McChF5y4EopxfP.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||With 18 new positive cases, Haryana count rises to 62||The number of Covid-19 cases in Haryana rose by 18 on Saturday, taking the total count of positive cases to 62.A state health department bulletin said that 13 people who had attended the religious event at Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month had tested positive in Palwal besides two each such persons in Gurugram and Bhiwani. One positive case was reported in Kaithal.All 18 people have been quarantined in their respective districts.With this, Gurugram and Palwal have 17 positive cases each, followed by Faridabad with six cases, Panipat, Nuh and Ambala, three each, Bhiwani and Panchkula two each, while Hisar, Karnal, Kaithal, Rohtak, and Sonepat, have had one positive case each.Of the 62 cases, nine from Gurugram, two from Panipat and one each from Sonepat, Palwal and Faridabad have been treated and discharged from hospitals so far, bringing down the number of active patients to 48.At present, the number of people under surveillance in the state is 17,535, while the total samples sent for testing till now are 1,413, of which 954 have been found to be negative and the results of 397 are awaited.3 linked to Tablighi Jamaat meet test positive in Rohtak, KarnalROHTAK: A 56-year-old resident of Manheru village and 26-year-old from Sandwa village, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin have tested positive for coronavirus.Bhiwani nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Kumar said the swab samples of the duo were sent to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, the results of which came positive on Friday evening. “Both the patients have been kept in isolation at Bhiwani hospital. The family members of both the patients have been home quarantined. The area near their houses has been sealed,” he said.Meanwhile, a 62-year-old man from Karnal, who allegedly attended Tablighi Jamaat last month has been tested positive for coronavirus disease, making it the first case of the district.He was among four people from the Karnal district who had attended the meet in Delhi. They all were admitted to the isolation ward in the general hospital in Kaithal on March 31. Their samples were sent to the government medical college and hospital Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat and only one person was tested positive, said inspector general of police Hardeep Doon, who has been appointed as Kaithal district in-charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-18-new-positive-cases-haryana-coronavirus-count-rises-to-62/story-CYkV2GHRFZ1dFmRQBg2KeI.html
04-04-2020||Pune||Startup Saturday: Pune pivot-eers showing strong Covid form||Got you covered, forehead to neck... keep your game face onAnatomiz3D; founders: Firoza Kothari, Sohrab Kothari and Sagar Shah What it isSays Firoza Kothari “I have a degree in biotechnology and was working in sales when my brother and his partner, who run an engineering and architectural firm, saw that they were receiving a lot of requests from the healthcare industry.” “Basically we use 3D technology to assist the healthcare industry. If a doctor needs to do a surgery then we print 3D anatomical models that will help him get a better grip on his surgery landscape. We also make customised titanium implants for various purposes such as neuro and ortho, among others,” she adds.The Covid pivot - face shieldThe face shield is a little different from a typical face mask. It has a head gear made of acrylic attached to an elastic band that goes around the head. From the head gear falls a transparent PVC sheet that covers the entire face the forehead to the neck. Anatomiz3D was not into manufacturing protective gear, they certainly had the capability.Says Kothari, “We have laser cutters and injection moulding machines. So, when the hospitals we worked with asked us for masks, we thought why not use the same machines to make face shields?”Says Korhari, “Not just hospital staff, but policemen, civic workers, vendors who sell their goods on the streets, and customers, could make use of our face shields.”Says Kothari, “As of now we are supplying 5,000 face shields per day. If people become aware of this, I think Mumbai alone will need about 25,000 shields per day.”While demand exists will Anatomiz3D be able to supply? Kothari has thought this through. “As of now our capacity to produce face shields is 10,000 per day. However, should the demand increase further we can involve other players in the industry, people with injection moulding machines, laser cutters who can be roped in. I don’t think supply will pose a problem,” says Kothari.These masks can be sterilised and reused, though Kothari feels that if patients are being treated then it is better to dispose of the masks. She is pricing them at Rs 177 each which includes all taxes. “Given the severity of the situation we have priced this very low. In fact, we will be able to cover our operational costs only.” According to her USA alone has a shortfall of 91% PPEs (personal protective equipment).What about logistics? “That is a serious issue but many of the importers have said that they will take care of it. Even though all transportation is shut, we still have couriers like who operate every two to three days. It will be slow but goods are still moving,” says Kothari.Cash flowAnatomiz3D have poured Rs 4 crore since they started five years ago.“We invested Rs 20 lakh initially and over time have been putting in more money into the business. We have a strategic investor,” says Kothari. While the company still has to break even, (Rs 1 crore closed this year) Kothari says, “For India we are keeping our cost really low. The opportunity we see is in supplying to foreign shores.”Future without the virus?“We aim to increase our sales in two ways. One is to reach out to educational institutes where undergrads can learn more about the anatomy via our 3D printed ones. And the other is to create awareness in hospitals amongst surgeons that their efficiencies and accuracies can improve with our products,” says Kothari.Let AI do the lab work... in just ninety secondsDeep Tek; founders: Anirudh Pant, Ajit Patil and Dr A KharatWhat it isDeep Tek is a startup that has developed AI tools to help doctors in the imaging business. Says Dr Kharat, “Typically, a doctor does an X-ray, MRI or CT scan, and those reports have to be read. What we have done is used AI to help read those reports thus saving an already overburdened doctor time and improve efficiency.”Despite the AI reading the images these reports are ratified by the doctor. So far, the company has been doing this very successfully for the government of Tamil Nadu, where they have scanned over 75,000 patients in and around Chennai for TB. Deep Tek has deployed the tool in 40 hospitals in Pune.The Covid pivot – pneumonia test results in 90 secondsWhat this tool does is not only flag cases out of the hundreds that a radiologist would see at his centre, but also prepare the report. In a usual day what would take seven to eight minutes is done in one-and-a-half minute.“When this epidemic hit us we foresaw the situation that may develop. If the infection spreads then X-rays and CT machines will be widely deployed to find out if Covid-19 patients have developed pneumonia. In a typical situation a doctor at the radiology clinic will have his hands full. By the time s/he gets to the patient whose lungs are showing pneumonia on account of the Corona infection it may be a few hours. So, we thought why not use our tool to help doctors detect pneumonia developing in a Covid patient fast? Quick detection would mean quick treatment,” says Dr Kharat.Using their team of 50 people the trio worked tirelessly from their homes and via video calls to develop this AI-aided tool that can help a radiologist detect pneumonia. Cash flowDeep Tek is a company funded by NTT Data, Japan and have signed up with Medical Business Machine, a Japanese company, to use their solution in the machines MBM will manufacture. “Once our information is translated into Japanese they will be ready to start work with it.”In India and anywhere in the world, DeepTeck is willing to offer their solution for free. “One of our Japanese investors told us that this is something we should do and we agree. At a time like this when the world is caught in the vortex of this pandemic, this is the least we can do.”How will this be deployed across the globe? Says Kharat, “That should not be a problem at all. We can deploy it remotely anywhere in the world.” Earn while you burn? Yup. Even during lockdownStepSetGo; founders: Shivjeet Ghatge, Abhay Pai and Misal Surakhia What it isThere are fitness apps and then some more. When Ghatge launched his company last year, he had got his finger bang on people’s ‘excuse’ pulse. Says he: “People join a gym, make resolutions, buy outfits, shoes and even go to the gym. For a few months, weeks or days. After that everything goes kaput.”To tackle the lack of resolve, Ghatge created an app that was unlike the other apps available in the market. “Just counting your steps and calories was not enough to keep people motivated. Why not reward a person who exercises?” How? “We created a bazaar. This is a place where we ask vendors to register. They get visibility and can offer discounts or even freebies to our customers. It works both ways,” says Ghatge.In the second half of 2018 Ghatge and his co- founders Pai and Surakhia worked on the technical aspects of developing the app. “Brands like Bewakoof, Every A, Planet Super Hero, Avvatar protein powder, Burp and others saw the value in our proposal.”After an informal launch Ghatge saw 50,000 downloads and in March this year they had 56,000 downloads per day.When the pivot is a double-downAs of now the app has 5.1 million downloads. “I think students found it interesting that they could win prizes if they won a certain number of points. So if you walk 1,000 steps you win a coin. You keep collecting coins with which you can buy items from our curated bazaar,” says Ghatge.“Since we are committed to make people walk in the very least, we are coming up with newer forms of motivation. We have power hours in a day where if you walk in your house you will earn more points than usual,” says Ghatge. “At one point you could win a Bajaj Avenger bike for 9000 coins and three people won it last year in the duration of this six month campaign,” says Ghatge.Cash flowThe trio invested Rs 1 lakh, each, initially. “Later we borrowed Rs 7.5 lakh from friends and family,” says Ghatge. Revenues come from advertising generated by the brands on the bazaar. “So far we have tie-ups with 150 brands that include Bajaj,” he adds. StepSetGo has posted Rs 6 crore in turnover to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/startup-saturday-pune-pivot-eers-showing-strong-covid-form/story-2BDYBaO8RnCHdSf8pr120J.html
04-04-2020||Pune||NGOs in Pune grapple with how to help most vulnerable during outbreak||For many daily wage earners and construction labourers a 21-day lockdown means an abrupt pause in livelihood. However many non-governmental organisations (NGO) and social groups are working around the lockdown restrictions to feed the needy, however according to multiple NGOs, the outbreak challenges their work by increasing the demand for their services and lack of coordination.“Since the lockdown began we are trying to help the needy and till now we have provided essential food items and even cooked food packets to hundreds of families. However, there is a lack of coordination and trust issues between the social groups themselves,” said Vaishali Patkar, president, Aundh Vikas Mandal Organisation.She added, “As the number of people who need help is more, many organisations are coming forward to help. There is no coordination as most of the times repeated help is given to the same area or construction site and other areas are left out. It was also observed that people who were financially stable were also demanding essential goods, so it is necessary to verify the help provided is reached in proper hands.”Amit Dhole, trustee, Saad Pratishthan Pune Trust who is providing help to the needy said, “Currently we are cooked meals and raw food material to at lead 1,100 families. We have noticed that most people do not have ration card. They are homeless people from other states and do not reside within the city limits. We must also concentrate on providing help to those who reside beyond city limits. A lot of them are not listed in the official government lists and should be provided with help.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ngos-in-pune-grapple-with-how-to-help-most-vulnerable-during-outbreak/story-AqrrrHL61DmHTOWIM5vTtN.html
04-04-2020||Pune||Enough produce to cater to needs of Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad: APMC||The fresh produce arriving at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC)-run Market Yard in Gultekdi is enough to cater to the needs of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, said BJ Deshmukh, administrator, APMC, on Friday.“A total of 530 vehicles arrived at Market Yard in Gultekdi on Friday. As farmers are sending produce in bulk we have informed them that only 400 vehicles will be allowed inside the market from Sunday,” said Deshmukh.“Across the APMC markets in the state the officials are unable to control the crowd, but in Pune, we are able to manage the market and the crowd well and the business is running smoothly,” said Deshmukh.Only wholesale traders are allowed inside the markets who have been given permission and have stickers on their vehicles and individuals are restricted entry in the market, informed Deshmukh.“The officials make sure that everyone follows social distancing and takes precautions to stop the spread of Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection. From today (Friday) action has been initiated against those who are violating norms, ” said Deshmukh.The Pune district administration was running the wholesale fruit and vegetable market from March 29 to March 31 as the traders had decided to stop business due to shortage of labour after the lockdown was announced by prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 . The traders started operating the market from April 1.Vilas Bhujbal, president, Pune APMC traders union, said, “All the traders, police, potters, retailers are co-ordinating together and make sure the market operates smoothing and the norms are followed.”Action against violators, licences suspendedAccording to BJ Deshmukh, administrator, APMC, the licences of five traders have been suspended for violating norms. “Action has been taken against one fruit trader and four vegetable traders for not taking necessary precautions like wearing masks, social distancing among others while conducting business,” said Deshmukh.“We have also taken action against 22 tempos owners and seized their entry cards for violating norms,” said Deshmukh.Arrival of vegetables, fruits and food grains at Market YardApril 3- 30,290 quintalsApril 2- 24,441 quintalsApril 1- 49,952 quintals||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/enough-produce-to-cater-to-needs-of-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-apmc/story-GqY3I8zijRaQsLAbwzIjRJ.html
04-04-2020||Delhi||‘Spend quality time with children during lockdown’: Delhi CM Kejriwal’s advice to parents||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM and education minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday held an interactive session with parents through social media platforms, on “parenting in the time of coronavirus”. With schools shut due to the pandemic, it is a challenge for most parents who are working from home to keep their children constructively occupied in a holistic environment and keep them safe.Announcing the session a day earlier, the Delhi government had invited questions from parents and children on how to cope with the nationwide lockdown. “Schools shut and kids at home. It’s indeed a challenging time for parents to help kids cope with the lockdown. So let’s learn new ways to sail through these times. CM Arvind Kejriwal and experts come together for a live chat with parents about - parenting in the time of corona,” Sisodia had tweeted.“There are 44 lakh students who are not going to school now and have many questions about Covid-19. I will answer as many questions as I can. Children are innocent. Most of them, specially the very young ones do not understand the significance of a lockdown or why they are being asked to stay at home. The aim of this session is to suggest ideas on how to utilize this time fruitfully,” Kejriwal said.Parents came up with a number of interesting questions which their children had originally asked them. The parent of a 5-year-old revealed that the child had asked him whether the entire population would die due to the disease. The Delhi chief minister replied, “The challenge is coping with little children who should not be frightened. It is also difficult to explain to them since they are too young and do not understand the precautions we need to take to fight Covid-19. They need proper explanations on why they cannot indulge in all the things they want to do outdoors.”Most parents, Kejriwal said, normally do not find the time to sit and interact with their children. So now is the correct time to spend quality time together. Despite the fact that most parents are working from home, they need to harness technology to keep their children occupied, the Delhi chief minister said.“Children spend too much time with gadgets. That access has to be given in limited measure and they need to be taught how to use certain gadgets for e-learning,” Kejriwal advised parents who had tuned in to the interactive session.Seemant Dhadwal, an expert attending the session on behalf of the Delhi government said most children wanted to know why they could not go outdoors and play in parks. “Children need to be told they cannot do things they like during the lockdown…they have to be engaged with the help of technology and imagination. For instance, they can build an imaginary park with the help of chart paper and colours and then they can pretend it is an actual park and be engaged for sometime every day. Parents too need to adjust with conflicting demands that children make,” he said.Along with Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, the Delhi CM was accompanied by other experts from the field of education.The country is under a 21-day nationwide lockdown that has been imposed to stop the spread of the highly contagious coronavirus. Schools, public transports, religious places and offices have been shut to break the chain and contain its transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/spend-quality-time-with-children-during-lockdown-delhi-cm-kejriwal-s-advice-to-parents/story-Pg19t5QnYxX8vgfXGLH9xJ.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Good news from Chandigarh: Three Covid-19 patients recover, discharged from hospitals||CHANDIGARH: Three people were cured of Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Saturday, bringing down the coronavirus count of the Union Territory from 18 to 15.“We salute doctors of Chandigarh who are risking their lives to cure patients. Three persons walked away smiling after they were fully cured. Our figure has reduced from 18 to 15,” Union Territory adviser Manoj Parida tweeted.Two of those cured are residents of Chandigarh and one belongs to the adjoining Mohali town in Punjab.The patients discharged on Saturday include the 48-year-old mother of Chandigarh’s first Covid-19 patient from Sector 21. The mother was discharged from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. She was admitted there on March 20, two days after her 23-year-old London-returned daughter tested positive. Her daughter has since been referred to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), where she is still undergoing treatment.The second patient to be discharged is a 22-year-old man from Sector 30, who was admitted to GMCH on March 25, two weeks after his return from Dubai. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on March 27.The third person to be discharged is a 42-year-old computer professional from Mohali. He had recently returned from London.He was discharged from the Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, on Saturday.A 26-year-old woman doctor, who is a resident of Sector 19 and had returned from England recently, was discharged from PGIMER on Thursday night after she tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/good-news-from-chandigarh-three-covid-19-patients-recover-discharged-from-hospitals/story-AFLbpS7s4u6IlIRYYGwAJI.html
04-04-2020||City||Punjab’s first corona casualty Baldev Singh’s son tests negative for Covid-19||JALANDHAR: The 35-year-old son of Baldev Singh, Punjab’s first Covid-19 casualty, tested negative on Saturday, while three others of his family have again tested positive for coronavirus.Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar deputy commissioner Vinay Bublani confirmed the development. Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Prasad Bhatia said, “We will collect the second sample of the 35-year-old man who has tested negative for coronavirus.”The district health authorities on Friday collected the samples of the six family members of Baldev Singh of Pathlawa village in Banga sub division. The health officials said that the family members of the septuagenarian victim include his three sons, 36-year-old daughter, 40-year-old daughter-in-law and a granddaughter, 17, who tested positive for Covid-19 on March 21. They are being treated at Civil Hospital, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar.A senior heath official said, “We are planning to shift him from the isolation ward (where positive patients kept) to a separate ward of the civil hospital. Re-sampling of patients who tested positive for the second time will be done in next week again.”Baldev Singh, 70, the only Covid-19 casualty from Punjab, has emerged as the state’s ‘super-spreader’ with total positive cases from his direct contacts touching 27. Fourteen of his family members tested positive, including his two-year-old grandson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-first-corona-casualty-baldev-singh-s-son-tests-negative-for-covid-19/story-AfCc5vnrDlxHeEaK9H3AHL.html
04-04-2020||Ranchi||PDS beneficiaries struggle in coronavirus lockdown, many deprive of ration||Sita Kumari, 26, a PDS beneficiary, is in distress, as she has no ration at home and her husband, who works as a driver, is jobless due to the ongoing lockdown.“The government has announced distribution of subsidised ration for April and May in view of the hardship in lockdown. But I have not received the ration of even March. My family of six members is surviving anyhow on borrowed ration from neighbours,” said Kumari, a resident of Sukurhuttu village in Ranchi’s Kanke block.She is not alone but hundreds of beneficiaries are struggling due to alleged improper distribution of subsidised ration, especially in the time of lockdown where majority of poor and underprivileged families is facing job crisis, including in MGNREGA.“I have not got any job under MGNREGA this year. Now, all work under the scheme has come to a standstill due to lockdown. I am a widow and only bread earner for my three children. I have no money to even buy subsidised ration,” said Sukhmani Devi, an MGNRGA labourer from Kutte village in Latehar’s Manika block.She said the government had said the ration would be given free for two months but ₹1 per kg is taken by PDS dealer here.Similarly, Babita Devi, 25, a resident of Manjholi village in Palamu’s Chhatarpur block, is also struggling for the subsidised ration for last couple of months. “My husband is differently abled. I used to work in a crusher unit, which is shut due to lockdown. I am struggling to eke out two square meals for my two children and husband,” she said.The PDS dealers blamed the poor-supply system for the delay, while the food, public distribution and consumer affairs department alleged non-cooperation from some PDS dealers in proper distribution of ration.“The supply chain is affected due to shortage of labourers in godowns. There are 530 PDS shops only in Ranchi. But ration has reached to only 20% shops by now, while we had to begin distribution from April 1,” said Sanjay Kundu, general secretary of Fair Price Dealers Association (FPDA). He said few shops have received ration but only for a month.“There was an issue of labourer but that has been sorted out. We are receiving reports that some dealers are not distributing ration, despite its availability,” said Sanjay Kumar, food and public distribution director. “We have lifted the ration for April by 98.7% from the godown and it has already reached to dealers, while the lifting for May is 35% by now. The May’s ration will completed be lifted from godown in a week,” Kumar added.He said the department on Friday asked all the vigilance committees across the state to report against the dealers, who are not distributing ration to beneficiaries or practising unfair means. “The vigilance committee will face action if they fail on it,” he said.Over free ration distribution, he said consumers would have to pay nominal charge of ₹1 per kg for the ration they will receive in April. “But the two months ration, which will be allotted in May, will be free, as the Centre is providing it free,” he said. The state government has announced to offer two months’ ration to the beneficiaries enrolled under National Food Security Act (NFSA) and the people who are eligible for subsidised ratio but they do not have the ration cards.Around 2.64 crore people from 57 lakh households are covered under NFSA in Jharkhand. However, there are many who are still deprived of ration cards. More than 6.97 lakh applications for ration cards are pending with the department.The food, public and consumer affairs department has also allotted ₹30 lakh to each district to take care of the poor people. Besides, it has also directed the district authorities to provide 10kg rice to needy families, if they are lacking ration cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/pds-beneficiaries-struggle-in-coronavirus-lockdown-many-deprive-of-ration/story-qCJCKmWJZQeaPJ4r1K5vlN.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Bhai Nirmal Singh’s daughter tests positive for Covid-19, taking corona count to 59 in Punjab||The 35-year-old daughter of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, the Padma Shri awardee and Golden Temple former hazoori ragi (Gurbani singer) who died of Covid-19 in Amritsar two days ago, also tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday.A resident of Lohian Khas in Shahkot sub division, she is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital in Jalandhar.With this, the total number of coronavirus positive cases rose to 59 in Punjab. All positive cases are from 10 of the 22 districts of the state.Punjab special chief secretary Karanbir Singh Sidhu also tweeted that Jaskirat Kaur, the daughter of the late hazoori ragi, has tested positive.Two more close contacts of Khalsa in Amritsar tested positive on Friday. The patients are Nirmal Singh’s US-returned aunt, another ragi who accompanied him to a kirtan (prayer meeting) in Chandigarh and a 67-year-old man.SEECHEWAL TESTS NEGATIVEMeanwhile, environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal and 16 others have tested negative. They met Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa on March 12 at Lohian Khas, where they are engaged in desilting the Sutlej river.The Doaba belt accounts for 32 positive cases in the state so far. They include two deaths and one person who recovered from Covid-19. The maximum number of 19 patients was reported in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, followed by seven in Hoshiarpur, and six in Jalandhar. Besides, 12 cases have been detected in Mohali, five in Amritsar, four in Ludhiana, three in Mansa, and one each in Patiala, Faridkot and Rupnagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhai-nirmal-singh-s-daughter-tests-positive-for-covid-19-taking-corona-count-to-59-in-punjab/story-uwJv8tI6uiZSrh2uHhky9N.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Tablighi missionaries: Haryana police book 106 foreign nationals for visa violations||The Haryana police have traced 1,305 Tablighi Jamaat workers of which 106 are foreigners from Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Philippines, Nepal and Thailand. The police have booked all foreigners for visa violations under provisions of the Foreigners Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The Nuh district in Mewat area, close to the national capital, emerged as the hotbed for the Tablighi missionaries as 636 workers including 57 foreigners and 528 from other states were traced in the district alone.Director-general of police Manoj Yadava said most of 1,305 were immediately placed under quarantine in various centers established by the district administration.“There are 587 Tablighi Jamaat workers among 1,305 who admitted having visited Banglewali Masjid located in the Nizamuddin area of Delhi, also known as Markaz. After testing eight persons, three each from Palwal and Nuh and two from Ambala, have tested positive for Covid-19 so far,’’ the DGP said.Probe underway against foreignersIn response to a question of whether the 106 foreigners against whom FIRs were registered in five districts can be charged under abetment under Section 14-C of the Foreigners Act, the DGP said investigations against them were underway. Yadava added that by promptly tracking these high-risk individuals, getting them medically checked and lodging them into quarantine facilities has significantly contained the threat of the spread of coronavirus disease. The DGP said the 106 foreigners were traced from five districts— Faridabad (28), Ambala (9), Panipat (2), Palwal (10) and Nuh (57). All of them have been placed under quarantine and their passports have been seized by the police,’’ he said.Only 266 were from HaryanaThe data shows that 933 Tablighi Jamaat workers belonged to Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Bihar and came to Haryana for Tabligh-related work. Only 266 Tablighis belonged to Haryana. They had visited different states and had returned during the last 10 days to their villages. Since they are also potential carriers of coronavirus, they have also been placed under quarantine. They mostly belonged to districts of Gurugram, Panchkula, Yamunanagar, Panipat, Nuh, Sonepat, Jind and Palwal.MHA advised legal action against foreign TablighisThe Union ministry for home affairs (MHA) in a communication to the police authorities has advised that legal action against foreign and Indian nationals involved in Tablighi Jamaat activities should be taken under the provisions of the Foreigners Act as well for violation of statutory orders issued under the Disaster Management Act and for offences committed under the IPC. “Their Tablighi activities have endangered many lives amid Covid-19 public health emergency. They have violated the provisions of Visa Manual, 2019 and are also liable under Sections 13 and 14 of the Foreigners Act,’’ said an April 2 communication sent by the MHA’s foreigners division.12 more Nizamuddin event attendees test positive A day after 94 people, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month and were referred to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Jhajjar’s Badsa tested positive, reports of 12 more such people on Friday confirmed the disease, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the hospital said. Total 120 such attendees were referred to Jhajjar AIIMS from Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in Delhi on Tuesday. “Reports of two persons are still awaited. Of 120 people, 12 have tested negative so far,” said one of the doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/tablighi-missionaries-haryana-police-book-106-foreign-nationals-for-visa-violations/story-G4FsfLHoOaHMOvtQ9nkDFN.html
04-04-2020||Education||West Bengal govt announces virtual classes for students of class 9 to 12||With the suspension of classes due to coronavirus pandemic since March 16, West Bengal government on Friday announced one week long virtual classroom for students of higher classes of state-run schools from next week.Education minister Partha Chatterjee told a press meet here that from April 7, during a particular time of the day, students from class 9 to 12 will sit before their TV sets and switch on the DD Bangla channel where in classroom atmosphere some well-known teachers will give lecture on particular subjects.The students can also ask questions during the classes through the phone numbers given during the show and the mail id, as the government wants to make it interactive, the minister said.He said as per the curriculum of the first summative exam in every school, students will have to submit home activity report during the period of suspension of classes till April 14 and submit the report once the school opens.Model questions for the activity report can be downloaded from state school education department portal by teachers of respective institution and sent to students via Whatsapp, mail after modification by the concerned teacher if they think so, he said.Chatterjee in reply to a question, said the exam schedule of the remaining two papers of Higher Secondary examination will be notified at the appropriate time.“There have been reports of fake notices of dates of two remaining papers of higher secondary exams circulating on WhatsApp. Please don’t give any importance to such unverified wrong information. The council will announce the dates considering all factors after lockdown and put on its website,” he said.Meanwhile, the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations ( CISEC) Secretary and Chief Executive Gerry Arathoon asked the board-affiliated schools in the states, where the respective government has declared ‘no detention’ policy from classes 1 to 8 in state-run and state-aided schools, to follow the directive.In view of the extraordinary circumstances due to COVID-19 pandemic and nationwide lockdown some state governments have issued directive to their schools “regarding promotion of all students from classes 1 to 8. You are hereby requested to follow the directive,” Arathoon said.Chatterjee on Thursday said the government has asked all state-run, state-aided schools to enforce ‘no detention’ policy from classes 1 to 8 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/west-bengal-govt-announces-virtual-classes-for-students-of-class-9-to-12/story-Wlff4OZRWfHd2CA11Oo6yM.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||161 quintals of food products to be transported to Bandra from Ludhiana||Twenty-three cartons (each weighing seven quintals) containing food products will be transported to Bandra (in Maharashtra) via a parcel special train from the Ludhiana railway station on Friday.Indian Railways has started running parcel special trains between Bandra Terminus and Ludhiana for the transportation of essential goods including dairy products, medicines, medical equipment, groceries and food items.A goods train departed from Bandra Terminus on Wednesday at 8.00pm to arrive at Ludhiana railway station around 11.30am on Friday. “There were 17 cartons (weighing four quintals each) containing medicines and medical equipment that were unloaded from the train at Ludhiana railway station on platform number 2,” said chief parcel officer Vijay Kumar Saini.“A total of 23 cartons were loaded in the parcel special train which will transport the food products to Bandra,” he added.Senior divisional commercial manager (senior DCM) Vivek Sharma said biscuit manufacturing firm Cremica is availing the railway service to transport the food items. “The 23 cartons include biscuits and other food products. The train will depart from Ludhiana at 11.30pm on Friday,” he said.“More cartons will be loaded from other stations as the train will stop at Ambala, Delhi, Rewari, Jaipur, Ajmer, Ahmedabad, Anand, Vadodara, Surat and Vapi railway stations before reaching Bandra Terminus,” he added.As per the schedule, the train will depart from Ludhiana on April 3, 5, 8, 10 and 15 to transport goods at Bandra Terminus, Sharma said. “The interested companies in Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar who want to transport their essential products can contact the chief parcel supervisors of the three stations. Their contact numbers are 9779233952 (Ludhiana), 8146632991 (Jalandhar) and 9779233953 (Amritsar),” the senior DCM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/161-quintals-of-food-products-to-be-transported-to-bandra-from-ludhiana/story-T4ETnpKcp99MvUosAhnrCM.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chanidgarh: Telemedicine services at GMCH, GMSH from April 5||Even as hospitals grapple with Covid-19 cases, people suffering from other chronic ailments will be able to access special telemedicine services and consult doctors over video calls from Saturday at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.Dedicated telephone numbers have already been issued for the consultations.Hindustan Times on Friday had highlighted the problems of patients suffering from life-threatening or chronic diseases who couldn’t connect with doctors because of the tricity lockdown restricting movement and hospitals focusing solely on combating the Covid-19 pandemic.The decision to start telemedicine facilities in government hospitals was taken at a daily review meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VPS Badnore.The help lines, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, are: 2501000 for medicine, 2501001 for surgery, 2501002 for paediatrics and neonatology, 2501003 for orthopaedics, and 2501004 for obstetrician and gynaecologist. Calls can be made between 9.30am to 1pm.The details of the names of doctors, their disciplines and timings are awaited.The administrator was also informed at the meeting that the Central government had sent 1,000 personal protection equipment, 5,000 masks and hydroxychloroquine medication for use in the medical institutions.Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research also stated that neighbouring states should not send suspected cases to the institute without first locally testing them to prevent overcrowding of Chandigarh facilities.Badnore on the occasion thanked nearly 50 NGOs, charitable organisations, gurdwara committees and temples serving food packets to people in need.Parida also stated that after initial hurdles in cremating people who had died from Covid-19, manpower had been arranged for and trained to dispose of the remains as per protocols laid down by the Central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chanidgarh-telemedicine-services-at-gmch-gmsh-from-april-5/story-ws0V58MCYrVRLHCeqsgZiP.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown delays introduction of male tiger at Ludhiana safari||The 21-day nationwide lockdown imposed to arrest the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has also delayed the introduction of a male tiger at the Ludhiana Tiger Safari in Amaltas village near the Jalandhar Bypass. The last male tiger at the zoo, Mani, had passed away on March 7 at a ripe old age of 18. Meanwhile, the two three-year-old Bengal tigresses – Chirag and Inchara - were introduced to the zoo in the second week of January from Chhatbir Zoo remain without a mate.In 2013, the zoo had lost three tigresses - Mohini, Elaichi and Shanti - in a span of a few months, leaving only two male tigers Deepak and Mani in zoo. Both tigers and one of the deceased tigresses were diagnosed with leptospirosis, a bacterial infection that attacks the liver and kidneys. Subsequently, the state government had decided not to introduce any new tigers in the safari till the infection was completely wiped out.Deepak, had died on December 19, 2019, also at the age of 18. Zoo authorities say the lifespan of tigers in captivity is 15-20 years.Following the arrival of two tigresses, Mani had been housed in a separate gallery and not released in the safari as a precautionary measure.Mani was born at the Ludhiana zoo itself on June 23, 2002 to a tiger couple Pintu and Rita.Expansion on holdInitiatives to introduce a variety of bird species such as and bringing blackbucks from Abohar have also been put on hold.Zoo in-charge Narinder Singh says, “We have many interesting plans in the pipeline but they are on hold due to the lockdown. We hope the situation normalises soon and we are able to introduce blackbucks and new birds to the tiger safari.” The zoo authorities had to face some difficulties in arranging the animals’ feed during the lockdown, Singh says, “In the first two days of the lockdown, we had to sort out issues in the supply chain and had to seek travel approvals for transportation of feed.”“Nowadays, we receive supply of raw meat every three days. We also maintain a refrigerator with around three quintals of animal feed as a contingency. We have adequate fodder,” he said.Entry to the zoo had been restricted on March 17 in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Recently, an animal adoption scheme had been launched under, which any resident could adopt an animal or bird kept in the zoo by paying an annual care taking fee and could also avail a tax benefit for their trouble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-delays-introduction-of-male-tiger-at-ludhiana-safari/story-G6qWPV5O2Z85Q5dsy1cjGK.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: Contact tracing teams giving it their all to contain spread||His mother has been critically ill, his son wants hugs and his wife is worried sick about the work he does, but sub-divisional officer Vijay Bahadur hasn’t been able to give them the attention they need as he’s been at the frontline of the battle with Covid-19 since the first positive case was reported in Chandigarh.Heading one of the four teams constituted by the municipal corporation (MC) to track contacts of Covid-19 patients, he says it’s tough work.The team is called the moment a suspected Covid-19 case reaches hospital and given the address of the patient with details of contacts.About 30% contact details are given by the doctors examining the patient and the remaining 70% have to be traced by the team that goes meticulously through the movement details of the patients, says Bahadur.At 10am on Thursday, after getting information that a suspected Covid-19 case from Sector 35 had reached the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, the team had reached the man’s residence by 10.30am.Wearing masks and gloves, team members advised the family members to stay indoors, handed over an advisory, assured them that their needs would be taken care of, pasted a home quarantine notice outside the house and cordoned off area.When they got to know later that the man had tested positive for Covid-19, the team members’ hearts sank.One big worry is of picking up the infection then as team members are the first ones to interact with the Covid-19 patient’s family, said Kapil Kisana, a 37-year-old firefighter.His family is based in Nawanshahr, he says. “They keep making video calls. My wife wants to talk to me at least 10 times a day to check if I’m wearing masks and gloves,” he adds.“We work with great enthusiasm and keep joking, saying ‘pata chale agli stamp saade laggi hove’ (who knows we might get the coronavirus quarantine stamp on our hand),” Kisana laughs, his eyes brimming over with laughter over the white N-95 mask.About four teams with 32 members were set up by Anil Kumar Garg, additional commissioner MC-cum-nodal officer contact tracing team. These included at least 17 firemen, police personnel, peons and MC staff. Each member was provided two kits of OT gowns, gloves, masks, protective eyewear and sanitisers.Two vehicles were provided to each team.“So far over 1,300 houses have been quarantined, including 305 contacts of coronavirus patients in Chandigarh,” Garg added.Things got ugly sometimes. “Some patients give us wrong leads and some are rude and refuse to be quarantined, saying they are asymptomatic,” said Bahadur.“Keeping the team motivated is tough, everyone’s afraid of contracting the disease. We are also humans and have families. But we can’t afford to let our spirits down so I start my day by giving a pep talk to the team,” he adds.Once home, Bahadur showers, washing his clothes in hot water before moving to his isolated room. However, he can’t sleep until he checks in on his bedridden mother (from a distance of course).Not many people know that firefighters are a part of the tracing team, a majority of them young men aged between 23 and 25.Among their tasks: Locating travellers in the travel history list and quarantining them, says firefighter Sukhwinder Singh, who is posted at the Sector 32 fire station. On a particularly tough day on March 20, he says the teams began the day at 9am and was working up to 1.30am the next day.“There are instances where people respond very aggressively and use harsh words. However, we don’t take their words to our hearts,” says Deepak, 23, another fireman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-contact-tracing-teams-giving-it-their-all-to-contain-spread/story-Z9hRHzom7R3B9eJBVmpP8J.html
04-04-2020||City||Will boycott Verka village, say Golden Temple ragis||Irked by Verka village residents’ move not to allow the cremation of former Golden Temple hazoori ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who died due to Covid-19, at the local crematorium, incumbent hazoori ragis of the holiest Sikh shrine on Friday resolved to boycott the village.Under the banner of Shiromani Ragi Sabha, an association of the hazoori ragis, they announced that they will not go to the village to perform kirtan saying the villagers have “disrespected Bhai Khalsa who served as ragi at Golden Temple for several decades”.Meanwhile, after facing backlash over not allowing Bhai Khalsa’s cremation, Verka residents, led by local Congress leader Harpal Singh Verka, blamed the district administration for creating this situation.Harpal said, “The question is why administration did not cremate the dead body at two main crematoria at Gurdwara Shaheed Ganj and Durgiana Temple of the city. Its move to opt crematorium of our village bypassing the city crematoria created fear and doubts in our minds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-boycott-verka-village-say-golden-temple-ragis/story-exD7S2KaKqdKYjNfxLuAyO.html
04-04-2020||City||Paramedical staff in Amritsar protests lack of facilities||The paramedical and nursing staff of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) here on Friday protested over non-availability of protective kits and other facilities for the doctors and paramedical staff to treat the coronavirus patients.Over 100 nurses and paramedical staff members gathered outside the office of GNDH medical superintendent (MS) Dr Raman Sharma’s at around 10 am and raised slogans against hospital authorities and the health department.The protest came after seven doctors of GNDH, who have treated coronavirus positive patient at hospital’s general ward without personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, were put in quarantine at the government medical college (GMC) hostel on Wednesday.“Before admitting ex-ragi of Golden Temple, Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa to isolation ward, he was admitted in GNDH’s general ward. Three staff nurses, a class-four worker, an electrocardiogram (ECG) technician and seven doctors of GNDH’s medicine unit have come in his contact when the hospital staff was treating without PPE kits and N-95 masks. Singh was later diagnosed as coronavirus positive patient and he may have infected the hospital staff,” said Punjab nursing association Amritsar president Narinder Bhuttar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paramedical-staff-in-amritsar-protests-lack-of-facilities/story-YWDbJJoqzyI9ZX5PWw8QoO.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: Serving people in quarantine a risky job for waste collectors||Collection of waste from the houses of people who are home quarantined in Chandigarh due to perceived coronavirus threat seems a daunting task. But the job gets done everyday albeit with a lot of hardship and caution.Everyday, 30 municipal corporation (MC) employees put their lives at risk and collect garbage from such houses, the number of which has increased to 700 in past two weeks.MC executive engineer Rajinder Singh, who is monitoring 15 garbage collection teams deputed for these houses, said, “Although everyone is a little worried, all sanitation workers are given proper protection. The collection is going smoothly. We update our list everyday and depute the staff accordingly.”MC supervisor dealing with collection, Atul Rana, explains that every worker is properly covered from head to toe in chemical suits at the time of garbage collection. Orange or green bags are used for collection from these households so that these are not mixed with other general waste.“Every day at the time of collection, one empty bag is given and then a garbage-filled bag is taken from them. Our workers don’t touch these bags. They receive it in another bag and then tie them up properly,” he added.“After collection, these teams go to the open dumping ground in Sector 25 where they dumped the bags in pits. We have permanently deployed a JCB machine there to dig up and then fill the pits with soil,” he said. Rana said even the chemical suits of the workers are dumped along with the daily waste, and they are given fresh suits and other safety gear. All vehicles used for collection are also sanitised in the evening, he said. MC junior engineer Vishavjeet Singh, involved in this process, said all collection vehicles are GPS tracked. “Although we have divided areas among these 15 teams, we make changes as new houses add up,” he said. Head of MC sanitation department, Dr Amrit Warring said that MC was properly adhering to the guidelines issued by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).“Collection of waste from quarantined houses is one of our major priorities and we are not leaving any scope for negligence. Every worker is given well-covered safety kits at the time of collection. Their health is monitored daily,” said Warring, adding that door-to-door garbage collectors have been strictly told to stay away from such houses.MOHALI MC TEAM TASKED WITH SAFE DISPOSAL OF TRASHThe municipal corporation (MC) has constituted a special team that is picking up the waste generated from around 400 houses wherein as many persons have been home quarantined for perceived coronavirus infection. MC commissioner of Mohali Kamal Kumar Garg said, “We have a list of people whose houses the team is visiting to pick up garbage once a day. The workers take proper precautions and the waste is buried deeply as per the norms.”Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “A government-empanelled agency is disposing of the biomedical waste of our hospitals and dispensaries. The biomedical waste of Covid-19 patients and suspects is properly packed, sealed, and kept in a designated room. The agency collects it once a day in their truck and dispose it off as per Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules, 2016.”Presently, Mohali has 12 confirmed cases of Covid-19, out of which two are admitted at Fortis Hospital, Sector 62, Mohali, one in Max Hospital, three in civil hospital in Phase 6, and five at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. A 43-year-old doctor of Sector 49, Chandigarh , who is also confirmed Covid-19 patient, is admitted at Mayo Hospital in Sector 69.The Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) has set up a rapid action team to collect waste from the houses of persons who are home quarantined. Panchkula MC commissioner Sumedha Kataria said, “The waste is being collected in yellow bags and given to the biomedical hazardous waste collector of health department, which disposes it of at its centres.” Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “For isolation and other wards related to Covid-19, yellow double-layered bags are being used to collect the waste. It is being stored and labelled separately before being handed over to the bio-medical waste treatment facility.” As per the health department data, around 293 persons are home quarantined in Panchkula, 390 at temporary shelter homes and around 125 at facility quarantines at Nada Sahib gurdwara and Mauli village in Raipur Rani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-serving-people-in-quarantine-a-risky-job-for-waste-collectors/story-u5BQF6eS4hc2qJjxt58huM.html
04-04-2020||City||British PM writes Covid-19 advisory in Punjabi, Gujarati, Urdu||British prime minister Boris Johnson has posted letters to 30-million households across the UK, cautioning people: “We know things will get worse before they get better,” and to reach various communities, had it translated in Punjabi, Gujarati and Urdu.Alongside the letter, residents receive a leaflet outlining official advice, with clear explanations of symptoms, hand washing guidance, rules on leaving the house, self-isolating in case there are symptoms and shielding vulnerable people.The United Kingdom has a 1.5 million-strong Indian diaspora. In the 2011 census, 273,000 people identified Punjabi as their first language; Urdu by 269,000 and Gujarati by 213,000.He wrote: “You should not meet friends or relatives who do not live in your home. You may only leave your home for very limited purposes, such as buying food and medicine, exercising once a day and seeking medical attention. You can travel to and from work but should work from home if you can.”“When you do have to leave your home, you should ensure, wherever possible, that you are two metres apart from anyone outside of your household. These rules must be observed. So, if people break the rules, the police will issue fines and disperse gatherings.”Johnson says in the letter that the more Britons follow the rules, the fewer lives will be lost and the sooner life can return to normal. But health officials have not ruled out further restrictions during the ongoing three-week lockdown that may last until September.Thousands of Indian-origin medical professionals are in the front line in the national health service (NHS), including those rejoining after retiring recently.“Thousands of retired doctors and nurses are returning to the NHS – and hundreds of thousands of citizens are volunteering to help the most vulnerable. It is with that great British spirit that we will beat coronavirus and we will beat it together,” Johnson wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/british-pm-writes-covid-19-advisory-in-punjabi-gujarati-urdu/story-451AUA2Etyzxvi1PsjBDxI.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s CSIR-IMTECH to start testing Covid-19 samples||CSIR-Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), Sector 39, is set to start testing coronavirus (COVID-19) samples.This makes it the third institute in Chandigarh to conducts tests for coronavirus, the other two being Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Sector 12, and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32.On Thursday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had allowed all national research laboratories, including those under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to conduct testing for coronavirus. CSIR is India’s premier national research and development organisation, which operates a network of over 38 laboratories across the country.Institute’s director Dr Sanjeev Khosla said the institute was equipped to test around 100 samples a day, and the capacity can be increased when required. He said CSIR-IMTECH had the requisite BSL (biosafety level) 2 and BSL3 laboratories, along with manpower expertise, to carry out testing for Covid-19. “All mandatory approvals for testing clinical samples have been obtained to operationalise testing at the earliest,” he added.UT health secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said the protocol for testing at IMTECH will be formulated after they officially receive intimation of the testing facility from the institute. As part of the existing protocol at PGIMER and GMCH, foreign travellers are tested if they have symptoms. All symptomatic people, who came in contact with a positive patient, or have severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) are also tested. Any other persons suspecting infection first need to contact the health department to allow it to establish if testing is required. Apart from testing clinical samples, IMTECH is also supporting healthcare professionals by providing Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to safeguard them against infection while serving patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-csir-imtech-to-start-testing-covid-19-samples/story-avrlRIK7GMGJXRYBDuOSyO.html
04-04-2020||City||Cops on curfew duty to get weekly offs in Ludhiana||Amid the increased workload and hectic schedule due to the curfew imposed to control the spread of the novel coronavirus, Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal brought some relief for cops on duty by announcing regular week-offs for them. Appreciating their efforts at keeping people indoors, often by putting their own health at risk, Agrawal said the cops have been working round-the-clock ever since the curfew has been imposed. “From implementing the curfew orders to making people aware about the virus to even distributing food among the needy, the cops have been at the frontline in this battle,” he said, adding, “Often in such a situation, they find it hard to take care of their own health and spend time with their families.” To help them beat the stress in these testing times, he orders his officers to make a list of all personnel on curfew duty and give them weekly off on rotation basis.He also advised them to take a 30-minute walk everyday to stay fit. He also said the police department has been ensuring that all cops on duty get proper meals and tea breaks. ‘HAVE NOT SEEN MY FAMILY IN 17 DAYS’For head constable Narvinder Singh, deputed at the Division Number 8 police station, his duty comes before anything else. The 31-year-old says that his parents and brother have been worried about him. “They live in Jeera of Ferozepur district and I the last time I met them was 17 days ago,” he says.Talking about his schedule, he says, “I have been working 15 to 18 hours a day so people remain indoors. I report to duty at 6 in the morning and come home only late at night.”“My mother has been calling me frequently but often due to my busy schedule, I am unable to attend her call,” she said. Narvinder joined the force 10 years ago and says this is the first time he has seen such a situation. ‘ REMINDS ME OF THE MILITANCY ERA’Assistant sub-inspector Sukhjinder Singh, who has been serving in the department for the past 30 years, says the curfew reminds him of the militancy era in Punjab.“It was a tough time back then but this is even more difficult,” Singh said, adding quickly, “But the police are in control of the situation,”Sukhjinder Singh belongs to Duburji village in Payal and has not gone home since the curfew was imposed in the state. He has been sleeping in Rose Garden police post.He says he has three children and makes sure speak regularly with them over phone. “For us our duty comes first and we available for the department in every situation,” he adds.‘HAVE NOT SPOKEN TO MY KIDS’ Inspector Pawan Kumar, Model Town station house officer, says, due to the increased working hours, he has not been able to speak to his children. “My duty ends late at night. By the time I reach, my two sons are fast asleep and since I have to leave early in the morning, I don’t get to speak to them at all,” he says. Kumar, however, makes sure to have frequent communication with them over the phone. “It is part of our job. When we joined the force, we vowed service to the people,” he says while appealing to people to follow government orders to win the battle against virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cops-on-curfew-duty-to-get-weekly-offs-in-ludhiana/story-DIUpnyxt3v6bl8RpyIsO4N.html
04-04-2020||City||Don’t oppose cremation of Covid-19 victims, Punjab health minister urges people||Moved by Thursday’s incident in which villagers in Amritsar opposed the cremation of renowned ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa who died due to Covid-19, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu made an appeal to the public not to panic as cremation of a coronavirus victim does not pose any threat to health.Sensitising the public, crematorium and burial ground staff, he said the cremation of Covid-19 victim has no adverse effects if proper protocols are adhered to. “Even the ash does not pose any risk and can even be collected to perform the last rites,” he said in a statement.He said that as per the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the crematorium and burial ground staff need to ensure hand hygiene, use of masks and gloves.Besides, the viewing of the dead body by unzipping the face-end of the body bag (by the staff) may be allowed for the relatives to see the body for one last time, he said.But the bathing, kissing, hugging of the deceased’s body is not allowed and the funeral/ burial staff and family members should perform hand hygiene after cremation/ burial.Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Badal said the denial of cremation to the mortal remains of Bhai Khalsa at Verka had caused deep resentment in the minds of the Sikh community and the Punjab government must take immediate steps to assuage the sentiments of the community.Congress MLA from Jalandhar Cantt Pargat Singh said the incident was a black spot on the entire humanity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-oppose-cremation-of-covid-19-victims-punjab-health-minister-urges-people/story-ArutszwhR43mmR9Gg6S7DI.html
04-04-2020||City||Covid fear: Elderly couple ends life in Amritsar||An elderly couple committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance at Sathiala village in Baba Bakala subdivision of Amritsar on Thursday, allegedly under the scare of Covid-19 outbreak, police said on Friday.The deceased have been identified as Balwinder Singh,65, and his wife Gurinder Kaur. Police said they have recovered a suicide note, purportedly written by the deceased. The suicide note reads: “We are finishing our lives. No one is responsible for this. There has been a tension due to coronavirus. We both were also ill.”However, the police made it clear that the couple was not infected with the virus and they took the extreme step out of scare.Senior superintendent of police (SSP-rural) Vikramjit Singh Duggal said the investigation was on to ascertain the reason why the couple was tense due to the coronavirus. The police initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-fear-elderly-couple-ends-life-in-amritsar/story-6jdldsvs4NIlvpPRo71HbJ.html
04-04-2020||City||Dedicated facility: Eight Covid-19 patients moved to PGIMER from two Chandigarh hospitals||Despite doctors at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) opposing the move, eight Covid-19 patients from two other city hospitals were on Friday shifted to the Extension Block of the institute’s Nehru Hospital dedicated to Covid-19 patients.While the PGIMER decided to not allow admission to such patients from neighbouring states without its approval, the UT administration assured the institute of its support for sanitation, dietary, transportation, mortuary and other services.Of the patients moved to PGIMER, seven were from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and one from Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, said UT health secretary Arun Gupta.Doctors have opposed the move, saying it’s ‘harmful’ for patients. The UT health department, meanwhile, has said that city hospitals at the moment have 295 isolation beds, 46 ICU Beds, 24 ventilators, and 1,336 personal protection equipment . All three hospitals: PGIMER, GMSH and GMCH will continue to carry out sampling.The administration has also provided 200 PPE to the PGIMER, which has created the 60-bed facility at the Nehru Block for Covid-19 patients.“The third floor of the hospital has 60 beds for Covid-19 patients in the initial phase, whereas on the fourth floor, 15 ventilators will be kept in the intensive care area. Similarly, in the second phase, if the patient number increases, other wards on the second and fourth floors will be opened,” said Dr Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson, PGIMER||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dedicated-facility-eight-covid-19-patients-moved-to-pgimer-from-two-chandigarh-hospitals/story-mhxBVB86sSElWYLihh2IHM.html
04-04-2020||City||Two Punjab men who returned from Nizamuddin Markaz event test positive for Covid-19||Two out of three men from Mohali who attended Tablighi Jamaat’s Markaz event at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the count to 12 in the district. At least 60% coronavirus cases in Delhi are linked to the same congregation, which has emerged as a super-spreader event across India.The patients, aged 42 from Mauli Baidwan in Sector 80 and aged 62 from Kumbra, Sector 68, attended the event between March 1 and 15 and returned to Mohali on March 17. The third man, who tested negative, is also a resident of Mauli Baidwan. After receiving the reports, the Mohali administration sealed both Mauli Baidwan and Kumbra villages.“The two have been moved to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and are responding well to treatment. We have taken samples of 10 more people from Dhakoli in Zirakpur, who had attended the same event. Their reports are awaited,” said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh.Mauli Baidwan is a densely populated area. It is learnt the two patients had been socialising after returning from Delhi two weeks ago.“We returned from Delhi on March 17. Initially, I just developed fever, but after taking medicine, I was fine. On April 2, police took us to the civil hospital in Phase 6 and our samples were taken. We had no awareness about this virus,” said the patient from Mauli Baidwan. “Had we known we were infected, we would have come to hospital on our own,” said the other man.248 traced in Chandigarh, PanchkulaThe contact tracing team of the Chandigarh municipal corporation till Friday quarantined 123 people who either attended the Markaz event in Nizamuddin or came in contact with such persons. Nineteen of them belong to the Patiala Jamaat, said officials.Police on Wednesday had identified five people living in Mauli Jagran suspected of having attended the religious congregation at Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area. A resident of Mata Raj Kaur Gurdwara in Manimajra had also attended one such congregation at Mobina Masjid Ramganj in Jaipur, Rajasthan.Also, 15 members of Tablighi Jamaat were residing at Noorani Masjid in Bapu Dham, Sector 26, and came to the city on March 17 after attending a congregation in Maharashtra.In Panchkula, two men who had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin were on Friday admitted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital in Sector 6. Deputy civil surgeon and nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal said: “Till now, we have traced 125 people who have returned from Rajasthan, Maharashtra and other states after attending religious congregations. However, among them, two men were found to have visited the Delhi-based headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat. Their samples have been taken for Covid-19 testing.” Of the remaining, 76 are quarantined in Nada Sahib and 47 at a facility in Mauli village, Raipur Rani. Meanwhile, health teams carried out surveillance at Rehna village in Raipur Rani, Bar village in Kalka and Banoi Khuda Baksh village in Pinjore, where these people reside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-punjab-men-who-returned-from-nizamuddin-markaz-event-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-IEkQC3Z7fMOIpEimUYBq1I.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Working in the times of coronavirus: Am being thrashed by cops on a regular basis, says Ludhiana vendor||24-year-old Ranjit Kumar has been a vegetable vendor since he was in his teens. However, he finds himself being shooed away by police personal and struggling to earn a living since the lockdown was imposed. Before the outbreak, his daily routine involved picking up fresh green leafy vegetables from farmers of Ladiyan and Jassian Village at 7am and then selling them to residents in 20 lanes of Joginder Nagar.However, now despite the risk of getting infected, he has to deliver vegetables from door-to-door: “If I do not move out and sell vegetables than my family will have to sleep without food, so I must go out and sell vegetables despite the risk.”The task is rife with difficulties as cops are not allowing vendors to commute on the roads. Kumar says, “Though, vegetables are an essential commodity, cops are not supporting us and thrash us on a daily basis.”“Over the last 12 days, many people have stopped purchasing vegetables as they say the prices of vegetables have shot up. They all purchase small quantities after much haggling. I would earlier earn Rs 600- Rs 700 by selling vegetables such as spinach, radish, cauliflower and peas, now I earn Rs 200 per day, which isn’t enough to run my house,” he says. “We are a family of four and these days we are finding it hard to scrap two meals a day. Yesterday, I had to borrow money from my friend to purchase ration. I do not know for how long this lockdown will continue, but I’m not sure if we can go on like this for much longer,” says Kumar.He, however, says he is taking precautionary measures such as covering my face with a handkerchief and wearing gloves. “I always maintain a distance when I talk to another person and clean my cart everyday,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/working-in-the-times-of-coronavirus-am-being-thrashed-by-cops-on-a-regular-basis-says-ludhiana-vendor/story-Qpj0LkCyEprdFT0mENpRZK.html
04-04-2020||City||Fighting Covid-19: With Rupnagar cops on field duty, their wives make masks back home||Acting as a pillar of strength for the Rupnagar policemen in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic, their family members, in addition to contributing financially, are making masks at home along with packing dry ration for the underprivileged in the district.With policemen on duty for 14 to 16 hours a day since the imposition of curfew, their families have shown all support.Out of about 100 families that stay in Police Lines quarters, about 30 families have come forward to help.Making masks on their sewing machines at homes and community centre, they are doing their bit to ensure safety and health. Spouses, children and even parents are participating to ease the burden on policemen by making packs out of ration donated by the non-governmental organisations and general public.“It is our duty to support in them tough times. We couldn’t think of anything better than making masks,” said Sukhwinder Kaur, 48, wife of ASI Jagtar Singh.Shruti, 16, daughter of ASI Chandermohan, with the help of her sisters is making most of her sewing skills.ASI Vinod Kumar’s wife Praveen Kaur along with three children is packing ration for the poor and needy.Lovepreet Kaur, daughter of ASI Jagir Singh, said, “Making ration packs may not mean much in ordinary times, but at moments like these when policemen are overworked, each little help counts,” she said.Rupnagar SSP Swapan Sharma lauded the efforts of the families of the policemen and said that over 33,000 meals and 800 masks had been prepared by the family members of the police officials in last seven days at their homes and community centre.He said dry ration packets have been distributed in slum areas and among the migrant labourers in the villages, with masks distributed at every naka point by mobile patrolling.The SSP said that each family had also contributed ₹500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fighting-covid-19-with-rupnagar-cops-on-field-duty-their-wives-make-masks-back-home/story-pDy4Y8i5ZlyoZ8MnTjIprI.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGI begins YouTube channel for information on Covid-19||The doctors of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) launched a YouTube channel- PGI DCMSPH on Thursday to provide authentic information regarding COVID-19 to the public.The channel, a brainchild of Dr Amarjeet Singh, was started by a team of doctors from School of Public Health, PGIMER.The team, headed by Dr Arun Aggarwal, includes Dr Nikita Sharma, Dr Rajbir Kaur, Dr Naveen Prashar and Dr Jatina Vij.Dr Amarjeet Singh said, “People are afraid and have a lot of questions regarding this pandemic. Misinformation being spread on social media is doing more harm than help. Keeping in view the queries of people and urgency of the matter, the director has allowed us to start a YouTube channel.”“The purpose is to provide authentic information about coronavirus to the viewers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgi-begins-youtube-channel-for-information-on-covid-19/story-7E0nQth3bvKSwXl08EkZPJ.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||RBI clears Rs 22,936-crore CCL; Punjab govt to pay farmers through arhtiyas||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday cleared Rs 22,936 crore towards the cash credit limit (CCL) for Punjab for the purchase of wheat in the rabi marketing season.With this sanction for the month of April, the central bank has released bulk of the CCL of Rs 26,064 crore sought the state government for the purchase of 135 lakh metric tonne (MT) of wheat this season. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had on Wednesday written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman seeking her intervention to direct the RBI for expeditious authorisation of CCL for the coming rabi season.“The state is facing unprecedented crisis due to lockdown in view of Covid-19 pandemic and procurement of rabi crop, which was due to begin on April 1, 2020, will now start on April 15 and this will be possible only if the RBI issues CCL authorisation,” he wrote. The CCL release would facilitate the Punjab government in making timely payments to farmers against wheat purchase in the rabi marketing season.Meanwhile, Amarinder asked the agriculture and food department to work out ways to procure wheat grain from within the villages that are located more than 1-2 kilometres from the mandis, to check overcrowding during the rabi season in view of Covid-19 restrictions. The CM was reviewing the wheat harvesting and marketing arrangements through a video conference with officials of these departments.‘AMEND RULES, KEEP DBT IN ABEYANCE’Amarinder also directed his chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar to get the rules amended to provide for payment to farmers through arhtiyas, saying that any changes in the system, including direct bank transfers, should be put in abeyance in the current circumstances. The system of direct transfer to farmers was to be commenced from this season, as was pointed out by food and civil supplies secretary KAP Sinha.The CM set up a committee of senior officers to monitor essential supplies on a day to day basis. He directed state police chief Dinkar Gupta to take strict action against those found guilty of hoarding of material. On the issue of procurement, while an Uber-type system of pooling farmers to the distant mandis, on the lines of the suggestion made by the Prime Minister, could be considered, the CM said he was open to accepting the proposal of the chief secretary to arrange for doorstep kind of procurement of the grain if comprehensive modalities could be worked out to ensure feasibility.While around 50% of the villages in the state are located in close proximity to the mandis and curfew passes could be issued to the farmers to go to the mandis in few numbers at a time, for the villages in distant areas, the chief secretary suggested sending officials to handle the procurement. Arhtiyas, who currently undertake bagging of the grain in the mandis, could be entrusted with the task of handling it in the villages itself, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rbi-clears-rs-22-936-crore-ccl-punjab-govt-to-pay-farmers-through-arhtiyas/story-4go1cxgxls2DsRkhtSj4bI.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lady Luck cold shoulders Chandigarh car dealers this Navratri||Navratri this year, failed to bring fortune to car dealers, with business hit hard by curfew restrictions in the wake of Covid-19 in the city. Dealers say that although it was unavoidable, the curfew couldn’t have come at a worse time, as it coincided with Navratri from March 25 to April 2, when most cars are sold. Dealers are reporting around 30% cancellation in bookings made for cars during Navratri, since March 24 when the curfew was imposed.As per records available with registration and licensing authority (RLA) and state transport authority (STA), More than 1,100 light motor vehicles were sold in the city this March before curfew was imposed. In comparison, during Navratri last year in October, more than 2,500 light motor vehicles were sold. Nitin Mehan, owner of Autopace Chandigarh, the dealership for Maruti Suzuki and Nexa in the city, said, “As if lack of sales wasn’t enough, about 30% bookings of cars wherein payment were made in advance were also cancelled. Some cars were to be wedding gifts but the curfew also prompted cancellation of weddings.”Mehan also said that even after the curfew is called off, it is unlikely that banks would easily give people loans for vehicles, so business is bound to suffer even further.President of federation of Chandigarh regional automobile dealers, Ronny Hoon, who also owns a Hyundai dealership, said with the curfew, automobile dealers are down and out. “We were aiming at selling nearly 300 cars during this time and had taken loans to procure enough vehicles. But there have been no sales. Between paying salaries and paying off loans, if finances of a dealership are not in shape, they may have to shut shop.”Unregistered BS-4 vehicles may face issue after curfew Former president of the association, Varinder Singh Saluja, who is a Ford dealer, said, “Buyers who purchased BS-4 engine vehicles before the curfew and didn’t get their vehicle registered on the spot may face issues after the curfew is lifted, as no BS-4 vehicles will be registered after April 31.” He also said that at his dealership, 50% bookings have been cancelled, especially for high-end cars. “After the curfew, people will first spend money on rebuilding their businesses rather than buy automobiles,” he said.Regarding two-wheelers, have been sold in the city since March 21, dealers of scooters, motorcycles and mopeds have been saved from the fallout of booking cancellations. Ronny Hoon, who also has a dealership for Honda motorcycles in the city said that two-wheelers were still being sold on the spot as there is no concept of booking them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lady-luck-cold-shoulders-chandigarh-car-dealers-this-navratri/story-noRSUjMjeQtz157P2nP8DI.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Life in the times of lockdown: Practice social distancing, says comedian Jaswinder Bhalla||Cooped up at home due to the nationwide 21-day lockdown, Punjabi actor and comedian Jaswinder Bhalla says he is taking the enforced confinement to bond with his family. “Before this lockdown, I hardly ever got an opportunity to spend so much time with my family,” says Bhalla, who notably is also part of the academic staff at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). “We all are so busy in our lives that we hardly get to spend quality with our friends and family,” he ruminates.In a recent video, which is doing rounds on social media, Bhalla uses wit and humour to underline the importance of social distancing as a means of combating the coronavirus pandemic. In his satirical video, Bhalla is seen anthropomorphising rats and conveying that rats are safe when they are in their burrows.“I have attempted to convey a serious message through comedy so that people enjoy watching the video and also follow the message at the same time,” he says. “Social distancing is the only one way to fight the deadly virus and it must be followed within houses as well, “ says the comedian. “Otherwise after the lockdown is over, we may notice the birth of new members in the family,” he adds on a humorous note. Bhalla says the government is also encouraging social distancing and we must follow the rules.The artiste said that people usually follow actors, which is why he is making videos while staying at home and posting them on social media. As of now, Bhalla has posted four videos where he has highlighted different preventive measures, including avoiding shaking hands, making efforts instead of depending on prayers, keeping hands clean and maintaining distance from each other.Ask him about his daily schedule, Bhalla says , “These days, I wake up at 8.30am, perform yoga and meditation, followed by prayer recitation. During the day, I spend time with my family.”“At times, I call relatives and friends to enquire after their well-being. Later in the day, I work on videos for my fans and sometimes watch comedy movies to keep the environment around me positive,” he said.Bhalla, who is the head of department of extension education at PAU, says that in these difficult times, everyone should support each other and pray for each other’s well-being.“I have heard that many residents here are cursing out NRIs who have returned to their homes recently and were found to be positive for coronavirus disease. We should not blame them, but help them and support them,” he said. “NRIs have always contributed for the development of the state and we should encourage their efforts,” he added.Bhalla further appealed to the residents to not spread fake news on social media as it can lead to panic among people and mislead them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/life-in-the-times-of-lockdown-practice-social-distancing-says-comedian-jaswinder-bhalla/story-22I8zRYU11qi6MfNM6kbKJ.html
04-04-2020||City||Jalandhar panchayats to fine curfew violators, recommend FIR||Panchayats across villages in the district have banned unauthorised entry or exit of residents. It has also been decided to fine violators of the curfew and recommend the registration of a First Information Report (FIR) against those who continue to violate curfew orders. Gram panchayats have made announcements to this effect through loudspeakers, while also informing the public about the punitive measures. A senior police officer said villages in Phillaur, Nakodar, Adampur and Shahkot sub-divisions of the district had already implemented the ban. Ajay Kumar, a Mahal village resident, said, “Loudspeakers were used to announce that our village has been seized and no one will be allowed to leave or enter till further orders.”SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said besides roping in gram panchayats, a police officer had also been deployed in each village to ensure curfew was implemented strictly. “Over 150 people have been arrested for violation of curfew orders in the district,” the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jalandhar-panchayats-to-fine-curfew-violators-recommend-fir/story-TqLuXil3KZ6m6wRUr3RwJL.html
04-04-2020||City||Banned Punjabi movie ‘Shooter’ leaked on Internet||Banned by the state government, Shooter, a Punjabi movie glorifying the life of slain gangster Sukha Kahlwan, has been leaked on Internet.Scores of links offering online streaming of movie are making rounds on social media sites, where thousands of people have already viewed it.The movie was banned by the state government before its scheduled release on February 11. An FIR was also registered against the producers of the movie at Mohali. The film was also banned in Haryana later.Advocate HC Arora, who had written to the state government to impose a ban on the movie, alleged that the leak is a deliberate attempt by its producers to promote the film.“It appears to be a deliberate attempt to take the movie to the people across the world. It is a breach of the government’s order imposing the ban on the movie. An FIR should be registered against its producers,” he added, “According to Section 7 of Cinematography Act, exhibition of such a film attracts prosecution which may result into imprisonment of its producers for three years,” he added. Gurpyar Singh alias Guri, one of the producers of movie, said, “We have invested a great amount of money on the movie and its leak is going to inflict a big loss on us. We were hopeful that we will get the approval to release the movie after the ongoing curfew.”“We will get the movie links deleted from the Internet. We will take action against those responsible for the leak. We will post about it on social media account of Jayy Randhawa, the actor who played the role of the gangster in the movie,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/banned-punjabi-movie-shooter-leaked-on-internet/story-i7Vkvu1ue2g22mIbx87JzI.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Centre approves release of Rs 638 cr revenue deficit grant to Punjab||The Union finance ministry on Friday approved the release of revenue deficit grant of Rs 638.25 crore to Punjab for the financial year 2020-21.The grant-in-aid has been released to cover the post-devolution revenue deficit as per the recommendation made by the 15th Finance Commission. Punjab is among the 13 states for which release of revenue deficit grant of Rs 6155.75 crore was approved by the Centre.Also, the Centre approved the release of another Rs 247.50 crore under the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRMF) to the state government to combat Covid-19. This is the first instalment of the central share of SDRMF during the current financial year, according to a release order issued by the department of expenditure, Union finance ministry.Last month, the Centre had allowed the state to use the disaster response funds for taking preventive and mitigation measures for containment of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-approves-release-of-rs-638-cr-revenue-deficit-grant-to-punjab/story-SFIFZ8dneLR8tqXm5Pg5XN.html
04-04-2020||City||Back from Pak, 14 Kashmiri students stuck in Amritsar||As many as 14 Kashmiri students, including nine girls, who had returned from Pakistan via Attari-Wagah border on March 19 are stuck in the city amid lockdown due to Covid-19 outbreak.These students, who are pursuing various medical degrees, country, were quarantined at Swami Vivekanand Drug De-Addiction and Rehabilitation Centre, which was converted into a quarantine centre to accommodate the people coming from other countries.Their quarantine period got over on April 1 and they were issued medical fitness certificates, but they have not been able to go back home. They belong to various districts of Kashmir, including Srinagar.“We had got transport passes from Amritsar deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon who helped us a lot. He has also made arrangement of a bus to ferry us, but we have heard that the problem is from the authorities in Jammu who are not issuing the pass saying the inter-state transportation is not permissible,” said Bazeega Khan.She said, “29 people, hailing from other states, who came along with us and completed quarantine period with us have already gone home. They belong to Goa, UP, Bangluru and Kolkata. Why this kind of discrimination with us?”DC Dhilon was not available for his comments despite HT’s repeated phone calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/back-from-pak-14-kashmiri-students-stuck-in-amritsar/story-ckxl2QxuHX56E6CUGdN1IK.html
04-04-2020||City||Covid-19: 3 Chhattisgarh residents with Markaz link positive in Mansa||Three members of Tablighi Jamaat, including two women, who were staying at a mosque in Budhlada of Mansa district have tested positive for coronavirus.Mansa deputy commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal said those tested positive are part of a group of 10 people from Chhattisgarh and all of them were in quarantine for some days. Six of 11 samples sent for testing have tested negative while results of two are still awaited, said Mansa senior medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar. The patients have been shifted to Mansa civil hospital’s isolation ward, he said. The group had come to Budhlada on March 19 after attending the Nizamuddin Markaz congregation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-3-chhattisgarh-residents-with-markaz-link-positive-in-mansa/story-SWnVwaauXmFWsL3220naDM.html
04-04-2020||City||Truck driver who gave lift to Tablighi Jamaat members quarantined in Batala||A truck driver from Harshian village of Batala subdivision, who had given lift to three members of Tablighi Jamaat returning from Delhi, was put under quarantine here on FridayBatala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Opinderjeet Ghuman said that after getting specific inputs, a police team along with officials from the health department rushed to Harshian and brought the driver to Batala civil hospital, where he has been quarantined. His samples were taken and were sent to Amritsar for coronavirus test.The police said the driver had picked up Tablighi Jamat members from Delhi and dropped them at Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-driver-who-gave-lift-to-tablighi-jamaat-members-quarantined-in-batala/story-smAuSQUaDxoqBgtyN9q0mO.html
04-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: Lockdown sees fewer street crime, accidents in Delhi||New Delhi: Street crimes such as robbery, snatching, theft and molestation declined by up to 50% between March 15 and March 31 this year in the city from the same period last year, according to the Delhi Police’s fortnightly data released on Friday, as the city battled the spectre of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The number of fatal road accidents also came down drastically from 48 last year to 19 during the same period this year, the data showed.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe decrease in the number of crimes can be attributed to the nationwide lockdown that started on March 25 when the police kept a high profile to enforce that people stayed indoors, police officers said, requesting anonymity. Most public and private transport vehicles went off the roads, making for fewer accidents. The police officers said that a majority of the crimes were reported between March 15 and March 22, before prohibitory orders were first issued in Delhi. Later, the 21-day nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to prevent the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 pandemic. The police data, however, does not have the figures of serious crimes such as dacoity, murder, attempt to murder, and rape.“There has been a significant decline in all the crimes. The exact number of crimes that happened during the lockdown period, between March 25 and March 31, is not available. But as far as the trend of the reporting of crimes is concerned, the incidents of serious crimes have been very less. A majority of the cases (in data between March 15 and 31) were registered between March 15 and 22. Nearly 50% of the registered cases have already been solved,” said Delhi Police spokesman Mandeep Singh Randhawa.According to police statistics, 53 cases of robbery were reported during March 15 and 31 this year as against 109 during the same period in 2019. There were 294 cases of snatching in the same period last year, which declined by almost 39% to 181 this year.Apart from robbery and snatching, vehicle thefts also declined. Data showed that 1,243 vehicles were stolen in the city in the second half of March this year, whereas this number was 1,982 during the same period in 2019. In Delhi, on average, about 140 vehicles were stolen every day last year. However, due to the coronavirus effect, the average number came down to 73 per day, the data shows. The number of vehicles stolen after March 22, when restriction came into force, must be less than 200, a police officer said. Similarly, the police registered three extortion and 55 burglary cases between March 15 and 31 this year. The number was 13 and 126 respectively in that time ast year.The police data shows that molestation cases also declined by 50% to 72 in the period this year as against 114 in the last 17 days of March 2019.“As the lockdown has led to a sharp decline in vehicular movements in the city, there were only 19 deaths in road accidents between March 15 and 31 this year. Cases of simple accidents also reduced to 112 as compared to 216 reported in the second half of March last year,” said another police officer.As far as serious crimes are concerned, no case of kidnapping for ransom was reported in the second half of March as compared to one case that was registered last year during the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-effect-delhi-sees-decline-in-street-crimes-accidents-between-march-15-and-31/story-2yUrb7WP5dQkNa6tnxCuOJ.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Maha count up to 490; 6 dead of coronavirus||The count of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra rose to 490, up by 67 from Thursday, and the death toll touched 26, even as the Maharashtra government’s 2,455 flying squads screened 9.25 lakh in door-to-door surveys in areas across 18 districts.Of the 67, 43 cases were registered in Mumbai, bringing the count to 278; nine in Pune, eight in Navi Mumbai, three in Ahmednagar and one each in Palghar, Kalyan, Ratnagiri and Washim. One death was reported in Mumbai and three in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), excluding Mumbai, and one each in Pune and Jalgaon. The first case in the state was reported on March 9. Under the cluster containment action plan, the flying squads conduct a survey in three-km radius of containment areas (where a person has tested positive or his close contacts live), if three or more Covid-19 patients are found there. However, the state health department has directed the local authorities to conduct surveys even if one patient is found in an area, said an official from state health department. In Mumbai, the worst hit in the state, 292 teams have completed a survey of more than four lakh residents, state officials said. State health minister Rajesh Tope said a flying squad is expected to visit an area for 14 days and prepare a list of people suffering with symptoms such as cough, cold, fever or respiratory problems. “If they don’t recover, they are referred to the government facility,” Tope said. “The squad is also being used for contact tracing, which plays an important role in containing the spread. They are also asked to create awareness among people about the pandemic.”Seven members – two each in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Ahmednagar and one in Hingoli district – who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event have tested positive. The state government could contact 1033 people of the 1,225 who went to New Delhi and has put 738 in government quarantine facilities, said an official.The wife of the second COVID-19 patient who died in Mumbai was discharged on Friday. According to sources, the deceased’s 32-year-old daughter, who was also found to be COVID-19 positive, has turned negative and would be discharged on Saturday. In another case, of the 40 quarantined medical staffers at Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivli, 26 have tested negative. The reports of the remaining 14 are pending.In the state, 595 suspected patients are admitted in various hospitals across the state. Till Friday, of the 12,858 samples tested, 11,968 samples were found negative; while 50 have recovered. A total of 38,398 are quarantined at home and 3,072 are in government quarantine facilities.On Thursday, the health department announced the plan to start 30 dedicated government hospitals with 2,305 beds for patients. It also decided to start mass rapid tests to ascertain the level of infections among masses. Meanwhile, the state government has declared a financial assistance of ₹50 lakh to the kin of police personnel who die in the line of duty. Deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar made the announcement after holding a meeting with home minister Anil Deshmukh, health minister Rajesh Tope and other senior officials. Pawar has also requested the central government to waive GST and service tax on all medical equipment that are useful in the fight against coronavirus such as personal protective equipment kit, ventilators, testing kits, mask etc.Pawar in his letter to union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the demand for all these things has increased due to the worldwide outbreak. “Easy availability and also at cheaper rates of all these equipments is the need of the hour. Thus GST and service tax being imposed on them should be waived off with immediate effect,” states the letter.Government employees related to public health, medical education and police force would be given priority while paying the rest of the salary for March. The state government has announced payment of the salary for government employees and elected representatives in installments. In the first installment, the government employees will get 50% to 75% salary, while the remaining part will be released later in the coming months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-count-up-to-490-6-dead-of-coronavirus/story-Ffxe9YvcgQzGyOnXEY363M.html
04-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus-infected woman delivers healthy baby boy at AIIMS Delhi||A woman diagnosed with Covid-19 on Thursday delivered a healthy baby boy at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Friday afternoon. She is married to a 28-year-old senior resident from the physiology department, who also tested positive for the viral infection on the same day.The boy is the first baby to be born to a Covid-19 positive mother in India.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe parents, the newborn, and his three-year-old sister are housed in the isolation facility in the new private ward of the hospital. The 28-year-old doctor’s brother has also tested positive for the infection, and has been admitted to the hospital. “The mother and child are both healthy and in the isolation ward. The newborn should be fine, but we will keep an eye on him for the infection. The mother was also not really symptomatic. She just developed a sore throat today,” said Dr Neerja Bhatla, professor of gynaecology and acting head of the department at AIIMS.The baby was due next week, but doctors decided to go for an emergency caesarean section to deliver the baby.Anticipating the challenge of a pregnant Covid-19 positive woman, doctors from the gynaecology department at AIIMS had already made arrangements for a temporary operation theatre (OT), which was built last week in the hospital’s new out-patient clinic department.The hospital is in the process of converting the Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Centre to a dedicated Covid-19 facility, with an OT for patients with the infection. In the meanwhile, doctors had to bring in OT light and anaesthesia table to convert the minor OT in the OPD block to a major one for the surgery.The building was empty since the hospital has stopped out-patient services.“The trauma centre OT for Covid-19 patients should open up soon. For the time being, we brought in OT lights and anaesthesia table from different departments to convert the minor OT into a major OT. Draping was also put up in the haematology department area of the OPD to create separate areas to put on PPE (personal protective equipment), sanitise, and take off the protective gear,” said Dr Bhatla.To prevent infections, staff entering the OT had to put on the protective gear — the full-body suit, goggles, shoe covers, and masks — before entering. All the blood collection and testing before the surgery was done once the pregnant woman was inside the OT, to judiciously use the PPE. Afterwards, the staff had to take off the gear properly, following a checklist and sanitise themselves before stepping out.Passageways were cordoned off and a green corridor-like clearance path was created to bring the woman in to the OT area.“Everybody worked well as a team, and we were able to pull this off without a hitch,” said Dr Bhatla.The authorities have been unable to trace the source of infection as the resident doctor did not have a history of travelling abroad nor had he treated any Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-positive-woman-delivers-baby-boy-both-are-out-of-danger/story-es1uVX4Ic4NdQvWdZsyYZO.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Man murders wife over suspicion of affair, then hangs himself||GurugramA 31-year-old electrician allegedly murdered his wife before hanging himself at their house in Garhi Harsaru village in Sector 10 on Friday afternoon, the police said. According to the police, the man suspected his wife of having an affair and the couple had frequent altercations over the issue. The police have found a note allegedly written by the man in which he did not blame anyone for his death and asked for his minor daughter to be taken care of and sent to her maternal grandmother’s house. The man had locked his 14-year-old daughter in a separate room, a few minutes prior to the alleged murder, the police said, adding that the incident was reported around 1.30pm. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said that according to the statement given by the couple’s daughter, the man, identified by first name as Pramod from Chittorgarh, suspected his wife of being in an illicit relationship.“Their minor daughter said that the two used to fight frequently over the issue. Around noon, the man locked his daughter in another room and had an argument with his wife. During the alleged squabble, the man picked up a grinding stone from the kitchen and hit it on her head,” said the police official.The police said after allegedly killing her, he wrote a note in a diary, before going to the bathroom and hanging himself from a grille. “In the note, he mentioned that he was committing suicide and he was responsible for his death. He also asked for his daughter be sent to her maternal grandmother’s house. He did not mention killing his wife in the note,” said the police official cited above.The woman was his second wife and the couple had been living in Garhi Harsaru for several years, the police said, adding that the woman was found lying in a pool of blood with injury marks on her head while her husband was found hanging in the bathroom of the house. Sanjay Kumar, station house officer, Sector 10 A police station, said that the couple’s daughter, who was locked in a different room at the time of the incident, called neighbours, who then reached their house and unlocked her before informing the police. The police said the post-mortem of the bodies would be conducted on Saturday. On the statement of the couple’s daughter, a case was registered against the man under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of Indian Penal Code at Sector 10A police station on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-murders-wife-over-suspicion-of-affair-then-hangs-himself/story-2d7PWYGrYPTSPVmwUPsykO.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||City’s Covid-19 fight goes into high gear||The worst Covid-19-affected city in India has activated 474 teams across 241 containment zones and checked more than 900,000 people as part of its plan to stop the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus through human-to-human contact. As of 9 pm on April 3, Mumbai had 278 positive cases and 18 deaths – the highest for any Indian city – according to data released by Maharashtra’s nodal state health department.Each team comprises two or three Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) staff members, and is mandated to identify a containment zone, conduct door-to-door surveys, and get a questionnaire answered by all residents in that zone. In Mumbai, a ‘containment zone’ is categorised as one if a single person from any area is tested positive for Covid-19. The patient’s family and the building are identified as a ‘cluster zone’ and at least four to five adjoining buildings on all sides are mapped in the containment zone, depending on the area’s population density. The greater the population density, the wider the radius of containment zone, a BMC health official explained on Friday.According to BMC protocol, the family and immediate neighbours of positive patients are tested, as they are considered high risk. Other residents of the building are considered low risk and are asked to be in home quarantine. They are also asked to keep a tab on their symptoms. Residents of adjoining buildings in the containment zone are also surveyed. Entry and exit from a containment zone is restricted and severe lockdown protocols are put in place.“Each of these teams identifies at least 50 high risk cases per day,” a senior BMC health officer said. “These high risk persons are direct contacts and who have fever, cold, cough, breathlessness, etc. Depending on severity of the symptoms, we advise testing and visiting the closest Covid-19 hospital.”City health officials said this protocol differs from the guidelines issued by the Centre for identifying clusters and containment zones on account of Mumbai’s high population density (32,303 persons per square km). A senior civic officer said, “BMC has been given permission to draw up its own guidelines.” Across all other districts in Maharashtra, however, clusters are identified if more than three persons are found to be Covid-19 positive in the area. Following that, an area of 3 sq km is screened.At present, BMC’s health officers said, 300 of the 474 teams are on the field at any given time.BMC said it is uses video analytics software on top of the live footage it receives from the 5,000 installed closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras across the city to monitor human movement in a containment zone. “No one is allowed to roam around in a containment zone,” said an officer involved in executing the containment zone strategy. “If the software spots any movement in the feed, the disaster control room is alerted. We are also updated on the instances of human movement and also crowding. We activate the disaster management team and they ensure that people don’t move out. If people move out regularly, we are mandated to take action against them. Food and essential items are being delivered to persons in the containment zone.”In addition to regulating movement, BMC said on Friday that it will start medical camps at the perimeter of containment zones. As no resident living in the containment zone is allowed to exit, any person showing symptoms of Covid-19 can approach the medical camp. “Patients with other illnesses can also approach the medical camp for a quick diagnosis, and referral to a hospital,” a health officer said. “This comes just days after reports such as the death of a senior citizen in Kurla (in central Mumbai) due to a stroke. The senior citizen was a resident of a building sealed by BMC after a positive case of Covid-19 was reported. The locals had alleged that policemen standing guard at the building did not allow the man to leave the premises for medical attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/249-containment-zones-474-teams-mumbai-s-covid-19-fight-goes-into-high-gear/story-Bdj7bQ2sQkIloQdca4AyLJ.html
04-04-2020||Delhi||Watch out for the Covid Patrol: Cops on bikes make sure people stay home||In a congested lane of Zamrudpur in south Delhi, HT listens in to a conversation between a policeman on a motorcycle who has just stopped a man:“Why are you out of your home?,” asked the policeman.“Sir, I need to buy milk.”“Is it? Then you must be carrying cash. Show me the money”.No, it was not a demand for a bribe. The policeman was trying to ascertain whether the man had a genuine reason to be outside amid the 21-day country-wide lockdown that began on March 25.As it turns out, the man who we met earlier did in fact have the money and the policeman allowed him to pass with a reminder: “Stay home, stay safe.”“Fake excuses will not be tolerated,” another policeman announced through a loudhailer to a small group of people walking towards them. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThese policemen are part of ‘Covid Patrol’, an initiative of the South Delhi district police to penetrate densely populated neighbourhoods and ensure a strict compliance to the lockdown.Forty such motorcycles -- with ‘#COVID PATROL’ marked on red and blue tapes over their headlamps -- were rolled out on Wednesday. Each police station in the district would have two to three such motorcycles. “These motorcycle patrols will ensure police presence in areas that other police vehicles may not be able to enter. They will brief shopkeepers, keep the roads empty and also prosecute violators in areas where residents feel they may get away without a punishment,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP (south).To see the situations they face and how they tackle them, Hindustan Times on Thursday followed one such team of four policemen riding two motorcycles as they rode out of the Greater Kailash police station.“We will be taking rounds every hour. I don’t want to see you here when we return,” head constable Ravinder Singh told a man sweeping dry leaves outside a bungalow in Greater Kailash-1. The motorcycles raced ahead, but Singh kept turning around to make sure the man had gone back into the house.As they rode past bungalows in this posh neighbourhood, guards and men washing cars rushed toward their gates. “Wash your hands with soap before you enter the house,” constable Umesh Chaudhary, riding pillion on another motorcycle, told them.They ignored a small group of people outside a grocery shop, paused to see if another shop had the markings for social distancing among customers, and let an elderly man proceed home once he produced a medical prescription.As the motorcycle patrols reached a traffic junction, they bumped into a youngster riding a scooter. “I am a distributor with a spices firm,” the moped rider said. The policemen weren’t convinced and parked their motorcycle, bombarded him with a series of questions and checked his documents before giving him the go-ahead.Amidst the lockdown, only those exempted by the government as essential service providers, and those who have been issued curfew passes by the Delhi Police or the Delhi Government, are allowed to move on the roads.Until this point, the policemen had it easy. The roads were deserted and the policemen rode at a decent pace and routinely sounded their sirens.Scenes were quite different once they ventured into Zamrudpur. People here walked the streets, vendors sold vegetable and fruit, and children played in groups of threes and fours.The policemen parked their motorcycles and began rounding up those who appeared to be out without a reason. One man said he was returning home after giving lunch to his cousin who lives alone.“Tell him to cook at home or ask him to stay with you,” head constable Tara Chand said while taking down his contact details.Another man, Sanjeet Kumar, said he was walking to his friend’s home to ask for bank account details. “You think I am an idiot? Couldn’t you just call him? Next time I see you outside, you’ll be locked up at the police station,” Chand nearly screamed at him. The man ran off the moment he was let off.The policemen took down details of men who didn’t carry identity proofs, didn’t offer believable excuses and those who rode out together to buy groceries. “Are you hoarding that two of you are required to visit a shop,” Hawa Singh, a constable carrying an AK-47 rifle, asked two such scooter riders.“We remember your faces. I don’t want to see you again when I return,” Singh warned them.While these men escaped without any legal action on Thursday, the Delhi Police have been prosecuting hundreds of people every day for violating the lockdown, booking them under the Indian Penal Code or under the Delhi Police Act. On Friday alone, the police detained around 3560 persons who were loitering on the city streets without any valid reason or emergency. The policemen seemed helpless when it came to children playing in the streets. “Beta, go to your homes,” a policeman pleaded with them, while another asked around to know who their parents were. The children ran to continue playing elsewhere.The policemen then rode out to another part of Zamrudpur where the sound of the policemen’s loudhailer was drowned by a loudspeaker set up outside a shop. “House owners must not demand rent from their tenants this time,” the speaker bellowed. “The speaker is also set up by us,” HC Chand said enthusiastically.While they let vegetable vendors and shops operate without questions, they forced a man to shut his roadside stall selling masks. “Pack your shop and go into hiding. Masks are to be sold at medical stores,” HC Ravinder Singh, told the shopkeeper Shivam.“There is no point. These policemen will keep returning,” Shivam said, packing the masks in a bag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/here-comes-the-covid-patrol-south-delhi-cops-out-to-ensure-lockdown/story-R5xrsLV6wUor76VIwVEJRJ.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||3 Tablighi Jamaat attendees from Nuh test Covid-19 positive||Three men from Nuh, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation earlier this month in Nizamuddin, Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday night. The Nuh police have identified as many 200 people, who attended the congregation, and collected samples of 25 of them for testing so far. The three infected patients are admitted in Nalhar medical college, while 25 have been put in quarantine at a polytechnic college. At least 200 others are in self-quarantine.The chief medical officer of Nuh confirmed the new cases and said the patients had visited from Kerala to attend the congregation of Islamic preachers held by Tablighi Jamaat. “We took samples of those identified by the police on March 31. They will be in quarantine for 14 days. Police has been deployed so that they do not escape from the quarantine facility. We have provided them safety kits too to prevent contamination,” said Dr Virendra Yadav, chief medical officer, Nuh. Police teams deployed at the hospital at Nalhar medical college and polytechnic college have been provided with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), which includes gear like zero power glasses, gloves, masks, shoe covers, headcovers, and hand gloves, to ensure their safety. Nuh’s superintendent of police Narender Bijarniya, on Friday said they are coordinating with the district administration and chief medical officer and are checking the travel history of people who had visited Jamaat and are ensuring that they are kept in isolation. “Samples of nine more people have been collected on Friday. The test results will come on Saturday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/3-tablighi-jamaat-attendees-from-nuh-test-covid-19-positive/story-26G4i3Nh5vybXMGQYzGw3O.html
04-04-2020||Delhi||Man lodges FIR against father for violating lockdown||A 30-year-old man on Wednesday lodged a police case against his father for allegedly not following the lockdown and repeatedly stepping out of their house in south Delhi’s Rajokri near Vasant Kunj.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had initiated a 21 day countrywide lockdown on March 23 to check the spread of Covid-19. So far, 386 people have tested positive for the virus in Delhi, with six deaths. On the man’s complaint, police booked his 59-year-old father for violating prohibitory orders. In his complaint dated April 1, the man — who works in an automobile company — alleged his father had been violating the lockdown often, police said.“On April 1, when the son called the police, a team was sent to his house. The police team found the son and his father standing outside the house, on the road. When the man asked his father to get inside, he refused. The man later also told us his father often stepped out of the house and roamed around in the neighbourhood despite the lockdown,” said a police officer. Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Devender Arya said as prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC is in place, a case under IPC section 188 was registered against the father on a complaint by his son at the Vasant Kunj (south) police station. A police officer said the offences under section 188, in a pandemic-like situation, may lead to six months of imprisonment or Rs 1,000 fine or both.The man who filed the FIR could not be reached for a comment.Since the lockdown was announced in Delhi, the police are regularly patrolling roads and bylanes of residential colonies, asking people to stay indoors and move out only in case of emergency. Regular announcements are also being made by the police to educate people about the risk of exposure to Covid-19 and on measures to avoid it. Violators are being prosecuted. On Thursday, police registered at least 174 cases till 5 pm against people caught violating prohibitory orders. A total of 3,663 people were detained and 443 vehicles impounded. On Wednesday, the police booked 249 people for violations, detained 4,053 people and impounded 515 vehicles. The action is also being taken against those who are caught violating the mandatory home quarantine. Delhi police spokesperson, Anil Mittal, said that a total of 33 FIRs were lodged till Friday against such people, of which 21 were in Dwarka. “They were all found deviating from home quarantine rules. The violators are being booked under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act. Apart from Dwarka, eight cases were reported from south Delhi, two from the north and one each from the northwest and central Delhi.The Delhi police have set up a 24x7 helpline, 23469526, to assist people to resolve issues related to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-lodges-fir-against-father-for-violating-lockdown/story-UJsTudkW1rPxe1lQtUcOMI.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Daily wagers write to Gurugram administration, say they are not getting food||A group of slum dwellers from Indira Awas Colony near Narsignhpur village complained to the district administration on Friday, alleging that distribution of food among them was scarce, leading to massive resentment.In the light of Covid-19 outbreak and after a nationwide lock down was imposed from March 23, the Gurugram administration has set up a relief camp at Kherki Daula (and at other places in city) to distribute food among daily wage earners living in villages and slums in the area. A team of officials from Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and some anganwadi workers have been engaged to distribute food materials — such as wheat, rice, daal, sugar etc — among people affected by lockdown. The complainant said that the slum dwellers have had to return disappointed from the food distribution centres empty handed so far and no official has reached out to them with supply. On Friday morning, the aggrieved group of people drafted a letter signed by 20 people and sent it through WhatsApp to Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri, seeking his immediate intervention. The letter stated that they are being deprived of food at Kherki Daula centre. The complainants, mostly daily wagers and domestic helps, wrote in the letter that they had run out of food at their homes too.One of the residents who has signed the letter, who wanted to remain anonymous, said, “Food material keep arriving at Kherki Daula community centre. The distributing officials told us on Thursday afternoon that there was a shortage and they asked us to come back at night. We were turned away during the night time too. We have returned disappointed many times ever since this public distribution system was started in light of Covid -19 outbreak. We finally decided to inform the administration on Friday.”Soon after their letter, they got calls from the officials in charge of the Kherki Daula food distribution camp.“Two three hours after our complaint to the deputy commissioner, we got a few calls from officials asking us for our address and they assured us that we will be getting food materials today ,” said another resident. Till late Friday evening, the food relief hadn’t arrived for the slum dwellers.The administration has set up camp to track daily wage earners living in villages and slums, who might be running low on food and money after the lockdown enforced.Khatri said, “I will look into the complaint and take appropriate action if the food distribution is not proper. We have a large team working in food distribution in the entire district and I will get this complaint checked. People can also call 1950 if they do not get food or they want to know their point of distribution in their respective area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/daily-wagers-write-to-gurugram-administration-say-they-are-not-getting-food/story-yuZsUqt45PA0lmdgiRHlEP.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram’s Silver Oaks puts needs of the elderly first amid the lockdown||One of Gurugram’s oldest condominiums, Silver Oaks, in Sector 26 has adopted an elderly-first strategy as part of its plan to stop the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). While almost 50% of the residents at Silver Oaks Apartments are senior citizens, who are at a high risk of contracting the infection, the condominium is exercising special caution to keep them safe and has formed a volunteer network to cater to the needs of the elderly.Tariq Raza, president, Silver Oaks Condominium Association, said a team of volunteers had been constituted to look after the needs of elderly residents. “ Children of many senior citizens don’t live with them here. We are being extra careful about such people so that they don’t face any trouble. We have appointed volunteers to take care of senior citizens with health conditions. The volunteers ensure that in the absence of domestic help senior citizens do not face difficulty of any kind,” Raza said. The condominium has been under lockdown since March 17 and has restricted the entry of all outsiders. The entry of part-time domestic help, drivers, gardeners, and car cleaners among others has been barred with some exceptions such as those assisting the elderly. While delivery of vegetables, groceries, and medical supplies by e-commerce outlets is allowed til the entrance gates, agents of food delivery services such as Zomato and Swiggy are not allowed into the condominium. Out of the 15 gates, entry and exit of residents is allowed only through four gates since the condominium went into lockdown three weeks ago. “Unlike other condominiums in the city that have only have one or two gates, Silver Oaks has 15 gates. We have closed all gates except four and these gates are being manned by guards. Social distancing is our priority at the moment and unless absolutely necessary, all movements have been curtailed,” said Raza.Residents are required to collect deliveries of essential goods from the gate. All persons entering the building are required to use hand sanitisers at the gates. The management has placed tissues the lifts which can be used by people for pressing the buttons without directly touching them.Hand sanitisers have also been placed at the entrance of various towers. The condominium has also roped in the services of a professional service that disinfects and sanitises the towers, lobbies, and lifts after every three days.The condominium has reduced the strength of the essential staff by half to cut down exposure from the outside world. The rest of the staff has been given accommodation inside the complex. Mask and disposable gloves have also been given to security guards and housekeepers. Prior to the lockdown, residents had been advised to give paid leaves to all domestic help“About 25%-50% of the staff that lives within premises is on duty. They do not step outside and hence there is no fear of exposure for anyone of us. We have provided the staff with bedding and given them allowances for food. They stay here and cook,” said Rupali Jain, general secretary, Silver Oaks RWA ( resident welfare association). Jain said a vegetable vendor runs a store within the society and caters to the everyday needs of people. the residents buy other groceries and essential items from Qutub Plaza which is located in close proximity to the complex. “ The vegetable vendor and staff within the premises have been made aware of the need of practicing social distancing. They keep reminding people to abide by distancing norms while purchasing items. People are asked to stay at a distance of 6 feet from each other. They can only enter the shop one at a time,” said Jain.While the condominium had a strong volunteer network in place to cater to residents, the functioning of the network will have to be streamlined more if the lockdown is extended, Jain added. “We have issued 35 critical care passes to part-time helpers for senior citizens. However, some domestic helpers have stopped coming to the society in light of the pandemic. If the situation persists, the volunteers will have to take more responsibility and deal with the situation. We can work on arranging food or ensure that one volunteer is attached to one senior citizen if the lockdown is extended,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/silver-oaks-puts-needs-of-the-elderly-first-amid-the-lockdown/story-KMAdnbYTPqaDcueRkL7T3M.html
04-04-2020||Noida||RWAs to be booked if imposing ‘weird’ restrictions on residents: Noida police chief||Residents of several housing societies in Gautam Budh Nagar are in a dilemma — whether to follow the lockdown rules of the government or the diktats arbitrarily imposed by various residents’ welfare associations, many of which fly in the face of the orders issued by the government and health officials for the 21-day nationwide lockdown. Sample this message that several residents got from their RWA. “Request we keep strict quarantine with nothing coming into the house from outside — no milk, no bread, no vegetables- nothing at all - for the next 2 weeks. Please. Namak ajwain ki roti with water, agar provisions khatam ho jaaye, is preferable to inviting the virus home. Please do cooperate. Aur, steam inhalation n saline, warm water gargles 3-4 times a day for all, even if one does not have too big an irritation in the throat. Abhi season change ho raha hai. People may come in for a cold n cough. Do not panic. Could be seasonal cold/flu n nothing more serious. Do contact your doc in case these symptoms come with high fever. May God bless us all.”Not to be outdone, other RWAs had even more unscientific diktats, “Newspapers are not allowed in the society, as it may spread coronavirus”, another bulk message to residents read. Some did not want residents to even eat vegetables or dairy products. “Doctors have confirmed that all the dairy products and green vegetables available in the market carry coronavirus, so these products are not allowed in the society,” a message said.These separate rules and regulations, many of them baseless and panic inducing, have been devised by RWAs and apartments owners’ associations (AOAs). Recognising the negative impact of these orders, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration and the police have finally decided to take stern action against these residents’ bodies.“No individual or group of individuals are allowed to impose such restrictions. Stern action will be taken against them,” district magistrate Suhas LY said.Commissioner of police Alok Singh also said guidelines for all RWAs and AOAs are being issued. “They can’t impose weird rules on residents. I have asked officials to keep constant watch on all such associations. If they are found guilty of imposing unnecessary restrictions , they will be booked,” he said.In Sector 77, Rajesh Kumar Singh, a Supreme Court lawyer and a resident of a high-rise there, said the administration has become a mute spectator before the whims and fancies of these associations. “These RWAs and AOAs do not have any legal right to issue such messages. They are supposed to take care of maintenance only. But, since the district administration and police have no time to look into these matters, they are imposing their own sets of rules,” he said.In Singh’s society, none of the residents is allowed to take four-wheelers out of the society, unless they belong to a company which falls in the category of essential services. Hence, to do grocery shopping, one has to walk to the market and haul the items back home. “ How would senior citizens in my society do this? There is no provision to deliver essential items to their doorstep,” SIngh said.In Arun Vihar, Sector 29, the RWA issued a strange notice Friday. “They will allow us to go out only for three hours — between 6am and 9am. If all residents start moving about at the same time, how will we ensure social distancing? It will be futile stepping out at that hour as not many shops before 9am. The administration must take punitive action against these RWAs that don’t know the difference between making rules and breaking them,” one of the residents, preferring anonymity, said.In Sector 21, the RWA has closed the dairy and vegetable booths.However, the umbrella associations to which these RWas belong do not support these restrictions. PS Jain, president of Confederation of NCR Residents’ Welfare Association (CONRWA), said he has been asking all RWAs to follow restrictions specified by the government. “But, they are proceeding as per their will. These whims will land them in trouble,” he said.Colonel (retired) Shashi Vaid, the reporting authority of all RWAs in Arun Vihar in sectors 29, 30 and 37, said such restrictions was brought to his notice. “If anyone is doing so to create panic, it is highly condemnable. I’ll look into these matters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/rwas-to-be-booked-if-imposing-weird-restrictions-on-residents-noida-police-chief/story-ec10csVWGLEUk1IiRhSbYK.html
04-04-2020||Delhi||Cops seek CCTV footage of Markaz, register of attendees||The Delhi Police has sought details of the number of CCTV cameras inside the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin, which has emerged as the single largest source of Covid-19 infections across the country. The police also asked Tablighi Jamaat’s head, Maulana Saad, to preserve the footage. Saad and six other top management officials of Tablighi Jamaat are currently facing a probe for defying restrictions on gatherings. In the first information report registered by the crime branch, Saad and others have been accused of defying the state government’s orders of March 13 and 16.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe state government, on those dates, had banned all gatherings, including religious ones.Other details sought by the investigating officers pertained to the “original register/data/and records maintained by the management of the Markaz” with regards to those who participated in the congregation since March 12, including foreigners. Question number 17 in the police’s letter is related to details of the action that the management took to disperse the gathering after the government’s order on March 13.Saad’s lawyer, Fuzail Ayyubi, said they would send a reply to the police at the earliest. He also denied reports on social media that Saad was absconding or had been summoned by the police. “Police have requested us to provide answers to some questions, under Section 91 of the Criminal Procedure Code. We are filing the questionnaire and will provide a detailed response. We are complying with the police’s directions and will cooperate. The maulana is in self-isolation, as advised by the doctors. He is not absconding.” Also Read: Lack of PPE, poor infection control put medical staff at risk of Covid-19The total number of positive Covid-19 cases increased from 293 to 386 on Friday, of which 259 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat that took place in Nizamuddin early March. The death toll went up from four on Thursday to six on Friday. Three of the six deaths were linked to the Nizamuddin Markaz, the biggest hot spot of the Covid-19 infections.Meanwhile, the police, along with the Delhi government and the ministry of home affairs, is identifying the places where those who attended the Markaz might have visited. District administration officials said the list of people, who could have come in contact with those who tested positive from the Markaz, is being prepared by the Central government. “They do the first round of contact tracing and send us the list. We then execute the standard operating procedure, which is to go to these people and quarantine them accordingly. In the process, we might find more people who could have come in contact,” a senior official said. Also Read: India’s coronavirus cases hit 3,000; two die in DelhiAnother official said a tracking centre has been set up in Laxmi Nagar, from where the list of contact tracing is generated and sent to all districts in the city. “The local police and the district administration get these lists and, then arrange home visits and calls,” the official said.“In this case (of Markaz), we are mostly testing all those who possibly came in contact with those who tested positive. Some, who were in close proximity to the Markaz, have been advised home-quarantine,” the official said. A senior official said the local administration is deploying civil defence volunteers to assist Delhi Police to reach out to all the contacts. “The process has taken us a lot of visits and it is still on. We are also getting inputs from other states, where people from the Markaz have tested positive. So, they are being asked to identify the places they visited and the people they met. Based on their responses, the respective state governments give us additional input and we send out teams there,” a third official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cops-seek-cctv-footage-of-markaz-register-of-attendees/story-CqT69RPnwXCT3XFAs2pv7I.html
04-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 update: Shelters make do without thermal sensors in Delhi||Until early Sunday, Delhi witnessed a mass exodus—thousands of migrant workers on their way back to villages and towns hundreds of kilometres away—either in buses arranged by other states or on foot.By 7am Sunday, the state borders were sealed and orders were issued by the central government directing states to screen all migrants including both groups, the one that was part of the exodus and the other that stayed back in government-run shelters.The screening required thermal scanners—a device that accurately records and reflects a careful analysis of body heat, an indicator that can be used to test an individual for potential infection of Covid-19, the disease that has claimed thousands of lives across countries.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“But, in Delhi, at such short notice, logistics are a problem,” a senior government official said.So the 234 night-shelters in Delhi—which are currently occupied by around 8,000 homeless persons and 12,000 migrant workers who became homeless due to the 21-day lockdown imposed last week to prevent the spread of Covid-19—are currently managing with ordinary mercury thermometers for this purpose, a government official said.Also Read: India’s coronavirus cases hit 3,000; two die in Delhi“We have procured 1,200 thermometers so that each night shelter gets at least five. The teams supervising these shelters have been instructed to assess body temperatures only by putting the thermometers in the armpits of the inhabitants of the shelters, not their mouths. After each reading, the thermometer has to be disinfected,” Bipin Rai, member of the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board, said.Rai further said, “Thermal scanners may take time to reach the shelters considering logistic issues during the lockdown. We have asked the revenue department to provide us with at least one thermal scanner per night shelter. Till then, we shall have to use thermometers and maintain records.”A senior official in the Delhi chief secretary’s office said: “Yes, logistics are currently a problem. But we are doing our best to provide thermal scanners in these shelters. Currently, the government quarantine centres have them.”“Traditionally, body temperature has been measured using contact thermometers that are placed on the forehead or in the mouth, ear, armpit or rectum. Non-contact thermometers allow a person’s temperature to be taken with minimal (tympanic) or no (non-contact infrared thermometer [NCIT], thermal scanner) contact with the person. This means the temperature can be measured without the discomfort of having to sit still with a thermometer in the mouth, armpit, or rectum long enough to obtain a correct temperature reading,” Satender Singh, a doctor at Delhi government’s GTB Hospital, said.Also Read: Lack of PPE, poor infection control put medical staff at risk of Covid-19He further said: “The lack of contact also means the disinfection process of thermometers is minimal or unnecessary, allowing for easier and faster use when screening large numbers of people in settings such as airports or border crossings. The main types of non-contact thermometers are non-contact infrared thermometers, tympanic thermometers, and thermal scanners.” “As far as accuracy is concerned, there is not much difference in case of a thermal scanner and a thermometer when placed in the armpit or below the tongue. It is only the rectal reading that provides a better assessment of core body temperature. But that would be immensely risky at this juncture,” Singh added.While the price of an ordinary thermometer starts at ₹100, thermal scanners start from ₹600, said dealers contacted by HT on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/no-thermal-scanners-shelters-make-do-with-ordinary-thermometers/story-VJAT0OBVVWcAMUa8L9VsiM.html
04-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi CM calls for calm over spike in coronavirus cases, allays fear of spread||With 10 more days of the nationwide lockdown left, Delhi chief minister (CM) Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said he would hold an interactive session with parents and schoolchildren on Saturday about “parenting in the time of corona.”The CM also launched the Delhi government’s Covid-19 helpline chatbot, through which people can get information related to coronavirus and initiatives of the city administration. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe total number of positive Covid-19 cases increased from 293 to 386 on Friday, of which 259 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat that took place in Nizamuddin early March. The death toll went up from four on Thursday to six on Friday. Three of the five deaths were linked to the Nizamuddin Markaz, the biggest hot spot of the Covid-19 infections. Between Thursday and Friday, 77 new positive cases from the Markaz were reported in the Capital. Kejriwal, during his daily media address, urged people not to panic over the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases and asserted that Delhi is still safe from the community transmission. Also Read: Scientists, regulators do double shifts to keep up“It (the number of cases) looks worrisome at first. Of the total cases in Delhi, only 38 are local transmission cases. These patients got the virus after coming in contact with the 58 foreign travel patients who tested positive. This figure of local transmission cases has remained almost constant for a while now, which gives us hope that there is no spread of corona in Delhi,” he said.Kejriwal said it is vital that everyone follows the 21-day national lockdown, to control the spread of the disease, which has killed at least 51,000 people worldwide. “We have to learn from other nations and, follow social distancing and lockdown norms stringently,” he said. Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Friday reiterated the message in his daily meeting with the CM, ministers and bureaucrats. Emphasising on social distancing at all hunger relief centres (HRCs), Baijal also asked the police and revenue officials to keep a strict vigil on all 20,232 home-quarantine cases, and take deterrent action against the violators. “Commissioner of police, SN Shrivastava, said that technology and human intelligence are being used effectively to systematically trace all contacts of patients and suspects. Ninety-five persons who have violated home quarantine have already been booked,” the L-G’s office said in a statement. Also Read: Lack of PPE, poor infection control put medical staff at risk of Covid-19To engage with parents and schoolchildren, who are at home throughout the day since all educational institutions are shut, the CM said he would hold an interactive session at 3pm on Saturday, to bust some of the myths related to coronavirus and also tell them about the Dos and Don’ts. “Delhi has around 44 lakh students studying in government, MCD and private schools. I am sure they have a lot of questions now that they are sitting at home. Tomorrow at 3pm, Manish Sisodia, a few experts and I will interact with all students and parents of Delhi. Children have many questions about the corona, its symptoms and nature. We will address the children and parents on ‘parenting in the time of corona’ and try to clear their doubts,” he said.An official in deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s office said that the experts would comprise medical practitioners and child psychologists. Introducing a Covid-19 helpline chatbot, the CM anyone can initiate a conversation by sending “hi” or “hello” to a WhatsApp number — 8800007722.Also Read: India’s coronavirus cases hit 3,000; two die in Delhi“The Delhi government is issuing a WhatsApp number today, which will provide you with all information related to Corona. A menu will appear when you message ‘Hi’ to this number on WhatsApp. Information on hunger relief centres, Covid-19 symptoms, measures taken by the Delhi government to deal with the pandemic and other reports can be gathered from this number,” he said. In other relief measures, Kejriwal said that 60% of the 71 lakh ration cardholders have received 7.5kg free ration for this month, while the distribution for the rest is underway. The chief minister also said his government will start distributing ration to those without cards in about a week. Earlier in the day, he held a meeting with all MLAs and asked them to draw up a list of the applicants in their constituencies. The MLAs were also asked to continue supplying ration and meal packets in their areas, while ensuring adequate resources are available at the hunger relief centres. On his announcement of doubling the pension for widows, senior citizens and the differently-abled, he said Rs 5,000 has been disbursed to the 8 lakh beneficiaries and another Rs 5,000 will be credited to their accounts in a week.“To ensure no person in Delhi goes hungry, 1780 HRCs have been opened in Delhi, where lunch and dinner are being provided. Yesterday (Thursday), these 1,780 HRCs provided lunch to 652,850 people and dinner to 630,000 people. 328 shelters have been opened in Delhi for migrant labourers and those from other places. These shelters can accommodate 57,270 people, and 11,443 people are living in them. So, we have an excess of food and shelter arrangements as of now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-calls-for-calm-amid-spike-in-cases-to-interact-with-students-launches-helpline/story-ETfMQdsbHs7mg2tPGWwPhL.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Experts press on need for increased testing as Gurugram sees relative success with contact tracing, vigilance||Despite a surge in the number of Covid-19 (coronavirus disease) cases from 10 to 15 on Thursday, following a week’s lull when the city did not report any new cases, Gurugram’s numbers remain lower than that of Delhi and Noida-- 386 in NCT and 54 in Gautam Budh Nagar, respectively. While this trend has been of some comfort for residents, experts and officials cautioned that Gurugram has, conversely, reported the highest number of cases in Haryana. They added that it also has all the makings of an infection ‘cluster’, given its jet setting population, connectivity with the IGI Airport and the national capital. As uncertainty looms over the spread of Covid-19 in the district, experts said they can only ascertain a clearer picture of an outbreak, if any, in the region by rapidly scaling up testing. But, for now, India is only testing symptomatic cases because of a shortage in the number of kits, which are in high demand globally, said the Indian Council for Medical Research.Though the country has sought to buy more testing kits from the international market and the Central government is mulling adopting a new method of testing, an expert HT spoke with said a large number of cases in Gurugram simply may not have been captured as they remain asymptomatic and, thus, have not been tested. Health officials, however, said the low numbers were because of the containment measures adopted. “It is due to efficient contact tracing and isolation of suspected cases and foreign travellers that we have not seen the numbers go up,” chief medical officer Dr Jaswant Singh Punia said. Dr Punia added that a total of 5,000 people with recent international travel history were monitored aggressively to contain the spread of Covid-19 in Gurugram. “About 1,000 of them have finished their quarantine period (mostly at home) and 4,000 are still under observation,” he said.SCALING UP TESTING Testing capabilities in Haryana, like the rest of the country, are low. Only about 150 samples are being tested per day in a state with an estimated population of at least 25 million. From Gurugram, which has an estimated a population of about 15 lakh people, anything between 30 and 80 samples are sent for testing per day. “However, by April 10, the state will increase its testing capacity to 500 samples per day,” said Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana and the head of the department of pulmonary and critical care at PGIMS-Rohtak. On Wednesday, April 1, Dr Chaudhary had said the state has enough kits to last it 10 days, but could not provide the number of PCR kits it would receive from the ICMR. He added that availability of kits aside, the lab in Rohtak can only process 70 samples a day due to limited resources. Similarly, a government lab in a Sonepat medical college has been testing about 70 samples per day.“While we have adequate resources for the next 10 days, we have ordered additional machinery and resources to speed up testing in the days to come. The Haryana government is also tying up with a private company to manufacture reagents required for testing,” he said. In Haryana, two government labs (PGIMS-Rohtak and Bhagat Phool Singh Medical College in Sonepat) and five private labs have been allowed to take samples for Covid-19 testing. Of the latter, only SRL Limited and Core Diagnostic have started taking 20-30 samples per day starting March 31. On March 29, state health minister Anil Vij had said new labs would be opened in Karnal, Nalhad, Agroha, Hisar and Panchkula to increase the testing rates for Haryana. However, officials did not clarify by when would these labs become operational. HOW MANY SHOULD WE TEST?Given the limited capacity to test for Covid-19, Dr Chaudhary said, “We have to be reasonable about whom we test. A specific group has to be identified as having high probability of contracting the virus, such as health workers or direct contacts of those who have already tested positive.” He added that most samples in Haryana are coming from Gurugram since it is one of the most affected districts compared to others. From Gurugram, each day 30 to 80 samples are being sent to the Rohtak lab. Since February, 647 samples (about 10% of total persons screened) have been sent for testing. “Initially, we were sending samples to AIIMS-Delhi. But from March 14, we shifted testing to the Rohtak lab. We get test results within a day now instead of the Two-day waiting time earlier,” the CMO said, adding that presently, results are awaited for 48 samples from Gururgam. By comparison, Delhi has sent over 2,000 samples for testing, while Noida has sent over 700. Other experts, too, were in agreement with Dr Chaudhary about the need to test cautiously. Dr Prabhakaran Dorairaj, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, said, “Indiscriminate testing is simply not feasible, but we must test more liberally while continuing to ensure prevention. Health workers and people showing mild symptoms must be tested on priority instead of waiting for their symptoms to become severe. Even some asymptomatic patients linked to positive or suspected cases can be included to widen the net.”However, experts were reluctant to prescribe an ideal rate of testing. A community health specialist affiliated with a university in Delhi, seeking anonymity, said, “In Korea, 6,000 people per million have been tested, while in Japan only 100 people per million have been tested. Despite the difference, both countries have seen similar patterns of outbreak and ‘flattening of the curve’, so it is difficult to prescribe an ideal rate of testing. But yes, testing needs to be more.” ASYMPTOMATIC CASESAnother possible reason for Gurugram’s low number of Covid-19 cases, so far, is that most people who may have contracted the novel coronavirus remain asymptomatic. “It is entirely possible that these cases have not been tested and therefore, not been found. This is yet another reason to ramp up testing, to include even those who may not be showing signs of illness,” said Dr Dorairaj. It must be noted that most cases of Covid-19 from Gurugram are not repoted to have not shown any major symptoms.VIGILANCE AND SPREADMeanwhile, health officials were also quick to point out the absence of any Covid-19 hotspots in Gurugram as opposed to Delhi and Noida, where the Tablighi Jamaat and a fire-safety company have become hot spots. Of the 15 cases reported among Gurugram residents, nine have recovered and been discharged from hospitals, leaving six active cases. Of these, only one is linked to the Tableeghi Jamat congregation in Delhi. Speaking to HT on Thursday, CMO Dr Punia said, “The first two positive cases we saw in Gurgram were linked to people travelling from Delhi, who were working in MNCs. We immediately ordered all MNCs to let employees work from home to curb the inflow of people from Delhi. Gurugram became vigilant even before the lockdown began.”However, the search for potential infection clusters in Gurugram is underway. Health officials said they have collected samples from slums to check the extent of the spread. “In one of the Covid-19 cases (reported March 20) we were suspecting a maid to be Covid-19 positive. Thankfully, she was not. But we visited the area where she lives and took some 50 samples from the community to check to see if any cases emerged from there,” said an official, who preferred not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/experts-press-on-need-for-increased-testing-as-ggm-sees-relative-success-with-contact-tracing-vigilance/story-8Xrw0nDLi7UlGcAKmU31qM.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||197 people booked for violating coronavirus lockdown||The Gurugram police has booked 197 people between March 25 and April 1 for leaving their homes having any curfew pass since the 21-day nationwide lockdown came into effect. The violators have been booked under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and Section 269 (any act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life).Gurugram police spokesperson Subhash Boken said, “Ever since the lockdown started we have booked 197 for coming out of their houses without a curfew pass. We have registered 187 FIRs under IPC Sections 188 and 10 FIRs under IPC Section 269 till date. ” The official said that some people who were booked were pedestrians. The offences committed are bailable but those been booked will be tried in the court of law.Since the lockdown was imposed, the Gurugram traffic police has booked 1,027 people for violating traffic rules. “The traffic police have booked 1,027 people who ignored traffic signals, were seen driving on the wrong side or didn’t have vehicle papers,” said an officer from the office of the DCP (traffic). The police also impounded 654 vehicles during this time.On March 26, the Gurugram administration started issuing passes to essential service staff under 13 categories, for free movement during the lockdown imposed to the curb the community spread of Covid-19.However, some residents took to Twitter to check violations in residential areas, besides main roads. Navdeep Singh, resident, Sector 110 A, wrote, “There are many people who are staying in suburban areas. They tend to roam around in the evening freely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/197-people-booked-for-violating-lockdown/story-aWH20IMxm7IVgvXXtuoLOP.html
04-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: 8 booked for non-disclosure of participation in religious congregations, 177 in quarantine||The Ghaziabad police has booked six Nepalese nationals and two clerics of a mosque in Pasonda for staying at the mosque and not revealing the information to the local administration. The eight persons were earlier picked up by the health department on April 1 and confined to a quarantine facility.According to police, the six had come from Nepal in March and stayed at Kaila Bhatta area from where they moved to the mosque in Pasonda on March 21. The police said the FIR was registered under the IPC and provisions of the Epidemic Act and the Disaster Management Act at Tila Morh police station.“The six persons did not disclose their whereabouts and had come to the mosque to attend a Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation. The mosque in Pasonda is a sub centre of the Jamaat. The two clerics also did not disclose anything about the Nepali residents and all of them were staying at the mosque. All eight were found during a search and sent to quarantine facility. An FIR against them was registered on Friday,” Rakesh Mishra, circle officer (Sahibabad), said.The health department officials on Friday evening said they have picked up 177 persons in Ghaziabad who had attended different religious congregations, including the one held at Nizamuddin in Delhi in March.They further added that temporary sealing of the Savior Park high-rise in Mohan Nagar, where a couple had tested positive for Covid-19, was extended and it will remain sealed until further orders. The high-rise has about 500 families.“The building was sealed after a couple tested positive for Covid-19. They have 93 contacts within the building and 27 people from the high-rise are still in quarantine. The building will be sealed till further orders from the district administration,” Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, said.The woman who tested positive is an employee of Noida-based company Ceasefire, which has reported several Covid-19 cases. She had passed on the infection to her husband, the officials said.“A 30-year-old male employee of the company and his two contacts, a 29-year-old woman employee of the same company and another man from Duhai, have already contracted Covid-19. The surge in cases in Ghaziabad is due to employees of the Noida company or their contacts and also due to people who have attended religious congregations,” Dr Gupta said.“The district magistrates and police chiefs will monitor quarantine facilities and they will be held responsible in case there is any lapse in safety and security at these centres. To enforce the lockdown, the state police has also been asked to make use of drones for surveillance activities,” UP principal secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said.During the ongoing countrywide lockdown, the UP police till Friday afternoon has registered 7,662 FIRs and booked 24,537 violators of lockdown norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-8-booked-for-non-disclosure-of-participation-in-religious-congregations-177-in-quarantine/story-cvfuhCDJY8kMyVHutZG1qO.html
04-04-2020||Pune||More than 5,000 isolation beds ready, says Pune district collector||With Pune being the second Covid-19 hotspot in Maharashtra after Mumbai, has ramped up its preparedness to combat the deadly disease by creating dedicated facilities at many private hospitals and defence hospitals in addition to the government hospitals which have been in the forefront of this war.Pune district collector, Naval Kishore Ram said, “We are not worried about the infrastructure for isolation and quarantine. Currently we have more than 5000 beds ready for isolation purpose. Our only issue now is to mobilise the expertise required to take care of those in isolation which includes mobilising doctors and nursing staff. Many corporate companies are also coming forward now to offer their premises as isolation facilities. So the district is completely ready to isolate all suspected Covid19 patients and also take good care of positive patients.”List of isolation facility available in the city· About 98 isolation beds available at Dr Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital of the Pune Municipal Corporation Naidu and the Sassoon General Hospital.· Naidu Hospital is equipped with eight ventilators. There are 39 ventilators and 238 ICU beds in all the designated hospitals, including private and government.· Sassoon’s new building has 50 ICU beds. Plans are afoot to install 700 isolation beds at this new building.· 11 private hospitals have provided 37 isolation beds.· For rural and municipal council areas in Pune district, about 36 private hospitals and three government hospitals with 238 beds have been organised. This will be increased to 489 beds in a week’s time.· District Hospital at Aundh has 40 isolation beds; sub-district hospital at Baramati has 32 beds and another sub-district hospital at Manchar has 20 beds.· 500-bed sports complex at Balewadi, Pune, has been converted into an isolation facility· Sports hostel at Sanas Ground has been converted into a 200 bed isolation facility.· Army’s Southern Command in Pune, has offered quarantine facilities.· Ammunition Factory, Khadki (AFK) has created a 30-bed isolation ward· SVP Cantonment General Hospital, has created institutional quarantine facility for about 10 people and Isolation ward with 30 beds.Govt launches self-assessment testThe Maharashtra government recently launched a self-assessment test for Covid-19 that can be taken by the public. The test can be accessed at https://covid-19.maharashtra.gov.in/ The test advises that based the self-assessment, one may decide whether or not to get in touch with a doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-than-5-000-isolation-beds-ready-says-pune-district-collector/story-0nDv8FvV14PLwYOiutMNiL.html
04-04-2020||Pune||With 61 positive cases, Pune is Maharashtra’s 2nd Covid-19 hotspot||On Friday, 25 days after the Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 case was detected in Pune, the district reported 61 positive cases, which include two persons who died in Pune city and those who were discharged in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.A few sporadic cases of community transmission were also reported in the city wherein the patients had no history of foreign travel or known contact with a positive patient.The first case, reported on March 9 and identified as ‘zero patients’ for Covid19 was that of a husband-wife couple who has returned from Dubai. This couple was not screened at the airport as Dubai, then, was not in the list of high risk countries.Pune, with 61 positive cases, has recorded the second highest number of cases in Maharashtra, after Mumbai (235 cases).Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said that the containment plan is in place in almost all the areas of the city.“Since the first case was recorded in the city on March 9, we put in place the containment place as prescribed by the government. Currently almost the entire city is covered. We started with containing the areas of about 1 to 3 kilometres of radius where a positive patient is found,” he said.A notification from the ministry of health & family welfare said, “The cluster containment strategy would be to contain the disease within a defined geographic area by early detection, breaking the chain of transmission and thus preventing its spread to new areas. This would include geographic quarantine, social distancing measures, enhanced active surveillance, testing all suspected cases, isolation of cases, home quarantine of contacts, social mobilization to follow preventive public health measures.”As of now, a few areas where multiple cases have been identified include, Sinhgad road where the Dubai return couple resides, Kondhwa, where people had returned from the Tablighi event in Delhi and Ambegaon where woman who was admitted to Bharati Hospital lives. The woman who was critical eventually recovered.Pune also saw a few possible cases of community transmission of patients with no foreign travel history or direct contact with a positive Covid-19 case.The city recorded two deaths, the first on March 30 when a 52-year-old businessman with multiple ailments from Thane was declared dead at a city hospital while the second death was reported on Thursday at the Sassoon Government Hospital of a 50-year-old woman with no other health condition. The city also saw the miraculous recovery of a 41 year old aanganwadi worker who was admitted to Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital on March 16. She tested negative, twice, for the virus on March 31 after being on the ventilator for almost 11 days. Area sanitisation by Pune municipal corporationThe Pune Municipal Corporation has been spraying a solution of 1% sodium chlorite as a part of area sanitisation of localities where a positive patient was found. Such sanitisation has been done in 16 locations in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-61-positive-cases-pune-is-maharashtra-s-2nd-covid-19-hotspot/story-A7eZcXJpw4qvNP0NMkCP3J.html
04-04-2020||Pune||Covid-19: Biggest challenge in this disaster is absence of private doctors, says Shantilal Muttha||Pune-based businessman and philanthropist Shantilal Muttha, founder, Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana has a history of undertaking relief work in every major disaster that has struck India in the last 30 years- be it the 1993 Latur and Bhuj (2001) earthquakes or the 2004 tsunami in southern India.This time round, the Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana founded by him has launched 11 mobile clinics in Pune city and a Maharashtra-wide blood donation drive. This is besides creating quarantine facilities for 2,000 patients at the Wagholi Educational and Rehabilitation Centre. Muttha spoke to Abhay Vaidya on the challenges of undertaking relief work during the current Covid-19 crisis.How do you compare the Covid-19 disaster to the other major disasters such as the Latur and Bhuj earthquakes and the 2004 tsunami in which you had led the Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana in the relief work?I have undertaken disaster management work on a number of occasions in the last 30 years and in all those disasters, we never faced any restriction on the movement of our relief workers.In this disaster the situation is that most of our volunteers are unable to step out of their homes. Our challenge is to do the work from home. Some amount of work has to be done on the field; there is no alternative to that. Our relief workers have shown that they have the capacity to take this life-threatening risk.I have been appealing to doctors that I can provide them with relief assistants, but I need them too.We have launched 11 mobile clinics in Pune city; we have the entire support staff but are having great difficulty in getting doctors to go with these mobile clinics. What should the common man do if even doctors are unwilling to step out for relief work? This is the biggest difference that I have seen in this disaster and the previous ones.In any case, we are expanding this mobile clinic service and in the next three days you will see another 30 mobile clinics in other parts of Maharashtra.You have introduced 11 mobile clinics in Pune and a blood collection drive across Maharashtra. What were the trigger points for zeroing on these initiatives?I have always tried to anticipate and focus on what would be needed most- especially in the coming days and weeks, after a disaster strikes. What is it that is likely to be neglected?The government is pre-occupied in dealing with the immediate crisis at hand. The first thing I did was to offer our entire educational complex at Wagholi for creating quarantine/isolation facilities. We have 250 rooms there with attached toilets and a capacity to house 2,000 patients. Each of these rooms have been equipped with beds, mattresses, hot water for bathing, drinking water and basic infrastructure. Government can use this facility as quarantine centre.I focused on the blood donation drive because a massive need for blood will arise after April 14. We won’t realise this now. All the surgeries which have been put on hold will begin. With the resumption of traffic, there will be road accidents and overall, there will be a high demand for blood. We have prepared for that situation.  How are you ensuring the safety of your relief workers who are on the field? We are maintaining social distance, and all have been provided with masks, sanitisers; our vehicles are being sanitised daily. All precautions are being taken. As we are aware, the relief work is happening on a massive scale. Where do you see the gaps in this relief work?Covid-19 is a health related crisis. The food and nutrition of the people have to be taken care of. One of the biggest gaps I see is the unavailability of private doctors in this crisis. This is the time when they need to step forward and participate in the relief work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-biggest-challenge-in-this-disaster-is-absence-of-private-doctors/story-KWb4xMMKboydKnqEz2asFL.html
04-04-2020||Pune||11 new Covid cases in Pune, four of which linked to Delhi jamaat||Pune registered 11 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total count of positive cases in Pune district to 71. The Covid-19 positive count for Pune city, that is, under PMC is 57.Of the 11, four are persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in New Delhi.This district administration claims these four persons were not on a list of 258 names shared by the Central government, of people from western Maharashtra who had attended the event. The district administration still has to track 15 people on the list, said divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Friday.No positive case has been reported yet in Solapur district.Mhaisekar said: “As far as the tablighi cases are considered, of the 11 fresh cases, four are those who had attended the event. However, their names were not among the 258 shared by the central government. From among the 258 we are continuing to trace people and first contacts. Of the 258, 163 have been traced and quarantined, eight of whom have been found in the Pune divisions, and 72 are currently out of Maharashtra. Fifteen are yet to be traced as they have switched off their mobile phones and we are tracing their location from the last call details.”The facts and figures11 new cases in PuneSince Thursday 8pm and Friday 5pmPoona hospital – 1 Noble hospital – 1Sassoon hospital – 3 Naidu hospital – 6Total count in Pune district of Covid-19 positive cases – 71 (include 14 cases in PCMC)Home quarantine/isolationHome quarantine - 2,582 personsHome isolation of 14 days completed - 2,489Isolation facilities - 1,017 ICU beds - 350Covid-19 count for Pune division – 10157 - Pune 14 - Pimpri-Chinchwad3 - Satara25 - Sangli2 - Kolhapur Total number of samples tested at NIV – 1,748 Results negative - 1,376 Results positive – 71Results awaited - 301||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/11-new-covid-cases-in-pune-four-of-which-linked-to-delhi-jamaat/story-eh9a37XCut6oW3b8UVXYRO.html
04-04-2020||Lucknow||Centre to states: Earmark one hemodialysis facility in every districts||Union health ministry has asked states and union territories to identify and earmark at least one hemodialysis facility with adequate number of machines, trained staff and other support equipment in every district as a preparatory fixed-point dialysis unit in case of rise of COVID-19 pandemic.In its recently issued ‘guidelines for dialysis of Covid-19 patients’, the health ministry asked the health departments to also issue directives to district administrations allowing easy movements of such patients, accompanied by one attendant, to a dialysis facility, said officials.The guidelines issued on April 1 said the government-run transport system should be arranged for those who do not have private vehicles. The ministry has also said that patients should use their hospital papers as pass to commute to the dialysis unit, said Prof Arvind Gupta, head, nephrology department, MLN Medical College, Prayagraj.“Chronic kidney disease stage-5 patients on dialysis are also vulnerable because of their existing co-morbidities, repeated unavoidable exposure to hospital environment and immune-suppressed state. These patients are therefore not only more prone to acquire infection but also develop severe diseases as compared to general population,” he added.The guidelines said the dialysis units should have a signboard posted prominently in the local language as well as Hindi and English asking patients to report any fever, coughing or breathing problem in dialysis unit and waiting area.All hemodialysis units should educate their personnel, including nephrologists, nurses, technicians and all patients undergoing treatment along with their caregivers about COVID-19, it said.The 7-page guidelines also recommends that every patient should be asked about symptoms suspected of COVID-19, history of contact with a diagnosed case of coronavirus infection and history of contact with person who has had recent travel to foreign country or from high COVID-19 prevalence area within the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/centre-to-states-earmark-one-hemodialysis-facility-in-every-districts/story-ajnkkkFgYlyTb41OmddXsI.html
04-04-2020||Lucknow||Three test positive for Covid-19 in Pratapgarh||Three suspected corona cases tested positive in Pratapgarh—the first in the region comprising Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Pratapgarh and Fatehpur districts.“29 people, all members of Tablighi Jamaat, were quarantined from Wednesday onwards. Samples of only 11 suspected cases having symptoms of fever and cold were sent for testing to Lucknow. Today, we received the report of which three persons tested positive while report of 8 others was negative. We are today sending samples of all remaining 18 members of Tablighi Jamaat for being sure about their status also,” said Pratapgarh DM Dr Rupesh Kumar.As per the DM, a 30-bed isolation ward was set up as level-1 facility besides 20-bed isolation ward was set up in the district hospital. “A 30-bed isolation ward has also been set up at community health centre,Raniganj,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/three-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-pratapgarh/story-UGQXQO9T9n6iuljbLWSh8O.html
04-04-2020||Lucknow||Now, more samples can be tested in Uttar Pradesh||The health department has planned to increase the number of samples tested every day by a change in sampling policy and facilities at testing labs.“We have the capacity to conduct 120 tests every day. Now it will go up by 90 tests from today and with another machine coming up in a day or two, 90 more tests will be done, taking the total capacity to about 300 tests per day,” said Prof MLB Bhatt, vice chancellor, King George’s Medical University (KGMU).KGMU has kits to test 1500 samples at present and more kits are arriving in the next 48 hours. KGMU has also been made nodal centre for distribution of testing kits to six other labs in the state.There are seven labs conducting tests, including LLR Medical College Meerut, AMU in Aligarh, KGMU in Lucknow, PGI in Lucknow, BHU in Varanasi, BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur, UP Rural Medical College in Saifai. Equipment will soon be added at these labs too.The health department has changed the strategy for testing samples beyond the ICMR guidelines. Revised coronavirus sampling protocol includes those medical staff who attended to coronavirus patients without proper protection and who within 28 days have participated in Tablighi Jamaat.There are seven categories of people for testing . The first is of those who develop symptoms after coming back from foreign trip within 28 days, second is of those who came in contact with a coronavirus patient and developed symptoms and the third is of those who are staying with coronavirus patient in the house.Fourth is of those suffering with SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) such as respiratory distress and fever. Fifth category is of those who took part in Tablighi Jamaat in 28 days. Sixth is of medical / health caregivers who have developed symptoms or attended a patient without proper protective gears. “We plan to diagnose all suspected at early stage hence the ambit of sampling is being changed,” said a senior official in the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/now-more-samples-can-be-tested-in-uttar-pradesh/story-oWrXmIPVsYnbm8COoC0IoJ.html
04-04-2020||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad area sealed after 2 Nizamuddin returnees test positive||PUNE: The Pimpri police late on Thursday night sealed an entire locality under the Wakad Police Station in the Pimpri-Chinchwad industrial town near Pune after two persons who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin, New Delhi, tested positive for the SArs-Cov-2 virus.The area with a population of about 3,000 peole was sealed with barricades and a police force and a medical team from the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) deployed at the spot.Ramnath Pokale, additional commissioner of police, Pimpri Chinchwad Police Commisisonerate said, “We have identified all those from Pimpri Chinchwad who had visited Nizamuddin. The contact tracing of these people was also done. The relatives of those who returned from Nizamuddin have also been quarantined.”Entry to the locality was banned from Thursday itself after the medical reports of the two persons who tested positive came in.A total of 182 individuals from five districts of Pune division had been identified by the authorities as having visited Nizamuddin Markaz in mid-March. Of the 136 in Pune district, 33 individuals were found to be residents of areas under the PCMC.Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “We traced 23 people who had attended the Markaz in Delhi, and collected their swab samples which were sent to NIV. Of these, two persons tested positive on Thursday.”The health team contact-traced the high-risk cases of those who had tested positive and were in the process of sending their swab samples for testing. Those who test negative will be home quarantined, the health officials said.The residents in the sealed locality were being provided with whatever essentials they needed from the police security checkpost itself.While people have been advised to strictly stay indoors, the civic health staff has undertaken a house-to-house survey to check people with possible symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pimpri-chinchwad-area-sealed-after-2-nizamuddin-returnees-test-positive/story-EQ3KqWfQ1p7N8A8ZVPl5ZM.html
04-04-2020||Pune||300 families of construction workers in Undri provided with essentials||A day after HT highlighted the plight of 300 families of construction labourers located in Kondhwa and Undri awaiting food supply, help has started pouring in from the real estate developer, government and social organisations.At the Clover Highland labour construction camp in Undri, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Credai) and district administration arranged food for at least 100 labourers at the site on Friday.The labourers had complained that they were not getting food from real estate developers or the government during a HT spot visit to the site on Thursday. On Friday, food brought in a government-approved van was served to the labourers.Hire Shah, project manager, Clover Highlands project, said, “We had paid Rs85 per labour to the government as part of the food supply arrangement. We served food to nearly 300 labourers at two of our sites. As part of the arrangement, we are taking care of medical bills and two medical stores supply medicine to the sick staff. We have deposited half salary of labourers in their accounts as advance. We are also providing ration and more than Rs30,000 have already been spent for their welfare.”Sandeep Ghadge, a site worker, said, “Today [Friday], we have been fed with food and some social organisations gave us bread, biscuits and other essentials for daily use. We thank these benefactors and our builder.”Cooked food and ration arrangements started arriving since Friday afternoon at the place where 250 migrant families are staying in Kondhwa.Initiative For Peace and Harmony (IPH), a Kondhwa-based social organisation, has provided ration for the week to these families under the Project Sahara - Covid 19 relief work programme, at the site. Saleem Qazi, IPH president, said, “We have decided to extend support to these families to the best of our efforts.”Social worker Samaiirah India, who played a role in providing essential goods to the workers, said that thirty packets of foodgrains were provided till Friday to their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/300-families-of-construction-workers-provided-with-essentials/story-qN48YkzyNPb6i1Y5AkhqSN.html
04-04-2020||Pune||Lockdown gameplan: At home, it is workout and ace cooking for Pune tennis star Arjun Kadhe||The news that All England Club cancelled Wimbledon, the most famous tennis tournament, for the first time since the second world war could give some solace to local star Arjun Kadhe about the uncertainty that has gripped the world because of the spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus) and kept everyone indoors.The 26-year-old, ranked 655 in the world, has charted his daily routine to keep himself fit and boredom at arm’s length.Staying at Karvenagar, Kadhe along with fitness drills is also developing his culinary skills in Indian food to ensure his foreign tours does not end up with strange and unwanted cuisine. Kadhe explains over WhatsApp his days and nights under lockdown.The player admits that he sleeps early only when training is going on. He is adjusting to the home-bound lifestyle by learning a few things that he could not earlier because of time crunch.“It is a rough schedule nowadays, but the good thing is that unlike my training period that was like clockwork, now I have a luxury to pick and choose my workout time.Morning sessionI wake up at 9am and do yoga, eat breakfast and relax. Post-noon, I learn to cook some Indian dishes from my mother. I know to prepare pasta and continental, but Indian food is something which is missing from my menu card till now.Afternoon sessionI generally relax till 3.30-4pm and then head to the parking space of my residential complex for workout. I do band workout or stairs workout. As I reside on the sixth floor of our seven-floor building, I climb up and down the stairs 10 times.Gaurav (Nijohn), my trainer, has given me a programme like free weight strengthening and balance core. I have a programme set for me that I follow every day.Evening sessionOnce the workout is done, I have my dinner and then TV shows and a bit of reading. I also spend time with my family.New apparatus for gymAs we are not allowed to hit the gym during the lockdown period, so I am using kitchen supplies like 10kg wheat bag and my suitcase filled with stuff for squats.HobbyCooking is on my priority list. I am utilising this period to learn one new dish every day from my mother. It will help me in my tours in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-home-it-is-workout-and-ace-cooking-for-tennis-star/story-ks3b4GQbUIaxEoQqvYYqnO.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||HC refuses to discharge SBC Bank officer in Hasan Ali Khan money laundering case||The Bombay high court (HC) has refused to discharge an official of the SBC Bank at Singapore, booked for allegedly aiding Pune businessman Hasan Ali Khan who is accused of laundering over USD 8 billion in foreign banks. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has claimed that Vishwanathan Venugopal, the SBC Bank officer, helped Khan in opening an account with the foreign bank and thus committed an offence under section 3 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.The agency, in January 2007, registered a case against Khan for allegedly laundering crores in foreign banks. The ED, at the end of the investigation, concluded that Venugopal, being an account opening official in SBC Bank at Singapore, had aided Khan in concealing his crime-tainted money.The ED then filed a plea, requesting the special PMLA court in the city to take cognisance of offences committed by Venugopal and 10 others under section 3 of the PMLA - direct, indirect involvement in concealing proceeds of crimes or aiding or assisting any such activity.Venugopal moved the high court after the special PMLA court on November 22, 2018, issued process against him based on ED’s plea and also summoned him.The SBC bank employee argued in the HC there was no material on record to even remotely indicate that process could be issued to prosecute him under section 3 of the PMLA. He also contended that the order under challenge was passed by the special PMLA court “without application of mind”.Justice Sadhana Jadhav, who was hearing the case, refused to accept Venugopal’s contention. The judge said that it is not appropriate for any court to undertake a roving enquiry into the investigation at this initial stage. “All that is expected by the court is to ascertain whether prima facie a case is made out against the accused,” said the judge.The HC also noted that Venugopal had opened an account with the SBC Bank in Singapore based on forged documents and this has been confirmed by the principal accused Khan, and other accused Kashinath Tapuriah and Amlendu Pandey.The HC then rejected the bank officer’s plea, stating that it could not be said that ED had filed a complaint without any material evidence and therefore the agency deserved an opportunity to substantiate the allegations by adducing substantive evidence and the documents collected during the investigation.The court said it can’t be oblivious to the fact that this is an economic offence affecting the society at large. “It affects the economic health of the society as well as national economy and therefore, it would not be appropriate to quash the order of issuance of process at this stage,” said the judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-discharge-sbc-bank-officer-in-hasan-ali-khan-money-laundering-case/story-c49glxNmNEnM3ZrpMzVnvL.html
04-04-2020||City||Onset of summer begins with rising temps says IMD; scientists examine co-relation with Covid-19||There will be a gradual change in temperatures in the next five to seven days, with a rise to 40 degrees Celcius in some areas of northwest, west, central, east and western India, India Meteorological Department’s head of weather, Anupam Kashyapi said on Thursday evening. Following a week of inclement rainy weather, Pune will now move into summer proper, IMD said in its forecast, released on Thursday.As reported by HT recently, scientists across the world are examining a possible co-relation between temperature data with Covid-19 cases and transmission patterns. IMD said a link between temperature and the virus is yet to be established.While Pune recorded 38 degrees Celsius as its maximum temperature on April 2, its minimum was at 18.6 degrees Celsius with a mainly clear sky.The forecast for between April 4 and April 8 has the max temperature in the high 30s, with the minimum reading rising to 21 degrees Celsius.On March 1, some parts of Maharashtra experienced very high maximum temperatures, with Solapur at 39.9 degrees Celsius, followed by 39.1 degrees Celsius in Aurangabad and 39.0 degrees Celsius in Jalgaon.On April 1, Malegaon recorded a maximum temperature of 40.4 degrees Celsius, while the lowest minimum temperature was reported at Nashik at 18.0 degrees Celsius.Following IMD’s extended range forecast, the temperature in April across most parts of the country is expected to be 0.5-1 degrees Celsius warmer than normal.According to IMD, heat waves are likely to be seen in the coming months with a “core heat-wave zone” which will be in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha and Telangana, and subdivisions of Marathwada, Central Maharashtra and coastal Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/onset-of-summer-begins-with-rising-temps-says-imd-scientists-examine-co-relation-with-covid-19/story-2BfythmnDCxKnM8AMYE4PO.html
04-04-2020||Chandigarh||Telecom operators to track people under quarantine in Chandigarh||People quarantined in the city will be tracked electronically through their mobile phones to ensure they don’t violate mandatory rules, the UT administration ordered on Thursday after a daily review meeting chaired by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore.On a day when the total number of quarantined persons went up to 1,315, a rise of more than 100 from 1,206 on Wednesday, the administration decided to share the phone numbers of people under quarantine with telecom operators to monitor them.“Telecom operators have been directed to track the location of those quarantined. In case of any violation, strict action will be taken by the administration under the law,”said UT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida.People under quarantine are in no way supposed to move out of their location. Notices have also been put up outside their residences with the names and number of quarantined people in the house. Their status is also stamped on the back of their hands.“There have been reports from police and neighbours about people not following all the laid down conditions of quarantine. In one case, questions were raised over the efficacy of the present measures in maintaining quarantine when the notice outside an IAS officer’s house was torn off. So it was decided that services of telecom operators would be requisitioned to track their movement,” said a senior UT official privy to the development.States asked not to send patients without PGI consentThe administration has requested counterparts in neighboring states not to send any patients without consultation and consent of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). This was decided to ensure that PGIMER, which has been declared a dedicated Covid Wing (Nehru Extension) can devote its full energy and resources to fight against the outbreak. Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, clarified that there was no shortage of funds for medicines and equipment in PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/telecom-operators-to-track-people-under-quarantine-in-chandigarh/story-BZpV8rMbdxFt1fNIiVNbvI.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram man linked to Jamaat gathering is Covid-19 positive||A 38-year-old man from old Gurugram was among the five people who tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday. The total active cases in the city has now reached 15, of whom nine have recovered and are in home quarantine for 14 days.While the four residents include a 45-year-old man from Sun City who had travelled to Bombay, his 70-year-old father and two 22-year-old private hospital nurses from Jharsa, the 38-year-old is one of the 25 people confirmed to have attended a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in March in Delhi.The Tablighi Jamaat religious group is now feared to be driving the outbreak in the country. The country’s overall number of confirmed cases crossed the 2,000-mark, also soaring by a record number. The national surge too was largely driven by Tablighi Jamaat-linked infections from states such as Tamil Nadu, where all 75 new infections were linked.In all, about 9,000 members of the Islamic group have been quarantined or are being sought out to be isolated after they attended events at the Delhi building that is believed to have turned into a hotbed of the infection this month.Haryana’s health minister Anil Vij on Wednesday, had said at least 524 people who attended the congregation were traced in Haryana, which has formed a special task force with 500 personnel for this task.On Thursday, police said 22 of 25 identified persons were sent to a quarantine facility in Sector 9. Two persons are yet to be traced, the police said.Police commissioner Muhammad Akil on Thursday saidareas in which the suspected people live have also been sealed.It could not be confirmed from the health department if disinfection of these areas, in old Gurugram, had started Thursday.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer, said, “We have taken samples of those identified by the police and sent them for testing to Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma PG Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak. They will be kept in the quarantine facility in Sector 9 for 14 days. Police teams have been deployed so identified persons do not leave the centre. The police personnel have been provided with safety kits (eye gear, masks, gloves and overalls) to prevent infection.”District sealed“Gurugram borders connecting Jhajjar, Rewari, Delhi, Nuh and Palwal are no longer open for people except for those supplying essential commodities or those with medical emergency. We are even checking the ambulances plying near the borders to ensure no affected person takes advantage of the situation,” Akil said.33 test negativeAccording to the CMO, 27 persons from Pataudi and six from Dhankot, who were put under quarantine at the Sector 9 facility, tested negative for Covid-19 on Thursday. “We are taking precaution to avoid community transmission,” Punia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/five-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-gurugram/story-rsWsw1f0nPJGVMPEv530iL.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||33,000 masks worth Rs 8 lakh seized from South Mumbai, one person held||Mumbai Police’s crime branch unit 2 seized 33,000 three-ply masks worth Rs 8.25 lakh from Agripada on Thursday and arrested a shop keeper, Abdulsamad Subroti Ansari, 42, for allegedly illegally storing the masks at his home in Bharucha compound and selling them in black market. “We got tip-off, following which a constable visited Ansari’s home as a customer to buy a mask. Ansari took Rs 25 from the constable for one mask, despite the government putting a price cap of Rs 10 on the sale of 3-ply masks,” said police inspector Sanjay Nikumbhe of crime branch unit 2. The police then raided Ansari’s house and handed him over to Agripada police for further probe, said Nikumbhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/33k-3-ply-masks-worth-8l-seized-from-sobo-1-held/story-Anyo64QO3GinOsZXnYHSeI.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Life in lockdown: Gurugram’s Emaar Palm Drive’s network of volunteers tends to its needs||Emaar Palm Drive in Sector 66 is channelising community spirit to deal with the ongoing nationwide lockdown that was announced to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The condominium has created a network of volunteers and tower champions who tend to the needs of both residents and staff members as they stay confined to the complex.Wing Commander (retd) Amit Chowdhury, president, Palm Drive Condominium Association, said that the condominium had appointed a champion for each tower block, who was responsible for catering to the needs of residents of that tower. “The tower champion takes care of everyone residing in a particular tower. (S)he caters to the needs of senior citizens, people who are sick, or anyone requiring any other assistance. They coordinate the garbage collection drive and ensure that food is delivered to residents, among other chores,” Chowdhury said.The condominium has been under lockdown since March 23 and has restricted the entry of all outsiders and part-time staff, except in cases of emergency. The entry of part-time domestic help, drivers, car cleaners, dog-walkers, among others has been barred with some exceptions as in the case of senior citizens who require assistance. “There are two apartments in our condominium inhabited by senior citizens who can’t keep a full-time maid. We have allowed part-time help for them as an exception. As per the directions issued by the MCG, we have secured curfew passes for their help,” Chowdhury said.The entry of external vendors such as food delivery agents, courier services, newspaper vendors, among others has been restricted to the tower gate of the condominium. Residents are required to collect the deliveries from the gate. All persons entering the building are required to use hand sanitiser and get their temperatures checked. The condominium has one dedicated lift for people coming from outside. Residents using the other lifts have been advised to sanitise themselves before and after using the lift. All lifts and buttons are sanitised with disinfectants twice a day.On routine days, the apartment requires the services of around 300 staff members but has cut down the strength to 90 because of the lockdown. “All 90 members have been housed inside the complex. We had arranged for mattresses and other bedding requirements early on. We have set up a kitchen for them that is fully manned by the staff living here. No member of the staff steps out,” Chowdhury said. The staff has been given accommodation inside a school building within the complex to cut down exposure to the outside world. “While moving in and out of the complex has been curtailed to cut down the exposure, we also factored in the fact that most of the people here are migrant workers living away from family and would find it challenging to take care of themselves while handling work. We are supporting them while they continue to work,” Chowdhury said.The condominium has also been collecting funds from residents for running boarding and lodging facilities for security, technical support, gardening, and housekeeping staff staying on the campus. “People are contributing in cash and kind. They are providing ration and paying for the cooks and other staff working here,” Chowdhury said.Since March 13, the condominium has been taking a disclaimer from people coming from outside. Residents are required to share their travel history and declare if they are coming from any affected countries. In case of travel history, the RWA informs the MCG, which follows up with self-quarantine posters.A shopping complex within the premises is catering to the everyday needs of people, who are supposed to abide by social distancing rules while purchasing commodities. Residents have been advised to wear masks and sanitise their hands before entering and after leaving the shop. No more than two residents are allowed inside the shop at a time. Shopkeepers have been asked to ensure that no more than five individuals (including shop staff) are allowed inside. “We are ensuring that every person entering the shopping complex wears a mask. We have circled markings on the floor at a distance of five-six feet from each other so that people maintain a gap while standing in the queue,” Wing Commander (retd) Baljit S Ahluwalia, a resident coordinator, said. Ahluwalia said that the condominium was observing a total lockdown and was toying with the idea of providing services until the doorstep as the next step. “We are observing a total lockout where residents are not allowed to go out unless absolutely necessary. We have requested residents to stay indoors and even skip their morning walks or jogging schedules,” Ahluwalia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/life-in-lockdown-emaar-palm-drive-s-network-of-volunteers-tends-to-its-needs/story-y9CCUztO061N78RP6vpcWP.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Two held for raping and impregnating 24-year-old woman in Pataudi||Two men were arrested for allegedly raping and impregnating a 24-year-old woman in Pataudi, the police said on Wednesday. The police said the men had sexually assaulted the woman multiple times over the past year and had threatened to kill her if she complained to anyone. According to the police, the suspects are related to the woman and stay in the vicinity of her house at her village in Pataudi. The police said the woman’s mother, who lives in Rewari, filed a case on Tuesday evening after she visited her daughter and suspected she was pregnant. In the police complaint, she said that she noticed her daughter’s protruding stomach and enquired the reason for the same. “She alleged that the two suspects had raped her on multiple occasions over the past year. The suspects had threatened to kill her and her brother if she told anyone about her ordeal,” a police officer privy to the investigation, said requesting anonymity. The police said the woman stayed in Pataudi with her brother. The suspects would allegedly rape her when her brother used to go out for work. Suresh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Pataudi police station, said that after the complaint was registered, both the suspects were arrested from Pataudi on Tuesday. The men, identified as Ravinder and Jai Singh, were produced in a district court and sent to judicial custody on Wednesday.A case has been registered against both of them under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Pataudi police station on Tuesday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-held-for-raping-and-impregnating-24-year-old-woman-in-pataudi/story-G38HoKVVpRs1gAaVwjWdBI.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19: Police officer dismissed after assaulting doctor on hospital duty||A special police officer (SPO) was dismissed from his duty, on Tuesday, after he allegedly beat up a doctor who was returning from a government hospital after finishing his shift during the ongoing 21-day lockdown in the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak in Pataudi. The police said that they have not filed an FIR regarding the incident.According to the police, the victim was identified by his first name, Satish, 53, who is a resident of Taj Nagar, Pataudi. The incident took place on March 28 evening, when the doctor was returning home.The police said that when the victim was going to the hospital to report for his duty in the morning, he was stopped by some officials at a checkpoint. However, he was allowed to pass after an argument. After finishing his shift, when he was returning home in his car, he was stopped at Jamalpur Chowk near Pataudi, where the SPO was posted. The victim allegedly informed him that he was on government duty and showed him his identification card. However, the SPO allegedly refused to listen to him and began physically assaulting him for violating the lockdown.After the incident, the doctor approached the police and submitted a complaint. A video of the incident also surfaced on social media on March 29, which was widely shared by people.Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said, “An enquiry was conducted under the supervision of the assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Pataudi. The SPO was dismissed from his duty for misconduct. No FIR has been filed regarding the incident so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-police-officer-dismissed-after-assaulting-doctor-on-hospital-duty/story-GFvx0F8wevolxZBde487QN.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Cops seize masks worth ₹22.5L, 1 held||The Mumbai crime branch’s unit 10 arrested a 34-year-old woman from Kalwa in Thane on Wednesday for illegally stocking 90,000 three-ply surgical masks worth ₹22.5 lakh in Andheri. The arrested accused, Rinku Navin Thayyil, wife of a real-estate businessman, revealed the address where the masks were kept after her arrest. All seized masks will be hand over to various departments for use, said an officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cops-seize-masks-worth-22-5l-1-held/story-M9aQMVdbNNW3ydCIoOzRGL.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||92-year-old man jumps off from 24th floor of Gurugram condominium, dies||A 92-year-old man allegedly killed himself by jumping off the balcony of his apartment on the 24th floor of a condominium on the Golf Course Road, on Sunday morning. The incident was reported to the police by the security guards around 6.50am, the police said.The police said the man was being treated for depression at a private hospital in the city. According to the police, the incident took place at 6.45am and the security guards reported the incident within 10 minutes.Deepak Kumar, station house officer, Sector 53 police station, said no suicide note was recovered from the spot. “As per a preliminary probe, the man was being treated for depression and lived with his wife in the apartment. His two sons are working in Dubai and Chennai; they have been informed,” he said.The police said that the man had died due to a head injury and sustained multiple fractures from the fall. Kumar said they have recorded statements of his wife and brother-in-law who lives in the same condominium.“The wife was asleep when the man walked out of the room and jumped off the balcony. They have two domestic help who were also sleeping in their room and woke up to the call from the security guards; within minutes, the security supervisor visited the apartment,” Kumar said.The man had retired from an Indian multinational conglomerate, the police said.The police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).The body was handed over to the family after the postmortem examination on Sunday afternoon, the police said.Despite repeated attempts to contact DLF, they did not respond to calls and messages.SUICIDE HELPLINE NUMBERSSnehi: 011-65978181Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/92-year-old-man-jumps-off-from-24th-floor-dies/story-4pfei9wi57phicNG7FWMGN.html
04-04-2020||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Easy Riders||“I’m using this time to do all the things that I didn’t have time to pursue earlier,” says entertainment maven Brian Tellis, about the effects of the coronavirus pandemic and its resultant self-quarantining. “There’s so much one can do, like reading, listening to music, learning a language, or how to cook, catching up with one’s family…” he added. This Sunday, Tellis, an impassioned biker and the proud owner of a 10-year-old Yamaha Virago, decided to get together with a few like-minded friends for an early morning ride on the eastern express highway, en route to Nashik. “We flagged off at 6am and rode for a magical hour-and-a-half and then decided to break for coffee, before riding back,” he says, adding, “In fact, there are so many passion points that one can still pursue during this time of social distancing, such as cycling, running or walking…”Thanks to his break from work, Tellis also plans to catch a healthy dose of the big, wide open later this week, when he will drive down en famille, to his weekend home in Pawna. “My 25-year-old son said a very interesting thing recently: he said the pandemic is making us re-evaluate our lives, introspect on our values and prioritise on what really matters,” says Tellis, adding, “Many of us on the fast-track never had the time to do that. It’s a great time to pause and take stock.”But even through this hiatus, Tellis will be seen and heard. The week will witness the launch of a new audio-visual podcast, which will feature the veteran in conversation with choreographer Terence Lewis. Others in the 9-part series are VJ Gaurav Kapur, actress Dia Handrich and Kubra Sait.Currying FavourThe week saw Bangkok-based chef Gaggan Anand join fellow celebrity chefs such as Massimo Bottura and José Andrés to make a plea for the F&B industry, especially small and local restaurateurs impacted severely by the current coronavirus pandemic.Anand took to social media to post his heartfelt message. “We are at the edge of losing many restaurants with incredible chefs. All foodies in the world, I understand you are in the crisis of humanity. I beg you all… give business to your local chefs and your restaurants. Every one of them needs your support”, he shared.The past week had been particularly busy for Gaggan, as he went ahead with the opening of his newest restaurant, a characteristic quirkily named ‘Ms Maria and Mr Singh’, which he describes enigmatically, as “a casual curry house with Mexican influences.” The restaurant opened its doors over the weekend in the property that had formerly housed Gaggan’s steakhouse Meatlicious (which had closed earlier this year). “Finally my curry house dream has crashed into Mexico,” he said.The eatery, we are informed, will serve dishes such as Papdi Chaat, Chicken Liver Curry, Prawn Balchao and Tenderloin Biryani.Tweet TalkI asked the Yes Bank accountant to tell me about his balance sheet. He told me “On the left side nothing is right, on the right side nothing is left.”Industrialist Harsh GoenkaStretching It In StyleSinger and yoga instructor Shweta Shetty is a tad disappointed that her upcoming supper club event with Dalip Tahil and Roshan Abbas has been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The three of us were working hard on it and it had to be pulled back at the last minute,” says the attractive songstress.Meanwhile, Shweta is concentrating on her personal yoga routine in the confines of her home. “Yoga relaxes me,” she says, adding, “The pranayama is especially useful in calming one down. There is a barrage of alarming messages from everywhere. But after a one-hour routine of yoga, I feel immensely restored and even optimistic about the future. Whether I’m doing Surya Namaskars or meditating, I manage to shut out the world and find my centre.”This adopting of a disciplined practice to combat negative thoughts and anxiety comes effortlessly to the daughter of a 95-year-old father who until just a couple of years ago would clock in a two-hour daily yoga routine, which saw him through many a health crises and life struggle, she says.“Rich or poor, we’ve all been brought down to our knees by nature; everyone has their anxieties: rents to be paid, bills have to be footed and people are unable to get out of their houses and attend to work. And nobody knows how long this is going to last. But if you let it get to you, it can get out of hand. That’s where yoga comes in,” she says, signing off with what appears to be yogic buoyancy: “It’s not World War 3. And we’ve had many such contagious viruses before – SARS, Ebola etc – and we’ve survived. This too, shall pass. And when it does, we’re all going to be hungrier, and we shall rise again, higher than we’ve done before.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/malavika-s-mumbaistan-easy-riders/story-arCT54I5ESo30HyHi23MsL.html
04-04-2020||Gurugram||Forgotten history of Spanish Flu-the epidemic that shook Gurugram in 1918||The Haryana government has declared coronavirus disease (Covid-19) an epidemic, and we have started limiting our travels and public gatherings. We need to be aware that almost 102 years ago, Gurugram was one of the areas that faced the much severe calamity of the influenza or Spanish Flu — one of the most devastating pandemics ever recorded in the world history.This pandemic that shook the world and India in 1918 has been quoted in several news features, but its significant impact on Gurugram is lesser-known to us. Caused by the H1N1 virus, it spread worldwide between 1918 and 1919, although its point of origin is still debated. Unlike the coronavirus of 2020, the influenza virus impacted the mortality rate of young people between 20 and 40 years of age rather than older people.It entered India via sea route in Bombay in July 1918, where it was initially called “naya sardi ka bukhar”. Like any virus, it spread, following the path of its human carriers, along trade routes and shipping lines, as the air routes were fairly new at that time and there was none for India. The Spanish Flu, so named because of the higher number of causalities in Spain in the initial phase, swept through parts of North America, Europe, Asia, Africa, Brazil and the South Pacific.Laura Spinney, author of Pale Rider: The Spanish Flu of 1918 and How It Changed the World, mentions how this disease claimed between 50-100 million lives worldwide, possibly more than both the world wars combined and how India bore the greatest burden of death — almost 1/5th of the entire lot in the world. Though the statistics for mortality are too wide-ranging and debatable, it is accepted by all that the Indian subcontinent was the focal point impacted by this pandemic. Researchers Siddharth Chandra, Goran Kuljanin and Jennifer Wray have calculated mortality from the influenza pandemic in India, using panel data models and data from the Census of India. This counters some of the overly stated ones recorded by Davis in 2018. Statistics apart, some of the most painful experience of this epidemic comes up in the narration of the famous Hindi poet Nirala, who lost most of his family members in the epidemic.This impact of the Spanish Flu in Gurugram is available in research works by Ruby Bala in the proceedings of the Indian History Congress published in 2011 along with some mention by Biresh Chaudhari in his writings on Nationalist Movement in Delhi 1911-32.Initially when this influenza reached Gurugram in the then Punjab Province by August 1918, it was not taken seriously and was passed off as a casual fever since the mortality rate was low. But in the span of next 3 months from September to October 1918, the then Gurgaon district became the worst-affected region in the Punjab province resulting in 63,071 deaths, which was almost 9% of the total district population at that time.In the words of the sanitary commissioner of the Punjab government, “the province was infected from Gurgaon to Campbellpur”. The mortality rate in Gurugram was the highest, followed by Rohtak, Karnal Ferozepur and Hisar. The initial brunt of this influenza was on the postal and telegraph systems, the railways, and the returning military officials because of the nature of their services that required travel and greater interaction. But in the next two months, it spread across the entire population of Gurgaon district and the Punjab Province including the rural areas. It is recorded that from October 15 to November 8, 1918, the entire Punjab province was literally a cemetery or a cremation ground with burials of bodies and burning pyres.Biresh Chaudhari mentions that the pandemic was aggravated in Gurugram due to the skyrocketing hike in the prices of necessary articles, such as salt and flour. In fact, a few historians also attribute the increased momentum of the nationalist movement to the impact of this pandemic in India.This important event in Gurugram’s history should better our understanding of survival through difficult times such as today, so that we can tackle the present situation with the responsibility to support our government in their efforts to control this pandemic.(Shikha Jain is state convenor, INTACH Haryana Chapter and member of Heritage Committees under ministries of culture and HRD. She is co-­editor of book ‘Haryana: Cultural Heritage Guide’; director, DRONAH (Development and Research Organisation).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/forgotten-history-of-spanish-flu-the-epidemic-that-shook-gurugram-in-1918/story-igZY3NSbaJe7IxBRvTNHxH.html
04-04-2020||World||ISKP chief’s arrest for gurdwara attack brings out clear link to Pakistan’s ISI: Official||In a massive security operation backed with pin-pointed intelligence , the Afghan security forces wiped out the entire Pakistan-sponsored module of the so-called Islamic State of Khorasan Province with the arrest of chief Mawlawi Abudullah aka Aslam Farooqui and 19 other top terrorists. A Pakistan national and a former Lashkar-e-Tayebba (LeT) operative, Farooqui was arrested for the massacre of 27 Sikh worshippers at Shor Bazaar Gurudwara in Kabul on March 25.During interrogation by Afghan National Directorate of Security (NDS), Farooqui is understood to have laid bare links of ISKP with Pakistan’s Inter Service Intelligence. Top ISKP operatives Ali Mohammed from Islamabad and Salman from Karachi were also arrested along with Tanweer from Bangladesh. Salman, according to officials, is responsible for ISIS media links with so-called ISIS India. The other two arrested were top fighters for the terrorist group.“The ISKP is just a demon child of Pakistan’s ISI, which is designed to hit at targets for larger tactical purposes of Rawalpindi GHQ. Among those arrested include terrorists from Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa, Balochistan, Nangarhar, Quetta, Pakistan- occupied-Kashmir, Karachi and Kunar Province. This is the biggest achievement of Afghan security forces to date,” said a senior counter-terror official.WATCH | Mastermind of Kabul Gurudwara attack, ISKP terrorist Farooqui, capturedPakistani national Mawlawi Abdullah, who was earlier associated with proscribed Lashkar-e-Tayebba group and then Tehreek-e-Taliban terror group, replaced Mawlawi Zia-ul-Haq aka Abu Omar Khorasani as ISKP chief in April 2019.Farooqi belongs to the Mamozai tribe and hails from the Orakzai agency area on the Pak-Afghan border. His links with LeT and Haqqani network have also been revealed in the NDS official statement.According to counter-terror operatives in Kabul and Delhi, Mawlawi Farooqi on the instructions of Haqqani Network and LeT used Kasaragod resident Muhsin Tikaripur along with three other Urdu-Punjabi speaking attackers to massacre 27 innocent Sikh men and women in Shor Bazaar, Kabul. Mushin was killed in the attack and his mother in Kerala informed of his death. The leader of Haqqani Network Sirajuddin is also the sword arm of the Taliban with very close links to Pakistani deep state. Tihan Singh an Indian national was also killed in the attack.Although 27 Sikhs were killed in the terror attack which was criticised by US, allies and India, the main target of ISKP was the Indian Embassy in Kabul as both Pakistan and Taliban wanted India out of the developing Afghan political equation in the context of a peace deal with the US. Similar threats have been posed to Indian consulates in Jalalabad, Herat and Kandahar with India forced to withdraw its staff for purposes of safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iskp-chief-s-arrest-for-gurdwara-attack-brings-out-clear-link-to-pakistan-s-isi-official/story-NPxxscxPawaFkD0y0WrALN.html
04-04-2020||World||Some US companies wait for clarity on Covid-19 aid package||As the Trump administration on Friday began processing financial aid for small businesses under the $2.2 trillion coronavirus relief legislation that the president signed into law last week, some large businesses and corporation are waiting for more clarity on the conditions attached to these payments.They are specially anxious about the possibility of the government picking up equity in borrowing firms in exchange. Boeing, which is looking at a substantial assistance package, has already opposed it saying it will explore other options. if forced to part with equity.The administration is actively weighing, acquiring stake in borrowing companies, the big ones, as compensation. Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said Thursday it was under discussion now in the context of relief for the airlines industry and “I’ll be working very closely with the President, and we’ll make sure that we strike the right balance. This “not a bailout” and taxpayers should “get compensated”, he added.The Trump administration is eager to ensure the terms of the relief package — called the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) — were not as lenient as assistance put together by the Obama administration after the 2008 financial crisis, which has been used by some of the borrowing companies to buy back their own stock to boost them on the exchange and to make hefty payments to top executives.“We don’t let them buy back the stock; we don’t let that happen,” President Trump had said, when signing the legislation into law. “(with) tough limits on executive compensation.”The 42.2 trillion package included $300 billion in direct payment to American families; $350 in job retention loans to small business; $250 billion in expanded unemployment benefits; $500 billion in loans for industries hit hard by the virus; and $100 billion for healthcare workers.The coronavirus outbreak shut down large parts of the country, forcing many businesses to close to lay off workers to survive. Airlines and related sectors are the worst hit, along with small businesses (those employing 500 workers or less). Unemployment has shot up with a record 6.6 million filing for benefits last week, in addition to the 3.3 million the week before.The amount set aside for industries is a mix of grants and loans and it has been earmarked for airlines, cargo carriers and those deemed essential for national security. Boeing falls in the third category and is looking at $17 billion along with others.The treasury department announced a set of conditions last week for disbursing loans to these industries. Borrowers are prohibited from buying back their stocks, or of their parent companies, until 12 months from the date when the loan is no longer outstanding.Borrowers are also banned from paying “dividends or make other capital distributions with respect to the common stock of the borrower” for after the same waiting period of 12 months.The borrowing company must also “maintain its employment levels as of March 24, 2020, to the extent practicable, and in any case will not reduce its employment levels by more than 10 percent from the levels on such date”.And, of course, the borrower must be an American company with “significant operations in and a majority of its employees based in the United States”.There is no indication in the treasury department announcement of “Procedures and Minimum Requirements” of the government acquiring a stake in the borrowing company. As Mnuchin said at a White House briefing earlier this week, the matter is still being considered, and he did not rule it out.Boeing has opposed it publicly and repeatedly. “I don’t have a need for an equity stake,” Boeing co-CEO Dave Calhoun told Fox Business just days before Trump signed the relief legislation into law. “If they force it, we just look at all the other options and we’ve got plenty of them.” He had then added the company was looking at borrowing from the government and had every intention of repaying the whole amount, with interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/some-us-companies-wait-for-clarity-on-covid-19-aid-package/story-e1vOjxxvhktRbpxAVkdDUJ.html
04-04-2020||World||China observes ‘national day of mourning’ for Covid-19 victims||China lost 95 police officers and 46 medical workers in the fight against the coronavirus epidemic, state media reported as the country observed Saturday as a national day of mourning in memory of the thousands of victims of the outbreak,The national flag flew at half-mast, people were urged to maintain three-minutes of silence at 10 in the morning and all forms of entertainment were suspended for 24 hours to mark the day.President Xi Jinping, dressed in black, led the top Chinese leadership in observing three minutes of silence at the Zhongnanhai leadership compound in BeijingThe leaders had white flowers pinned to their chest and paid a silent tribute in front of a national flag, flying at half-mast.As the moment of silence was observed by the public across the country, air raid sirens blared; cars, trains, and ships sounded horns.In the first epicentre of the pandemic, Wuhan, traffic lights in urban areas turned red at 10 am and all vehicular traffic stopped for three minutes.The government’s decision to observe Saturday as a day of mourning coincided with the start of the annual Qingming or tomb-sweeping festival when millions of Chinese families pay respects to their ancestors at their graves.In commemoration of “the martyrs and deceased compatriots”, national flags flew at half-mast across the country and in all Chinese embassies and consulates abroad, and public recreational activities were suspended nationwide Saturday, official news agency, Xinhua reported.As many as 3326 people have died and 81639 have been infected by Covid-19 in China, according to statistics released by China’s national health commission (NHC).The new virus first emerged in Wuhan in December before rapidly spreading within China and then globally.The NHC said Saturday it received reports of 19 new confirmed Covid-19 cases on the Chinese mainland on Friday, of which 18 were imported.Also on Friday, four deaths, all in Hubei province, and 11 new suspected cases, all imported ones, were reported on the mainland.As of Friday, the mainland had reported a total of 888 imported cases, the NHC added.Quoting China’s ministry of public security, official media on Saturday said that 95 Chinese police officers and 46 medical workers had died in the fight against the outbreak in the country.More than 3000 health workers including doctors and nurses had been infected with the disease while treating patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-observes-national-day-of-mourning-for-covid-19-victims/story-4joTsvQAVGTb9L02vmRyKI.html
04-04-2020||World||More than 60,000 deaths worldwide from coronavirus||The coronavirus pandemic has killed at least 60,000 people worldwide, nearly three quarters of them in Europe, since it emerged in China in December, according to a tally compiled by AFP at 1330 GMT Saturday from official sources.A total of 60,457 deaths have been recorded, including 44,132 in Europe, the continent worst hit by the virus.The official tallies probably reflect only a fraction of the actual number of infections.With 14,681 deaths, Italy is the country with the highest death toll, followed by Spain (11,744), the United States (7,159), France (6,507) and Britain (4,313).Since COVID-19 first emerged, 1,130,204 cases have been declared officially in the world, with more than half of them in Europe (610,846).There have been 290,219 in the United States and Canada (7,325 deaths between them) and 115,777 cases in Asia (4,124 deaths).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-than-60-000-deaths-worldwide-from-coronavirus/story-6nfH8VCjAvd6G8p83Ea1oL.html
04-04-2020||World||Islamic State Khorasan chief Farooqui, who plotted Kabul gurdwara attack, arrested||In a special operation by Afghan security forces today, the so-called emir of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) Mawlawi Abdullah aka Aslam Farooqui was arrested on charges of orchestrating the attack on Kabul Gurdwara on March 25.Pakistani national Mawlawi Abdullah, who was earlier associated with proscribed Lashkar-e-Tayebba (LeT) group and then Tehreek-e-Taliban terror group, replaced Mawlawi Zia-ul-Haq aka Abu Omar Khorasani as ISKP chief in April 2019. Farooqi belongs to Mamozai tribe and from Orakzai agency area on Pak-Afghan border.According to counter-terror operatives in Kabul and Delhi, Mawlawi Farooqi on the instructions of Haqqani Network and LeT used Kasaragod resident Muhsin Tikaripur along with three other Urdu-Punjabi speaking attackers to massacre 27 innocent Sikh men and women in Shor Bazaar, Kabul. Mushin was killed in the attack and his mother in Kerala was informed of his death. The leader of Haqqani Network Sirajuddin is also the sword arm of the Taliban with very close links to the Pakistani deep state. An Indian national Tihan Singh was also killed in the attack.ALSO WATCH | ‘Saddened to hear about terror attack on gurudwara in Kabul’: PM ModiAlthough 27 Sikhs were killed in the terror attack that was criticised by US, allies and India, the main target of ISKP was the Indian Embassy in Kabul as both Pakistan and Taliban want India out of the developing Afghan political equation in the context of a peace deal with US. Similar threats have been posed to Indian consulates in Jalalabad, Herat and Kandahar with India forced to withdraw its staff for purposes of safety.Mawlawi Farooqui is now going to be questioned by Afghan National Directorate of Security to find out who ordered the attack on innocent Sikhs and what was the role of Pakistan in the terror strike. Farooqui is also expected to come up with names of his other terrorists in his group, which operates in Nangarhar, Nuristan, Kunar, Kabul and Kandahar area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/islamic-state-khorasan-chief-farooqui-who-plotted-kabul-gurdwara-attack-arrested/story-mOuvLV9FNfTwmwPh9yYuEK.html
04-04-2020||World||7,026 new coronavirus cases in Spain, toll reaches 11,744||Spain has reported 7,026 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, Spanish Heath Ministry said on Saturday. Around 809 people died in the last 24 hours; toll in the European country reached 11,744, Sputnik reported. The overall number of COVID-19 cases in the country now amounts to 124,736, and 34,219 people have recovered.About 6,500 people are in intensive care units. Almost 79,000 cases remain active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/7-026-new-coronavirus-cases-in-spain-toll-reaches-11-744/story-mtlsvV2igybWQqnyaiDVaN.html
04-04-2020||World||UK PM Boris Johnson invites opposition to join in Covid-19 fight||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Saturday sought views from opposition leaders in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, and invited them for a briefing with him next week, as most of the UK remained hunkered down at home over another sunny weekend.Johnson, who remains in self-isolation in Downing Street after testing positive for the virus, said all political parties have a duty to work together at a time of national emergency.He wrote in a letter to opposition leaders: “I would like to invite all leaders of opposition parties in Parliament to a briefing with myself, the chief medical officer and chief scientific adviser next week”.“I want to listen to your views and update you on the measures we have taken so far, such as rapidly expanding testing and providing economic support to businesses and individuals across the country”.“The government I lead will act in the national interest at all times and be guided by the best scientific evidence, and of course we will continue to engage constructively with all political parties on the national effort to defeat this pandemic”, he added.Keir Starmer, the new leader of the Labour party, is among several MPs who have demanded that parliament meet virtually so that the Johnson government could be held to account on the measures it is taking to deal with the pandemic. Parliament is due to resume on April 21.Britain’s health, council and police officials reiterated their core message to the people to stay at home and not venture out to enjoy the warmer weather over the sunny weekend. There have been reports that some people have been flocking to beaches and parks.Neil Ferguson, a leading expert advising the Johnson government, told BBC that the pandemic was expected to plateau in the next week to 10 days, but that the public’s behaviour was crucial for determining what happens next.If people continued to follow guidelines to stay at home, he was hopeful that some of the intensive social distancing measures could be substituted for rapid testing and contact tracing in a few weeks’ time, once case numbers are lower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-invites-opposition-to-join-in-covid-19-fight/story-YmX9XzPNAhoNfVB1k5E9tM.html
04-04-2020||World||Keir Starmer is new Labour leader; regaining ‘Indian’ support key task||Keir Starmer, who was on Saturday elected leader of the Labour party after Jeremy Corbyn resigned after the party’s heavy defeat in the December election, has a full in-tray before him that includes trying to regain the support of large sections of the Indian community.Starmer, 57, who was first elected MP in 2015 and served as the shadow Brexit secretary, defeated Rebecca Long-Bailey and Indian-origin Lisa Nandy in the contest. He has often participated in events of the Indian community.A former head of prosecutions in the Crown Prosecution Service, Starmer admitted that the party has a “mountain to climb” after the fourth election loss in a row, but promised: “Where that requires change, we will change. Where that requires us to rethink, we will rethink”. India has also congratulated Starmer. Indian high commissioner Ruchi Ghanashyam tweeted: “Congratulations on your election as the leader of the Labour Party Sir @Keir_Starmer. I am confident that under your leadership the Labour Party will further strengthen its historic bonds with India and will build enduring bridges to connect with the Indian diaspora in the UK.”The Indian community has for long supported Labour, mainly due to its stand on immigration, but has been haemorrhaging support from second and third generation members of the community, who have increasingly gravitated to the Conservative party in recent elections.Under Corbyn’s leadership, Labour riled many for its stand on Jammu and Kashmir, which has been perceived in New Delhi and the UK as being anti-Indian. A resolution adopted at its annual conference in September called for outside intervention in the dispute.Rajesh Agarwal, deputy mayor of London and co-chair of Labour Friends of India, said: “The Labour Party must also make the changes necessary to win hearts, minds and trust of the British people, including that of the 1.5 million strong British Indian community”.“Labour is the natural party for British Indians but last few years have seen the relations strained. I hope the change in leadership is the beginning of a healing process & the party will be able to regain the trust of the community”.Starmer recalled the party’s past achievements while in government in his acceptance speech: “We created the NHS. We created the welfare state. We passed equalities legislation, the Race Relations Act…But we’ve just lost four elections in a row”.“We’re failing in our historic purpose. Be in no doubt I understand the scale of the task, the gravity of the position that we’re in. We’ve got a mountain to climb. But we will climb it, and I will do my utmost to reconnect us across the country, to re-engage with our communities”.Under his leadership, he said the party will engage constructively with the government, not oppose it for opposition’s sake; not score points or make impossible demands.Nandy, who finished third in the election, extended support to Starmer: “We have been competitors in this contest but never opponents,” noting that Labour’s road back to power is “steep but does not have to be long. Our country is crying out for fresh leadership. We start today.”Manoj Ladwa, a leading London-based community figure and former chair of the community engagement forum of the Labour Friends of India group in the party, welcomed Starmer’s election and called for a ‘reset’ in relations with the Indian community. He said: “Under the leadership of his predecessor, Jeremy Corbyn, Labour recklessly alienated many British Indians. Corbyn’s supporters frequently sniped against India, a country that is a hugely important strategic and economic partner for the UK. I like many other traditional Labour voters left the Labour Party for those very reasons”.“If Keir Stammer is serious about becoming the next British Prime Minister, he has to urgently press the reset button with countries like India and communities like Britain’s 1.5 million Indian diaspora, which the previous leadership was overtly hostile to”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/keir-starmer-elected-new-labour-leader/story-oEaPGJlDDKxVfVzPElSuFJ.html
04-04-2020||World||Spain’s daily coronavirus death toll falls for second day in row||Spain’s death toll from the coronavirus rose to 11,744 on Saturday from 10,935 the previous day, the Health Ministry said on Saturday, though it was the second straight second day in which the daily number of new deaths had fallen. A total of 809 people died from the disease over the past 24 hours, down from 932 in the previous period, the figures showed.The total number of registered infections rose to 124,736 on Saturday from 117,710 on Friday, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-s-daily-coronavirus-death-toll-falls-for-second-day-in-row/story-Sl8tksruorhqPhEmqHo39K.html
04-04-2020||World||Covid-19’s impact may last up to two years, say health officials in Canada||The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic could be felt for as long as two years, according to Canadian public health officials.According to Dr Peter Donnelly, president and CEO of Public Health Ontario, projections undertaken for Canada’s most populous province took into the possibility of secondary and tertiary waves of the infection, which could stretch the period it continues to have an effect from between 18 months and two years.By putting in place restrictive measures to counter the spread of Covid-19, it may have escaped a far worse fate. As Donnelly said, “Over the full two-year course of the pandemic, had we done nothing, Ontario may have suffered 100,000 deaths.”Even then the modelling done by provincial health experts is sobering. By the end of April, the province could tally approximately 1,600 deaths due to the novel coronavirus with nearly 80,000 infected.By the end of the whole cycle of the pandemic, which could stretch into spring 2022, the number of deaths projected for the province range from a best case scenario of 3,000 to a high of 15,000.“When you think that the mortality of this disease is up to 10 times higher, and you remember we have no vaccine, and we have no specific treatment; then suddenly the figure of 15,000 becomes entirely logical and comprehensible,” he said.The Canadian government has also said it will release projections shortly, with Prime Minister Justin Trudeau saying they will be made available in the “coming days.”However, a lower number could be in play if the province were to introduce “enhanced measures” like reducing the number of businesses considered “essential” and allowed to remain open.Of course, figures from such modelling cannot be entirely reliable, as Donnelly pointed out, that when applied to brand the new viral disease, the results could be “inexact.” But such data can prove prescriptive for policy-makers as well as the public, seeing evidence of their actions curbing the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-s-impact-may-last-up-to-two-years-say-health-officials-in-canada/story-8BQcIMx1ZJ2mYlaltYnqaN.html
04-04-2020||World||China honours coronavirus victims with 3 minutes of reflection||With air raid sirens wailing and flags at half-mast, China on Saturday held a three-minute nationwide moment of reflection to honor those who have died in the coronavirus outbreak, especially “martyrs” who fell while fighting what has become a global pandemic.Commemorations took place at 10 a.m. in all major cities, but were particularly poignant in Wuhan, the industrial center where the virus was first detected in December.Wuhan was placed under complete lockdown on Jan. 23 in an effort to stem the spread of the virus and has been lauded as a “heroic city” by the nation’s communist leadership for the sacrifices made by its 11 million citizens.People have gradually been allowed to travel in and out of Wuhan under strict conditions. The quarantine on the city is to be formally lifted on Wednesday.In Beijing, President Xi Jinping led other top officials, all dressed in black suits with white carnations, as they bowed before a flag at half-mast in the leadership compound of Zhongnanhai.On Saturday, China reported one new confirmed case in Wuhan and 18 among people arriving from abroad, along with four new deaths, all in Wuhan. China now has recorded a total of 81,639 cases and 3,326 deaths, although those figures are generally considered to be understated because of a lack of testing and a reluctance to report the scale of the original outbreak.China’s slow, cautious emergence from the global pandemic comes as the U.S. is struggling to deal with the outbreak that has taken more than 1,860 lives in New York City alone. Hard-hit European nations Italy, Spain and France are also seeing rising numbers of cases and deaths, although strict social distancing measures such as those adopted by China appear to be having an effect.The State Council, China’s Cabinet, ordered that national flags be flown at half-mast around the country and at Chinese embassies and consulates abroad, and the suspension of all public recreational activities.The horns of automobiles, trains and ships joined in what the official Xinhua News Agency called a “wail in grief” for three minutes. China has held such moments of silence in past, often to mark World War II-era atrocities by Japan, but rarely on a national scale.The commemoration also comes on the traditional Qingming festival, when Chinese visit the graves of their ancestors. Officials have banned such observances this year to avoid large gatherings that might contribute to a feared second wave of infections.More than 3,000 health care workers contracted COVID-19 and the government says 14 died of the disease. Among them was doctor Li Wenliang, who was threatened with punishment by police after publicizing news of the outbreak but has since been listed among the national “martyrs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-honours-coronavirus-victims-with-3-minutes-of-reflection/story-29xYH7Ey9DMdgwz2LuRLRI.html
04-04-2020||World||US blocks export of coronavirus-related medical equipment, Canadian PM Trudeau calls it a ‘mistake’||Even as the Donald Trump’s White House has adopted an America First approach to sourcing critical medical supplies related to countering the coronavirus pandemic with steps like blocking exports of such equipment to other countries, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has warned the American President that taking such a measure will be a “mistake.”The face-off between the neighbours has come about as the United States has asked manufacturers of N95 medical-grade face masks and ventilators, urgently required in both nations, to give priority to orders from the Federal Emergency Management Agency or FEMA.One major company in the field, 3M, in fact released a statement in this regard, “The Administration also requested that 3M cease exporting respirators that we currently manufacture in the United States to the Canadian and Latin American markets.”This state of affairs led to the rebuttal from Trudeau during his daily media interaction in Ottawa, as he said, “It would be a mistake to create blockages or reduce the amount of back-and-forth trade in essential goods and services, including medical goods, across our border.”This matter has arisen even as Canada has received a shipments totalling nearly 11 million face masks and has announced that it will be leveraging Amazon Canada’s distribution network to get urgently needed medical material to cities and provinces across the nation.Canada’s Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland, meanwhile, said the Government was “working very hard on getting those shipments from 3M” and also from a “diversity of suppliers around the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blocking-export-of-coronavirus-related-medical-equipment-would-be-a-mistake-canadian-pm-trudeau-warns-trump/story-HINmPYOL7FcT9UsBvtGntI.html
04-04-2020||World||Pakistan records 2,700 coronavirus cases; Punjab crosses 1,000-mark||Pakistan’s coronavirus cases rose to 2,708 on Saturday with the number of patients in the Punjab province, which accounts for more than half of the country’s total population, crossing the 1,000-mark.According to the National Health Services, COVID-19 has so far claimed 40 lives, while 130 patients have recovered.Punjab -- the hotspot of the viral infection in Pakistan -- reported a total of 1,072 cases, followed by Sindh at 839, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 343, Balochistan 175, Gilgit-Baltistan 193, Islamabad 75 and 11 cases in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). The viral infection in the country is rapidly spreading, despite hectic efforts by the government to curtail it, officials said. On Friday, the World Bank has approved USD 200 million in aid to Pakistan to help deal with the impact of the novel coronavirus. According to Radio Pakistan, the project titled “Pandemic Response Effectiveness in Pakistan”, will support the government to prepare and respond to the disease and strengthen national systems for public health preparedness. Asserting that no one was sure how long the COVID-19 pandemic would last, Pakistan Prime minister Imran Khan on Friday announced a massive package to the construction sector to restart economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-records-2-700-coronavirus-cases-punjab-crosses-1-000-mark/story-uZdgQH3ZadhyAuCXbWjEdO.html
04-04-2020||World||UN chief says ‘worst is yet to come’, US records highest 24-hour Covid-19 death toll: 10 points||The coronavirus pandemic has infected over a million people across the globe and has claimed nearly 60,000 lives.While the original epicentre, China, is slowly limping back to recovery, the virus continues to wreak havoc in Europe and in the United States. On Saturday, China mourned those in the country who lost their lives in the battle against coronavirus. The country observed a nationwide three-minute silence.Here are the key developments from across the globe:1. The United States recorded nearly 1,500 coronavirus deaths between Thursday and Friday, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker. This is the worst 24-hour death toll globally since the pandemic began.2. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres on Friday renewed his call for a global ceasefire, urging all parties to conflict to lay down arms and allow war-torn nations to combat the coronavirus pandemic. “The worst is yet to come,” Guterres said.3. The US government on Friday said that citizens who lack health insurance will be covered by the government if they fall sick with coronavirus.4. IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva is describing the situation as “a crisis like no other.” “We are now in recession, it is way worse than the global financial crisis and it is a crisis that requires all of us to come together.” Georgieva says 90 countries have already approached the institution for emergency financing.5. US employment plunged by 701,000 in March and the jobless rate surged to 4.4% amid the coronavirus crisis.6. The United Kingdom death toll from the coronavirus rose by 684 to 3,605 as of 1600 GMT on April 2, up 23% on the previous day. As of 9 am 3 April, a total of 173,784 people have been tested of which 38,168 were positive.7. Singapore will shutter schools and most workplaces as the city-state unveiled a raft of stricter measures intended as a “circuit breaker” to slow the spread of coronavirus.8. Coronavirus can spread through just breathing and talking, said a high-level US scientific this week, suggesting that the virus that causes the disease is airborne and is spreading more easily and sustainably between people than previously believed.9. More than 900 people died in Spain over the past 24 hours for the second day running. Spain has the world’s second-highest death toll after Italy with 10,935 fatalities from 117,710 confirmed cases.10. In Germany, the number of confirmed coronavirus cases has jumped by 6,174 to 79,696, and the death toll has risen by 145 to 1,017 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-chief-says-worst-is-yet-to-come-us-records-highest-24-hour-covid-19-death-toll-10-points/story-q0auuEY9GifYGWnQiNWIlN.html
04-04-2020||World||‘Worst yet to come’ for countries in conflict, says UN chief Antonio Guterres amid coronavirus crisis||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres Friday renewed his call for a global ceasefire, urging all parties to conflict to lay down arms and allow war-torn nations to combat the coronavirus pandemic.“The worst is yet to come,” Guterres said, referring to countries beset with fighting like Syria, Libya and Yemen. “The COVID-19 storm is now coming to all these theatres of conflict.” Guterres said there had been some progress following his March 23 call for peace, but that fighting still rages in a number of countries, hampering the ability to put into place plans to combat the virus.“The need is urgent,” Guterres said at a UN press conference.“The virus has shown how swiftly it can move across borders, devastate countries and upend lives.”He said that parties to conflict in a number of countries, including Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Colombia, Libya, Myanmar, the Philippines, South Sudan, Sudan, Syria, Ukraine and Yemen, have expressed support for his call.“But there is a huge distance between declarations and deeds -- between translating words into peace on the ground and in the lives of people,” Guterres said.“In many of the most critical situations, we have seen no let-up in fighting -- and some conflicts have even intensified.”While expressing gratitude for support of his earlier call from some 70 countries, NGO groups and religious leaders worldwide including Pope Francis, Guterres said more concrete work was necessary. “We need robust diplomatic efforts to meet these challenges. To silence the guns, we must raise the voices for peace,” he said.Guterres did not mention the UN Security Council, where divisions between the United States and China have blocked action.The EU “strongly supports” the call, its foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said after a video conference of the bloc’s foreign ministers.“We urge all those involved in armed conflicts anywhere in the world to engage in efforts to find a political solution to the conflict,” Borrell told a media conference in Brussels.- Call for more aid -Since the beginning of the global pandemic, the Security Council has not met once on COVID-19, making no statement or joint resolution.On Thursday the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution calling for international cooperation and “multilateralism” in addressing the virus, which has infected more than one million worldwide and killed more than 50,000.Guterres appealed for developed countries and multilateral institutions to do more to aid poorer countries face the pandemic.“To act early rather than later is essential... This is particularly true with the developing world,” he said.Guterres noted that the ceasefire in Idlib, Syria is holding but said it needs to be expanded to the entire country to allow full efforts to slow the coronavirus spread.But he also said expressions of support for a ceasefire by different factions fighting in Libya had not ended the violence.“This war is now not allowing the response to COVID-19 to take place,” he said.“This is the moment to stop. It’s not morally acceptable to continue with this conflict.”prh/rmb/ec||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-worst-yet-to-come-for-countries-in-conflict-says-un-chief-antonio-guterres/story-dtMJuRHTeRWpIIU8N8bVFI.html
04-04-2020||World||IMF leader says coronavirus is ‘crisis like no other’||The head of the International Monetary Fund says the recession sparked by the coronavirus pandemic is “way worse” than the 2008 global recession.IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva is describing the situation as “a crisis like no other.” “Never in the history of the IMF have we witnessed the world economy coming to a standstill,” she said. “We are now in recession, it is way worse than the global financial crisis and it is a crisis that requires all of us to come together.” Georgieva says 90 countries have already approached the institution for emergency financing. She is calling on countries to prioritize health expenditures and to make sure doctors, nurses and other health workers are paid. She adds that the world’s most fragile countries must be protected, noting that “USD 90 billion have flown out” and damaged emerging economies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imf-leader-says-coronavirus-is-crisis-like-no-other/story-wYa1nX74sdMD7D9fy6UT2L.html
04-04-2020||World||Over 37,000 Americans stranded overseas repatriated till now: US official||The US has so far repatriated around 37,000 Americans stranded overseas due to the coronavirus pandemic and is planning to bring another 22,000 of its citizens, many of whom are in South Asia, especially India, a senior official has said.“We have repatriated roughly 37,000 US citizens from over 60 countries on more than 400 flights. It includes over 20,000 Americans repatriated in the past week alone,” Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs Ian Brownlee told reporters during a conference call on Friday.He said the US State Department has approximately 70 flights scheduled in the coming days which should bring back several thousand more US citizens.“South Asia now has the most US citizens wishing to return. So far the US has brought home almost 1,000 Americans from South Asia and are working aggressively to assist thousands more who have expressed an interest in returning,” Brownlee said. “The total number we’re looking at overseas at this point is about 22,000. The greatest number of those – certainly the plurality of those – are in South and Central Asia, many of them in India,” he added.Brownlee urged Americans to return to their home country as soon as possible. “For the US citizens contemplating whether or not to come home, the time to act is now. Flights will not continue indefinitely, but we want to do all we can to assist you while we are still able to do so,” he said. More than 53,000 people have died from coronavirus since it was first detected late last year in China, and the United States, Spain and Britain all reported their highest daily death tolls. The deadly infection has so far claimed the lives of over 7,000 people in the US and infected over 2,70,000 others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-37-000-americans-stranded-overseas-repatriated-till-now-us-official/story-CViucJTNd1CuxS4JmsaPWP.html
04-04-2020||World||Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner takes surprise top role in coronavirus fight||He’s got no medical experience, was never elected or saw military service, but as Donald Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner has crucial access -- and now he’s White House pointman for the coronavirus crisis.A youthful looking 39, Kushner is no stranger in Washington. Although he’d never served at any level of government before, his marriage to Trump’s daughter Ivanka put him at the heart of power after the 2016 election.Now Kushner’s surprise appearance at Trump’s daily coronavirus briefing Thursday has confirmed his rise to the top tier on one of the greatest crises to hit the country in its history.Trump’s vice president, Mike Pence, is meant to be coordinating the complex government response to an illness overwhelming the health system and economy.For days there had been whispers that Kushner, a real estate scion who casts himself as a dynamic thinker, was running a shadow team. On the briefing room podium, Kushner emerged from that shadow.While making sure to say he was there to assist Pence, Kushner spoke with the self-confidence -- critics often call it arrogance -- of someone enjoying unique influence.Asked to describe his still vaguely defined mission, Kushner suggested he would reinvigorate a team struggling with the dire challenge of battling the pandemic across the vast, diverse country.Kushner said Trump had asked him “to make sure that we think outside the box, make sure we’re finding all the best thinkers in the country, making sure we’re getting all the best ideas.”Drama in the house The Trump White House is regularly marked by personnel dramas that wouldn’t look out of place on the president’s old reality TV show “The Apprentice.”Senior figures come and go at a fast pace, sometimes fired by tweet, and in several cases departing on the bitterest of terms.A month ago, Trump fired his third chief of staff. The replacement, Mark Meadows, took weeks to assume his office, meaning the president was without a key aide just as the coronavirus was ballooning into disaster.The slick, apparently highly focused Kushner saw his moment.This isn’t the first time Kushner takes up a role that many might shy from.Earlier this year, he brought out Trump’s plan for nothing less than resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Again, he went into that diplomatic minefield with no relevant experience.The plan was panned by almost everyone except for the Israeli government and its Washington backers. But the episode demonstrated Kushner’s extraordinary position.Now, with state governors and Trump wrangling over who has responsibility for securing and delivering medical supplies to coronavirus-hit areas of the country, Kushner is back, promising to get results where others failed.He said he would “break down every barrier needed to make sure the teams can succeed.”Scared’The White House feels it is being unfairly blamed for delays in the supply chain from equipment stockpiles and manufacturers to hospitals and ordinary citizens.In the world’s richest country, lifesaving ventilators are in desperately tight supply. It is difficult for most people even to get a simple face mask.Trump argues the shortfall of medical supplies is the fault of state governors, not the federal government, which he describes as a mere back-up, rather than leader.In his briefing appearance, Kushner was right on message, saying that individual states have no automatic right to such assistance.“The notion of the federal stockpile was it’s supposed to be our stockpile,” Kushner said, drawing instant scorn from his opponents on Twitter. “It’s not supposed to be state stockpiles that they then use.”In scathing comments, Kushner went on to say that the crisis was revealing which politicians were “better managers.” He described some governors as “scared” and confused.Supporters of Kushner say he is unusually bright, even a “hidden genius,” as Trump’s former UN ambassador, Nikki Haley, said in 2018.On the frontline of the pandemic, the controversial son-in-law will have his chance to prove that right and his detractors wrong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-s-son-in-law-jared-kushner-takes-surprise-top-role-in-coronavirus-fight/story-tnVheb2EEJH3lveVtDUtdN.html
04-04-2020||World||Coronavirus update: ‘In my blood, there may be answers’, says a Covid-19 survivor in New York||Tiffany Pinckney remembers the fear when Covid-19 stole her breath. So when she recovered, the New York City mother became one of the country’s first survivors to donate her blood to help treat other seriously ill patients.“It is definitely overwhelming to know that in my blood, there may be answers,” Pinckney told The Associated Press.Doctors around the world are dusting off a century-old treatment for infections: Infusions of blood plasma teeming with immune molecules that helped survivors beat the new coronavirus. There’s no proof it will work.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here But former patients in Houston and New York were early donors, and now hospitals and blood centres are getting ready for potentially hundreds of survivors to follow.The Food and Drug Administration Friday announced a national study, led by the Mayo Clinic, that will help hospitals offer the experimental plasma therapy and track how they fare. The American Red Cross will help collect and distribute the plasma.“There’s a tremendous call to action,” said Dr. David Reich, president of New York’s Mount Sinai Hospital, which declared Pinckney recovered and raced to collect her blood. “People feel very helpless in the face of this disease. And this is one thing that people can do to help their fellow human beings.” As treatments get underway, “we just hope it works,” he said.What the history books call “convalescent serum” was most famously used during the 1918 flu pandemic, and also against measles, bacterial pneumonia and numerous other infections before modern medicine came along. Why? When infection strikes, the body starts making proteins called antibodies specially designed to target that germ. Those antibodies float in survivors’ blood — specifically plasma, the yellowish liquid part of blood — for months, even years.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage When new diseases erupt and scientists are scrambling for vaccines or drugs, it’s “a stopgap measure that we can put into place quickly,” said Dr. Jeffrey Henderson of Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, who is helping to develop a nationwide study.This “is not a cure per se, but rather it is a way to reduce the severity of illness,” Henderson said.Doctors don’t know how long survivors’ antibodies against Covid-19 will persist.But for now, “they’re the safest ones on the street,” said Dr. Rebecca Haley of Bloodworks Northwest in Seattle, which is working to identify donors. “We would not be making a dent in their antibody supply for themselves.” Last week, the Food and Drug Administration told hospitals how to seek case-by-case emergency permission to use convalescent plasma, and Houston Methodist Hospital and Mount Sinai jumped at the chance.And a desperate public responded, with families taking to social media to plead on behalf of sick loved ones and people recovering asking how they could donate. According to Michigan State University, more than 1,000 people signed up with the National Covid-19 Convalescent Plasma Project alone. Dozens of hospitals formed that group to spur plasma donation and research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-in-my-blood-there-may-be-answers-says-a-covid-19-survivor-in-new-york/story-y12yyLMwNEUCFwieT2O58M.html
04-04-2020||World||‘I choose not to do it’, says Donald Trump after recommending all to wear masks||President Donald Trump on Friday recommended that Americans cover their faces with masks when outdoors, a policy U-turn following growing scientific research suggesting their widespread use can stem the spread of the coronavirus.Trump told a White House briefing that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) was urging people to wear face coverings like scarves or homemade cloth masks, but to keep medical-grade masks available for health workers.“It’s going to be really a voluntary thing,” he underlined. “You don’t have to do it and I’m choosing not to do it, but some people may want to do it and that’s okay.”The about-face was widely expected after senior health officials told reporters the scientific evidence had evolved.Speaking to Fox News on Friday, Anthony Fauci, head of infectious diseases at the National Institutes of Health, cited “recent information that the virus can actually be spread even when people just speak as opposed to coughing and sneezing.”Days earlier, the CDC’s Robert Redfield said up to a quarter of people who are infected may be asymptomatic.Taken together, the developments represent powerful arguments in favor of the widespread use of facial coverings.Previously, the advice was that masks should only be used by sick people and their caregivers.The new recommendations are in line with those made by France’s National Academy of Medicine on Friday, and by New York Mayor Bill de Blasio a day earlier. The city has seen almost 1,000 of the US’s nearly 7,000 deaths. But the message was undermined by the fact that none of the officials present at Friday’s briefing were following it.Trump said he would not be wearing one “as I greet presidents, prime ministers, dictators, kings, queens, I don’t know, it somehow, I don’t see it for myself.”- Breathing and speaking -Fauci’s comments about the virus’s spread via breathing came after the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) sent a letter to the White House on April 1 summarizing recent research on the subject.It said that though research isn’t yet conclusive, “the results of available studies are consistent with aerosolization of virus from normal breathing.”Until now, US health agencies have said the primary pathway of transmission is respiratory droplets, about one millimeter in diameter, expelled by sick people when they sneeze or cough.These quickly fall to the ground around a meter (three feet) away.But if the virus can be suspended in the ultrafine mist people expel when exhaling -- in other words, an aerosol -- it becomes much harder to prevent its spread. - The aerosol debate -A recent NIH-funded study published in the New England Journal of Medicine found that the SARS-CoV-2 virus could become an aerosol and remain airborne for up to three hours.The paper received widespread attention even as critics said the findings were overblown because researchers had used a medical device called a nebulizer to deliberately create a viral mist, something they argued would not occur naturally.The NAS letter pointed to preliminary research by the University of Nebraska Medical Center that found the genetic code of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, its RNA, in hard-to-reach areas of patients’ isolation rooms.The NAS scientists also cited two other studies -- both not yet peer reviewed -- from Hong Kong and mainland China.The Hong Kong researchers had some patients with coronavirus and other viral respiratory illnesses wear masks, while other patients in the study didn’t cover their faces. They found fewer droplets and aerosols from coronavirus patients who wore masks.The Chinese paper raised concerns that personal protective gear used by health workers could be a source of airborne virus.The team studied hospitals in Wuhan and found two major areas where the virus was aerosolized: patient bathrooms and rooms where medical staff removed protective gear.This may be because doffing protective gear causes particles to get re-suspended in the air. Even if these particles are not of breathable size, they could settle on people’s hands and bodies, the NAS panel said.So far, the World Health Organization has been more cautious on the airborne threat.In an analysis published on March 29, it wrote that aerosol transmission was only known to occur during particular medical treatments that required assisted breathing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-new-research-us-recommends-face-masks-to-stop-virus-spread/story-61woogevvs0GTowwP9KUbL.html
04-04-2020||World||‘US will not forget Daniel Pearl’: Pompeo slams Pakistan court’s verdict||US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Friday reiterated that his country would not forget slain journalist Daniel Pearl after a Pakistani court a day earlier commuted the death sentence of his murderer Ahmed Omer Saeed Sheikh to a prison term of seven years.“The United States will not forget #DanielPearl. We continue to honour his legacy as a courageous journalist and demand justice for his brutal murder,” Pompeo tweeted.The United States on Friday criticised the Pakistani court for overturning the death sentence of Sheikh, calling the verdict an “affront” to victims of terrorism everywhere.“The overturning of the convictions for Daniel Pearl’s murder is an affront to victims of terrorism everywhere,” Alice Wells, Acting Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asia, said in a tweet.But the top diplomat for South Asia, however, welcomed Pakistani prosecutors’ indications that they would appeal the decision.“We welcome Pakistan’s decision to appeal the verdict. Those responsible for Daniel’s heinous kidnapping and murder must face the full measure of justice,” Wells said.Ahmed Omer Saeed Sheikh, the terrorist who had been convicted of the 2002 abduction and murder of journalist Daniel Pearl, had his death sentence commuted to a prison term of seven years by a Pakistani court on Thursday.The Sindh high court ruling came in response to appeals by Sheikh and three other men convicted in connection for the killing of the Wall Street Journal journalist.The high court overturned the verdict of an anti-terrorism court.Sheikh (46), a British citizen of Pakistani origin, was freed by India with Jaish-e-Mohammed founder Masood Azhar and terrorist Mushtaq Ahmad Zargar in exchange for the passengers of Indian Airlines flight IC-814, which was hijacked by a group of Pakistani terrorists and taken to Kandahar in December 1999.The murder conviction of Sheikh was overturned by the high court, which found him guilty of the lesser charge of kidnapping, for which he was given the seven-year prison term.The court also acquitted and set free the three other men – Fahad Naseem, Salman Saqib and Sheikh Adil, who were earlier sentenced to life imprisonment.Daniel Pearl was an American national and the South Asia bureau chief of the Wall Street Journal. He was kidnapped in Karachi on January 23, 2002 and later beheaded by his abductors.The four men were convicted by the anti-terrorism court on July 15, 2002. They filed appeals in the high court four days later.Pakistan’s Sindh province government on Friday invoked the Maintenance of Public Order to keep in jail the British-born al-Qaeda leader. He has been in jail for the past 18 years.The Sindh government acted swiftly to invoke the MPO which allows it to keep the four convicts behind bars for three months.According to a notification issued by the Sindh Home Ministry, the release of Sheikh and his three associates could jeopardize the law and order situation in the province, thus necessitating their continued detention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-will-not-forget-daniel-pearl-says-pompeo-demands-justice-for-scribe-s-murder/story-ZfGB842kq0h88NQ1BZAnOM.html
04-04-2020||World||Queen to address Commonwealth as UK toll crosses 3,600||Queen Elizabeth will deliver a special message to the UK and the Commonwealth on Sunday night as the death toll in the United Kingdom from the coronavirus pandemic rose to 3,605 and a new mega hospital was inaugurated by Prince Charles on Friday.Queen Elizabeth, 93, is also the head of the Commonwealth. A statement from the royal family said the message will be addressed to the UK as well as the 54 countries in the Commonwealth, including India.The special address reflects the seriousness of the situation: it will be her only fourth such address at a time of national crisis during her 68-year reign, besides the annual Christmas Day message. She previously delivered such special messages after the Queen Mother’s death in 2002, before the funeral of Diana, Princess of Wales in 1997, and during the First Gulf War in 1991. She also delivered a televised address to mark her Diamond Jubilee in 2012.As the number of cases rose to 38,168 in the UK, Prince Charles opened the mega hospital – called the NHS Nightingale Hospital – in the sprawling ExCel Centre in east London, which was converted into the hospital with 4,000 beds in nine days with the help of Britain’s armed forces.More such hospitals in large public spaces are due to open in Cardiff, Glasgow, Manchester, Harrogate and Bristol. The prince of Wales, who recently recovered from the virus, inaugurated the hospital via video-link from his home in Birkhall, Scotland, saying he is “one of the lucky ones to have Covid-19 mildly”.He said at the opening event: “It is without doubt a spectacular and almost unbelievable feat of work in every sense, from its speed of construction - in just nine days as we’ve heard - to its size and the skills of those who have created it”.“An example, if ever one was needed, of how the impossible could be made possible and how we can achieve the unthinkable through human will and ingenuity”.Health secretary Matt Hancock added: “In these troubled times with this invisible killer stalking the whole world, the fact that in this country we have the NHS is even more valuable than before. It is the best of efforts. It is the best of the NHS”.“And it is the best of Britain to come together in these difficult circumstances to put together such a facility, at such pace, that will be there for people so that we can give the very best care. And so that as a nation we can come through this crisis in the best way we possibly can”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-queen-to-address-coronavirus-crisis-in-special-tv-broadcast/story-m3me9jS6mWNWk8D6x0JcXJ.html
04-04-2020||World||‘Superheroes’: Coronavirus survivors donate plasma hoping to heal the sick||As she emerges from quarantine, recovered COVID-19 patient Diana Berrent is eager to join the battle against the pandemic and donate precious antibodies that researchers hope might help others.In mid-March, the New Yorker woke up with a 102-degree (39 Celsius) fever and intense chest heaviness, becoming one of the first from her Long Island neighborhood to test positive for coronavirus.This week, Berrent was the first survivor in her state screened for antibodies -- immune system-generated proteins that can ward off viruses -- to contribute to initial tests seeking treatment for the infection that’s left more than 51,000 people dead worldwide.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageConvalescent plasma, the fluid in blood teeming with antibodies post-illness, has proven effective in small studies to treat infectious diseases including Ebola and SARS.Now, the US Food and Drug Administration has greenlit physicians to experiment with the strategy as coronavirus patients fill hospitals and the nation’s positive caseload spikes to over 236,000.Bruce Sachias, chief medical officer of the New York Blood Center -- which will collect, test and distribute donations in the city -- said while there is reason to believe plasma transfusions can help alleviate the current crisis, tests underway are not intended to yield golden-ticket solutions.“It’s really important for us to be very cognizant of the fact that we’re still in very new territory,” he said.- Crisis mode -Eldad Hod and Steven Spitalnik -- transfusion medicine doctors leading trials at Columbia University’s Irving Medical Center -- are cautiously optimistic but, like Sachias, emphasize the unknowns.Spitalnik told AFP they believe “within seven to 14 days after the onset of an infection, that people will develop an immune response and eventually make high amounts of antibodies -- although exactly when the peak of antibody production will be, we don’t know.”He said some data suggests antibody production could peak around 28 days post-infection, and hopes the new research could provide a clearer picture.Hod said each donation “can potentially save three to four lives.”The primary goal now is acquiring a significant plasma stock, so researchers can conduct formal studies with control groups who would receive non-convalescent plasma, and others the antibody-packed donations.Initial plasma, however, will be distributed for “compassionate use,” Hod said -- to patients outside studies but for whom other strategies have failed. They also aim to test treatments on already-hospitalized patients and as a preventative therapy in settings like nursing homes.Spitalnik said that normally they would want “highly controlled” clinical trials, which take longer but are more definitive.But “this is a crisis,” he said. “We understand and we are amenable to doing things that will take shorter amounts of time -- but hopefully we’ll yield at least some rigorous results.”- Internal hazmat suit -Berrent is eager to open her personal blood bank and crossing her fingers in hope the process can prove life-saving.“We can be superheroes,” the 45-year-old photographer told AFP.“These are unprecedented, frightening times where everything is beyond our control -- except for we as survivors can help,” Berrent said.“We can be the ones running towards the fire in our own internally built hazmat suit. And that is a tremendous opportunity -- how could you not take advantage of that?”Berrent’s antibody levels met donation requirements -- but she is waiting on results of a nasal swab test to make sure any remnants of coronavirus have dissipated.In the meantime, she’s started the more than 17,000-member Facebook group “Survivor Corps” to mobilize other survivors to share their immunity.“I can’t wait to donate,” Berrent said. “We need a forward-looking solution-based approach that offers hope because things are very, very bleak right now.”- ‘Science will win’ -A Houston hospital has already transfused plasma from a recovered patient into someone critically ill, though it’s still too early to determine efficacy.Sachias said hundreds of people who believe they have recovered from COVID-19 have applied to help in New York, the US epicenter of the highly contagious virus that accounts for nearly half of related deaths stateside.As their research gets underway, Hod said one silver lining of coronavirus’ global scale has been the boost to collaborative scientific efforts, saying data is being shared more openly than ever before.“I think a lot of the scientific community has tried to put their egos aside... and banded together to try and work together for the common good,” he said. “And I think in the end, science will win.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/superheroes-coronavirus-survivors-donate-plasma-hoping-to-heal-the-sick/story-iTnPjccx6iXPTg8S4OR1rN.html
04-04-2020||India||5% drop in emissions may not have permanent impact||New Delhi: For the first time in over 75 years the world is going to experience a modest decline in CO2 emissions but that is unlikely to result in any stabilisation in CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere which leads to climate change, according to Rob Jackson, Chair of Global Carbon Project, a research initiative on carbon emissions. Scientists are observing if the rate of rise in CO2 emissions record any decline but that too depends on how long lockdown conditions continue globally.The economic decline because of the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to give governments an idea of the magnitude of transformations needed in the coming decades to deal with climate change, scientists said.The impact of Covid-19 on CO2 emissions will be temporary and there is likely to be a strong rebound effect when governments try to make up for the economic slowdown once the pandemic is brought under control. With billions of people in lockdown, including in the most populous countries like China and India, CO2 emissions are likely to dip in March and April if the lockdown continues.“We will definitely see a drop this year in CO2 pollution from fossil fuel use. How much of a decline depends on how long the lockdown lasts and how quickly economies recover. We could see a massive drop in emissions of 5% or more if the virus and economic downturn linger. You’d have to go back to World War II to see anything close to that big a decline. But note that a 5% decline does not mean concentrations will drop. We would still be emitting ~35 billion metric tons fossil fuel pollution,” said Rob Jackson, chair, Global Carbon Project and Professor, Earth System Science at Stanford University over email.He cautions that the global economic crisis should worry us. “If the economy tanks, climate action may be delayed in the interest of getting people back to work. I hope we put people back to work in green energy and technology, sectors that will result in lasting change.”Many scientists have been worrying about this rebound. At Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii, scientists are keeping a close eye on CO2 concentrations because this could be the first economic shock in several decades to slow the rise in concentrations.Ralph Keeling, Professor at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography has estimated that global fossil fuel use will have to decline by 10% for a full year to show up a decline in CO2 concentrations. It would be a difference of only about 0.5 parts per million, according to Climate Home, an independent climate news portal based on Keeling’s observations.The World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) had warned about this on March 24 saying in a statement that “any cuts in emissions as a result of the economic crisis triggered by COVID19 are not a substitute for concerted climate action”. “Past experience suggests that emission declines during economic crises are followed by a rapid upsurge. We need to change that trajectory,” WMO Secretary-General, Petteri Taalas, had said.Emissions represent what goes into the atmosphere while concentrations represent what remains in the atmosphere after the complex system of interactions between the atmosphere, biosphere, lithosphere, cryosphere and the oceans and CO2 remains in the atmosphere and oceans for centuries, WMO explained.According to the Earth System Research Laboratory of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the average CO2 concentrations this February is 414.11 ppm compared to 411.75 ppm last year. The average for March has not been updated yet but on March 29, 30 and 31, April 1 and 2 the concentrations ranged from 415. 60 to 415.81 ppm.An analysis by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) has suggested that China’s CO2 emissions fell by around 25% over a four week period starting February 3 when travel restrictions were imposed in Wuhan and other cities. But demand slowly returned to normal levels over an extended seven-week period, bringing the reduction so far to around 250MtCO2, with emissions 18% lower than usual levels, the analysis said.“Currently, global fossil fuel consumption is contracting dramatically as electricity demand, road traffic and aviation volumes fall as a result of the measures to mitigate coronavirus outbreaks. It seems almost certain that global CO2 emissions will fall this year due to the economic fallout of the virus. The disruption to supply chains, loss of sales and lost income for many workers will affect the economy in a profound way,” said Lauri Myllyvirta, lead analyst of CREA, adding that “the longer-term impact on global emissions trends will depend on the policies that governments adapt to recover from the crisis. The best-case scenario is a green recovery that speeds up the transition to a clean energy and low-carbon future.” Lauri’s team also said India is likely to see a significant reduction in carbon emissions from the power sector this year due to the lockdown and after effects.The US has already announced that it will roll back the US auto emission standards announced by the Obama administration. Sociologists recognise that the pandemic-led slowdown could be the reset moment for tackling climate change but governments may not seize it. “Covid-19 pandemic created an unprecedented and unplanned social experiment…If the next UN negotiations fail, then all the comprehensive plans build on the last five years are going to fail… I don’t have any doubt that in the next UN negotiations, citing the Covid-19 situation, most of the big carbon emitters will request to defer the target and continue to use their existing fossil fuel resources,” said Pradip Swarnakar, Associate Professor of Sociology at IIT Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-drop-in-emissions-may-not-have-permanent-impact/story-xbCfW0hmQvenTvWufs1vyM.html
04-04-2020||India||Air Asia to open bookings on April 15, if nationwide lockdown is lifted||Low cost carrier- AirAsia India will be opening its flight bookings from April 15, after the lockdown is lifted on April 14, at 23.59.Air Asia (India) sources confirmed the airline’s decision to start taking bookings from April 15, but said that they will be abiding by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) order, in case they are asked to extend the commencement of bookings and will accordingly inform their customers. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, flight operations of both- domestic and international sectors were stopped by the government until April 14. While international operations were stopped from March 22, domestic operations were announced to be halted from March 25. After the government expressed its desire to not extend the lockdown, all airlines except the national carrier has started taking bookings for flights operations from April 15 onwards.The airline’s decision comes after civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola, on Thursday left the decision of commencing ticket bookings on the airlines.Air India, however, has closed bookings until April 30 and is set to take a decision on re-opening its bookings after April 14. While domestic flights will commence from April 15, if the lockdown is lifted, the international sector will be opened only after reviewing the situation then. However, low cost carriers GoAir and SpiceJet have announced that they will begin their international bookings from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-asia-to-open-bookings-on-april-15-if-nationwide-lockdown-is-lifted/story-sBAGgHbxoDBAwNnhh422qN.html
04-04-2020||India||10 infected in MP after funeral feast, hunt on for other guests||At least 10 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after attending a mass feast in Morena—located about 465 kilometres north of Madhya Pradesh’s capital Bhopal—on March 20 amid fears of more likely to have been infected, district officials said.They contracted the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, from a man, who works as a waiter in Dubai, said officials in Morena.The waiter and his wife were the first to test positive for Covid-19 on Thursday after the mass feast, which was organised on March 20 because of his mother’s death. He returned home from Dubai on March 17 and organised the feast three days later, as part of the rituals of the shraddh ceremony. Up to 8,00 people are believed to have attended the feast, including his relatives, the officials said.Though he had developed Covid-19 symptoms after he returned from Dubai, he still visited his relatives and acquaintances’ houses to invite them for the feast in line with prevailing customs.On March 25, he and his wife visited the hospital but were admitted four days later after their condition worsened.Initially, the couple was quarantined and they tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday. Then, 10 others, who attended the feast, also tested positive. They include the waiter’s brother, his wife, their son and daughter-in-law and their two children—a six-month-old and a three-year-old. The other four people are from the waiter’s sister’s family.“Out of the 32 swab samples sent for Covid-19 test, 12 were found positive. All of them are undergoing treatment in hospital. We’ve put 33 people under quarantine,” said RC Bandil, chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Morena.“The number of fresh Covid-19 positive cases is likely to be much higher. We’re trying to contact each and every person who attended the feast, or those who were invited by the waiter in person but couldn’t attend the function. It’s quite difficult to trace all those who attended the feast, or those he had invited for the occasion, because many of them have returned to their respective towns/villages. Besides, people aren’t volunteering information as they’re scared of being admitted to hospital,” said an administrative officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-infected-in-mp-after-funeral-feast-hunt-on-for-other-guests/story-jUoewGmLUB3odcVbafab3O.html
04-04-2020||India||People between 21-40 worst hit by virus: Ministry data||The maximum percentage of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases, at about 41% in the country, have been reported among people between 21 and 40 years old, while the most deaths have occurred among people above 60, shows the government’s age profile analysis of all the positive cases being reported so far.The government on Saturday released the data of all the 2,902 Covid-19 positive cases reported till date since January 30.The age bracket hit the next hardest by infections is between 41 and 60 years at 33% of Covid-19 positive cases. While senior citizens, who are above 60 years, accounted for 17% of Covid-19 positive cases. However, most of the 68 Covid-19 deaths have been reported among people aged above 60 years because of their co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiac and renal issues, said Luv Agarwal, joint secretary, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The age group between 0 and 20 years is the least affected, at 9%, of Covid-19 cases in line with a similar pattern seen in studies conducted in China and some other nations worst hit by the pandemic.Out of the total 2902 cases reported, 1023 cases have been linked to the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. Infections spread across 17 states, including Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, J&K, Rajasthan, Telangana, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.The technical wing of Union ministry of health and family welfare has prepared 30 training modules so far on various topics such as clinical management, ventilator support, infection prevention and control, and quarantine management to train its frontline healthcare workers.“As more cases are being reported from certain states, a detailed containment plan has been prepared that talks about measures such as perimeter control, testing scale up etc. to handle the outbreak,” said Agarwal.As cases have been rising, the government is making additional arrangements to meet the human resource requirement for managing positive patients, including various levels of health professionals, such as doctors, nurses, allied healthcare professionals and others.“As many as 9.70 lakh ASHAs, one lakh AYUSH professionals, NCC Cadets, ex-Servicemen, Red Cross/NSS/ NYK volunteers, employees from gram panchayats and urban local body employees, civil society organisations may be involved as required. A Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) for reallocation of residents/ PG students and nursing students as part of hospital management has been prepared,” said Agarwal.Additionally, more than 31,000 doctors, including retired doctors from the government, armed forces medical services, public sector undertakings, and private doctors have voluntarily signed up to join the fight against Covid-19.Under Lifeline UDAN, air cargo carriers have transported around 119 tons of material across all states, with special focus on the North Eastern regions and hilly areas. “The material includes Covid-19 related reagents, enzymes, medical equipment, testing kits, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), masks, gloves, etc.,” said Agarwal.Close to 22,000 migrant workers are also under quarantine across the country. “Those are being monitored by the states and their food and shelter are other necessities are being taken care of,” said Punya Salila Srivastva, joint secretary, home ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-between-21-40-worst-hit-by-virus-ministry-data/story-HEpTOKPZ7mbnPpD6SoygjN.html
04-04-2020||India||Train resumption strategy in works||New Delhi: The national transporter is in the process of preparing plans to resume passenger and mail express train services after the 21-day lockdown period, according to documents reviewed by HT.Directions have been issued to zones to prepare restoration plans from April 15. Following the orders, chief booking supervisors, commissioner of railway safety, chief ticket inspectors and other officials have been told to deploy staff on duty, according to officials aware of the development.“Train services will have to be resumed only on specific approval of each train from Railway Board. Suggestions for phase wise planning should be given to Railway Board,” according to minutes of the review meeting held by the union railway minister Piyush Goyal and the chairman railway board.The government has officially denied any plans to extend the lockdown, but has not commented on further plans. Moreover, in an interaction with chief ministers on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the states to formulate a “common exit strategy” to ensure “staggered re-emergence of the population” once the lockdown ended.Later in the day, the ministry of railways issued a clarification saying,” certain media reports have come on a post lockdown “restoration plan” with train details, frequency etc. It is to clarify that no such plan regarding the resumption of passenger services has been issued. All concerned would be duly informed about any further decision in this regard.”Passenger train services have been suspended since the ‘Janta Curfew’ on March 22, the Centre later extended the suspension till March 31 and further till April 15.“There may be a plan to begin operations of passenger transportation phase wise. Details are being worked out in coordination with states,” a senior government official said requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-resumption-strategy-in-works/story-JHGDnu0XC1iKk7vKUATs2N.html
04-04-2020||India||No AYUSH-related ads about Covid-19 cure: PCI to media||The Press Council of India has issued an advisory to media houses to stop and prevent the publicity of and advertisements regarding the treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the Ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy’s (AYUSH).In the advisory issued on Friday, the Press Council advised print media to stop advertising the AYUSH’s claims to prevent dissemination of misleading information about AYUSH’s drugs and services given the Covid-19 outbreak in the country.This comes on the day Haridwar-based Patanjali Research Institute submitted an Ayurvedic treatment regime for Covid-19 to the union government. Their research claims that natural phytochemicals in certain herbs have the potential to combat Covid-19 and its pathogenicity. SK Tijarawala, public relations officer for Patanjali, said that the institute researched compounds of certain herbs and found that when taken in a certain ratio, they help build immunity. While the study done by the Patanjali Research Institute is currently under peer-review for publication, medical experts say that immunity (against Covid-19) cannot be boosted overnight, but rather is a long term process that can help one fight different kinds of viruses and bacteria.Meanwhile, healthcare professionals have raised concerns about arbitrary claims of cure and prevention being made online and disseminated through social media platforms.On Wednesday, the AYUSH had directed all Ayurvedic, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathic (ASU&H) regulatory authorities concerned in states and union territories to stop and prevent the publicity and advertising of claims for Covid-19 treatment in print, television and electronic media.In its order, the ministry had called for necessary action against the persons or agencies involved in contravening the relevant legal provisions and the guidelines of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ayush-related-ads-about-covid-19-cure-pci-to-media/story-EF8UZIuGPpdy3CAPX9ZdeM.html
04-04-2020||India||PM Modi speaks with leaders of US, Spain and Brazil on Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke to the leaders of the US, Spain and Brazil on the challenges posed to the global economy by the Covid-19 pandemic and how countries could work together to tackle the crisis.During the telephone conversation with US President Donald Trump, the two leaders exchanged views on pandemic’s impact on the global well-being and economy. They agreed to “deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to resolutely and effectively combat Covid-19”, said a statement from the external affairs ministry.Modi and Trump exchanged notes on steps taken in each country to mitigate the health and economic impacts of the pandemic. They agreed their officials will remain in close touch on the global crisis.While speaking with Pedro Sanchez Perez-Castejon, President of the Spanish government (equivalent to the prime minister), Modi said India will be ready to extend support to the best of its ability.The two leaders agreed on the importance of global cooperation to fight the global crisis. Perez-Castejon agreed with Modi’s observation that the “world needed to define a new, human-centric concept of globalisation for the post-Covid era”.They also agreed their teams will remain in constant touch on the evolving Covid-19 situation and on the requirements emerging from it.Modi and Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, during their conversation, stressed the significance of close cooperation between the two countries, bilaterally and in the multilateral institutional framework, to mitigate the grave crises caused by Covid-19.They agreed their officials will remain in touch on the situation and its emerging challenges. Modi assured Bolsonaro of all possible support in this difficult hour.Modi also conveyed his condolences to the three leaders on the loss of lives in their countries. He also raised the significance of Yoga and Ayurveda for ensuring physical and mental well-being in his conversations with Trump and Perez-Castejon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-with-leaders-of-us-spain-and-brazil-on-covid-19-pandemic/story-36CcStiDFCRLlImis4QkLN.html
04-04-2020||India||Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat meet sparks Covid-19 fears in IAF||An Indian Air Force sergeant, who had visited Nizamuddin while the Tablighi Jamaat congregation was on last month, has been put under quarantine as a precautionary measure amid the Covid-19 pandemic, IAF spokesperson Wing Commander Indranil Nandi told Hindustan Times on Saturday.He said two other air force personnel who had come in contact with the sergeant, who is posted in Delhi, after his Nizamuddin visit have also been put under quarantine as the IAF is taking aggressive measures to check the spread of the coronavirus. Nandi said while the sergeant had visited Nizamuddin around the time when the congregation was on from March 13-15, it is not clear if he attended the event. “All three individuals in quarantine are currently asymptomatic. The matter is under investigation,” Nandi said. The IAF has not had any Covid-19 case until now. The Indian Navy too hasn’t had any case yet. However, two army soldiers, including an army doctor, tested positive for Covid-19 on March 29 at a time the force has taken steps to tackle the spread of the disease within its ranks.While one of them is a colonel-ranked officer posted at the Kolkata-based Command Hospital, the other is a junior commissioned officer posted in Dehradun.The army last week warned its personnel that non-disclosure of Covid-19-related information, including symptoms, contact history with patients or travel to coronavirus areas identified by the government, will be considered as “willful concealment” and be dealt with as breach of discipline under the Army Act 1950.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane last month said it was important for soldiers to stay fit and remain away from coronavirus if they have to help their countrymen in these challenging times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-tablighi-jamaat-meet-sparks-covid-19-fears-in-iaf/story-0zHaECPQrfWX5rQHZTSvHN.html
04-04-2020||India||‘No locus standi’: India on Imran Khan’s comments on Kashmir domicile law||India on Saturday dismissed Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan’s remarks on New Delhi’s new domicile law for Jammu and Kashmir as an attempt to interfere in India’s internal affairs.“We have seen the intemperate remarks by Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on India. With regard to the Indian Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir, it is very clear that Pakistan has no locus standi whatsoever on any aspect pertaining to it,” said Raveesh Kumar, spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs.“Repeated attempts to interfere in India’s internal affairs will not make its untenable claims any more acceptable. If Pakistan really wants to contribute to the welfare of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, it could do so best by ending cross-border terrorism and desisting from its campaign of violence and false propaganda,” he said.Earlier this week, Imran Khan in a series of tweets, had condemned India for issuing rules allowing non-Kashmiris to become permanent residents in Jammu and Kashmir.Under the new rules, people from outside Jammu and Kashmir who have been residents of the Union Territory 15 years, will be treated as domicile residents. The notification also extended domicile rights to central government employees who shall have served in the state for 10 years and their children.In one of his tweets, Iran Khan had said, “Timing of this latest illegal action is particularly reprehensible because it seeks to exploit the international focus on COVID19 pandemic to push forward BJP’s Hindutva Supremacist agenda. The UN & int comm must stop India’s continuing violations of UNSC Resolutions & Int law,” Khan had said.“We stand with the Kashmiris in rejecting this latest Indian attempt to alter the demography of IOJK. Pakistan will continue to expose Indian state terrorism & it’s denial of the Kashmiris right to self determination,” he had written in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-locus-standi-india-on-imran-khan-s-comments-on-kashmir-domicile-law/story-zwcD0EGFaX1FjoDPEPJ4RP.html
04-04-2020||India||Passengers of two flights asked to self-isolate as travel histories of Goa’s patients emerge||The Goa health department has issued an alert to passengers who travelled by Air India flights AI661 from Mumbai to Goa on March 19 and AI883 from New Delhi to Goa on March 22 after a passenger on each of these flights was tested positive for the novel coronavirus. A passenger who arrived in Goa on March 19 from Kempton Park, South Africa via Johannesburg, Kenya and Mumbai travelled domestically via an Air India flight AI661 from Mumbai to Goa on March 19. He was found to have contracted the novel coronavirus on April 3 and was the sixth case detected in the state. Similarly, another passenger who arrived from San Francisco, USA via New Delhi to Goa was found to have contracted the coronavirus on April 4 making him the seventh case in the state. He travelled by Air India flight AI883 on March 22 before the 21-day lockdown began. Passengers who were present on these flights have been asked to “kindly isolate themselves (home quarantine) and report to helpline 104 or 0832-2421810 or 2225538 or report to the nearest Government health facility.”Goa has seven confirmed cases of the coronavirus, six of whom have travel history, having recently arrived in the state. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said that there is no incidence of community transmission of the virus as the source of infection can be traced in all the seven cases. Two patients who showed signs of recovery have however seen their second confirmatory test turn positive meaning they will have to wait for two consecutive negative tests within 24-hours if they are to be discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-of-two-flights-asked-to-self-isolate-as-travel-histories-of-goa-s-patients-emerge/story-qapiL1yMwUH4xcipgUwqxK.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus testing, treatment free for Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries||As the number of coronavirus infections continue to head north, the National Health Authority (NHA) said on Saturday that testing and treatment for Covid-19 will be free for 50 crore Ayushman Bharat beneficiaries at private laboratories and empanelled hospitalsThe NHA is the apex body responsible for implementing India’s flagship public health insurance/assurance scheme called Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. In a statement, it said this will strengthen the country’s response to the coronavirus pandemic.“Testing and treatment of Covid-19 is already available for free in public facilities. Now, more than 50 crore citizens, eligible under the health assurance scheme will be able to avail free testing through private labs and treatment for Covid-19 in empanelled hospitals,” the NHA said in the statement.The NHA said that hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat scheme can use their authorised testing facilities or tie up with an authorised testing facility. The Covid-19 tests will be carried out according to protocols of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and by private labs approved or registered by it, the NHA said. Treatment of Covid D-19 by private hospitals will be covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, it said.“In this unprecedented crisis we have to very actively involve the private sector as a key partner and stakeholder in the fight against Covid-19,” Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said according to PTI. “Making testing and treatment available under Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY will significantly expand our capacities by including private sector hospitals and labs and mitigate the adverse impact of this catastrophic illness on the poor,” he said.Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY is the world’s largest health assurance scheme which aims at providing a health cover of Rs. 5 lakhs per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalization to over 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families (approximately 50 crore beneficiaries) that form the bottom 40% of the Indian population.But many opposition ruled states have not implemented the Ayushman Bharat scheme and run their own health insurance schemes for the poor.The NHA said the decision will also help attract more private sector players for providing testing and treatment for coronavirus and that “active private sector involvement will be critical in case there is a surge in the number of Covid-19 patients that need care”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-ayushman-bharat-beneficiaries-to-get-free-treatment-at-empanelled-hospitals/story-j6lVtmFlc5n5Lf7aw8xWlN.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Railways begins planning for phase-wise restoration of services post lockdown||The Indian Railways has begun preparing plans to resume passenger and mail express train services after the 21-day lockdown period, according to documents reviewed by Hindustan Times.Directions have been issued to zones to prepare restoration plans from April 15. Following the orders, chief booking supervisors, commissioner of railway safety, chief ticket inspectors and other officials have been told to deploy staff on duty, according to officials aware of the development.“Train services will have to be resumed only on specific approval of each train from Railway Board. Suggestions for phase wise planning should be given to Railway Board,” according to minutes of the review meeting held by the Union railway minister Piyush Goyal and the chairman railway board.The ministry of railways however denied the development and issued a clarification saying,” certain media reports have come on a post lockdown “restoration plan” with train details, frequency etc. It is to clarify that no such plan regarding the resumption of passenger services has been issued. All concerned would be duly informed about any further decision in this regard.”According to the plan for Northern Railways, nearly 240 trains have been planned keeping in mind all rakes will reach their primary maintenance depot before April 15.This also comes a day after national carrier Air India decided to stop flight bookings till April 30. “There may be a plan to begin operations of passenger transportation phase wise. Details are being worked out in coordination with states,” a senior government official said requesting anonymity.Passenger train services have been suspended since ‘Janta Curfew’ on March 22. The Centre later extended the suspension till March 31 and further till April 15 for the three-week country-wide lockdown.Advance booking for trains from April 15 onward is also operational on the Indian Railways’ subsidiary India Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation portal.The national carrier has however clarified that reservation for journeys post April 14 was never stopped and is not related to any new announcement.The national carrier, which operates as many as 13,523 passenger trains per day has only been operating freight and special parcel trains to ensure supply of essential commodities. Since the lockdown from March 24, the national carrier has supplied 4 lakh wagons to keep supply chain functional. “Of these, more than 2.23 lakh wagons carried essential commodities like food grains, salt, sugar, milk, edible oil, onions, fruits & vegetables, petroleum products, coal, fertilizers etc. throughout the country,” the ministry of railways said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-railways-begins-planning-for-phase-wise-restoration-of-services-post-lockdown/story-ZtTqzUzb6ugBFfDFQ6GizI.html
04-04-2020||India||CRPF DG goes into self-quarantine after force doc tests Covid-19 +ve: Report||Two days after Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) chief medical officer was tested positive for coronavirus, DG CRPF, A P Maheshwari, has gone into self quarantine as a precautionary measure, officials said. The DG didn’t directly come in contact with the CMO, but another personnel who was with the doctor had met the top officer of the force recently, the official added.The indirect contact has tested negative for Covid-19, but the DG is observing quarantine as per protocol, said DIG Dinakaran (spokesperson).Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe CRPF CMO, who was residing in Officers’ Mess in Saket (Delhi), was tested positive on Thursday.Around 40 personnel who came in his contact are said to have been quarantined. It was not clear how the doctor contracted the infection.The officer was attached with the Additional Director General (Medical) office of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) also called central paramilitary forces. The ADG Medical office assists the ministry of home office in the overall supervision and monitoring of health care delivery systems and services in paramilitary forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-crpf-dg-goes-into-self-quarantine-after-force-doctor-tests-positive/story-ihyNfPwxbzQScXdNtJovfJ.html
04-04-2020||India||‘Not fair to single out Tablighi Jamaat for Covid-19 spread’: Jagan Reddy||At a time when the Tablighi Jamaat is being suspected to be the main reason for the sudden hike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the country, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has expressed a different view.The chief minister, in a televised appeal to the people on Saturday evening, said it was not correct to pin the blame on a particular religious congregation for the spread of Covid-19 in the country, as same could happen even in any such meeting in any other religious congregation.“Some people from our State went to a religious congregation at Delhi where members from foreign countries had also come. Some of them were said to be infected and the coronavirus has spread from there. It was an unfortunate development that happened there. That does not mean the spread of the disease should be attributed to the congregation,” he said.“Religious congregations are being held elsewhere by Ravi Shankar, Jaggi Vasu Dev, Mata Amritanandamayi, Paul Dinakaran or John Wesley. There is no reason to discriminate against them (Tablighis) and attribute motives to them, as the spread was not intentional,” he said.“We should not discriminate against those people as it happened that way and was not premeditated. It is not fair to blame the spread on one particular community and single it out or see members of that community as culprits or that they have deliberately done it. No one should try to tag this spread to one community or caste,” he said.The chief minister said the people should show compassion towards those who tested positive. “We should not show any discrimination at this hour of world crisis,” he added.Jagan called upon the people to put up a united fight against Covid-19 irrespective of caste, creed or religion and asked them to join the nation in lighting a lamp at 9 PM to drive darkness away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-fair-to-single-out-tablighi-jamaat-for-covid-19-spread-jagan-reddy/story-rY2dcM1BFpXqCIbgsZR1jM.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 11 more test positive in Bengal, number of infections go up to 68||Eleven more people tested positive for coronavirus in West Bengal since Friday, chief secretary Ravija Sinha said Saturday afternoon. “Six of these 11 people belong to the family of the woman who died in Kalimpong,” Sinha told reporters at the state secretariat.The fresh cases took the number of positive cases to 68, said Sinha. Many of those who tested positive earlier are cured and ready to go home, he added. Till Saturday evening three people died of Covid-19 in Bengal. Four others who had tested positive might have died of co-morbidity, the government said.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Ahead of the chief secretary addressing reporters, the Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) said that a man working at Haldia port and who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi last month, tested positive for Covid-19. HT traced at least 31 other people who had gone to Delhi from Murshidabad, Malda, Alipurduar and Birbhum districts. The man found by KoPT is Bengal’s first officially confirmed Covid-19 patient among those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi last month. KoPT said in a statement that on April 2 an employee of one of its contractors at Haldia port in East Midnapore district tested positive for Covid-19.The man, said KoPT, returned from Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi on March 24. “Due to the lockdown no work was done at the berth which they (the contractor) operate. However, he (the patient) might have visited the docks,” the statement said.Chief Secretary Sinha, however, did not clarify whether the new 11 cases included the man at Haldia port. “We have heard about this,” he said. Sinha also did not say how many of those who returned from Delhi have been tracked down and how many underwent tests.On April 1, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said her government had received information about 71 people who had gone to Nizamuddin and 54 of them, and their families, had been tracked down in Bengal.Asked why the data provided by the state was sometimes leading to confusion, the chief secretary said, “Nobody is reducing the figures and nobody is increasing them. We are only giving the data that is relevant.”“After the Nizamuddin episode came to light he was immediately tested by the municipality. Due to this case, contract labourers have not come to the port,” the KoPT statement said. It added that the regular port staff were working and officers who might have had any kind of contact with the patient had been quarantined.KoPT said a sanitisation drive was on and masks, gloves and sanitizers have been given to all employees.In Malda district, superintendent of police Alok Rajoria said, “Eleven people from Malda went to Delhi but none returned to the district. Ten of them are kept in quarantine in Maharashtra while one is in Jharkhand.”In Birbhum district, officials remained silent but residents of Sonatorpara in Siuri town said a youth who lives near a local Madrasa was taken away by health department officials on April 1, days after he returned home. “The family initially claimed that he did not go to Delhi and the man even ran his shop. We saw health department officials coming in two vehicles and taking him away for quarantine,” said Chandan Mukherjee who lives in the neighbourhood. In Murshidabad district, chief medical officer of health Prasanta Biswas said, “One man has been tracked down at Banipur village. He was picked up from home on Friday night and sent to institutional quarantine at Raghunathganj. Nine of his family members have been asked to stay in home isolation for 14 days.”“All of them are asymptomatic. Right now we are not sending their samples for tests,” said Biswas.Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior officer of district health department said, “The man is 48-years-old. He attended the conference on March 17. Before the lockdown he went to Assam where he has a small business. He returned home four days ago and was living a normal life. He did not bother to share his travel history with us.”At Alipurduar district in north Bengal, two residents of Falakata who returned from Nizamuddin have tested negative, said Dr Puran Sharma, chief medical officer of health.Sharma said 16 others, who are from south Bengal districts and put in quarantine in Alipurduar, also tested negative but he did not want to name the districts these people belong to. “All of them are still in quarantine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-11-more-test-positive-in-bengal-number-of-infections-go-up-to-68/story-BN7vtsAkBxZjWYIIJJf0WM.html
04-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: India-US partnership to fight Covid-19, says PM Modi after call with Trump and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India-US partnership to fight Covid-19, says PM Modi after call with TrumpPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday had a telephonic conversation with US president Donald Trump on the Covid-19 pandemic threatening countries all over the world. Read more3 Tablighi Jamaat members among 11 new Covid-19 cases in KeralaThree Tablighi Jamaat members are among 11 who tested positive for coronavirus in Kerala on Saturday taking the total number of infections in the state to 306, health minister K K Shailaja said. Read moreMan with travel history is Goa’s 7th Covid-19 patientOne person has been found positive for the novel coronavirus in Goa taking the state’s tally to seven. In the second case to be detected in as many days after a two day lull, a person with travel history, who arrived from abroad was found to have contracted the Covid-19. Read moreMore than 60,000 deaths worldwide from coronavirusThe coronavirus pandemic has killed at least 60,000 people worldwide, nearly three quarters of them in Europe, since it emerged in China in December, according to a tally compiled by AFP at 1330 GMT Saturday from official sources. Read moreFacebook tried to buy Pegasus to monitor iPhone users: NSO GroupThe notoriously controversial Israeli security firm, the NSO Group, has released court documents that show Facebook tried to buy Pegasus, the spyware created by the group, in 2017. Read moreEmpty roads and eerie silence: Aerial view shows Kolkata during lockdown. WatchAs the entire nation is under lockdown, netizens are keeping busy by tracking surprising phenomenas taking place all over the world through videos and pictures. Read moreLiverpool deserve to be given Premier League title: BerbatovFormer Manchester United striker Dimitar Berbatov said that the 2019/20 Premier League title should be awarded to arch-rivals Liverpool if the season cannot get underway. Read moreJaved Akhtar salutes CM Uddhav Thackeray for handling Covid-19 with ‘clear directive’Lyricist and poet Javed Akhtar on Saturday congratulated Maharashtra government and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for handling coronavirus pandemic in the state with “clear directives”. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-india-us-partnership-to-fight-covid-19-says-pm-modi-after-call-with-trump-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4OJ8PmQs1nXKeraLl7MWOL.html
04-04-2020||India||‘We’re proud of you’, Pak ATC tells Air India||Air India recently found a rather unexpected praise from an Air Traffic Controller (ATC) of- Pakistan. Air India was operating special flights from India to Frankfurt with relief materials and evacuated European nationals, who were stranded in India as coronavirus swept across continents, perishing millions and crippling the system of passenger planes criss-crossing the world. “It was a very proud moment for me as well as the entire Air India crew when we heard from Pakistan ATC praising our special flight operations to Europe,” one of the senior captains of the special flights told exclusively to ANI. “As we entered in the Pakistan’s Flight Information Region (FIR) and the Pakistan Air Traffic Controller (ATC) greeted us ‘Assalaam Alaikum!’ This is Karachi’s control welcoming Air India for relief flights to Frankfurt,” the senior captain quoted the Pakistan ATC as saying.“Confirm are you operating relief flights for Frankfurt,” the Pak ATC further said.“AFFIRM,” said the Air India captain in Pakistan’s airspace. “You are cleared direct to exit point Kebud request estimate crossing Kebud (Exit),” came response from the ATC. Air India captain replied, saying “Cleared direct Kebud, Thank you.”At this, the Pakistan ATC showered praise on Air India. “We are proud of you that in a pandemic situation you are operating flights, Good Luck!”“Thank you so much,” responded the captain of India’s national carrier. Furthermore, when the AI captain, who commanded the special flights, asked the Pakistan ATC that he is not getting next radar for the Iran airspace, Pakistan conveyed the Indian jet’s position to the Tehran airspace and provided details of the two AI special flights.Many crew members of AI’s Boeing-777 and Boring 787 were deployed for the special evacuation flights for European and Canadian citizens from Mumbai and Delhi.Before taking off from Mumbai airport, the ATC there, besides giving permission praised the national carrier’s efforts amidst crisis, saying “we are proud of you”.The Captain also replied back stating that they were also proud of working with the ATC and all other services as a sign of mutual respect.After Pakistan airspace, the special AI flight entered Iran. As the captain told ANI, it had never happened before in his entire pilot career that the Middle East country had given a direct route of over 1000 miles.“First time in my entire career as pilot, Iran gave a direct routing for about 1000 miles a privilege guess enjoyed as special flights, in all especially in the recent tense situation in the Iranian airspace,” he saidIran has rarely given direct route to any of airlines because direct route of Iran airspace is strictly kept reserve for their defence purposes only. Before leaving Iran airspace, the ATC there also wished us ‘all the best’,” the AI captain told to ANI. After Iran, the AI special flights entered into the Turkey airspace and then Germany’s. “All ATCs from Bombay to Frankfurt welcomed the special flights of Air India and wished us very proudly,” the Captain said.The two special Air India flight flew out stranded European and Canadian citizens from Mumbai. All crew members including the pilots wore the mandatory COVID-19 coveralls for over 20 hours at a stretch (to/from and ground time at Frankfurt). They will now remain in self-quarantine for 14 days.To prevent of spread of covid-19 virus, India has announced for 21-days lockdown and many of foreign nationals are still stranded in several parts of India.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-re-proud-of-you-pak-atc-tells-air-india/story-MsPso8qOzHy2gGJ0sBonYN.html
04-04-2020||India||Man with travel history is Goa’s 7th Covid-19 patient||One person has been found positive for the novel coronavirus in Goa taking the state’s tally to seven. In the second case to be detected in as many days after a two day lull, a person with travel history, who arrived from abroad was found to have contracted the Covid-19. The patient has been shifted to the specialised Covid-19 hospital while his close family members will be quarantined and tested to check if they have contracted the disease. “Out of the 25 samples sent for testing, only one report has been tested positive. A man from St Estevam, who had returned from a foreign country. He has been shifted to Covid-19 hospital. Total active cases in the state now are seven,” Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane tweeted. While the Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant had expressed a fear that those who attended the Tableegh-e-Jamaat at Nizamuddin would take Goa “back in the danger zone”, the eight persons who had attended congregation have reported negative for #Covid19, one test report still awaited. Through sealing the borders, Goa has been able to by and large prevent the spread of Covid-19, those who arrived in the state before the lockdown began, have begun to show symptoms. Six of Goa’s seven cases are among those who have arrived from abroad four being employed on the merchant navy and cruise tourism industries. Around 7,000 to 8,000 Goans working abroad on board cruise liners and the merchant navy await repatriation to the state. “Seafarers are one of the biggest issues. I am concerned about them. There are around 7,000 to 8,000 Goan sailors abroad. I spoke to the Home Minister about how to get them back and where to quarantine (once they return),” Sawant told reporters at a press conference earlier this week.No plan has been drawn up yet, while those abroad have complained that it is only the Indians among the crew who are yet to be repatriated by the respective countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-with-travel-history-is-goa-s-7th-covid-19-patient/story-S8GPMFpUkTHY5mz5nBiZ2H.html
04-04-2020||India||India-US partnership to fight Covid-19, says PM Modi after call with Trump||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday had a telephonic conversation with US president Donald Trump on the Covid-19 pandemic threatening countries all over the world. The two leaders agreed to put the full weight of the India-US partnership to fight the deadly Covid-19 disease. “Had an extensive telephone conversation with President @realDonaldTrump. We had a good discussion, and agreed to deploy the full strength of the India-US partnership to fight Covid-19,” the prime minister said in a tweet.The discussion between the two global leaders comes at a time when both countries are in the grip of the highly contagious coronavirus.The United States, has so far confirmed 2,78,458 cases of Covid-19 and more than 7,100 deaths.India on Saturday reported 3,072 coronavirus cases and 75 deaths across its various states.On Saturday morning, the Prime Minister also chaired a joint meeting of the Empowered Groups constituted for planning and ensuring implementation of Covid-19 response activities in India.The maximum percentage of Covid-19 positive cases stands at 42% in the country and have been reported among people in the age group between 21 and 40 years, the government’s data showed on Saturday.The government also released the age profile of all the 3,072 Covid-19 positive cases reported till date since January 30.The situation in the United States is more severe. The total Covid-19 affected cases in the US has climbed to 2,78,458 so far, surpassing Italy, Spain and even China where the coronavirus originated in December 2019.On March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ordered a three-week lockdown of India’s 1.3 billion population to avert a catastrophic outbreak of infections. Some states are thinking about extending the lockdown to rein in the contagious disease as the country reported a sharp spike in positive cases on the weekend. On Saturday, 601 new Covid-19 cases were reported, the highest spike so far, and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours, with the condition of 58 coronavirus patients being critical in Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, according to health ministry data. The state of Maharashtra, which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India, has 537 Covid-19 patients and 26 people have died so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-india-us-partnership-to-fight-covid-19-says-pm-modi-after-call-with-trump/story-wfG2IwgSu9z5Sm5jqMrOQL.html
04-04-2020||India||3 Tablighi Jamaat members among 11 new Covid-19 cases in Kerala||Three Tablighi Jamaat members are among 11 who tested positive for coronavirus in Kerala on Saturday taking the total number of infections in the state to 306, health minister K K Shailaja said.Among the 11 new cases, six are from north Kerala’s Kasaragod, a pandemic hotspot in the state.The total number of people under observation has risen to 1,71,355. At least 9,744 tests have been conducted and 42 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals since the outbreak began, said the minister. She said the steady fall in the number of positive cases is a testimony to the state’s efforts to flatten the coronavirus curve.Follow coronavirus live updates here.Amid growing concern over the spread of coronavirus following the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi last month, there was some good news on Saturday when 75 people in Pathanamthitta including five who returned from Nizamuddin tested negative. Reshma Mohandas, a nurse in Kottayam medical college hospital who was discharged from the hospital on Friday said she will come back to the corona ward after 14-day extended quarantine. She contracted the disease while treating a 93-year-old man and his 80-plus wife, both were discharged on Friday. Their recovery was hailed as a miracle in the medical world.“The state’s performance in containing the pandemic is appreciable but we have to realise the gravity of the situation and there is no room for any complacency. We will continue our fight with all our strength,” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a statement.The fall in number of positive cases was a testimony to the state’s efforts, he said.The CM will take part in a video interaction with selected expatriates in West Asia on Sunday. The state has a strong expatriate population (28 lakh) and 70% of them are in the Persian Gulf countries.“Once we start rapid testing we will get results immediately. Volume of tests will also go up considerably. This will help us checking a possible community spread,” said the CM adding the state’s surveillance and vigil have helped it to contain the virus to an extent. He reiterated that there was no need to panic over those who participated in the Nizamuddin congregation because their numbers are not too big. The state government has so far traced 157 of them , eight of whom have been tested positive and others are under quarantine.Meanwhile the state police have decided to publish photographs and other details of persons who shoot fake messages and upload them on social media to create panic and tension. Kerala police have booked more than 500 people in this regard since the lockdown began. Last week there was a big unrest among migrant workers in Kottayam district who hit the street in large numbers seeking to return to their home in different states. Police later arrested five persons for instigating them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-tablighi-jamaat-members-among-11-new-covid-19-cases-in-kerala/story-XEnO95kUrWcbxGyKM9jjON.html
04-04-2020||India||Here’s why the Centre amended the J&K domicile order||The Centre amended its domicile order for the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) late Friday evening because of resentment among youth, concerns raised by the Jammu unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and vociferous opposition by the newly formed Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP), people familiar with the development said.In the earlier version notified on Tuesday evening, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had reserved only subordinate posts for the domiciled residents. For other jobs in J&K UT, which was formed on October 31, 2019, after the government on August 5 revoked the special status granted under Article 370 of the Constitution to the erstwhile state, people from any part of the country could apply.The revised order makes jobs in the UT administration out of bounds for non-residents of J&K.There has, however, not been any change to the rule that will treat people from outside the UT, who have been residents for 15 years, as domicile residents. The notification also extended domicile rights to central government employees who have served in the state for 10 years and their children.Several backchannel negotiations took place before the Centre revised its domicile order late Friday evening.JKAP chief Altaf Bukhari met both Union home minister Amit Shah and National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval on Friday to register his protest against the domicile order. He conveyed his party’s reservations to the order and demanded that all jobs should be reserved for J&K residents. He also told them that the move would deal a big blow to his efforts to help the people to look beyond Article 370.Bukhari, who launched his party in early March, had promised to work towards restoring J&K’s statehood and ensuring domicile rights of people in jobs and education.He, as the head of a 24-member JKAP delegation, had also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Shah separately with a list of demands. The top leadership had assured the delegation that the government would take all steps to ensure economic development of J&K, concerns over demographic changes, delimitation exercise and grant of state domicile would be addressed, a JKAP leader said on condition of anonymity.The MHA’s order on Tuesday triggered howls of protests in J&K. National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said the order was an “insult heaped on injury”, referring to the scrapping of Article 370 of the Constitution.The BJP’s Jammu unit had also conveyed to the party high command the growing unrest among the youth over the domicile policy.BJP leaders from Jammu told HT that the policy of not reserving jobs for domiciled persons in Groups A and B had upset the youth, who felt there was a need to offer some protection to the residents after Article 370 was scrapped following the reorganisation of the state last August.“There were concerns that by reserving jobs only in Scale 4, the youth in both the Jammu and Kashmir regions could lose out on employment avenues. In Jammu, where job opportunities are particularly limited, the youth felt betrayed that after the abrogation of Article 370 the Union government has failed to keep its promise of ensuring development in the region,” said a senior functionary of the BJP’s Jammu unit.Ram Madhav, BJP general secretary, who has been in charge of the UT, briefed the party high command, including Shah, of the sentiment on the ground, as the chorus for amending the order grew, according to people aware of the developments.“A meeting was held, where Madhav apprised the high command of the resentment brewing among the youth. The government was forced to take a call to take corrective measures. However, there was some concern among a section of leadership over revising the order,” the functionary said.“The government has acted keeping in view the large scale unemployment problem in J&K. In the UT, thanks to decades of mismanagement by successive governments, employment avenues became limited.Once the situation improves, job opportunities will also grow. At the moment the government’s decision will help address the unemployment problem in Jammu region as well as Kashmir Valley,” Madhav said.A second party functionary also from Jammu said some leaders in the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological fount of the BJP, were also against reservation in jobs limited only to the domiciled residents. “They felt that by imposing reservation, it would mean a replay of the conditions that existed when Article 35A was in force,” the second functionary said.The second BJP functionary also said that the government will take a measured view of the domicile issue for the purpose of purchase of land. “Commercialisation of land for real estate purposes won’t be allowed. But if someone needs land for setting up of industry or for trade and commerce that can be considered.” The amended domicile policy has come as a shot in the arm for Bukhari, who has renewed his pledge to urge the Centre to review the law in its entirety to remove the remaining loopholes till it satisfies the aspirations of people of J&K.“We’ll continue to struggle till other hostile sections in the law such as mandatory tenure for non-natives to reside in J&K and cut-off dates to qualify for the domicile are not rectified as per the demands of our people,” Bukhari said.He also appealed to all the parties to rise above the partisan interests and jointly fight for the rights of the people. “We can have differences with each other on political grounds. But, this is not an appropriate time for mudslinging against each other,” Bukhari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/here-s-why-the-centre-amended-the-j-k-domicile-order/story-ucVSK0v0QOj8YasNxQqioN.html
04-04-2020||India||Health ministry likely to include rapid antibody testing for everyone at risk||Based on data and analyses prevented by its high-level technical experts committee on coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the health ministry is likely to extend testing protocols to include rapid antibody testing for everyone at risk, including those outside hotspot areas.Once approved, these guidelines will replace the Indian Council of Medical Research’s interim advisory issued on April 2 that limited rapid antibody testing to hotspot areas.Unlike the RT-PCR test that detects the virus’ genetic material (RNA) in throat swabs to diagnose current infection, rapid antibody test indicate if a person has been infected and has immunity.The simple blood test, which takes 15-20 minutes to give results, will help identify people who were infected but never diagnosed, which will help map undetected infection and give the correct extend of the epidemic.China and Singapore have used antibody tests to scale up testing and track infection, while Germany, Italy, Britain and the US, which approve the country’s first antibody test on Friday, plan to use it to get those who are immune back to work, keep those infected quarantined, and those with no immunity locked down.“Rapid antibody testing will help us measure how widespread the infection is in the community, how long immunity works, and get the recovered back to work, which will help meet critical staff shortfalls in hospitals and end lockdowns in a phased manner to restore a semblance of normal,” said a clinician, who did not want to be named. “With infections in medical workers rising in India, it will help keep our health system intact,” he said.The Maharashtra state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation have already announced on Friday that all its health-workers will be tested using the rapid antibody test to detect if they have been infected and developed immunity to the virus..“Who is to be tested and the scale of testing is notified by the Health Ministry, and updated from time to time. These are to be followed,” said Dr K. Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific advisor, government of India.Antibody tests have the potential to take testing to scale, and companies are racing to meet the anticipated increase in demand. On Friday, Bangalore-based Bione launched a Covid19 home-screening test kit on Friday, and the US approved Cellex for a lab-based antibody testing. Pathologists expect the market in India to be flooded over the next few weeks following approval, which is expected next week.“Finger-prick tests are fairly simple to do but chances of false negatives are high if the test is done in the first of week of infection. Antibody tests should look for immunoglobulin M (IgM) in the second week, and for immunoglobulin G (IgG) after the third week, to deliver accurate results. It still will not indicate how strong the immune response is, and for how long it will last,” said Dr Naveen Dang, founder chairman of Dr Dang’s Labs, which is one of the ICMR-approved private labs testing for Covid-19 in India.The body responds to infection by generating two types of antibodies. IgM is generated first, at about seven days post-infection, and its levels then rises and fall by three to four weeks post-infection. The second type of antibody IgG, appears at about 10 days and can take up to three weeks to reach measurable levels. Since antibody responses vary widely with people, experts suggest that 21 days post-infection is about when most people are expected to show both IgG and IgM.“Together, these antibodies, IgG and IgM, are expected to give protective immunity for a limited time; we do not yet know if and for how long these antibodies will protect, but that data will speedily come in,” said Dr Raghavan.“A negative antibody test does not tell if the virus is present and if the body has not yet responded, but a positive does tell that the body was exposed to the virus. The antibody tests, even when used for screening, must be used with care, as with all tests, and interpreted by a professional. As of now, when so used, they can inform how groups of people have been exposed. When combined with nucleic acid tests, the antibody tests can give a complete status,” said Dr Raghavan.“There are some very exciting developments with rapid virus (antibody) tests coming on to the market. There are being examined to ensure that they have the right sensitivity, which means they pick up small virus loads as well as big one, and they have specificity, which means they are not picking up other coronaviruses beside Covid-19. As soon as we know they are okay, they are going to be very important,” said Dr David Nabarro, the World Health Organization coronavirus special envoy.RT-PCR remains the test of choice because of its accuracy and specificity at early stages infection, which is essential for containment as most people are most infective within to three days before show symptoms.“In epidemics, such as Covid-19, testing for the presence of the viral genome in swabs is the first choice and this is done by what are generically called nucleic acid tests. These use a method called RT-PCR to detect the viral RNA. RT-PCT tests detect the viral RNA one to two days before symptoms appear and detection remains up to 12 days after symptoms,” said Dr Raghavan.It is unlikely that patients who have antibodies will get reinfected so soon after recovery, say experts.”Obviously, antibody-positive persons can be declared as immune to Covid-19 and get free from social isolation. They won’t get infected or infect others,” said a public health specialist, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-likely-to-include-rapid-antibody-testing-for-everyone-at-risk/story-oBTnqoIhFpe5pH9qGYDf1L.html
04-04-2020||India||As lockdown hits dining table, Goans seek approval for traditional fishing||The countrywide lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus has left Goa’s fishermen all at sea and taken fish, a staple of the state’s diet off dining tables, leading to calls that traditional fishermen be allowed to continue operations to protect their livelihoods as well as help locals get fish on their plates. In a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant and other authorities, a civil society group has sought that “only non-mechanised forms of fishing like rapon, mag, catai and pagel form of fishing be allowed, as these forms of fishing will help to adhere with social distancing norms and will also cater to the requirement of fish, which is a staple food and source of nutrition of many a Goan.”“There has been, a directive not to go fishing to even the traditional fishers during lockdown and on the other hand a directive for fishworkers on mechanized boats to remain on the boats and to be anchored off the shore till the end of this lockdown,” said the letter signed by more than 200 people led by activists and those involved in the fishing industry.“Not even the Government of India guidelines speak of ban on fishing. Yet, those on boats who cannot inherently maintain social distancing by the very nature of the particular fishing are left vulnerable offshore, and those who can maintain social distancing through traditional fishing have been deprived of the possibilities of fishing and being enabled to earn their livelihoods and also to provide fish to the consumers,” the letter reads. There are more than a thousand trawlers in operation from fishing jetties in Goa besides 1500 smaller motorized and non-motorized boats that are used for fishing in the state. During the lockdown, locals have tried to rely on fish and prawns harvested from fish farms and ponds or on dried salt fish that is usually reserved for use during the monsoon when fishing is banned. The Goenchea Raponkarancho Ekvott, a union of traditional fishermen too has sought that the ban on traditional fishing be lifted. “During the period of the lockdown the economic and the nutritional needs of fish worker households, and of others, will be severely affected. Fish is an important food source for coastal people. If they do not have access to it, it will affect their food availability too. Non-motorized fishing and only traditional form of fishing without a motor should be allowed like Rapon, Mag, Cantai, Pagel etc.,” Agnelo Rodrigues, the president of the Goenchea Raponkarancho Ekvott, said. More than one lakh tonne of fish are caught in Goa annually, one-third of which is exported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-lockdown-hits-dining-table-goans-seek-approval-for-traditional-fishing/story-U2sBMyj8S9oCHbVexKixwO.html
04-04-2020||India||Assam’s lone non-Markaz patient baffles officials, shows symptoms month after travel||The total number of Covid-19 positive patients in Assam rose to 25 on Saturday with five new cases being reported. Twenty four of them are connected to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month, but the focus is on the lone patient not linked to that meet.The 44-year-old businessman who stays in a posh apartment complex in Guwahati had returned from a trip to Delhi on March 1. But so far the source of his infection is a mystery.“We don’t think the patient got infected in Delhi because though he returned from the capital on March 1 he showed no symptoms for a month and was detected positive only on April 4,” said Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.“If he was infected in Delhi, his symptoms should have been visible within 4 weeks and not after that. So we suspect he got the virus from someone he came in contact with in Guwahati after his return from Delhi,” he added.The government has identified 111 people (including some who had been to Kolkata and Delhi last month) who were in contact with the patient. Their samples have been taken and sent for testing.Many of those 111 people have been sent to government quarantine facilities and the rest put in home isolation. The apartment complex where the patient resides, and has over 150 families, has been sealed.“Until we get results of all 111 samples we can’t say it’s a case of local transmission. In all probability this doesn’t seem to be local transmission as the patient has confirmed that he met people who came from Delhi and Kolkata in the past month,” said Sarma.The minister said the patient might have got the virus from someone who was carrying it without showing any symptoms of Covid-19. He is at present admitted in Guwahati Medical College Hospital and his condition is stable.Till Saturday, tests were conducted on 1529 samples at five different labs in the state. Of this, while 25 tested positive, 1308 have been found negative and results are awaited for 196 samples.Of the 25 positive patients, 24 had visited the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. Till Saturday, tests had been conducted on samples of 812 people from the state connected to the event—636 have tested negative and results are awaited for 152 samples.“It is unfortunate that every day we are getting fresh inputs about more and more people from the state who had visited the congregation. I appeal to the district and state level functionaries of Tablighi Jamaat in Assam to give us the entire list of attendees voluntarily,” said Sarma.“We have not got the kind of response we expected from them. If we don’t get all the information within Sunday we might be forced to ask the police to get involved in tracing them,” he added.Sarma refuted allegations that the 24 patients connected to the Tablighi Jamaat are not getting proper medical treatment or food at the hospitals where they have been admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-s-lone-non-markaz-patient-baffles-officials-shows-symptoms-month-after-travel/story-9likp2MxUdKT8ukWVzrM6H.html
04-04-2020||India||‘Shining torches in the sky won’t solve the problem’: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday reiterated his charge that not enough tests are being conducted in the country to contain the spread of coronavirus.He made light of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to people to light lamps and shine torches on April 5.“India is simply not testing enough to fight the Covid-19 virus. Making people clap & shining torches in the sky isn’t going to solve the problem,” Gandhi tweeted.His party colleague and spokesperson Supriya Shrinate also urged the central government to empower states in their fight against coronavirus by providing them with more finances and resources.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe Centre should also take state governments on board while evolving strategies to fight the deadly disease, she told a news conference held through video-conferencing.“We have talked about cooperative federalism. Time has come that we should walk the talk. The Centre should take states together with it, empower them by providing them with more finances and resources. It is only when states are capable and when the Centre has decentralised, that we can win this war against coronavirus,” she said.Shrinate said states are at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus, while implementing and executing various policies on the ground.The Congress spokesperson said the Centre should provide Rs1 lakh crore to states to fight Covid-19, besides releasing pending GST dues of Rs 42,000 crore to state governments with immediate effect.“The states at this time are facing the biggest financial crisis in fighting the virus. The central government should provide a Rs1 lakh crore package for states to fight COVID-19,” she told reporters.Despite assurances, Shrinate said the GST revenue that was to be compensated to states by the central government had not been done.She also demanded providing loans to states at 0% interest and urged the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to enable such facilities in consultation with the central government.States, unlike the central government, do not have enough capital and financial resources at their disposal, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shining-torches-in-the-sky-won-t-solve-the-problem-rahul-gandhi/story-G24W7R1BIFzjiaWGpVvrtM.html
04-04-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat HQ is India’s biggest Covid-19 hotspot, linked to 1,000 cases in India||One-third of the 3,000-odd Covid-19 cases reported in the country are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat in national capital Delhi that had held its annual congregation last month, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.The government had last week evacuated over 2,000 workers holed up in the central Delhi headquarters of the evangelical Muslim sect; 24 of them had then tested positive and 200 more had symptoms of the disease. There were fears that the sect’s followers could end up spreading the disease because many had already left Delhi and had been active in different parts of the country.The health ministry statement confirmed initial apprehensions that Jamaat followers, many of them foreign nationals, who spread out across the country could end up creating an explosion of cases. In all, the Tablighi-linked cases have been reported from 17 states and union territories including Andaman and Nicobar Islands.“Out of the total cases in the country, around 30 per cent are linked to one particular place,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Aggarwal told the daily briefing on Covid-19.Aggarwal sounded a word of caution when asked if the country appeared to have been successful to break the chain of transmission. It is a daily battle, he suggested, underscoring how one mistake could jeopardise the country’s preparedness to deal with the public health emergency. One mistake, and you go from being successful to unsuccessful, he said.The home ministry’s Punya Salila Srivastava told reporters that the agencies had, through a massive effort, located and placed around 22,000 Tablighi Jamaat workers and their contacts in quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-hq-is-india-s-biggest-covid-19-hot-spot-linked-to-1-000-cases-in-india/story-ZXGBjwoSzMYQuKsW0BNyMP.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Govt says maximum cases in the age group between 21 and 40 years||The maximum percentage of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases at 42% in the country have been reported among people in the age group between 21 and 40 years, the government’s data showed on Saturday.The government on Saturday released the age profile of all the 2,902 Covid-19 positive cases reported to date since January 30.The next majorly-affected age bracket is between 41 and 60 years at 33% of Covid-19 positive cases. While senior citizens, who are above 60 years, accounted for 17% of Covid-19 positive cases. However, most of the 68 Covid-19 deaths have been reported among people aged above 60 years because of their co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, cardiac and renail issues, said Luv Agarwal, joint secretary, Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The age group between 0 and 20 years is the least affected at 9% of Covid-19 cases in line with a similar pattern seen in studies conducted in China and some other nations worst hit by the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-govt-says-maximum-cases-in-the-age-group-between-21-and-40-years/story-CKBxXQHdkBNseYsT1dPKRN.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19 outbreak: 18-yr-old skips birthday celebration, donates piggy bank saving to CM fund||An 18-year-old boy, belonging to East Champaran in Bihar, has donated his piggy-bank savings, which was meant for his birthday celebration, to chief minister relief fund in support of his fight against novel coronavirus.Speaking to Hindustan Times, Amol Rajan, a resident of Motihari town of East Champaran, who turned 18-year-old on April 2, justified his decision, saying the gravest worry of the time is to save mankind from the jaw of death and stand for humanity“So, my conscience did not allow me to observe the birthday. Sky will not fall, if did not celebrate the birthday this year. Moreover, it’s not a celebration time from any stretch of imagination. Let hope for the light at end of the tunnel,” said Amol, who donated Rs 15,051 to chief minister disaster relief fund.Belonging to an affluent family, decision of Amol Rajan has come in a satisfaction for his family member. “My son has certainly come of age now and has taken a judicious decision,” said Ravi Shankar Verma, father of Amol Rajan.Amol Rajan’s effort has other acknowledgement too. “Such a contribution from Amol Ranjan has all the makings to inspire us,” said Shirsat Kapil Ashok, district magistrate (DM), East Champaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-outbreak-motihari-boy-donates-his-piggy-bank-saving-to-cm-fund/story-Ql5YhLPYjS8cwU6gTPG9SJ.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Bengal man who returned from Nizamuddin tests positive||A Kolkata Port Trust worker who was among those who returned from the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi has tested positive for coronavirus while his fellow visitors have been tracked down in Bengal in the last 48 hours even as the Mamata Banerjee government has been silent since April 1 about the people who returned.More than 640 people contracted Covid-19 in different places following the Tablighi Jamaat conference.While the Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) said it found a patient, HT could trace at least 31 other returnees from Murshidabad, Malda, Alipurduar and Birbhum districts. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe man found by KoPT is Bengal’s first officially confirmed case of Covid-19 among people who attended the conference at Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz. With this, the number of Covid-19 cases in Bengal touched 58 on Saturday. Till Saturday morning three people have died of Covid-19 in Bengal taking the casualties to seven. Four others who died after testing positive might have died of co-morbidity, the government said. On April 1, Banerjee said her government had received information about 71 people who went to the Tablighi Jamaat conference and 54 of them, and their families, had been tracked down in Bengal. Till Saturday afternoon her government did not make any more statement on the issue.KoPT said in a statement on Saturday that on April 2 an employee of one of its contractors tested positive for Covid-19 at Haldia port. It said the man returned from Nizamuddin on March 24.“Due to the lockdown no work was done at the berth which they (the contractor) operate. However, he (the patient) might have visited the docks,” the statement said.“After the Nizamuddin episode came to light he was immediately tested by the municipality. Due to this case, contract labourers have not come to the port,” the statement said. It added that the regular port staff were working and officers who might have had any kind of contact with the patient had been quarantined.KoPT said a sanitisation drive was on and masks, gloves and sanitizers have been given to all employees.In Malda district, superintendent of police Alok Rajoria said, “Eleven people from Malda went to Delhi but none returned to the district. Ten of them are kept in quarantine in Maharashtra while one is in Jharkhand.”In Birbhum district, officials kept silent but residents of Sonatorpara in Siuri town said a youth who lives near a local Madrasa was taken away by health department officials on April 1, days after he returned home. “The family initially claimed that he did not go to Delhi and the man even ran his shop. We saw health department officials coming in two vehicles and taking him away for quarantine,” said Chandan Mukherjee who lives in the neighbourhood. In Murshidabad district, chief medical officer of health Prasanta Biswas said, “One man has been tracked down at Banipur village. He was picked up from home on Friday night and sent to institutional quarantine at Raghunathganj. Nine of his family members have been asked to stay in home isolation for 14 days.”“All of them are asymptomatic. Right now we are not sending their samples for tests,” said Biswas.Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior officer of district health department said, “The man is 48-years-old. He attended the conference on March 17. Before the lockdown he went to Assam where he has a small business. He returned home four days ago and was living a normal life. He did not bother to share his travel history with us.”At Alipurduar district in north Bengal, two residents of Falakata who returned from Nizamuddin have tested negative, said Dr Puran Sharma, chief medical officer of health.Sharma said 16 others, who are from south Bengal districts and put in quarantine in Alipurduar, also tested negative but he did not want to name the districts these people belong to. “All of them are still in quarantine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-bengal-man-who-returned-from-nizamuddin-tests-positive/story-aPnNOE3KJueXqM0Rgko8OL.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: PM Modi to hold all-party meet on April 8 via video conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called an all-party meeting on April 8 to discuss the situation arising out of the coronavirus.This is the first meeting of Modi with political parties on the outbreak of the deadly virus and comes days after the country has been put under a preventive lockdown.A letter from parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said that floor leaders of the parties which has more than five members in Parliament would be invited to participate in the meeting. Keeping in mind the norms for social distancing and travel restrictions, the much-coveted meeting will be conducted through a video conference.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageMany opposition leaders have been asking for an all-party meeting with the PM on the pandemic that has shown far-reaching and devastating effects on different sections of the society and especially the country’s economy.In the meeting, government officials said that the PM will seek suggestions from different parties on the future road map to contain the deadly virus. The meeting will start at 11am with Modi’s opening remarks in which he will appraise the party leaders of the steps his government has taken so far.Also read: How PM Modi turned railway coaches into Covid-19 isolation wardsAccording to another official, the meeting will also be an opportunity to build a broad political consensus on India’s fight against Covid-19.Apart from Modi, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi and Leader of the Rajya Sabha, Thawar Chand Gehlot are also expected to be present.Modi had on March 24 declared a three-week nationwide “complete lockdown” in the world’s largest such exercise aimed at stemming the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-pm-modi-to-hold-all-party-meet-on-april-8-via-video-conference/story-IGLPg9KU2nK2LSnsdJgXsJ.html
04-04-2020||India||19 more positive cases in Andhra Pradesh in last 24 hrs, tally goes up to 180||As many as 19 fresh positive cases for Covid-19 were reported in Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours, including 16 cases since Friday night, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 180, health department officials said.Meanwhile, two Covid-19 patients with travel history to the UK – one from Ongole and one from Kakinada, were discharged from the hospitals after they tested negative in a series of tests, the AP medical and health department said on Saturday.With this, the total number of patients discharged till date went up to four. Including these four cases, the cumulative number of positive cases in the state is 184. The state reported its first death on Friday -- a 55-year old man from Vijayawada, who contracted the Covid-19 disease from his son who returned from Tablighi Jamaat conference held in New Delhi in the second week of March.However, the department has not made it clear whether the fresh 16 cases that were reported in the last 12 hours, had anything to do with Nizamuddin meet.Out of the total of 161 positive cases were reported in the state till Friday morning, 140 cases were related to the Tablighi Jamaat event, the officials told chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy at a review meeting on Friday.He instructed the officials to strictly implement all the guidelines keeping in view the sudden hike in cases after the return of attendants of the Tablighi Jamaat.A total of 1085 people from AP attended the Tablighi Jamaat event, of which 946 were identified and their samples were collected for testing. Out of 881 samples tested, 108 samples detected positive.About 626 members who came in contact with the Delhi meeting returnees were also tested and 32 among them were detected positive, said officials.The chief minister sought details on the house-to-house survey being conducted by ANMs, Asha workers, volunteers. For the same, the officials said that the survey was conducted in 1.28 crore households from the existing 1.45 crore households in the state. Those who have shown any of the symptoms of COVID-19 will be observed in the second phase and tests will be conducted accordingly.The officials said that two new testing centers are now functional in Guntur and Kadapa. Moreover, another testing center in Visakhapatnam would be functional from Monday. Currently, the testing labs have the capacity to conduct 700 tests every day and that will be increased to 900 per day after coordinating with private testing labs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-more-positive-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-in-last-24-hrs-tally-goes-up-to-180/story-QdvXmbo9gC3NbChuTF4emL.html
04-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: Uddhav Thackeray talks about communal virus, then issues a warning on Covid-19 messages and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uddhav Thackeray talks about communal virus, then issues a warning on Covid-19 messagesAs the number of cases of coronavirus disease spiked beyond 500 in Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday cautioned people against ‘wrong messages’ about Covid-19 on social media platforms. Read moreGood news from Chandigarh: Three Covid-19 patients recover, discharged from hospitalsThree people were cured of Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Saturday, bringing down the coronavirus count of the Union Territory from 18 to 15.“We salute doctors of Chandigarh who are risking their lives to cure patients. Three persons walked away smiling after they were fully cured. Our figure has reduced from 18 to 15,” Union Territory adviser Manoj Parida tweeted. Read more16 coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh, tally jumps to 180Another 16 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Andhra Pradesh overnight, taking the total number of infected in the state to 180. Read moreSpain’s daily coronavirus death toll falls for second day in rowSpain’s death toll from the coronavirus rose to 11,744 on Saturday from 10,935 the previous day, the Health Ministry said on Saturday, though it was the second straight second day in which the daily number of new deaths had fallen. Read more ‘It’s heartwarming,’ Yuvraj Singh applauds policemen for sharing food with needyWith the world coming to a standstill due to the coronavirus outbreak, things have gone bad for the poor and getting food is a fight they are fighting apart from trying to stay safe in these tough times. Read moreMahabharat: From Juhi Chawla being offered Draupadi’s role to Nitish Bharadwaj’s wish to play Abhimanyu, 10 facts about the showThe hit 80s show Mahabharat is back on the television screens after Doordarshan decided to rerun the show for viewers staying indoors amid 21-day coronavirus lockdown. Read moreGoogle temporarily rolls back Chrome feature that blocks cross-site trackingTo ensure essential websites do not crash at this point in time, Google is temporarily rolling back one of the features it launched with Chrome 80 last year. Read moreSocial distancing guide: Turn page after page, for freeYou’ve probably figured out a few things by now. Cooking isn’t always fun. Most crime dramas look the same. And you can only listen to so many yesteryear songs. So back to books it is, and right now a lot of them are free. Read moreDoctor dances in TikTok videos to spread cheer. WatchTimes are tough and scary as much remains unknown about the coronavirus outbreak. Amid this, one upbeat doctor is trying to make people smile with his dance moves and also spreading awareness in the process. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-uddhav-thackeray-talks-about-communal-virus-then-issues-a-warning-on-covid-19-messages-and-all-the-latest-news/story-KzV9ca7CnbGA9vVeBIN6JM.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: 601 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths reported since Friday, says health ministry||India has reported 601 new Covid-19 cases, the highest spike so far and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours, with the condition of 58 coronavirus patients being critical in Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, a health ministry official said on Saturday.“Till now there are 2,902 Covid-19 positive cases in India. 601 positive cases have been reported since yesterday. 12 deaths also reported yesterday have taken the total number of deaths to 68. At least 183 people have recovered,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry said.ALSO READ| How PM Modi turned railway coaches into Covid-19 isolation wardsThe highest number of Covid-19 cases—490 so far have been reported in Maharashtra followed by Tamil Nadu and national capital Delhi.1,023 Covid-19 positive cases with links to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation have been reported from 17 states till now, according to health ministry data. The ministry underscored that about 30 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country are linked to “one particular place”. Aggarwal said in the news briefing that the rate of doubling of Covid-19 cases in India is less as compared to other countries.“Rigorous contact tracing is on across 17 states which have reported cases related to Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat congregation. Around 30 per cent of the total cases so far are linked to one particular place where we could not sort of manage it,” the health ministry official said.The Tablighi Jamaat meet was held earlier last month in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, and has now turned into a Covid-19 hotspot.India is increasing Covid-19 testing capacity progressively, the official said. “We are increasing our Covid-19 testing capacity progressively,” he said. The health ministry also issued fresh guidelines on certain precautions to tackle the disease and asked citizens not to recycle masks used as that could also spread the infection. Ministry officials urged people to start making masks at home if there happened to be a shortage in neighbourhood shops. “There is no need to panic but awareness is a must to fight the battle against Covid-19: the health ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronaviurs-update-601-new-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-reported-since-friday-says-health-ministry/story-XK6U2O20HFhG1raQQ6fwxL.html
04-04-2020||India||Economic decline due to Covid-19 will not help govt’s tackle climate change||The world is going to experience a modest decline in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions for the first time in 75 years but the dip is unlikely to result in any stabilisation in CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere, which leads to climate change, experts said. The economic decline because of the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to give governments an idea of the magnitude of transformations needed in the coming decades to deal with climate change, scientists said.The impact of Covid-19 on CO2 emissions will be temporary and there is likely to be a strong rebound effect when governments try to make up for the economic slowdown after the pandemic gets over. CO2 emissions are likely to dip in March and April, as billions of people are in lockdown, including in the two most populous countries such as China and India.“We’ll definitely see a drop this year in CO2 pollution from fossil fuel use. How much of a decline depends on how long the lockdown lasts and how quickly economies recover. We could see a massive drop in emissions of 5% or more if the viral outbreak and economic downturn linger. You’d have to go back to World War II to see anything close to that big a decline. But note that a 5% decline does not mean concentrations will drop. We’d still be emitting 35 billion metric tonnes of fossil fuel pollution,” said Rob Jackson, chair, Global Carbon Project and Professor, Earth System Science at Stanford University in an e-mail response. He cautioned that the global economic crisis should worry us because “if the economy tanks, climate action may be delayed in the interest of getting people back to work. I hope we put people back to work in green energy and technology, sectors that will result in lasting change”.Many scientists have been worrying about this rebound. For instance, at Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii scientists are keeping a close watch on CO2 concentrations because this could be the first economic shock in several decades to slow the rise in concentrations.Ralph Keeling, professor at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in La Jolla, California, has estimated that global fossil fuel use will have to decline by 10% for a full year to show up CO2 concentrations. It would be a difference of only about 0.5 parts per million according to Climate Home, an independent climate news portal based on Keeling’s observations.The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) had warned about this on March 24. “Any cuts in emissions as a result of the economic crisis triggered by Covid-19 are not a substitute for concerted climate action,” the WMO had said in a statement. “Past experience suggests that emission declines during economic crises are followed by a rapid upsurge. We need to change that trajectory,” WMO secretary-general Petteri Taalas had said.Emissions represent what goes into the atmosphere while concentrations represent what remains in the atmosphere after the complex system of interactions between the atmosphere, biosphere, lithosphere, cryosphere and the oceans and CO2 remains in the atmosphere and oceans for centuries, the WMO explained.According to the Earth System Research Laboratory of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) the average CO2 concentrations in February were 414.11 parts per million (ppm) as compared to 411.75 ppm last year. The average for March has not been updated yet, but on March 29, 30 and 31, April 1 and 2 the concentrations ranged between 415. 60 and 415.81 ppm.An analysis by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) has suggested that China’s CO2 emissions fell by around 25% over a four-week period starting February 3 when travel restrictions were imposed in Wuhan, the initial epicentre of the Covid-19 outbreak, and other cities across the country. But demand slowly returned to normal levels over an extended seven-week period, bringing the reduction so far to around 250MtCO2, with emissions 18% lower than usual levels, the analysis said.“Currently, global fossil fuel consumption is contracting dramatically as electricity demand, road traffic, and aviation volumes fall as a result of the measures to mitigate coronavirus outbreaks. It seems almost certain that global CO2 emissions will fall this year due to the economic fallout of the virus. The disruption to supply chains, loss of sales and lost income for many workers will affect the economy in a profound way,” said Lauri Myllyvirta, lead analyst at CREA.“The longer-term impact on global emissions trends will depend on the policies that governments adapt to recover from the crisis. The best-case scenario is a green recovery that speeds up the transition to clean energy and low-carbon future,” she added.Lauri’s team also said India is likely to see a significant reduction in carbon emissions from the power sector this year due to lockdown and its aftershocks.The US has already announced that it will roll back the American auto emission standards announced by the Obama administration. Sociologists recognise that the pandemic-triggered slowdown could be the reset moment for tackling climate change but governments may not seize it.“Covid-19 pandemic created an unprecedented and unplanned social experiment … If the next negotiations at the United Nationsl (UN) fail, then all the comprehensive plans build on the last five years are going to fail … I don’t have any doubt that in the next UN negotiations, citing the Covid-19 situation, most of the big carbon emitters will request to defer the target and continue to use their existing fossil fuel resources,” said Pradip Swarnakar, associate professor of sociology at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)- Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economic-decline-due-to-covid-19-will-not-help-govt-s-tackle-climate-change/story-oxFEsrHxQd2qbU2gHIRwYN.html
04-04-2020||India||‘Lighting candles okay as there is nothing to do at home’: Raj Thackeray||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray on Saturday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have clarified matters about the lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus instead of just asking people to light candles on Sunday night.Although Maharashtra has been trying to enforce the lockdown strictly, Thackeray said he feared that if the citizens continued to roam on the streets, the lockdown could be extended again adversely affecting the economy. “The Prime Minister should have clarified on the steps being taken on how he is going to handle the economy. This would have given hope to the country” he said at a press conference at his home. He said that lighting candles was okay as there was nothing much to do at home.“There is a fear among the daily wage earners and it is the duty of those in power to clarify things and assuage them,” he added. The MNS chief said the lockdown was playing havoc with the economy. He also came down heavily on those indulging in black marketing of essential goods and said they needed to be beaten up, filmed and the videos made viral. Prime Minister Modi in a video message on Friday, had urged citizens to switch off lights for nine minutes at 9 PM on Sunday and light a lamp or torch to “challenge the darkness of coronavirus”.The call came under fire from opposition parties. Shortly after the PM’s broadcast, Congress leader P Chidambaram urged Modi to “listen to” people and announce measures to arrest the economic slide caused by coronavirus pandemic.Chidambaram said that “symbolism is important but serious thought to ideas and measures is equally important”.Congress MP Shahshi Tharoor described the call to light candles as “just a feel-good moment curated by India’s Photo-Op Prime Minister.” Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra asked the PM to “get real” and called for ensure immediate wages to construction and other labour during the lockdown as there are laws permitting this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lighting-candles-okay-as-there-is-nothing-to-do-at-home-raj-thackeray/story-KD5x7CUvVnmWRAmqVpReqJ.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: 7 easy steps to make protective face masks at home to fight Covid-19||The government on Saturday issued an advisory on homemade masks and said that using them can help in protecting the community at large from coronavirus. In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and the growing need for protective equipment and preventive essentials like masks, the government’s advisory on homemade face masks comes handy.The DIY guide released by the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs explains how protective masks can easily be made in the comfort of your home by simply using clean cotton fabric and a sewing machine.How to make protective masks and face covers at home:1. Any used but clean cotton fabric can be used. The fabric must be washed in boiling water and dried well. 2. The fabric must be cut in the following dimensions - 9-inch x 7-inch for adults and 7-inch x 5-inch for children.3. Cut 4 strips for tying and piping from the fabric. Take the cut fabric and attach the strip with 1.5x5 inches dimension on one end as piping.4. Create three downward facing pleats of approximately 1.5 inch each folding cloth.5. Turn the pleated cloth to the other side and repeat steps for pleating on this side as shown above. Once the pleats have been made, the height of the pleated cloth will be reduced from 9 to 5 inches.6. Secure the pleats with piping on both sides. Now begin attaching the long 40 inch strips used for tying the face cover to the top and bottom.7. Once again fold both these strips three times and stitch.Ensure that the face cover fits around your mouth and nose and there is no gap between it and your face. When wearing the face cover, the side facing you should show the pleats as facing downwards.You must never reverse the face cover for reuse. Always thoroughly wash it after every use.There’s also a guide to making a temporary mask by putting a handkerchief and elastic bands to use for those who might not have a sewing machine at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-7-easy-steps-to-make-protective-face-masks-at-home-to-fight-covid-19/story-E0FsKtVJMmqD2hwRaG3nzO.html
04-04-2020||India||Maharashtra CM spotlights communal virus, then a warning on Covid-19 messages||As the number of cases of coronavirus disease spiked beyond 500 in Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday cautioned people against ‘wrong messages’ about Covid-19 on social media platforms.The chief minister warned of strict action against those spreading communally divisive messages amid reports that several such videos have been doing the rounds on WhatsApp, TikTok and Twitter.“Like Covid-19 virus, there is a communal virus too. I am warning those who are spreading wrong messages to citizens and uploading such videos even for the sake of fun. This Covid-19 virus sees no religion,” Uddhav Thackeray said on Facebook Live.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe Maharashtra chief minister also said the decision whether the 21-day lockdown will be extended in the state will depend upon its people and how they follow the government’s directives on the measure to stop the spread of coronavirus.Maharashtra is the country’s worst-affected state and reported 47 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. With the fresh Covid-19 cases, the number of coronavirus patients in the state has gone up to 537.Mumbai has the highest number of Covid-19 patients in the western state, which saw its first case on March 9, and reported at least 20 deaths.“This is a vicious game, a game of self-restraint. We will have to follow self-discipline and stay at home,” the chief minister said.Also read: Govt puts curbs on exports of diagnostic kits with immediate effectThe chief minister also talked about the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has emerged as the country coronavirus hotspot after thousands of members of the Islamic missionary group have been found infected.More than 20 states have been scrambling to contain the spread by tracing, testing and isolating those who attended the Nizamuddin Markaz’s March event. Uddhav Thackeray claimed Maharashtra has been able to mitigate the effect of the outbreak of coronavirus at the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat.“We didn’t let what happened in Delhi happen in Maharashtra. It (Tablighi Jamaat event) was permitted earlier, but later looking at the situation we denied permission. Authorities now have traced all those went to the Delhi event from our state,” Uddhav Thackeray said.He said all those who had visited Delhi for the Tablighi-Jamaat congregation have been contacted and put in isolation facilities across the state.“Even if a few people have remained and could not be contacted, come forward, self declare and get tested,” the Shiv Sena chief urged.The jump in infections across India to nearly 3000 came after hundreds of patients who attended the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat in a violation of several restrictions. The Union health ministry has said that at least 647 people among the thousands who gathered at the Jamaat’s headquarters, Nizamuddin Markaz, have tested positive in 14 states in the last two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-uddhav-thackeray-talks-about-communal-virus-then-issues-a-warning-on-covid-19-messages/story-AMEDFhomvILbud9EGWUuHN.html
04-04-2020||India||Will not lie, Covid-19 cases in state rising, says Uddhav. Then explains||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday appealed to people not to visit private doctors or hospitals if they are suffering from symptoms such as pneumonia, cough, cold and fever. Instead, he suggested that they should visit dedicated hospitals being run by the state government to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients.He declared that no religious, political and sporting event will be allowed in the state till further orders. He also urged people to wear masks when they step out of their homes to buy essential commodities.The CM also warned strict action against those trying to put peoples’ lives in danger in any way.“If you’re suffering from cough, cold, fever or have symptoms of pneumonia, don’t visit private doctors or hospitals. There is a possibility that you may infect others there if in case you’re already infected with the coronavirus. The state government has started dedicated hospitals for Covid-19 patients, visit them,” Thackeray said during a live Facebook chat.The CM accepted that more people are testing Covid-19 positive in the state, as the authorities have ramped up the capacity for testing facilities. “The positive cases are increasing and I will not lie about this to you. This is because we’ve increased our capacity for testing facilities. We’re testing more people. We’re further increasing the testing capacity in Mumbai, as the city recorded has maximum cases. But we’ll overcome the crisis in the coming days, as Mumbaikars have experienced many difficulties before,” Thackeray said.On Saturday, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 positive cases reached 537 after 47 new cases were reported.The CM said that the authorities have contacted all those people who had attended Tablighi Jamaat’s international congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi between March 13 and 15, and put them in isolation facilities. “Even if a few people could not be contacted, come forward, self declare and get tested,” he appealed.“This is a vicious game, a game of self-restraint. We’ll have to follow self-discipline and stay at home,” the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visit-dedicated-govt-hospitals-if-you-covid-19-symptoms-thackeray/story-u2e0QidbPwTEl1fNKwewxK.html
04-04-2020||India||16 coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh, tally jumps to 180||Another 16 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Andhra Pradesh overnight, taking the total number of infected in the state to 180.The Medical and Health Department on Saturday said in its latest bulletin that four fresh cases were reported each in Kadapa and Krishna districts, three each in Guntur and Kurnool and one each in Chittoor and Prakasam districts.Of the 180 cases reported since March 12 in the state, the first four patients had since recovered and been discharged from hospital.A 55-year-old man, father of a Jamaat participant who too tested positive, died, making his the first and only Corona- related death in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-coronavirus-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-jumps-to-180/story-6g0icVBZ7KBBesMwsfCaTL.html
04-04-2020||India||Govt says PM’s call to switch off lights only for residences, won’t affect the grid||The Ministry of Power on Saturday issued an advisory on PM Modi’s call to switch off lights for 9 minutes this Sunday at 9pm.The ministry in its release clarified that the apprehensions concerning instability in the power grid due to the switching off lights are “misplaced”. “The Indian electricity grid is robust and stable and adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle the variation in demand,” the release read.The advisory added that the call to switch off lights is a voluntary one which does not apply to street lights or appliances like computers, TVs, fans, refrigerators and ACs in the homes. “Only lights should be switched off,” the advisory stated. ‘Switch off lights, light candles at 9 pm on Sunday’: PM Modi’s message amid lockdown l Full speech It further said that the lights in hospitals and all other essential services like public utilities, municipal services, offices, police stations, manufacturing facilities, etc will remain on. The call is only applicable to residences, the ministry clarified. “All local bodies have been advised to keep the street lights on for public safety,” it stated.On Friday morning, the Prime Minister released a video message and urged all countrymen to switch off their lights for 9 minutes at 9 pm on April 5. He urged all citizens to light diyas, candles or flash the light of their phones as a sign of solidarity in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.“I want nine minutes of your time on April 5 at 9 pm. Switch off all the lights of your homes and stand with candles, diyas, torches or flashlights of your mobile phone for nine minutes,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-government-says-pm-s-call-to-switch-off-lights-only-for-residences/story-FDRRlBL1eUf7wqcxRZygeI.html
04-04-2020||India||Current Covid-19 spread mimics H1N1 pandemic of 2009: Govt document||The current geographic distribution of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has a strikingly similar pattern with the H1N1 pandemic influenza in 2009, according to the containment plan released by the government on Saturday to prevent an upsurge of the viral outbreak across hotspots in the country.The plan suggests that even though the spread of the viral outbreak among the population could be high, it’s unlikely that it will affect all parts of the country in a uniform manner.India is experiencing a large-scale outbreak that “calls for a differential approach to different regions of the country while mounting a strong containment effort in hotspots”, said the document released by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Also read: Govt puts curbs on exports of diagnostic kits with immediate effect“The objective of this containment plan is to stop the chain of transmission and reducing the morbidity and mortality due to Covid-19,” it said.Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and Uttar Pradesh are among the states that have reported a large number of cases to date.Clusters or hotspots that require aggressive containment strategies such as door-to-door screening, random testing and complete restriction of the movement are being carried out in states such as Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab, Karnataka, Telangana, and the Union Territory of Ladakh.Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from at least 211 districts across the country and the risk of further spread is rather high, warned the document.Also read: 800-plus foreign Jamaat workers found hiding in Delhi mosques, trigger Covid-19 alarmIt was observed during the H1N1 Influenza pandemic in 2009 that big cities with a substantive population movement reported a large number of cases, but rural areas and smaller towns with low population densities and relatively poor road, rail, and air connectivity recorded much fewer cases. Large-scale measures to contain Covid-19 over large territories have been tried in China. Mathematical modeling studies have suggested that containment might be possible especially when other public health interventions are combined with an effective social distancing strategy.“The large outbreak in India is still amenable to containment. All states have put in place aggressive containment measures. Besides, we haven’t reached that stage where the outbreak is uncontrolled,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity. The technical experts dealing with containment measures have framed five specific targets such as travel-related cases, local transmission, large outbreaks amenable to containment, widespread community transmission and the country becoming endemic to Covid-19, and plan to focus on them from now on.The states are managing clusters by extensive contact tracing for Covid-19 positive cases within the containment zone, testing all suspects and their high-risk contacts, isolating all suspected and confirmed cases, providing medical care, quarantining contacts, implementing social distancing measures and intensive risk communication. Geographic quarantine strategy is being implemented with a complete ban on the movement of people to and from a relatively large defined geographic area, where a single large cluster or multiple clusters have been reported. Such containment measures have been put to use in Delhi’s Dilshad Garden and Nizamuddin areas, Rajathan’s Bhilwara, Agra, Mumbai’s Dharavi slums and Kerala’s Kasaragod and Pathanamthitta districts.“This is what’s being done on the ground from where a large number of Covid-19 positive cases have been reported. Most of these can be traced back to patients who have had an international travel history. The percentage where the contacts haven’t been traced yet to too insignificant to cause any panic,” the official added.The testing criteria, however, remains the same.All symptomatic, individuals who have undertaken international travel in the past 14 days, all symptomatic contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases, all symptomatic healthcare workers, all hospitalised patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case should be tested once between day five and 14 of coming in contact. The testing will continue for 14 days from the date the last confirmed case is declared negative by a laboratory test, the document said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/current-covid-19-spread-mimics-h1n1-pandemic-of-2009-govt-document/story-2gnbiczHs1KMqbMoF5SMzL.html
04-04-2020||India||Give more financial aid to states to combat coronavirus outbreak: Cong to Centre||The Congress on Saturday appealed to the central government to empower states in their fight against coronavirus by providing them with more finances and resources.Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said the Centre should also take state governments on board while evolving strategies to fight the deadly disease. “We have talked about cooperative federalism. Time has come that we should walk the talk. The Centre should take the states together with it, empower them by providing them with more finances and resources. It is only when the states are capable and when the Centre has decentralised, that we can win this war against coronavirus,” she said. Addressing a press conference via video, she said states are at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus, while implementing and executing various policies on the ground. The Congress leader said the Centre should provide Rs one lakh crore to states to fight Covid-19, besides releasing pending GST dues of Rs 42,000 crore to state governments with immediate effect. “The states at this time are facing the biggest financial crisis in fighting the virus. The central government should provide a Rs 1 lakh crore package for states to fight Covid-19,” she told reporters. Shrinate said despite assurances, the GST revenue that was to be compensated to states by the central government had not been done. She also raised the demand for providing loans to states at zero per cent interest and urged the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to enable such facilities in consultation with the central government. The Congress spokesperson said states, unlike the central government, do not have enough capital and financial resources at their disposal. A demand to allow trucks carrying essential commodities, stranded at state borders, was also made to help maintain the supply chain in the country which is giving rise to their shortage and consequent price rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-more-financial-aid-to-states-to-combat-coronavirus-outbreak-cong-to-centre/story-QLwAcZOar2S8pZquIZtF9M.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Maharashtra lockdown extension after April 14 depends on people, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Saturday the decision to extend the lockdown in the state, which will end on April 14, depends on people.Uddhav Thackeray’s comment on the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi comes after Rajesh Tope, the state’s health minister, said Maharashtra is likely to extend the lockdown beyond April 14.Rajesh Tope had said Mumbai and other urban areas could see the lockdown extension by two more weeks.Maharashtra is the country’s worst-affected state and reported 47 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, which has taken the number of coronavirus patients to 537.Mumbai has the highest number of Covid-19 patients in the western state, which saw its first case on March 9, and has reported at least 20 deaths.There are 28 Covid-19 patients in Mumbai, 15 in Thane district, two in Pune and one each in Amravati and Pimpri Chinchwad, officials said on Saturday.“The number of patients in the state is rising as we have strengthened our capacity and testing more people,” Thackeray said.The chief minister also asked people to limit their movement outside their houses. He said people should use a mask if they step out to buy essential commodities.Thackeray also asked those suffering with symptoms such as pneumonia, cough, cold and fever not to visit private doctor or hospital. Instead, he suggested, they could visit dedicated hospitals started by the state government to treat patients infected with Covid-19.No religious, political and sports event will be allowed in the state till further orders, he declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-maharashtra-lockdown-extension-after-april-14-depends-on-people-says-uddhav-thackeray/story-hvU1ytpyJBf5mklQR8CgqO.html
04-04-2020||India||How PM Modi turned railway coaches into Covid-19 isolation wards||The day India observed Janta curfew to prevent the coronavirus disease from taking hold, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked Railways Minister Piyush Goyal to think about how India could use the railways to not just treat patients but also get them to speciality hospitals. This was on March 22. The lockdown came 2 days later. PM Modi had been thinking five steps ahead.His key concern at this discussion was how to contain the Covid-19 spread in case the virus spread to rural communities with hardly any serious hospital infrastructure to treat respiratory distress.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThis was long before tens of thousands of migrant workers in Delhi and other cities of the country violated the national lockdown to head back home, sparking fears that they might end up spreading the unsparing Sars-CoV-2 pathogen into rural communities.PM Modi had figured it was inevitable that there would always be people who, despite the government’s best efforts, would not adhere to the lockdown. And the government should be prepared. It was at this discussion that the idea of turning railway coaches into isolation wards crystallised.These coaches, or mobile isolation wards, could be used to reach most parts of the country in case of a spurt of patients from any particular pocket. The railways has over 7,300 stations across the 700-plus districts in the country. That also means that a railway station would, on average, be closer than a locality’s district headquarters. “That is the reach of the railways that this idea seeks to leverage,” a top railways ministry official said.Also read: 800-plus foreign Jamaat workers found hiding in Delhi mosques, trigger Covid-19 alarmThe prototype of the railway isolation ward was ready in just a few days. It was innovative and easy to implement.Each carriage could hold 16 beds with some basic modifications. In phase one, the 16 zonal railways have started converting 5,000 coaches with 80,000 beds across the country. Like the Southern Railways that has been told to convert 573 coaches.In all, a total of 20,000 such coaches with 3.2 lakh beds have been identified for conversion, should the need arise.The government has also been also using the railways to carry trucks as an expansion of the existing Roll On-Roll Off (RO-RO) services to reach essential communities to remote areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-before-the-lockdown-pm-modi-had-rural-covid-19-containment-plan-ready/story-4UMGWTAKDr9dtRPRriWvQK.html
04-04-2020||India||No post lockdown resumption of passenger services announced: Railways||The Ministry of Railways on Saturday said it hasn’t yet issued any plan on the resumption of services after the 21-day coronavirus lockdown comes to an end. The ministry, in a tweet, said that all concerned would be informed about updates regarding the same.“Certain media reports have come on a post lockdown “restoration plan” with train details, frequency etc. It is to clarify that no such plan regarding the resumption of passenger services has been issued. All concerned would be duly informed about any further decision in this regard,” the tweet read. Certain media reports have come on a post lockdown "restoration plan" with train details,frequency etc. It is to clarify that no such plan regarding the resumption of passenger services has been issued.All concerned would be duly informed about any further decision in this regardThe ministry, however, started operating parcel trains to carry milk, essential commodities, fast moving consumer goods. Two such parcel trains carrying essential commodities including rice and wheat arrived in Nagpur from Uttar Pradesh on earlier this week. The railways ministry has asked Western Railway to operate parcel trains between New Delhi and Mumbai if required.Earlier in the day, the government issued an order putting curbs on export of diagnostic kits with immediate effect.“The export of diagnostic kits (diagnostic or laboratory reagents on a backing, preparation diagnostic or laboratory reagents)... is restricted with immediate effect,” the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) said in a notification.The number of coronavirus patients in the count has gone up to near the 3,000 mark. On Saturday, the Minister of Health said that there are 2,950 Covid-19 cases in the country including 2,650 active cases, 183 recovered patients and 68 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-post-lockdown-resumption-of-passenger-services-announced-railways/story-V3FuMzQFYdVVpXzp3VRQMJ.html
04-04-2020||India||What PM Modi’s call for switching off lights means for the grid||Power grid managers have said they are gearing up for ensuring grid stability after Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave a call to citizens all across the country to switch off their lights for nine minutes at 9pm on Sunday, April 5.“Please switch off the lights of your house — and then either at the door, or in the balcony of your house, please light a candle, a diya, or flash the mobile phone light. That light will show that no one is alone,” the Prime Minister said in a video message on Friday morning.Modi also emphasised that no one should gather outside or go out on the streets and end up undermining the norm of social distancing.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageWhat’s the concern?Prime Minister’s call to switch off lights could lead to power fluctuation on the grid, which has already seen an unprecedented dip in demand during the lockdown period since March 25.A sudden change in grid frequency could lead to a potential power blackout with a dip of 30% in demand for power due to the absence of commercial activity in the wake of the 21-day lockdown across the country.The Union power ministry’s data for April 2 show that peak demand stood at 125.8 GW amid the lockdown to contain the Covid-19 outbreak or 25% lower than 168.3 GW for the same day last year.Experts have also warned about the possible adverse impact of millions of households switching off, and then switching on, lights on Sunday night almost simultaneously.“This is absolutely unprecedented. If this is effectively implemented, then we are looking at an impact of 10-15GW of load going down and coming back again which will have a very severe impact on the grid. I am not aware of any event before leading to such a sharp fluctuation before,” Vinay Rustagi, managing director at renewable energy consultancy Bridge to India Energy Private Limited, said. Rustagi said it will need careful management and replanting. “They will have to judicially use hydro and gas power plants to come back and curtail risk,” he added.What does the power ministry say?The Union power ministry has pointed out that the Prime Minister’s has appealed people to just switch off lights in their houses.The minister said apprehensions that the nine-minute exercise may cause instability in the grid and fluctuation in voltage which may harm the electrical appliances are misplaced.“The Indian electricity grid is robust and stable and adequate arrangements and protocols are in place to handle the variation in demand,” it said.Street lights or appliances like computers, televisions, fans, refrigerators and ACs in homes will run, as usual, it said.“The lights in hospitals and all other essential services like public utilities, municipal services, offices, police stations, manufacturing facilities, etc will remain on. The call given by Hon’ble PM is to just switch off lights in residences. All local bodies have been advised to keep the street lights on for public safety,” it said.What are the authorities doing?Union power ministry officials have said they are confident of managing the situation on Sunday night.Union power minister RK Singh and senior officials from Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL) and grid operator POSOCO National Load Despatch Centre have met to thrash out a plan to deal with the situation.“The minister discussed the issue with PGCIL and load dispatcher in the meeting. Since we are in an unprecedented situation with low demand during the lockdown, we are closely monitoring the health of the grid. They have said they are confident of managing the grid stability for the event and have been told to ensure blackout doesn’t occur,” a senior official said requesting anonymity.“We are making arrangements since the event is known to us in advance. The current peak load of the country stands at around 120GW; of this domestic household lighting comprises of 12-15 GW and we will need to manage and monitor this 15GW of fluctuation,” a second government official said.Several states are also preparing to ensure there is no pressure on the grid during that nine-minute period throughout the country.Grid managers in states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh though their respective state load despatch centres (SLDCs) are preparing for sudden dip and surge in their power grids. They have issued advisories to their respective electricity boards.Reports said Uttar Pradesh’s load despatch centre has predicted that there will be a 3000MW sharp load reduction in the state starting 9pm on Sunday. It has suggested load shedding operations could be started in a staggered manner at 8pm on Sunday and keep generation at a technical minimum, according to reports.This will be ramped back up after the scheduled blackout after nine miniutes. Has this happened before?India had witnessed severe power outages due to the collapse of northern and eastern electricity transmission grid in July 2012.“This is unlike the blackout of 2012 which resulted in the failure of the grid. Since they know the exact timing, it will be easy to manage the grid,” an industry expert said, according to news agency PTI.“Moreover, only households will switch off the lights. However, other establishments and street lights will continue to draw electricity during that time,” the expert added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-call-for-switching-off-lights-what-it-really-means-for-the-grid/story-wws8XsGcyTnXzdDY2IuwbJ.html
04-04-2020||India||Mumbai: Shivaji Park resident with no travel history tests Covid-19 positive||A 60-year-old resident of Shivaji Park in Mumbai’s Dadar with no travel history tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday. This is the first Covid-19 case reported from Dadar. The patient has been admitted to PD Hinduja National Hospital and Medical Research Centre. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities are tracing the patient’s contacts. The civic authorities have sealed the building and a sanitisation drive of the premises is going on. The residents of the building have been home quarantined. They have been directed not to move out of their homes until the test results of the patient’s high-risk contacts are available. Maharashtra reported 490 Covid-19 positive cases, including 74 new ones, and 26 deaths till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-shivaji-park-resident-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-y6XomD7lZXebu2HejU5hQM.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Cloth, scissors, sewing machine - Govt’s DIY guide on making masks at home||The Ministry of Health and Family Affairs on Saturday issued an advisory on homemade protective covers and face mask.In an easy guide, the ministry’s manual explained who all can use the homemade protective masks and ways to easily make them at home in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.In the advisory, the government said that the use of masks will help in protecting the community at large from coronavirus.“Certain countries have claimed benefits of homemade face cover for the general public. Such homemade face cover is a good method for maintaining personal hygiene. Such usage certainly will help in maintaining overall hygienic health conditions,” the advisory read.As per the manual, those who aren’t suffering from any medical condition or don’t have any breathing difficulty may use homemade face covers and masks, especially while stepping out. #IndiaFightsCoronavirus :The Advisory and Manual Use of Homemade Protective Cover for Face and Mask can be seen at:https://t.co/Dj8ojLRfXQ@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIBFactCheck @COVIDNewsByMIB @MIB_India @DDNewslive @airnewsalerts @IndiaDST @PTI_NewsThese masks and face covers are not recommended for Covid-19 patients or those involved in their care including healthcare workers and medical professionals.The government recommends making two sets of these covers and masks so that while one is in use, the other can be washed.“These face covers could be made out of clean cloth available at home, which needs to be thoroughly cleaned and washed before a face cover is stitched/made. The face cover should be prepared in such a manner that it can cover the mouth and nose completely and can be tied over the face easily,” the advisory read.The manual also lays down steps to make these face covers and masks at home using just clean strips of cloth and a sewing machine.Another annexure shows how a handkerchief and a couple of elastic bands can be used to make a temporary face cover. On Saturday, the health ministry updated the number of Covid-19 cases in the country to 2,902 including 2,650 active cases, 183 patients who have recovered and 68 fatalities. The country entered the eleventh of the 3-week coronavirus lockdown on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cloth-scissors-sewing-machine-govt-issues-manual-on-making-masks-at-home/story-JBL5ilrO3k211NIFDb6h4O.html
04-04-2020||India||Latest coronavirus updates in Maharashtra: With 47 new cases, state now has 537 Covid-19 patients||Maharashtra’s health department on Saturday reported 47 new cases of Covid-19, including 28 from Mumbai, and said the number of coronavirus disease patients has risen to 537 in the state.Among the rest of Covid-19 patients, 15 are in Thane district, two in Pune and one each in Amravati and Pimpri Chinchwad, officials said.Mumbai has once again emerged as the worst affected by the coronavirus disease in the western state, which saw its first case on March 9, and reported at least 20 deaths.The city’s administration has deployed 474 teams across 241 containment zones and checked at least 900,000 people as part of its plan to stop the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus through human-to-human contact. A team, with two or three staff from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has to identify a containment zone, where at least one person has tested positive for Covid-19. They have to conduct door-to-door surveys and get a questionnaire answered by all residents of that zone. The Covid-19 patient’s family and the building are identified as a cluster zone and at least four to five adjoining buildings on all sides are mapped in the containment zone, depending on the area’s population density. The greater the population density, the wider the radius of containment zone, a BMC health official said on Friday.Also read: Coronavirus can spread through just breathing, talking, say scientistsAccording to BMC protocol, the family and immediate neighbours of positive patients are tested, as they are considered high risk. Other residents of the building are considered low risk and are simply asked to be in home quarantine. They are also asked to keep a tab on emerging symptoms. Residents of adjoining buildings in the containment zone are also surveyed. Entry and exit from a containment zone is restricted and severe lockdown protocols are put in place.Across all other districts in Maharashtra, however, clusters are identified only if at least three persons are found to be Covid-19 positive in the area. Following that, an area of 3 sq km is screened.Maharashtra is also tracing the members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who attended an event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz in March.The state government has been able to contact 1033 people out of 1225 who went to Nizamuddin Markaz and put 738 in government quarantine facilities.Maharashtra on Friday traced seven people—two each in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Ahmednagar and one in Hingoli district—who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event and have tested positive.Maharashtra government has also said it may not end the lockdown on April 14, when the nationwide restrictions announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi are set to be lifted. Rajesh Tope, the state’s health minister, has said the government is likely to extend the lockdown by a couple of more weeks, especially in Mumbai and other urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-47-new-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-now-has-537-coronavirus-patients/story-Qg8wzTKpWDfIz90SdPEOOP.html
04-04-2020||India||Woman dies of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad; Gujarat death toll rises to 10||A woman, who had contracted Covid-19, has died in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad, taking the death toll because of the coronavirus disease in the state to 10, reports said on Saturday.Ten more people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Gujarat, which now has 105 patients of the respiratory illness, news agency ANI said.A man from Bhavnagar, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, is also among the dead in the state.News agency PTI said police have traced 19 more people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in March. Shivanand Jha, the director-general of police, said all the 19 are residents of Ahmedabad city and have been sent to quarantine facilities.Also read: What you need to know todayOf the 103 Tablighi Jamaat members identified and quarantined so far, 57 are from Ahmedabad, 20 from Bhavnagar, 12 from Mehsana, eight from Surat, four from Botad and two from Navsari. Police are searching for others from the state who might have attended the gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz last month but did not disclose it to authorities, Jha said.One of the Tablighi Jamaat participants traced in the state on Friday has already been diagnosed as coronavirus positive and admitted to a hospital in Ahmedabad, Jha said.The congregation in the Nizamuddin area of Delhi has become a hotspot of the coronavirus infection.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-ahmedabad-gujarat-death-toll-rises-to-10/story-Sb7JDr0sjPm6wxjRlXZ7jI.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Karnataka CM tells employers not to cut salaries||Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday requested employers not to cut the salaries of their employees amid the Covid-19 lockdown“I request all the employers not to cut salaries of their maids, servants, drivers etc.. who are not able to work due to social distancing,” tweeted Yediyurappa.He said such a compassionate gesture will support the poor and needy to overcome this hard time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-karnataka-cm-tells-employers-not-to-cut-salaries/story-0CEsLGDaljMRHYnSdJbfiJ.html
04-04-2020||India||At least 10 infected with Covid-19 after attending mass feast in Madhya Pradesh||At least 10 people tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive after attending a mass feast in Morena—located about 465 kilometres north of Madhya Pradesh’s capital Bhopal—on March 20 amid fears of more likely to have been infected, district officials said.They contracted the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, from a man, who works as a waiter in Dubai, said officials in Morena.The waiter and his wife were the first to test Covid-19 positive on Thursday after the mass feast, which was organised on March 20 because of his mother’s death. He returned home from Dubai on March 17 and organised the feast three days later, as part of the rituals of the shraddh ceremony. Up to 8,00 people are believed to have attended the feast, including his relatives, the officials said.Though he had developed Covid-19 symptoms after he returned from Dubai he still visited his relatives and acquaintances’ houses to invite them for the feast in line with prevailing customs.On March 25, he and his wife visited the hospital but were admitted four days later after their condition worsened.Initially, the couple was quarantined and they tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday. Then, 10 others, who attended the feast, also tested positive. They include the waiter’s brother, his wife, their son and daughter-in-law and their two children—a six-month-old baby and a three-year-old toddler. The other four persons are from the waiter’s sister’s family.“Out of the 32 swab samples sent for Covid-19 test, 12 were found positive. All of them are undergoing treatment in hospital. We’ve put 33 people under quarantine,” said RC Bandil, chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Morena.“The number of fresh Covid-19 positive cases is likely to be much higher. We’re trying to contact each and every person who attended the feast, or those who’re invited by the waiter in person but couldn’t attend the function. It’s quite difficult to trace all those who attended the feast, or he had invited for the occasion because many of them have returned to their respective native places. Besides, people aren’t volunteering with information as they’re scared of being admitted to hospital,” said an administrative officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-10-infected-with-covid-19-after-attending-mass-feast-in-madhya-pradesh/story-iscuXnh2EriZm4esc1nSrJ.html
04-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1 pm: Covid-19 statewise tally: Tamil Nadu, Delhi outnumber coronavirus cases in Kerala and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 statewise tally: Tamil Nadu, Delhi outnumber coronavirus cases in KeralaIndia on Saturday entered the eleventh of the 3-week coronavirus lockdown. On Saturday, the health ministry updated the number of Covid-19 cases in the country to 2,902 including 2,650 active cases, 183 patients who have recovered and 68 fatalities. Read more259 of 386 Covid-19 cases in national capital have Markaz link: Delhi health ministerDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said that as many as 386 people have been tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi of which 259 are from Markaz in Nizamuddin. Read moreOdisha CM urges Jamaat attendees to come forward and get tested for Covid-19A day after Odisha recorded a four-fold jump in COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday appealed to all who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin to come forward and get tested for coronavirus. Read moreSelf-care during quarantine is important for a healthy mind and body, here are a few tipsThese are unprecedented times. While we all battle our inner conflicts and the invisible beast that is claiming precious lives around the world, we are left with no choice to stay home and stay apart to beat the coronavirus pandemic. Read more‘He was magic’: Rohit Sharma picks best coach he has played underTeam India opener Rohit Sharma has named former Australia captain Ricky Ponting to be the best coach he has played under. In 2013, Ponting was captain of Mumbai Indians, but he stepped aside after half way through the season and this gave Rohit the opportunity to take the mantle forward. Read moreSaif Ali Khan says mom Sharmila Tagore lockdown attitude scares him: ‘She is suddenly saying she has had full life, no regrets’Actor Saif Ali Khan is in self-isolation with actor wife Kareena Kapoor Khan and their son Taimur at their Mumbai residence. He is away from his mother and veteran actor Sharmila Tagore, who lives in Delhi. Read moreThis app is helping Bengaluru locate essential supplies amid lockdownWith the 21-day Covid lockdown disrupting supply chain since March 25, a city-based techie developed an application (app) to enable the people locate essential supplies in the neighbourhood. Read moreThis sneaky doggo’s acting may remind you of your teenage years. WatchSome of you may remember being a teen and doing a few things you weren’t meant to be at those late-night hours. You may also remember how your heart would beat faster and how your palms would get clammy when that doorknob softly turned to announce the unexpected arrival of a parent. This doggo is feeling exactly that emotion and has the swiftest reaction to this intruder. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-covid-19-statewise-tally-tamil-nadu-delhi-outnumber-coronavirus-cases-in-kerala-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-0yk8v1VXrR9ChKCgErjMdL.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus crisis: Govt puts curbs on exports of diagnostic kits with immediate effect||In the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the government on Saturday put curbs on export of diagnostic kits with immediate effect.“The export of diagnostic kits (diagnostic or laboratory reagents on a backing, preparation diagnostic or laboratory reagents)... is restricted with immediate effect,” the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) said in a notification.The move would help in dealing with the Covid-19 crisis as these kits are required for testing of patients.This comes as the number of Covid-19 cases in the country near 3,000 with 2,650 active cases, 183 recovered patients and 68 fatalities.The government is also trying to bolster the healthcare infrastructure to manage the coronavirus crisis and increase the number of protective equipment and essentials to facilitate the fight against Covid-19.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said that the national capital is facing a shortage of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). “We have only 7000-8000 PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) kits left in our stock which will last 2-3 days. We’ve demanded 50,000 PPE kits on an urgent basis,” the minister told news agency ANI.The national capital is now the third most affected in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu with 386 cases.Delhi health minister said that of the total number of coronavirus patients in the national capital, over 250 people have links with the Markaz in Nizamuddin.   City’s Lok Nayak Jay Prakash and GB Pant Hospital will be converted into dedicated Covid-19 management center from Monday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-crisis-govt-puts-curbs-on-exports-of-diagnostic-kits-with-immediate-effect/story-L0a0cQ9fgj3OhLRSt6S0mJ.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown: Deve Gowda appeals to PM Modi to look into issues of farmers, labourers||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to look into the plight of farmers, labourers and the middle class people as the impact of the 21-day nationwide lockdown has been the most on them. “In such times of crisis, we should see to it that there is no disruption in farming activities by ensuring proper marketing channels to agricultural produce, especially perishables. Only then we can sustain our long battle against this pandemic,” Gowda tweeted. In another tweet, he said, “The savings of daily wage labourers and the middle class is deteriorating day by day. Some are not able to afford even essentials for their survival. I request Hon’ble PM to look into this situation with utmost urgency”. The former prime minister also drew the attention of “overcrowding” at the isolation centres. “There is an immediate need to increase ‘testing’ for #COVID19. Increased testing will avoid overcrowding of Government isolation centers,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-deve-gowda-appeals-to-pm-modi-to-look-into-issues-of-farmers-labourers/story-W5JVJnybW1b0gS6ZhwIH2L.html
04-04-2020||India||259 of 386 Covid-19 cases in national capital have Markaz link: Delhi health minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said that as many as 386 people have been tested positive for coronavirus in Delhi of which 259 are from Markaz in Nizamuddin.Jain said that the administration has quarantined around 600 people associated with the Markaz in the past two days.“We are trying to trace all contacts,” the minister added.Jain also talked about the shortage of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).“We have only 7000-8000 PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) kits left in our stock which will last 2-3 days. We’ve demanded 50,000 PPE kits on an urgent basis,” the minister told news agency ANI.Till now, there are 386 Coronavirus positive patients incl 259 from Markaz Nizamuddin; We have only 7000-8000 PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) kits left in our stock which will last 2-3 days. We've demanded 50,000 PPE kits on urgent basis: Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain pic.twitter.com/u82icGZh0UThe number of positive Covid-19 cases in the national capital is third highest in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.On Saturday, the Ministry of Health updated the Covid-19 cases in the country to 2,902 including 2,650 active cases, 183 patients who have recovered and 68 fatalities. With 423 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. Tamil Nadu has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country with 411 patients.The coronavirus pandemic has infected over a million people across the globe and has claimed nearly 60,000 lives.While the original epicentre, China, is slowly limping back to recovery, the virus continues to wreak havoc in Europe and in the United States. On Saturday, China mourned those in the country who lost their lives in the battle against coronavirus. The country observed a nationwide three-minute silence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/259-of-386-covid-19-cases-in-national-capital-have-markaz-link-delhi-health-minister/story-DudiEj4puqlAfXT432vXhL.html
04-04-2020||India||Delhi hospital staff come in contact with 2 Covid-19 patients,108 quarantined||More than 100 members, including doctors and nurses, of Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital have been quarantined after they came in contact with two people, who tested positive in their second test for Covid-19. A spokesperson of the hospital said of the 108 members, 85 have been placed under home quarantine and 23 are in the hospital.The spokesperson said that two patients came to the hospital’s fever clinic, with no other symptoms, about three to four days ago.“As per hospital policy all fever cases are being referred for Covid-19 testing. After their reports returned positive for Covid-19, the hospital has quarantined everyone who came in contact with them,” the official said.“One hundred and eight staffers in all, 23 of them who were in direct contact have been quarantined in hospital, and the rest have been placed under home quarantine, as a measure of abundant precaution”.The spokesperson added that one of them had to be taken to the intensive care unit (ICU) and that a lot of staff who came in contact with the Covid-19 patients did not have personal protection equipment (PPE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sir-ganga-ram-hospital-staff-come-in-contact-with-2-covid-19-patients-108-quarantined/story-OnA0BfcY1lSR5hOIT6jqEK.html
04-04-2020||India||Odisha CM urges Jamaat attendees to come forward and get tested for Covid-19||A day after Odisha recorded a four-fold jump in COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday appealed to all who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin to come forward and get tested for coronavirus.“Corona is currently the biggest threat to the human race and to beat it we all need to come together to beat it,” said Patnaik in a written appeal, urging those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation to come forward for testing for Coronavirus within next 24 hours. “Only through awareness we can break the chain of coronavirus. While there is no need to panic but we do need to be careful. Your cooperation will for the betterment of your own family and the human race.”“I request all the persons from Odisha who attended the event in Nizamuddin to immediately contact toll-free number 104, consult doctors and come forward for corona test within 24 hours,” he added.The government has so far identified 68 persons from Odisha who had attended the congregation at Nizamuddin of which 28 returned while another 40 are still in quarantine in States like Bengal, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat. But government officials believe the numbers may be more as some of them may have clammed up fearing social ostracization. Odisha has so far had 20 confirmed Covid-19 patients of whom two have been cured and discharged from hospital. Of the 18 active cases, three had attended the Nizamuddin event. State capital Bhubaneswar accounted for 14 of the total cases, making the state capital virtually a hot spot for the disease in the state. Three cases were reported from Bhadrak district and one each from Cuttack, Jajpur and Puri, officials said.On Friday, the state government sealed the entry and exit points of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak and asked people to remain indoors till Sunday night to contain the spread of the virus. The government also warned people of forced quarantine if they came out on the roads defying the shutdown orders. On Saturday, the government sealed off Brahmabarada village in Jajpur district where a world religious conference was held between February 29 and March 3.Officials said Maulana Muhammad Saad Kandhalvi, the national chief of Tablighi Jamaat (now untraceable) had visited Brahmabarada village in Jajpur district of Odisha along with 40 others from Nizamuddin between February 29 and March 3 to address a Biswa Ijtema (religious gathering). The meeting was attended by at least 50 jamaats from different states of the country.With inputs from agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-urges-jamaat-attendees-to-come-forward-and-get-tested-for-covid-19/story-Q7OHcazUty1rUajYaCHcVL.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: BMC allocates Covid-19 hospitals for elderly, vulnerable||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has earmarked several hospitals in Mumbai for the admission and treatment of people vulnerable to Covid-19, including the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions.Mumbai has the highest number of coronavirus disease patients in Maharashtra, which is the worst-affected state in the country. On Friday, 67 new cases were reported taking the number of Covid-19 patients in the state to 490 and deaths to 26.Among the new cases, 43 are from Mumbai, 10 from Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), 9 from Pune, 6 from Ahmednagar, and 1 each from Ratnagiri and Washim. In a standard operating procedure issued on Friday, BMC said the allotted hospitals have the “necessary manpower and infrastructure” to manage Covid-19 patients.“Symptomatic positive patients and referred patients will be shifted admitted to Covid-19 hospitals. Kasturba Hospital, St George Hospital, Seven Hills Hospital, Nanavati Hospital and Saifee Hospital,” it said in a circular on Friday.It also said that those below 60 years of age and are asymptomatic will be taken to six isolation centres. These include the Nagpada Maternity Home STD Clinic building, Maternity Home behind Lilavati Hospital, PWD Guest House in Andheri (West), Diagnostic Centre at Punjab Galli, MCGM Centre for Municipal Capacity Building and Research (MCMCR) in Powai, Urban Health Centre Shivaji Nagar and Mahatma Gandhi Hall Opposite Bandra Talav.“The isolation centres will be managed a doctor and para-medical staff… A police personnel will be available for providing security,” it said.State health minister Rajesh Tope said Maharashtra is likely to extend the lockdown beyond April 14, especially in Mumbai and other urban areas by two more weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-bmc-allocates-covid-19-hospitals-for-elderly-vulnerable/story-unC5BL6mFDxbT4FB3pDo8K.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19 statewise tally: Tamil Nadu, Delhi outnumber coronavirus cases in Kerala||India on Saturday entered the eleventh of the 3-week coronavirus lockdown. On Saturday, the health ministry updated the number of Covid-19 cases in the country to 2,902 including 2,650 active cases, 183 patients who have recovered and 68 fatalities. Maharashtra continues to be on the top of the coronavirus tally with over 400 active cases. The national capital saw a dramatic rise in Covid-19 cases and now stands with over 350 cases outnumbering Kerala. Here’s the statewise breakup of coronavirus cases in the country. MaharashtraWith 423 Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 19 deaths so far while 42 patients have recovered.Tamil NaduIn a dramatic turn of events, the southern state has seen a rapid rise in the Covid-19 cases which now stand at a whopping 411 - second highest in the country. Tamil Nadu has seen six recoveries and one Covid-19 death.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 386 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. Six people have died from the infection while eight people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.KeralaWith 295 coronavirus cases, Kerala is the fourth most coronavirus-affected state in the country. As per the latest data by the Ministry of Health, Kerala has witnessed two deaths due to Covid-19 while 41 people have successfully recovered.RajasthanThe state has 179 positive cases of coronavirus with no reported cases of fatalities. Three patients have recovered from the infection.Uttar Pradesh174 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 19 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, two have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed a sudden spike in its Covid-19 cases. 161 positive Covid-19 patients have been reported in the state and one case of recovery. One person has died.Telangana158 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. One person has made a recovery from the virus while seven people have died from Covid-19.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 128 Covid-19 cases and three deaths. 12 people have been cured and discharged.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 104 positive cases of coronavirus. Six people have died from Covid-19 here.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 95 coronavirus cases and 0 recoveries so far. Nine people have died from the infection in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 75. Two people have died from the infection while three were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 49 and 53 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 5 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen no deaths. Twenty four people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, one in Punjab.Sixty three people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been three deaths and three recoveries in the state. In Chandigarh, 18 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease. Andaman has recorded 10 coronavirus cases. Chhattisgarh has recorded nine cases of coronavirus, and three people have recovered. In Bihar, 29 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died.Uttarakhand has 16 coronavirus patients, two patients have recovered from the infection. Goa has reported six cases of Covid-19 disease. Himachal Pradesh has six cases, one patient has died and one has recovered. Odisha has five Covid-19 positive patients and Pondicherry has reported five cases, one has recovered.States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram.India is under a 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown announced by PM Modi to break the chain of Covid-19 infection in the country. In a video message released on Friday, the Prime Minister appreciated the discipline shown by the citizens during the lockdown. The 21-day lockdown will end on April 14.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-statewise-tally-tamil-nadu-delhi-outnumber-coronavirus-cases-in-kerala/story-0REvFXBAGiRcbCwwrpLsoJ.html
04-04-2020||India||2 days after Padma Shri awardee Bhai Nirmal Singh’s death, daughter tests positive for coronavirus||The 35-year-old daughter of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa (67), a Padma Shri awardee and the former hazoori ragi of Harmandar Sahib, or the Golden Temple, in Amritsar, tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive on Saturday morning, two days after the Sikh spiritual singer died of the viral infection. She is undergoing treatment at an isolation ward in Jalandhar’s Civil Hospital.The daughter, a resident of Lohian Khas under Shahkot sub-division in Jalandhar district, came in contact with her father after he had contracted the SARS-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19. The Sikh spiritual singer, who tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday and days after returning from abroad, died the following day.Punjab special chief secretary Karanbir Singh Sidhu tweeted that the late Khalsa’s daughter has tested Covid-19 positive, but the state health department is yet to make any formal announcement. Earlier on Friday, two more close contacts of the deceased spiritual singer tested Covid-19 positive, including his US-returned aunt and another ragi. The infected ragi recently accompanied Khalsa to Chandigarh for a religious congregation. Several others who recently met the late Khalsa, including reputed environmentalist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal and 16 others, have tested Covid-19 negative. They had met Khalsa at Lohian Khas on March 12, where Seechewal and the local residents were performing desilting of the Satluj river.In Punjab’s Doaba region, which lies between Beas and Satluj rivers, 32 Covid-19 positive cases, including two deaths, have been reported so far.Punjab has reported 59 Covid-19 positive cases, including five deaths, to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhai-nirmal-singh-s-daughter-tests-positive-for-covid-19-state-tally-touches-59/story-MNwx3AFvJOhjWzC1kBoUmN.html
04-04-2020||India||India likely to release Covid-19 rapid testing guidelines today||New Delhi: The government is likely to release detailed guidelines on the use of point-of-care rapid antibody test (blood test) to diagnose the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The experts of the task force, created by the government to review the country’s Covid-19 test criteria, have been discussing the protocol for the past three days, including how to conduct the test in high-and-low-risk areas, hotspots, etc. Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, is presiding over the task force meetings.“The modalities need to thought through, as conducting rapid tests has its own set of pros and cons. All the parameters need to be considered before guidelines can be issued,” said a member of the taskforce, requesting anonymity.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex biomedical research organisation, on Thursday, had issued an interim advisory for the use of rapid antibody test for Covid-19 in light of the growing number of hotspots across India and sought to enforce preventive containment measures on an urgent basis.“The people living in hotspot areas may be tested using a rapid antibody test. Antibody positives to be confirmed by RT-PCR (real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, one of the most accurate laboratory methods for detecting, tracking, and studying Covid-19) using throat/nasal swab and antibody negatives to be quarantined at home,” said the ICMR advisory.“It is meant for getting quicker results when a larger number of people need to be tested. It will help in knowing the exact disease burden in a short span of time. However, we recommend confirmatory PCR-based test for all positive results,” said an ICMR official, who didn’t wish to be named.Initially, the ICMR had sent out an expression of interest in procuring one million anti-body testing kits from manufacturers across the globe but later revised the figure to 0.5 million because of an acute shortage of supply. The first shipment of these kits is expected to arrive by this weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-release-covid-19-rapid-testing-guidelines-today/story-ghru6D2NR5wZg6hzgcogbN.html
04-04-2020||India||Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine likely to begin human trials by July||Bharat Biotech, the country’s pandemic vaccine leader, is working on an intranasal vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) called “CoroFlu”.Bharat Biotech is collaborating with virologists at the University of Wisconsin–Madison and the vaccine company, FluGen, for the project.CoroFlu is in the animal testing phase in the US, and is expected to move to human trials in the next three months.“Bharat Biotech will manufacture the vaccine, conduct clinical trials, and prepare to produce almost 300 million doses of vaccine for global distribution. Under the collaboration agreement, FluGen will transfer its existing manufacturing processes to Bharat Biotech to enable the company to scale up production and produce the vaccine for clinical trials,” said Raches Ella, head, business development, Bharat Biotech.Bharat Biotech has commercialised 16 vaccines, including the one developed against the H1N1 flu that caused the 2009 pandemic.CoroFlu will build on the backbone of FluGen’s flu vaccine candidate known as M2SR, a novel live influenza vaccine that protects mice and ferrets against highly pathogenic avian influenza.Based on an invention by the University of Wisconsin­–Madison virologists and FluGen co-founders Yoshihiro Kawaoka and Gabriele Neumann, M2SR is a self-limiting version of the influenza virus that induces an immune response against the flu.Kawaoka’s lab will insert gene sequences from SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, into M2SR so that the new vaccine will also induce immunity against the coronavirus.Refinement of the CoroFlu vaccine concept and testing in laboratory animal models at the University of Wisconsin–Madison is expected to take up to months.“Bharat Biotech in Hyderabad will then begin production scale-up for safety and efficacy testing in humans. CoroFlu could be in human clinical trials by October,” said the company in a statement.“Four Phase-I and Phase-II clinical trials involving hundreds of subjects have shown the M2SR flu vaccine to be safe and well-tolerated. This safety profile, M2SR’s ability to induce a strong immune the response, and the ability of influenza viruses to carry sequences of other viruses make M2SR an attractive option for rapidly developing CoroFlu as a safe and effective SARS-CoV-2 vaccine,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-s-covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-begin-human-trials-by-july/story-6k6ynZAe1HjmYJgoJcOXUO.html
04-04-2020||India||60-year-old Covid-19 patient dies in Bikaner, 12 new cases in Rajasthan||A 60-year-old woman who was coronavirus positive, died in Bikaner on Saturday morning even as 12 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Rajasthan, eight of them were Tablighi Jamaat members. The cumulative positive cases in Rajasthan have now reached 191.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health department said the woman was admitted to the government hospital in Bikaner since the last four days and had no travel history.“The woman was handicapped and was on a ventilator. She died at 6 am today,” said Singh.Meanwhile, another eight Tablighi Jamaat members have tested positive, six in Jhunjhunu and two in Churu, said Singh.Two people tested positive in Banswara. The two were close contacts of a suspect patient who was screened positive but was now confirmed negative, Singh added.An OPD patient from the Bangar hospital in Bhilwara has also tested positive. Bangar hospital was the epicentre of the coronavirus spread in Bhilwara after two doctors who had symptoms of the Sars-Cov2 virus continued to work in the hospital for several days and, in the process, infected scores of staff and patients.The break-up of the 191 positive cases is as follows – total positive cases in the state are 121. Apart from this, two Italian nationals had tested positive, 41 Tablighi Jamaatis have tested positive and 27 evacuees from Iran, who are housed in the Army Wellness Centre in Jodhpur, have tested positive.The total samples received in the state are 8865 of which the total number of negative samples is 8390 while 311 are under process, said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-year-old-covid-19-patient-dies-in-bikaner-12-new-cases-in-rajasthan/story-iWbJi1G0FdbCkDaBhefx9N.html
04-04-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat members should be booked under NSA: Uttarakhand BJP legislator||A Bharatiya Janata Party legislator from Uttarakhand, Rajkumar Thukral, said on Friday members of the Tablighi Jamaat should be booked under the National Security Act (NSA) for allegedly spitting on doctors and misbehaving with nurses.Thukral is heard saying in a video, which went viral on social media, alleged that Tablighi Jamaat members are involved in spreading the coronavirus disease and making the country hollow from inside. He was reacting to reports that some Tablighi Jamaat members misbehaved with the nurses at a hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad when they taken for check-ups at city hospitals. The Uttar Pradesh government ordered booking of the offenders under the stringent National Security Act on Friday. “It is a conspiracy against our nation that Jamaatis are not only spreading the epidemic but also misbehaving with doctors and nurses in hospitals. The government should order to shoot them, they are behaving as anti-nationals. They are a big threat to our national security,” Thukral, a BJP legislator from Rudrapur area of Udham Singh Nagar, said.Opposition Congress said Thukral’s comments were an attempt of the BJP to “communalise the pandemic to hide its failures in handling it”.“Thukral’s statement is not the first one from a BJP leader. A few days ago, two of its MLAs called for social boycott of Muslims. This is clearly being done according to an agenda. They want to turn this pandemic into Hindu vs Muslim to hide the government’s failure to curb the pandemic,” Suryakant Dhasamana, Congress state vice-president, said.Thukral has been involved in many controversies over the years. In October last year, the BJP had sought an explanation from Thukral over his comments against Muslims in a video, which had surfaced on social media and gone viral. Thukral was allegedly seen in the video telling people at a public gathering in his constituency that he doesn’t need any Muslim votes and will never bow before any Muslim or a mosque. Thukral in his response had said the video was from October 2, 2011, and was shot after communal riots.In the same month, Thukral had sparked another controversy with his comments. He had called Sita ‘Meri Jaan’ on October 1 while playing the role of Ravana in a local Ramlila in Rudrapur. The video of the scene was widely circulated on social media, prompting the Uttarakhand unit of the Congress to attack the BJP and demand action against Thukral. Thukral had justified the dialogue, saying he was just playing the role of Ravana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-members-should-be-booked-under-nsa-uttarakhand-bjp-legislator/story-BToIFRrKSITGzxCiLUuFkN.html
04-04-2020||India||Biomedical waste from quarantine homes remain a potential hazard||Thousands of people across India, who are suspected of being potential carriers of the deadly coronavirus, have been advised by doctors to stay in home quarantine for 14 days. While some states have already set up a mechanism to collect the biomedical waste generated from these quarantined houses, others seem to be still lagging behind.The Central Pollution Control Board has tagged these wastes – masks and gloves - generated from quarantined homes as ‘domestic hazardous waste and has issued guidelines on how to handle them. But till date much of the biomedical waste are getting the same treatment as solid domestic waste instead of being treated at Common Bio-medical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facilities (CBWTF).This, experts say is dangerous as it further increase the risk of an outbreak as many people who were home quarantined were detected with the virus at a later stage. The CPCB’s guidelines say that such wastes should be collected from doorsteps in yellow bags which are to be provided by the authorities. The civic body should engage a dedicated team of trained workers equipped with protective gear for this door-step collection. The authorities need to maintain a list of such homes. In Himachal Pradesh, the Shimla Municipal Corporation (SMC) has set up a trained task force for door-to-door collection. They workers are provided with N95 masks and sanitizers.“The quarantine houses are informed before we go for collection. They are provided with yellow garbage bags, disinfectants and gloves. The garbage collector puts the yellow bag inside another bag which is sealed and sent for disposal,” said Surekha Cohpda district health officer.In Madhya Pradesh too the mechanism has been set up for home collection but sometime citizens raise objections when vehicles enter the locality to collect biomedical waste.“When we go for door-to-door collection with vehicles, some people raise objections. They fear that the vehicle may spread germs even though the entire process is done in a scientific manner,” said Deepak Shah, adviser to MP Nursing Home Association, which manages the biomedical incinerators.In West Bengal where more than 50,000 people have been presently kept under home quarantine, the mechanism for a proper home collection system seems to be lagging.“In West Bengal the mechanism to collect and dispose biomedical waste from hospitals is run by the health department. The civic bodies are no way associated with this,” said Subrata Gupta, secretary of urban development department.Even though top health officials including the secretary and the director of health services didn’t take calls, one of the CBWTFs said that the health department has not issued any directions of collection of biomedical waste from houses till date.“We have been asked to collect biomedical waste only from hospitals. We have not received any orders to collect such waste from door step or provide yellow bags to houses,” said Krishnendu Dutta, deputy general manager (operations) at Medicare Environmental Management which runs at least three facilities in West Bengal.In Bihar, even though officials claimed that that biomedical waste is being properly collected and disposed according to guidelines laid down by the government, an official of a waste disposal agency, not willing to be quoted, said there were many loopholes in disposal of waste generated from the home quarantine centres set up in villages.“Initially we faced some problem but now things have been streamlined,” said Krunesh Garg member secretary of Punjab Pollution Control Board, adding that the board has distributed double layered, yellow coloured bags for collection of waste and separate sanitation staff has been deputed for collections of the waste.In Rajasthan authorities are still trying to put the system in place. “The state pollution board will be collecting the data related to biomedical waste. The health and the local-self-government department have to share list of Covid19 related facilities by Saturday along with how much the biomedical waste is collected. We are bringing the system in place,” said Shailaja Deval, Member Secretary of the Rajastha pollution control board.Experts have raised doubts over what is happening on the ground and whether the guidelines of the CPCB and state pollution control boards are being properly implemented.“The guidelines seem good on paper. But I have serious doubts of what is happening on the ground. Instead of creating a separate team by ULBs for collection, which needs to be trained, the task of collection from houses should be handled by the CBWTFs. They have the expertise and were doing the job of collection and disposal of waste generated by hospitals. These biomedical waste generated at homes are no different. They have the same virus and could be a threat. It is just that the generation points have increased,” said Satish Sinha, associate director at Toxics Link, a NGO working on waste management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biomedical-waste-from-quarantine-homes-remain-a-potential-hazard/story-UQf4uYAFvz8tD6MKWLfQ3J.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Telangana reports 75 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deaths||Telangana reported two more deaths and 75 new cases of Covid-19, the highest in a day, on Friday, taking the number of fatalities to 11 and that of patients of the coronavirus disease to 229 in the state.According to the bulletin released by the state medical and health department, the two deaths were reported from Shadnagar in Mahabubnagar district and from Secunderabad.“As many as 75 fresh positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 229 so far. However, 32 of them, including 15 since morning, were discharged till now. As such, the actual number of Covid-19 patients presently undergoing treatment in the hospitals is 186,” the bulletin said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The bulletin, however, did not specify whether the two deaths and the new coronavirus disease cases had any links with the meeting of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi’s Nizamuddin.However, in her report submitted to the Centre during the video conference earlier, Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundarajan said out of the total number of positive cases recorded in the state, 79 cases were related to the Nizamuddin Markaz meeting.The department also claimed that all the 1030 people who had been identified to have attended the meeting of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin had been traced.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know today“All the participants and their family members and contacts have been kept in isolation and are being tested for coronavirus,” the health bulletin said.The governor earlier indicated that as many as 435 people who had returned from the Tablighi Jamaat event have been kept in home quarantine and 365 in government quarantine.According to the governor’s report to the Centre, 26,586 people who had a history of foreign travel and their contacts have been kept under home quarantine. Of them, 19,364 have completed their home quarantine period and 7222 are still in quarantine. Also read| Coronavirus can spread through just breathing, talking: Scientists“By April 7, all the home quarantined people would be declared safe,” the report said.The report also said at present six government labs at Gandhi Medical College, Osmania Medical College, Fever Hospital, Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and Institute of Preventive Medicine were conducting tests in full scale.“So far, 2400 samples have been tested,” the report said.In all, 12,500 beds in 31 hospitals across the state, including 11,000 isolation beds and 1500 ICU beds have been established for clinical management of Covid-19, the report said.Click here for compete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-telangana-reports-75-new-covid-19-cases-2-more-deaths/story-Q3gjLRl2ndmGT3qtF6AqxI.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: From boat to jungle, Bengal self isolators find unique places during lockdown||While disturbing images of people violating orders for the lockdown to stop Covid-19 and thronging shops and markets continue to emerge in West Bengal, a handful of people have drawn attention by selecting unique places to live in isolation.At Habibpur in Malda district, 65-year-old Niranjan Haldar was at a loss when he went to visit his niece on Tuesday. Her family would not let him in because of the lockdown and Haldar could not return home since there was no public transport.Local people offered Haldar a rather unique home—a small country boat anchored by a lake. “I am living in the boat since then. Though nobody allowed me to stay in their home the villagers helped me by offering the boat. They also give me food,” Haldar told a local television channel.Three migrant labourers, who returned from Odisha’s Sundargarh to Dhantala in Nadia district, have not entered their homes. Since Tuesday, the skilled carpenters are living inside a forest where they have set up a camp made out of tarpaulin and bamboo. The forest is not far from the village. The men went to Sundargarh district a month and a half ago and decided to return when the coronavirus pandemic started. They rode their bicycles for a few kilometres and then hitchhiked on a cargo vehicle. “They wanted to keep their families safe. They approached us and asked for a tarpaulin, some utensils and ration. They want to complete their 14-day mandatory isolation,” said Madhu Pal, a local villager.In Purulia district, seven young migrant labourers who returned from Chennai on March 24 made news when they decided to live on a tree.With no separate rooms in their homes to isolate themselves, they spent days and nights on a machan, wood and bamboo platform, that was already set up by residents of Bansgarh village to save themselves from wild elephants that often wander into human habitations in this region. The administration came to know of this from local media reports and the men were taken to a government facility.Non-government organisations engaged in distributing free ration are also telling people how crucial social distancing is at this juncture. But rather than putting up posters, Pallimangal, a small NGO based in the Memari area of East Burdwan district, is distributing Ludo boards and dices so that people can play the board game and stay indoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-from-boat-to-jungle-bengal-self-isolators-find-unique-places-during-lockdown/story-xz0O2jCplQfhkJ8UqpsK0H.html
04-04-2020||India||Press Council advises against publicity, advertisement of AYUSH’s claims on Covid-19||The Press Council of India (PCI) has issued an advisory to media houses to stop and prevent the publicity and advertisement of Ayurvedic, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homeopathy (AYUSH)-related claims for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) treatment.The PCI issued the advisory on Friday, urging media houses to stop publicity and advertisement of AYUSH-related claims for Covid-19 treatment in a bid to prevent dissemination of misleading information about AYUSH drugs and services in light of the emerging nationwide threat because of the viral outbreak.Healthcare professionals have raised concerns about claims of cure and prevention being made online and disseminated via social media platforms.On Wednesday, the Union AYUSH Ministry had directed all Ayurvedic, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathic (ASU&H) Regulatory Authorities in states and Union Territories to stop and prevent publicity and advertisement of AYUSH-related claims for Covid-19 treatment in print, television and electronic media.The ministry had called for necessary action against persons or agencies involved in contravening the relevant legal provisions and the guidelines of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pci-asks-print-media-to-stop-publicity-advertisement-of-ayush-s-covid-19-related-claims/story-8JIQhI6q5bz3aCvqRA0UjN.html
04-04-2020||India||PM Modi, Netanyahu explore collaborative ways to fight Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday had a telephonic conversation with his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu. The leaders talked about the prevailing coronavirus situation and ways to deal with it.“Had a telephone conversation with PM @netanyahu. We spoke about the situation arising due to COVID-19 and ways to fight the pandemic,” the Prime Minister tweeted out. The leaders talked about ways in which both countries can collaborate to fight the pandemic, “including by improving availability of pharmaceutical supplies and by innovative use of high technology,” the official release read.The leaders agreed upon maintaining a “focused channel of communication to explore such synergies”. Had a telephone conversation with PM @netanyahu. We spoke about the situation arising due to COVID-19 and ways to fight the pandemic. https://t.co/NxdEO411b9Israel’s health ministry on Thursday said that their health minister, who has had frequent contact with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, is observing self-isolation after he tested positive for coronavirus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has urged the citizens to show solidarity in these difficult times and switch off lights for 9 minutes on April 5 at 9 pm. The Prime Minister has asked everyone to bring out and light candles, diyas and flashlights during the 9-minute blackout.“I want nine minutes of your time on April 5 at 9 pm. Switch off all the lights of your homes and stand with candles, diyas, torches or flashlights of your mobile phone for nine minutes,” Modi said in his video message.“We have to move towards the light from the darkness created by the coronavirus,” he said.Coronavirus cases in the country have seen a rapid rise this week. On Friday, the number of total Covid-19 patients climbed to 2,547 which includes 2,322 active cases, 162 patients who have recovered and 62 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-israeli-pm-netanyahu-explore-collaborative-ways-to-fight-covid-19/story-MpC5q0njW8Mg4chmMpzmcI.html
04-04-2020||India||Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital seeks details of WhatsApp group admins to deal with fake news on Covid-19||Authorities in Delhi’s Safdarjang Hospital have asked administrators of all WhatsApp groups in the institute for their details as a measure to stop the spread of fake news about Covid-19, the coronavirus disease, on social media.The staff of the Vardhman Mahavir Medical College attached to the Safdarjang Hospital will also have to furnish the details, according to a circular dated April 3, which will be forwarded to the police.“This is required to prevent spreading of any fake news, rumor, or any other adverse comments/statements on social media and in the institution by any hospital/college staff, Therefore you are requested to submit names, mobiles numbers, email of all admin of WhatsApp groups pertaining to hospital staff in the office,” Dr Prem Kumar, additional superintendent, said in the circular. Junior doctors say the authorities took the call in the wake of rumours over pay cuts and staff members testing Covid-19 positive doing the rounds on WhatsApp.“This was done to quell fake news. There have been rumours about hospital doctors and staff testing positive, which creates panic. Also, there was another incident where a fake circular was doing the rounds about salary deduction for Covid-19,” Dr Manish Kumar, president of the resident doctors’ association, said.“We had written to the authorities in response to that and were told that the order is fake,” added.Several people have been arrested across the country for sharing Covid-19 rumours on WhatsApp groups.According to a report, two doctors in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad were booked in March for spreading false news about a Covid-19 patient through their WhatsApp group.India has reported 2322 Covid-19 cases, including 162 people who have been discharged and 62 deaths, till Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-safdarjung-hospital-seeks-details-of-whatsapp-group-admins-to-deal-with-fake-news-on-covid-19/story-wudbULLfAq0qVqb6nXILLN.html
04-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 AM: Amid Covid-19 crisis, Indian firms hope for quick payments of dues by govt and all the latest news at this hour||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid Covid-19 crisis, Indian firms hope for quick payments of dues by govtIndia’s businesses are expecting the government to roll out a fiscal relief and stimulus package of the same magnitude as the one unveiled by the US -- equivalent to around 10% of GDP -- but are also hoping the Centre and states, various administrative departments, state-owned companies and utilities will accelerate payments owed to them as they battle an economic crisis of never-seen-before proportions. Read more‘PM will speak his mind, can’t interfere’: Mamata on ‘light the lamp’ initiativeWest Bengal has already run into losses worth thousands of crores of rupees due to the ongoing lockdown, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday, but asserted that she took pride in the fact that her government still managed to credit the salaries of employees on time. Read more900k people, 241 zones: Mumbai’s mega plan to fight Covid-19The worst Covid-19-affected city in India has activated 474 teams across 241 containment zones and checked at least 900,000 people as part of its plan to stop the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus through human-to-human contact. As of 9 pm on April 3, Mumbai had 278 positive cases and 19 deaths – the highest for any Indian city – according to data released by Maharashtra’s nodal state health department. Read moreHappy birthday Lisa Ray: From auditioning for Bond film to beating cancer, here are 5 major revelations by the actor-writerLisa Ray, known in India as a successful model-turned-actor with films like Water and Kasoor to her credit, is celebrating her 48th birthday today. The cancer survivor is now also a writer and released her memoir, Close to the Bone, last year, spilling some of the deepest secrets about her life. Read more‘Everything revolves around my daughter right now’Even though it can get a little bit frustrating, it is important to stay at home in these troubled times. The feeling of frustration is not bigger than life. You just have to deal with it for a few days, and then we might get used to it. Read moreBinge-watching, anxiety or stress? Don’t let quarantine ruin your sleeping patternWith our daily routines and body clocks overturned and most of us watching online streaming platforms till the wee hours of the morning and then getting up to work from home, sleep has kind of evaded us. Read moreIIT Hyderabad-incubated startup’s low-cost ventilator can be controlled via a phone appIndian Institute of Technology (IIT) Hyderabad-incubated startup Aerobiosys Innovations has developed a low-cost, portable, emergency-use ventilator, the institute said on Friday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-amid-covid-19-crisis-indian-firms-hope-for-quick-payments-of-dues-by-govt-and-all-the-latest-news-at-this-hour/story-8moUcfr2BXcEtOkIjmc4iN.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases near 3000, govt blacklists people from 41 nations: 10 points||The coronavirus death toll in the country jumped to 62 on Friday. Covid-19 cases in the country are inching toward the 3,000 mark with Union Ministry of Health updating the total count to 2,547 on Friday which includes 2,322 active cases, 162 patients who have recovered and 62 fatalities. The country on Saturday entered the eleventh day on the 21-day lockdown. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday addressed the nation and urged the citizens to switch off their lights on April 5 at 9 pm for 9 minutes. The PM asked citizens to light diyas, candles or use the flashlight of their phones to express solidarity in these difficult times on Sunday.Here are the key developments:1. Saturday saw the biggest jump in Covid-19 infections – from 2,520 on Thursday to 3,066 on Friday. The jump is largely driven by the diagnosis of hundreds of patients who attended the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month.2. Around 650 people among the thousands who gathered at the Jamaat’s headquarters, Nizamuddin Markaz, have tested positive in 14 states in the last two days, the health ministry said. 3. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said he would hold an interactive session with parents and schoolchildren on Saturday about “parenting in the time of corona.”4. Mumbai, the worst Covid-19-affected city in India has activated 474 teams across 241 containment zones and checked at least 900,000 people as part of its plan to stop the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus through human-to-human contact.  5. Healthcare workers risk contracting Covid-19 due to a lack of infection control in hospitals, doctors say amid complaints about substandard personal protective equipment ( PPE) and lack of basic items like N 95 masks and even sanitisers.6. Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to switch off lights, on April 5, at 9 pm, for nine minutes, the union power ministry, on Friday, held a high-level review meeting to assess the impact of power fluctuation on the grid. The grid is already reeling under the stress of an unprecedented dip in demand during the lockdown period.7. The government has cited the risk of livelihood loss and issued an advisory asking states and Union territories to allow street vendors to sell essential items and encourage their home delivery during the ongoing 21-day lockdown imposed to halt the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.8. The Centre on Friday released Rs 17,287 crore to the states a day after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a video conference on which cash-strapped states urgently sought funds to combat the disease coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and its aftermath.9. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has warned of strict action against those spreading fake news about the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. 10. Citizens of 41 countries including the United States, United Kingdom and China are among 960 overseas-based Tablighi Jamaat members who have been blacklisted by India for violating their visa conditions, according to an initial government assessment seen by Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-jump-in-covid-19-cases-govt-blacklists-people-from-41-nations-10-points/story-2iIz2WyVNghArDNRtb03BJ.html
04-04-2020||India||4 Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists killed in Kashmir’s Kulgam||Four terrorists of Hizbul Mujahideen responsible for killing several civilians were shot dead by security forces in a shoot out in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Sources said two soldiers of the Indian Army were also injured in the encounter, which took place in Hardmand Guri village of Kulgam.“A Hizbul Mujahideen group of terrorists was killing civilians over the last 12 days. Four such killings were done by them in south Kashmir. Police were able to track them down and an operation was launched this morning by the police, security forces, army in which three of them have been neutralised,” a police spokesperson said.WATCH: 4 Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists killed in an encounter in Kulgam The spokesperson said that the house in which the terrorists were held up has been demolished. “After the clearance of debris, confirmation about the fourth terrorist’s presence will be possible… Two terrorists have been identified as locals and the identity of the third is being ascertained,” the official said.The security forces had launched a cordon and search operation in Hardmand Guri after getting intelligence inputs about the presence of terrorists in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-kashmir-s-kulgam/story-UKkmhHCp18L8gUNZnbQ8fJ.html
04-04-2020||India||With 15 new Covid-19 cases, Odisha sees a 3-fold jump; 3 towns shut down completely||Odisha reported 15 new Covid-19 cases, including three who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, on Friday, the largest single-day increase, forcing the state government to clamp 48-hour curfew in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Bhadrak where the patients of the coronavirus disease are from.One person from Brahmabarada village in Jajpur district, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in March, tested positive on Friday. And the other two are from Cuttack and Bhadrak.Maulana Saad, the head of the Nizamuddin Markaz, had visited Brahmabarada in February for a religious congregation and it was sealed by the local district administration. Officials said among the 28 people who had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin Markaz and returned to Odisha, 25 have tested negative.Seven others, including the immediate family members and the tenants of a 60-year-old person in Bhubaneswar, and three brothers from an apartment in the city have also contracted the coronavirus disease.Indicating that Bhubaneswar was emerging as a Covid-19 hotspot, Odisha’s chief secretary Asit Tripathy said the capital city alone has recorded 14 out of the 20 Covid-19 cases in the state so far. In Surya Nagar area of Bhubaneswar that was sealed off on Thursday following the report of the 60-year-old man testing positive, laboratory tests of the swab samples of seven members of his family including his wife, daughter and tenant also came positive for Covid-19.In Bomikhal area of Bhubaneswar, the three brothers had gone to the Capital Hospital in the city three days ago with symptoms of the coronavirus disease when their blood samples were taken. Their test reports showed they had contracted Covid-19.The state government also sealed off Bomikhal area after the brothers tested positive.In Bhadrak district, where a 29-year-old chef with travel history to Dubai was tested positive on March 28, two people who came in contact with him also tested positive. Besides, the districts of Jajpur and Puri too reported one positive case each.“As the surveillance purpose seems greatly restricted even during lockdown period, the government deemed it necessary to impose complete shutdown,” said Tripathy, explaining that the new order was more stringent than the national lockdown. Till Friday, Odisha had tested 1395 samples of which 20 have tested positive. Two have been discharged after they recovered.“The earlier lockdown restrictions in wake of Covid-19 outbreak by the ministry of home affairs are being revoked and new shutdown regulations implemented by Odisha State Disaster Management Authority will come into force during the period,” said Tripathy. “No shops except a few medicine shops and petrol pumps will be open. No one can step outside during the shutdown period and anyone found violating curfew rules will be picked up and put in quarantine facility of the government for a period of 14 days. Apart from that, cases will be registered under Epidemics Act,” he said.During the shutdown, all grocery stores will be closed and those who have to visit hospitals will be only allowed in ambulances.Officials said the 48-hour timeline would be used for aggressive contact tracing of Covid-19 suspects. Of the nine positive cases, the first two have recovered and discharged from hospitals. The contact tracing of third and fourth patients revealed that they came in contact with 129 people. The contact tracing of the other Covid-19 patients is still on.The 48-hour curfew was announced a day after the government revealed the identity of the fifth person from the state who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday and sealed off the area where they lived. What has baffled the experts is how the 60-year-old man with a learning disability living in a posh area of the city with no travel history for the last three months tested positive for Covid-19.“The man is mentally retarded and for the last three months, he has not gone anywhere except to some local hospitals for treatment. He is diabetic and has other co-morbidity conditions like hypertension when he was admitted to AIIMS Bhubaneswar on March 31 following problems in respiration,” Prem Chandra Chaudhury, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation commissioner, said.“As there is no other known way of finding out how he contracted the virus, we have issued an appeal to people to inform us and go on home quarantine,” Chaudhury said.With 15 cases reported on a single day, doctors said they were apprehensive over community transmission in Odisha.“It seems we are rapidly advancing towards the community transmission phase. To know how many more have been infected, we have to test more. But we are in a Catch-22 situation. We can’t test more than 250 samples a day in three of our government testing labs as there are no rapid testing kits,” said Dr Binod Patro, professor of community medicine in AIIMS Bhubaneswar.“For positive confirmation, currently we need 6 hours. We don’t have that many testing kits to go for aggressive testing. But we need to do more testing and contain clusters from where more positive cases have been reported,” Patro said.Meanwhile, one of those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi appealed to all the attendees of the Nizamuddin event to cooperate with the government and administration to prevent the spread of the highly-infectious virus.“I appeal to all those, who had returned from the Nizamuddin event in March, to not hide and dial 104 to register and get the test done. It will be helpful for all of us, our family, our state and as well as the country,” Mohd Moquim, one of the attendees said.“Follow the advice of doctors and the precautions recommended by the administration to fight against the virus together. Believe in Allah and do your share of contribution for the betterment of the state as well as the country,” he said.Odisha’s first and second Covid-19 patients, a 33-year-old Italy-returned researcher and a 19-year-old man studying in London were discharged in a span of two days after they recovered from the viral infection.The 33-year-old man, who was admitted to the hospital with coronavirus infection on March 15, tested negative for the disease twice in a span of 24 hours.His father said he was happy to see his son back home.“He would rest at home and wait for things to settle down before thinking of his plans of returning to Italy,” he said while speaking to HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-15-new-covid-19-cases-odisha-sees-a-3-fold-jump-3-towns-shut-down-completely/story-YQIt2KnljyKWRuIgyFu5QK.html
04-04-2020||India||NHA teams up with Uber to provide transportation to frontline healthcare workers||The National Health Authority (NHA), the apex body implementing the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme, on Friday announced its partnership with Uber India to provide safe, reliable and efficient transportation for India’s frontline healthcare workers engaged in the treatment of COVID-19 patients.Uber will initially facilitate the provision of 150 cars for free to support medical facilities in New Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Lucknow, Prayagraj and Patna through its recently-launched UberMedic service, the NHA said in a statement.All UberMedic cars supplied to NHA will be equipped with roof-to-floor plastic sheeting enclosing the driver’s seat, thereby acting as a protective barrier between the rider and the driver.“The pilot scheme meets the Prime Minister’s goal of practising social distancing even within the confines of an UberMedic car,” the NHA statement said.Additionally, each UberMedic car will be disinfected after every ride to ensure the highest possible safety and hygiene standards in line with government guidelines.Dr Indu Bhushan, CEO, Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) and NHA, said, “The partnership with Uber in this hour of need is a much-needed initiative to extend necessary support to the healthcare workers who are leading this fight against COVID-19.“Limited mobility options had made it difficult for frontline workers to travel to their workplaces. This initiative will further strengthen India’s response to contain the spread of COVID-19.” Pradeep Parameswaran, president, Uber India and South Asia, said, “Uber is proud to partner with the National Health Authority to offer free UberMedic rides to transport frontline healthcare workers in specific locations for helping to contain the spread of COVID-19.“All drivers will be specially trained in safety procedures and provided with personal protective equipment including masks, sanitisers and disinfectants to sanitise UberMedic cars after each ride. Uber salutes all our frontline healthcare workers and will continue supporting them and the government in the days and weeks ahead.” AB-PMJAY is the flagship scheme of the government that provides a cover of up to Rs 5 lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary-care hospitalisation, benefitting over 10.74 crore poor and vulnerable families (about 53 crore beneficiaries).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nha-teams-up-with-uber-to-provide-transportation-to-frontline-healthcare-workers/story-lrb0L7xycMNYxUEAujnDdP.html
04-04-2020||India||‘PM will speak his mind, can’t interfere’: Mamata on ‘light the lamp’ initiative||West Bengal has already run into losses worth thousands of crores of rupees due to the ongoing lockdown, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday, but asserted that she took pride in the fact that her government still managed to credit the salaries of employees on time.She said the state government has disbursed an amount of Rs 35,10,200 towards social pension for a period of two months.“Do you have any idea how much we have lost in these few days of lockdown? Several thousand crores.... We have no earning, but only burning,” Banerjee told reporters at the state secretariat.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Ours is the only government which has paid salaries on the first day of the month. What will they (employees) eat otherwise?” she said.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo said there are many states, which do not owe a heavy debt to the Centre like West Bengal, but have emptied their treasuries during the lockdown.“There are many states that do not need to repay a debt of Rs 50,000 crore like us, yet their treasuries are empty. There are several states who could not pay the full salary to employees...a few paid only 40 per cent...I can take pride in it that we could,” she said.Also read| India’s Covid-19 cases go up to 3k, largely driven by Tablighi Jamaat attendeesOn Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging people to light lamps, candles or switch the flashlights of their mobile phones for nine minutes at 9 pm on April 5, she said those who believe in the PM’s message can follow his instructions.“The prime minister will speak his mind and I will speak mine. I cannot interfere in someone else’s matter.... If you think that the prime minister has said something good, follow it...it is a personal decision,” Banerjee said.She rubbished reports that the lockdown was being violated in Kolkata and certain rural areas of the state.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayWithout taking the name of any political party, the chief minister said there are a few who are trying to “play politics” with the distribution of rice, wheat and pulses through the Public Distribution System (PDS).“They are claiming that the Centre has provided the rice...but how can that be possible...the PDS is run by the state government,” she said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-pm-will-speak-his-mind-i-will-speak-mine-says-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee/story-2xJ33rGA27QMqStTjLjsxK.html
04-04-2020||India||J-K govt extends 2G mobile internet services till April 15||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday ordered the continuance of 2G mobile data services in the Union territory till April 15, even as the demand for restoration of high-speed 4G internet grows in view of the coronavirus outbreak. As per a previous order issued on March 26 by Principal Secretary, Home Department, Shaleen Kabra, internet speed on mobile phones in the region will be restricted to 2G only.Postpaid sim card holders shall be provided with access to internet. However, such access shall not be made available on prepaid sim cards unless verified as per the norms applicable for postpaid connections, the order said.Fixed line internet connectivity with mac-binding shall be available, it added.The order said the directions shall be effective immediately and remain in force up to April 15.Several political parties, including the National Conference, the CPI(M), the BJP and the Congress, have batted strongly for restoration of 4G mobile internet services in Jammu and Kashmir to help people to deal with the unprecedented situation that has arisen in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The restrictions on mobile internet has been taken in view of reports received from the intelligence and law enforcement agencies which, among other things, bring out the factum of the attempts made by the antinational elements (ANEs) to spread propaganda and ideologies through transmission of fake news and targeted messages aimed at disturbing the public order and cause disaffection and discontent as also coordinate acts of terrorism, the fresh order said.It said many instances of misuse of data services for incitement, including circulation of fake news, have been noticed which necessitated even use of teargas to disperse people in such precarious times when owing to COVID- 1 9, orders under section 144 CrPC have been enforced to regulate assembly and movement and there is enhanced public awareness regarding social distancing measures. There have also been recoveries of major cache of arms and ammunition on one hand and killings of civilians by the terrorists on the other, apart from attempts to encourage terrorism through uploading of provocative videos and material as also infiltration from across the border, it said. Further, the recent changes in the domicile law in J&K too has the potential to be exploited by those inimical to public peace and tranquillity and cause large scale violence and disturb public order, which has till now been maintained due to various pre-emptive measures, including restriction on access to internet with relaxations in a calibrated and gradual manner, after due consideration of the ground situation, Kabra said in the order.“The internet speed restrictions have, while enabling access to essential services and sites, not posed any hindrance to COVID—19 control measures or to access online educational content, but checked the unfettered misuse of social media for incitement and propagating and coordinating terror activities,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-govt-extends-2g-mobile-internet-services-till-april-15/story-g2hfbF31DDxIUKhiS92TCM.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Friday, news reports in the US said the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) was considering asking all Americans to wear masks, even if made only of cloth, when they went out. As the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the world marched past the 1-million mark, the extent to which the World Health Organization (WHO) messed up was once again brought sharply into focus. On April 1, experts from the US National Academy of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine said in a report to the White House that even breathing or talking could release tiny particles carrying the SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19. This is very different from the earlier understanding that masks weren’t necessary. WHO said they weren’t. Many others concurred. There was even a comic strip explaining why everyone need not wear a mask which did the rounds on social media. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWell, guess what? Everyone was wrong. On Friday, US President Donald Trump tweeted: “We hit 3M hard today after seeing what they were doing with their masks. ‘P Act’ all the way. Big surprise to many in government as to what they were doing – will have a big price to pay.” 3M is one of the world’s biggest mask manufacturers and makes 400 million of them a year. It also exports them. Trump’s tweet came several hours after he said he was invoking the Defence Production Act to secure more masks and essential medical equipment from manufacturers. As this writer pointed out on March 22, “countries will start hoarding strategic resources at a national level. It could be oil; it could be lithium; or it could be medical equipment and drugs. Expect every country in the world to start building reserves of these, and also encouraging (and perhaps mandating) their companies to start manufacturing these – locally.”The breathing and talking bit is new, but we are learning more about the enemy with every passing day. Now, there’s also research to bear out what anecdotal trends have suggested all along – that it kills more men than women. The research, published in late March, shows that infected men in China were three times as likely to die as infected women . The research is strangely reminiscent of a late 2000s graphic novel called Y: The Last Man, by Brian K Vaughan (the Y stands for the sex-determining chromosome).If we are learning more about the virus, and also getting closer to the cure (it’s inevitable that we will find one), it’s because tens of thousands of researchers at government laboratories, private companies, and academic institutions are working on the frontiers of science. For instance, even as India is in the midst of a 21-day lockdown till April 14, there is a lot of research and development work going on behind the scenes – on everything from low-cost ventilators to repurposed drugs to vaccine candidates.If the US is mulling masks, it is because the number of cases in the country were 265,506 on Friday night (India time), of a total of 1.074 million cases worldwide. The country also accounted for a little over 6,700 of the around 57,000 deaths around the world.India ended Friday with 3,066 cases and 86 deaths. Parts of Delhi and Mumbai have been classified as clusters, with the pandemic’s spread in Mumbai, one of the most densely populated cities in the planet, causing panic in India’s commercial capital. On Friday, there were 93 new cases in Delhi, 43 in Mumbai, and a total of 546 around the country. In the past two days, 647 cases can be attributed to the March gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi, which is threatening to undo some of the good done by the lockdown. Indeed, more countries are buying into the benefits of lockdowns, with Singapore on Friday announcing a month-long one, which its prime minister termed as a “decisive move” to “preempt escalating infections”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-mrOPk4YxoECMbnubR5leLK.html
04-04-2020||India||Domicile rule to apply to all J&K govt posts: Centre amends order after uproar||The Union home ministry on Friday evening amended the new domicile rule for Jammu and Kashmir issued this week that had triggered howls of protest in the Kashmir valley. In its final form, only domiciled residents of J&K will be eligible to apply for recruitment in the union territory.In the earlier version notified on Tuesday evening, the home ministry had reserved only subordinate posts for the domiciled residents. For other jobs under the union territory, people from any part of the country could apply.The new order issued a little before midnight makes jobs in the UT administration out of bounds for non-residents.There has, however, not been any change to the rule that will treat people from outside the union territory, who have been residents of the UT for 15 years, as domicile residents. The notification also extended domicile rights to central government employees who shall have served in the state for 10 years and their children.Tuesday’s order had elicited howls of protest from the Kashmir parties. Leading the attack was National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, saying the law was an “insult heaped on injury”, referencing the downgrading of the state into a union territory and abrogating Article 370 that provided for its special status and now this change in law.“Talk about suspect timing. At a time when all our efforts & attention should be focused on the #COVID outbreak the government slips in a new domicile law for J&K. Insult is heaped on injury when we see the law offers none of the protections that had been promised,” tweeted the former chief minister on April 1.Altaf Bukhari of the newly-floated Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party described the order as a casual attempt, cosmetic in nature, and designed to hoodwink the people of J&K. He urged home minister Amit Shah to put the notification on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-howls-of-protests-govt-amends-domicile-law-for-j-k/story-25NTht6L74XVGHdwuljPFL.html
04-04-2020||India||PM Modi pushes symbolic measure to deal with Covid-19, government does substantive review||In a symbolic move on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday gave a call to citizens to switch off the lights in their homes and light oil lamps, candles, and flash their mobile phone torches on April 5 at 9pm, for nine minutes. This, he suggested, will be a mark of the collective power of people and showcase their determination in taking the country from darkness to illumination.The government also embarked on a substantive review of the efforts to tackle both the pandemic and deal with the fallout of the nationwide lockdown, with a meeting of a Group of Ministers (GoM) led by defence minister Rajnath Singh. Key government stakeholders were represented at the meeting, where ministers felt that issues related to migrant workers had been addressed while impediments related to essential supplies were in the process of being addressed. The government also set up 10 groups of secretaries to deal with specific issues on Friday. Addressing the nation, Modi said that Friday marked the ninth day of the lockdown — and praised citizens for their discipline and service. He also said that the battle against the pandemic was not an individual one but a collective one of 1.3 billion people.Underlining that the poor had suffered the most due to the pandemic, and all efforts had to be directed to taking the country towards hope and certainty, the PM said: “This Sunday, on April 5, at 9pm, I want nine minutes of your life. Please switch off the lights of your house — and then either at the door, or in the balcony of your house, please light a candle, a diya, or flash the mobile phone light. That light will show that no one is alone.”The PM was, however, quick to emphasise that no one should congregate on the occasion or go out on the streets — in what was possibly a reference to many citizens gathering in large crowds after applauding front line workers during the “janta curfew” on March 22, and thus undermining the principle of social distancing.Opinion was divided on the PM’s address. Supporters saw it as a laudable effort to mobilise citizens in bleak times and motivate them and praised his consistent communication — this is the fourth time the PM has spoken to citizens in less than a fortnight. But the Opposition was critical of the PM for not having addressed more critical issues. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said that the country was expecting the PM to speak on low testing, shortages of personal protective equipment (PPE) for health workers, relief for migrant workers and the poor, and the state of the economy. “People will support the PM in switching off lights and lighting candles, just as they did while clapping for doctors and paramedics, but some questions need to be asked and answered.”The PM’s statement also led to a high-level review meeting in the power ministry to ensure that the fluctuation in the grid — on Sunday — did not lead to any power interruption and blackout. The grid is already confronting a situation where demand has dipped by up to 30% due to the lockdown.For Sunday, there are concerns about the impact of the switching off, and then switching on, of lights, across millions of households, almost simultaneously, on the grid. This will first create a supply excess, and could potentially disrupt frequency. And then, once demand surges at the 10th minute, it will be a test of the supply capacity. Mishandling this process can potentially lead to extended power outage.“This is absolutely unprecedented. If this is effectively implemented, then we are looking at an impact of 10-15GW of load going down and coming back again which will have a very severe impact on the grid. I am not aware of any event before leading to such a sharp fluctuation before,” said Vinay Rustagi, managing director at renewable energy consultancy Bridge to India Energy Private Limited. This, Rustagi emphasised, will need careful management and planning. “They will have to judicially use hydro and gas power plants to come back and curtail risk.”But the power ministry is confident that it can manage the situation. An official said on condition of anonymity: “We are making arrangements since the event is known to us in advance. The current peak load of the country stands at around 120GW; of this domestic household lighting comprises of 12-15GW and we will need to manage and monitor this 15GW of fluctuation.” The fact that only lights may be off, and other electric household appliances will remain operational is also expected to ensure that the dip in demand may not be as drastic as expected. Separately, a group of ministers met at defence minister Singh’s residence. Participants included home minister Amit Shah, food minister Ram Vilas Paswan, railways minister Piyush Goyal, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, agriculture and rural development minister Narendra Singh Tomar, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, among others. This is the third meeting of the GoM since March 25.Officials familiar with the proceedings of the meeting said that the ministers deliberated on various arrangements being made to deal with the increasing number of Covid-19 cases as well as to ensure adequate supplies of medicine and essential commodities during the lockdown.“The ministers were briefed that supply of essential goods was continuing smoothly and no concerns were reported in this regard. However, at certain places, issues related to scarcity of workers for loading and unloading operations have created issues and are being addressed,” an official said on condition of anonymity.Another official indicated that the government was fully aware of the need to ensure smooth supplies for the remaining period of the lockdown and that was the focus of the meeting. “To have the support of citizens in these difficult times, we have to ensure that they are not inconvenienced. Getting food and dairy items right to the neighbourhood level is key to ensure the success of the lockdown.”On the movement of migrant workers, the GoM felt the issue has been resolved, as they are being looked after in temporary shelters set up by state governments, news agency Press Trust of India quoted an official as saying. The GoM also appreciated the contribution, dedication and the hard work of thousands of health professionals, police, paramilitary and armed forces, and those engaged in maintaining the supply chain of essential commodities across the country.Experts have suggested that India should continue to confront key challenges in handling the pandemic. The lockdown has not yet led to the flattening of the curve of infections — though, to be sure, this was always expected to take some more time. More worryingly, there has been a surge in cases in recent days, largely because of the congregation at Nizamuddin’s Tablighi Jamaat. Health workers have got infected — due to the absence of PPE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-pushes-symbolic-measure-government-does-substantive-review/story-tnFjVWXkcuHjZw7MSbe7vO.html
04-04-2020||India||Scientists, regulators do double shifts to keep up||In February, a small team of 24 people in the R&D division of Pune-based Mylab Discovery Solutions started working 24x7 to develop a kit to test for Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19), when it became obvious that no country would escape unscathed.“We started work six weeks ago and worked in two shifts, with a focus on creating a product that didn’t miss diagnosis even when the viral load was low,” said Hasmukh Rawal, managing director, Mylab Discovery Solutions, which was the first Indian company to get the nod for manufacturing testing kits to test for Sars-Cov-2.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAs for the requisite government approval, it came in a matter of days, he added. The Covid-19 research consortium, under the department of biotechnology, announced it would fast-track research in early March. Since then, approvals for research, manufacturing and marketing of everything related to Covid-19, including vaccine candidates, have been approved in days. On Friday, Bharat Biotech announced its plans to develop a unique intranasal vaccine for coronavirus called ‘CoroFlu’ in partnership with the University of Wisconsin–Madison and the vaccine manufacturer, FluGen.Also Read: Lack of PPE, poor infection control put medical staff at risk of Covid-19“Anything related to Covid-19 is getting approved very quickly, “ said Krishna Ella, the founder of Bharat Biotech. “An approval that would usually take three to four months is getting approved in less than 48 hours”.In addition, the newly established Centre for Augmenting WAR with Covid-19 health crisis (CAWACH) has been given ₹56 crore to scout, evaluate and support innovations and start-ups that address Covid-19 challenges.The urgency has charged researchers and innovators, some of whom are attempting to use existing platforms to address the Covid-19 challenge . The use of a pre-approved platform can cut cost, and, most importantly, time. Even better, it will not need fresh approvals. Also Read: India’s coronavirus cases hit 3,000; two die in Delhi“Many of these innovations were in the pipeline much before the pandemic; however, Covid-19 has forced them out of the labs and into production. The government is looking for start-ups that can scale up the production of their products and with a good manufacturing partner we will be able to do it,” said Professor Renu John from the biomedical engineering department of IIT Hyderabad. John is the faculty in-charge of the Center for Healthcare Entrepreneurship, which offers lab-to-market solutions. “All state drug regulators have been issued directions that approvals should be given within three days, if all requirements are met. Anything related to Covid-19 must be cleared on a priority basis,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity.As a result, the ecosystem is abuzz with activity. Pharmaceutical major Zydus Cadila has already begun pre-clinical animal trials for two vaccine candidates, which act completely differently. “We got approvals within days. In another four to six weeks, we should have the results of the animal trials. Depending on the results of the pre-clinical trials, we will decide which to take forward and apply for approvals accordingly,” said Pankaj Patel, chairman, Zydus Cadila.Through the week, and even on weekends, DST officials review discoveries and innovations. “We have been having meetings every day and have come up with strategies to prioritise our research work. The focus has been on developing improved diagnostic kits, looking for novel molecules or repurposed drugs for the treatment of the disease, and also developing a vaccine,” said Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology.The research group works under the guidance of the Science and Technology core group set up by K VijayRaghavan, principal scientific advisor to the government. His office has created a “S&T Core-team on Covid-19”, composed of experts who help define problems that need urgent and immediate solutions. They also work with academia and industry to help connect teams to solve these problems swiftly.“The focus of the consortium is on better prevention of the disease by looking at vaccine development, better diagnostics, and therapy – both in terms of ancillary treatment needed and new molecules for treatment. Basically, the health care sector is currently focusing on how to deal with Covid-19 with what we have, our job is to look at what we should have and make it happen,” says Dr Anurag Agarwal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB).Collaborations have resulted in the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) developing a biosuit to keep medical, paramedical and other personnel on the frontlines of the war against Covid-19 safe. “It has a special sealant as an alternative to seam sealing tape based on the sealant used in submarine applications. Presently, biosuits prepared using this glue for seam sealing by an industry partner has cleared test at Southern India Textile Research Association (Sitra), Coimbatore. DRDO can mass produce this glue through industry to support the seam sealing activity by suit manufacturers,” DRDO said in a statement.The implementing agency of CAWACH is the Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE), a DST-supported technology business incubator at IIT Bombay, long considered India’s equivalent of Stanford for its ability to link academia with industry. SINE is working on boosting innovations in novel ventilators, respiratory aids, protective gears, solutions for sanitisers and disinfectants, diagnostics, therapeutics, and informatics. It will offer up to 50 potential start-ups financial assistance for innovations that can be brought to market within the next six months. Meanwhile, in the background, the Indian Council of Medical Research is providing technical support by validating diagnostic kits for accuracy and specificity, having validated five of 20 kits for Covid-19 testing in two weeks. Its apex virology laboratory at National Institute of Virology in Pune has cultured 11 virus strains of SARS-COV-2. “We got lucky that we managed to grow all 11 specimens. It will have long-term implication in vaccine and drug development,” a senior ICMR official said on condition of anonymity.ICMR is also conducting a demonstration study to know the effect of anti-malaria drug, hydroxychloroquin, as a prophylactic medicine against Covid-19. “The anti HIV/AIDS drugs that had earlier shown promise fizzled out, hydroxychloroquin is turning out to be a better option. The medicine has shown promise in bringing down the viral load, now we are analysing if it can also prevent infection in high-risk groups, like health workers,” the official said.Essentially, no avenue is being left unexplored. But research, for all the haste these agencies are displaying now, has its own pace. “ Unfortunately, science can’t move that fast, and it will take us about at least two-and-half months to three months to move from animal trials to human trials [with the vaccine],” says Bharat Biotech’s Ella. “The drug controller is personally monitoring the situation and our team faced no problems when we approached them with the request. I must say the government is really proactive in ensuring the work doesn’t get hampered at any level” said Rawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scientists-regulators-do-double-shifts-to-keep-up/story-rEOcrwNV9FNhWv95QCeFMJ.html
04-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 cases go up to 3k, largely driven by Tablighi Jamaat attendees||The jump in infections – from 2,520 on Thursday to 3,066 on Friday – is largely driven by the diagnosis of hundreds of patients who attended the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in New Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month in a violation of several restrictions.According to the Union health ministry, at least 647 people among the thousands who gathered at the Jamaat’s headquarters, Nizamuddin Markaz, have tested positive in 14 states in the last two days. “If we see the rise in cases in the last few days, it has primarily been due to an increase at a particular level,” joint secretary in the ministry Lav Agarwal said, referring to the congregation.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHe said because of the “lockdown and our efforts to promote social distancing, cases were being reported but there was no sharp rise”.The Delhi government said 93 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the national capital on Friday, taking the total count in the city-state to 386 – out of which 259, or 67%, were evacuated from Markaz. Around 1,800 others from the south Delhi area have been quarantined at hospitals across the city, in what has become the country’s largest virus hot spot for the highly contagious infection.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said there was no need to panic as the situation was under control and that community transmission of the virus was not taking place in the national capital. The total number of deaths in the Capital stood at six on Friday. Experts have pointed out that the impact of the lockdown – scientists say it is among the most effective means to break the chain of the contagion – could be undermined if the positive cases originating out of such clusters are not contained in time. It could be particularly challenging for a country of over 1.3 billion people, where the health care infrastructure would not be able to handle a larger outbreak despite the government’s recent efforts to prepare for such a situation.Since authorities traced a number of infections to the Tablighi gathering, state governments have scrambled to locate and identify those who attended the congregation, with at least 9,000 Jamaat workers and their contacts counted and quarantined till Thursday evening. Ramping up their efforts to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, authorities on Friday announced exclusive isolation wards and initiated rapid tests in areas identified as hot spots of the infection, with more than 8,000 samples being tested in 24 hours, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).ICMR, in an advisory, has recommended the use of a rapid antibody test in the country’s Covid-19 hot spots.Among the states, Maharashtra has the most number of coronavirus patients, at 490 cases, and 26 deaths.The 20-22 clusters identified or considered to be potential hot spots include Asia’s largest slum, Dharavi, in Mumbai where three positive Covid-19 cases have been detected till Friday. Although the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said a containment plan is in place, there are concerns over the implementation of social distancing measures in the 240-hectare slum pocket of 850,000 residents. On Friday, Tamil Nadu reported a 102-count spike in the number of Covid-19 patients, making it second only to Maharashtra. Out of these, at least 100 were linked to the Jamaat congregation. “Today 102 new positive cases reported in Tamil Nadu, out of them 100 people had participated in Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. The total number of positive cases in the state stands at 411, out of which 364 had participated in Delhi’s Jamaat event,” state health secretary Beela Rajesh said.Telangana and Uttar Pradesh, with 229 and 174 patients respectively, were among the other states to report sizeable jumps in the number of Covid-19 cases on Friday. Kerala, which until earlier this week had the second highest number of cases in the country, is now on the fourth spot after Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. It reported a single-digit increase on Friday. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation and appealed to people to display collective resolve of the country in fighting the pandemic by lighting a candle or a lamp at 9pm on Sunday.Public health experts have mostly welcomed the Prime Minister’s suggestion of a staggered lifting of the lockdown — but only if it is accompanied with a set of safety measures. “Movement should be in select groups after they have been approved by the authorities. Let clusters move, like army convoys move, especially agriculture workers. It will also help contain the risk of infection. Prioritise [those] who should be allowed to move, and those should be screened before movement, even if it requires aggressive testing to know the extent of infection,” said CS Pandav, former president of the India Public Health Association.According to Union health ministry data, laboratories across the country have so far tested just 66,000 suspected Covid-19 patients for the disease, which has infected more than one million worldwide in just over three months. Scientists believe that mass testing, along with strict movement restrictions, could be key to breaking the chain of infection and avoid reaching the community transmission stage – a measure India is still falling short of. “Now that we have the kits, we should be more liberal with testing. I think, by nature’s design community transmission must have started -- I would be very surprised if it hasn’t -- The number of cases are likely to surge by next week,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-cases-hit-3-000-two-die-in-city/story-kyMmvLTrQohA9S73KKz2QJ.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: How offices, malls have turned sleepy due to lockdown||Indians have reduced visits to recreational and retail spots such as restaurants, malls and movie theatres by 77% following the lockdown over the Covid-19 pandemic, movement at mass transit stations has dropped 71% while movement in places of residence has increased by 22%, according to an analysis of location data published by internet search giant Google on Friday.Google’s ‘Covid-19 Community Mobility Reports’ utilises “aggregated and anonymised” data from Google Maps or other Google-based mobile devices from people who have opted to share their location history. Google said it helps the firm illustrate how busy certain types of locations are, giving an idea about the degree to which people in 131 countries are following government lockdowns.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWith a countrywide lockdown in place since March 25, India showed massive changes in mobility trends. The report showed a 65% decline in visits to grocery and pharmacy stores, while movement at public parks, gardens and beaches reduced by 57%. In what appears to highlight the trend of people working from home, movement at workplaces across the country has dropped 47%, according to the data.Google said it hopes that the reports will help governments across the world manage the lockdowns and help fight the pandemic. “In addition to other resources public health officials might have, we hope these reports will help support decisions about how to manage the COVID-19 pandemic,” Karen DeSalvo, chief health officer of Google Health wrote in a blog post. “These Community Mobility Reports aim to provide insights into what has changed in response to policies aimed at combating COVID-19.” This information will help governments “understand changes in essential trips that can shape recommendations on business hours or inform delivery service offerings” during the lockdown enforced in various countries across the globe in light of the virus outbreak, she said.Also Read: Amid Covid-19 crisis, Indian firms hope for quick payments of dues by GovtGoogle said the report relies on a “baseline” that was determined by movement trends before the announcement of lockdowns. The first set of data published in the report is till March 29, and compares the movement to the “baseline” of corresponding days between January 3 and February 6, 2020.“We’ll show trends over several weeks, with the most recent information representing 48-to-72 hours prior. While we display a percentage point increase or decrease in visits, we do not share the absolute number of visits,” DeSalvo wrote.The company said it relies on a similar analysis in its Google Maps to show how busy certain types of places are, which in turn helps “identify when a local business tends to be the most crowded”.Meanwhile, in the United States, the country that has seen the most number of infections — over 265,000 people  -- retail and recreation trips dropped 47%, grocery and pharmacy visits dropped 22%, and workplace visits fell 38%. Interestingly, the data showed that mobility around retail and recreation in the US did not drop till as late as March 10-12. Visits to parks and beaches were also above the median till as late as March 18-19 in America. In Italy, the country that has seen the highest number of deaths -- 14,681 -- from the virus in the world, movement around retail and recreation centres dropped by 94%. Grocery and pharmacy visits were down 85%, and workplace trips fell 63%. Italy has imposed severe limits on movement and shuttered all non-essential services until April 13.There was no data available for China or Iran, where the number of total infected people, including the dead, crossed 132,000 together.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-offices-malls-have-turned-sleepy/story-sC6GbGBdsRXDSJ572AXL6O.html
04-04-2020||India||900k people, 241 zones: Mumbai’s mega plan to fight Covid-19||Mumbai: The worst Covid-19-affected city in India has activated 474 teams across 241 containment zones and checked at least 900,000 people as part of its plan to stop the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus through human-to-human contact. As of 9 pm on April 3, Mumbai had 278 positive cases and 19 deaths – the highest for any Indian city – according to data released by Maharashtra’s nodal state health department.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicEach team comprises two or three Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) staffers, and is mandated to identify a containment zone, conduct door-to-door surveys, and get a questionnaire answered by all residents in that zone. In Mumbai, a containment zone means at least one person from the area tested positive for Covid-19. The patient’s family and the building are identified as a cluster zone and at least four to five adjoining buildings on all sides are mapped in the containment zone, depending on the area’s population density. The greater the population density, the wider the radius of containment zone, a BMC health official explained on Friday.Also Read: BMC has a containment plan for DharaviAccording to BMC protocol, the family and immediate neighbours of positive patients are tested, as they are considered high risk. Other residents of the building are considered low risk and are simply asked to be in home quarantine. They are also asked to keep a tab on emerging symptoms. Residents of adjoining buildings in the containment zone are also surveyed. Entry and exit from a containment zone is restricted and severe lockdown protocols are put in place.“Each of these teams identifies at least 50 high risk cases per day,” a senior BMC health officer said. “These high risk persons are direct contacts and who have fever, cold, cough, breathlessness, etc. Depending on severity of the symptoms, we advise testing and visiting the closest Covid-19 hospital.”Also Read: City’s Covid-19 fight goes into high gearCity health officials said this protocol differs from the guidelines issued by the Centre for identifying clusters and containment zones on account of Mumbai’s high population density (32,303 persons per square km). A senior civic officer said: “BMC has been given permission to draw up its own guidelines.” Across all other districts in Maharashtra, however, clusters are identified only if at least three persons are found to be Covid-19 positive in the area. Following that, an area of 3 sq km is screened.Also Read: Check ‘no-go’ zones near your area on Mumbai civic body’s websiteAt present, BMC’s health officers said, 300 of the 474 teams are on the field at any given time.BMC said it is uses video analytics software on top of the live footage it receives from 5,000 installed closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras across the city to monitor human movement in a containment zone. “No one is allowed to roam around in a containment zone,” said an officer involved in executing the containment zone strategy. “If the software spots any movement in the feed, the disaster control room is alerted. We are also updated on the instances of human movement and crowding. We activate the disaster management team and they ensure that people don’t move out. If people move out regularly, we are mandated to take action against them. Food and essential items are being delivered to persons in the containment zone.”In addition to regulating movement, BMC said on Friday that it will start medical camps at the perimeter of containment zones. As no resident living in the containment zone is allowed to exit, any person showing symptoms of Covid-19 can approach the medical camp. “Patients with other illnesses can also approach the medical camp for a quick diagnosis, and referral to a hospital,” a health officer said. “This comes just days after reports of the death of a senior citizen in Kurla (in central Mumbai) due to a stroke. The senior citizen was a resident of a building sealed by BMC after a positive case of Covid-19 was reported. Residents alleged that policemen standing guard at the building did not allow the man to leave the premises for medical attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/900k-people-241-zones-mumbai-s-mega-plan/story-yEIInTYDaI883yDsGBB2dP.html
04-04-2020||India||Farmers to access buyers from nearest warehouses after e-NAM update||The Union government has updated the electronic national agriculture markets or the E-Nam, an online trading platform, with two new software updates so that farmers don’t have to travel long distance to sell their harvests, the agriculture ministry said on Friday.Two software modules – warehouse-based trading module to facilitate trade from warehouses and farmer producer organizations’ module – are aimed at reducing the need to physically move entire harvests to aggregators to contract a sale.This essentially means farmers will be able to access buyers through the mobile software from the nearest warehouses. The second update aims to allow farmer collectives to connect to the e-NAM network from their own collection centres.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicA chain of electronic national agricultural markets, called e-NAM, serves as an online trading system. Farmers only have to bring a small sample of their produce, which is then evaluated by agricultural “assayers”. Once graded by assayers, the sample report can be accessed by any buyer in any state. Many southern states have scaled up the system.“FPO trading module in e-NAM whereby FPOs can trade their produce from their collection centre without bringing the produce to APMC,” a statement from the ministry said. FPO stands for farmer producer organisations, which are producer groups who pool in land and other resources to bring efficiency in farming. APMC stands for agricultural produce marketing committees, which run agricultural markets around the country. An enhanced version of the logistic module has been incorporated into the online trading module. Aggregators of transport logistic platform have been “on boarded” on it, which helps users to avail trackable transport facilities for transporting their produce, the ministry said.The e-NAM facility was launched on 14 April 2016 as a pan-India electronic trade portal linking markets across states. There are 585 mandis in 16 States and two Union territories that have been integrated on the e-NAM portal.Farmer collectives can upload a picture of their produce and quality parameters from their premises to help distant bidders to visualise the produce before bidding. They have the option for delivery of produce either from their premises or by bringing to mandi premise after successful bidding. This will not only decongest the mandis but also reduce the logistics cost for the farmer producer organization, the ministry added.“These changes can help farmers already integrated into the online trading platform, but many states are yet to go fully online. Many states haven’t appointed assayers from instance,” said professor R Mani of the Tamil Nadu agricultural university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-access-buyers-from-nearest-warehouses-after-e-nam-update/story-6cMFPlJ2CU2loE4GfKyvqO.html
04-04-2020||India||As states struggle to distribute ration, demand for work surges||Sita Kumari, 26, visits the local ration shop daily to get her family’s share of government-subsidised foodgrains under the public distribution system. Everyday she returns home empty-handed. Although the Jharkhand government has announced the distribution of subsidised rations for April and May together, her family hasn’t received theirs even for March. “No distribution of rations is being done in my village,” said Sita Kumari, whose husband is an out-of-work driver who has applied unsuccessfully for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), which has anyway been suspended for the duration of the March 25-April 14 nationwide lockdown to beat back the coronavirus disease pandemic.“We are at the mercy of our neighbours, who are providing us food,” said Sita Kumari, a resident of Sukurhuttu village in Ranchi’s Kanke block. “My husband is pleading with panchayat officers to give him work under the MGNREGA.”The MGNREGS, which promises at least 100 days of work a year to at least one member of every rural household, and the Food Security Act that is aimed at making sure no one goes hungry, are national entitlements covering 50% and 75% of rural households, respectively, intended to shield impoverished communities in difficult times such as the Covid-19 lockdown. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThey haven’t quite served their purpose this time. Jharkhand and other states like Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh announced that the needy would get two months of rations during the lockdown period, but the distribution hasn’t even begun in many places yet.CAUGHT IN A BINDState officials cited supply constraints such as the non-availability of trucks to transport foodgrains from warehouses to public distribution system outlets in the villages. Until Friday, only 30-50% of the rations for March had been distributed, government officials said on condition of anonymity. In many places, distribution of rations for this month will start after April 14, when the lockdown is lifted. The problem is more acute in the tribal belts of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha, where the rations are distributed to ration shops n smaller vehicles from district warehouses. Babita Devi, 25, of the Chattarpur block in Jharkhand’s Palamu district, has lost her daily wage work at a local stone crusher, which had to close because of the lockdown. No PDS rations are available at the village shop and no public transport is available for her to visit the district headquarters and collect her quota of foodgrains.Also Read: Lack of PPE, poor infection control put medical staff at risk of Covid-19 Her husband is physically challenged. “I have four children at home. I have to take care of them. Going to Palamu would take four to five hours and there are no buses,” she said.A daily wager in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur, Sumesh Singh, said he had to wait for about five hours to get rations for two months. “There is a long queue and not enough rations,” he said. In Bhubaneswar’s biggest slum of Saliasahi, tribal resident Sal Marandi said only 100 people received their rations every day. The Odisha government is giving three months’ rations to all the poor, but in the rural areas, distribution hasn’t even started yet. Soumya Ranjan Pradhan, head of the Laxmiprasad panchayat in Nayagarh district, said distribution will start after April 14. Also Read: Centre releases Rs 17,287 crore to statesIn West Bengal too, residents of various districts said they were not getting their rations, amid reports of protests by people outside PDS outlets in Murshidabad and Darjeeling districts. “It was announced that rice and flour would be given free but this was not displayed at the local ration shop. The ration dealer is using his own discretion,” said Nimai Pal of Berhampore town. Another resident, Atanu Nag, said he had received just 2 kg of rice instead of 5 kg. UNFAIR DISTRIBUTION?A blame game is underway in some states, with PDS dealers blaming poor supply systems and the government alleging that the dealers weren’t fairly distributing rations. “The supply chain is affected due to shortage of labourers in godowns. Ration has reached to only 20% of shops by now while we had to begin distribution from April 1,” said Sanjay Kundu, general secretary of the Fair Price Dealers Association (FPDA) in Jharkhand. He said a few shops had received rations, but only enough for a month. Jharkhand’s food and public distribution director Sanjay Kumar said, “The issue of labourer has been sorted out. We are receiving reports that some dealers are not distributing rations, despite availability.” Odisha’s additional secretary of food, Mohammed Haque, said the there was indeed a shortage of labour and drivers to transport provisions to individual gram panchayats, resulting in only about 30% of rations being distributed until April 3. Odisha distributes about 170,000 tonnes of rice/wheat to the 90.4 million beneficiary families. Jharkhand’s government said it would take disciplinary action against officials and dealers obstructing the fair distribution of PDS rations. In Chhattisgarh, the police has been deployed at ration shops to ensure hassle-free distribution of the subsidised grains. “We are doing everything to ensure that 90% of the state’s population covered under NFSA (National Food Security Act) gets their quota of rations for April to June 2020,” said Taran Prakash Sinha, Chhattisgarh’s director of public relations.PLIGHT OF THE JOBLESSAs the states grapple with distribution of foodgrains, demand has increased for work under the MGNREGA, the flagship job guarantee scheme, judging from anecdotal evidence. In 2019-20, the programme received demand for work from by 50.2 million people because of an economic slowdown, a nine-year high. “There are queues outside panchayat offices in villages,” said an official of Muzzafarpur district of Bihar. An official in Odisha said people were registering for work under the MGNREGA because they believe the lockdown will continue beyond April 14 and they will not get work in the cities.The plight of MGNREGA workers was vocalized by Sukhmani Devi of Jharkhand’s Latehar district.“I have not got any job under MGNREGA this year. Now, all work under the scheme has come to a standstill due to the lockdown. I am a widow and the only bread earner for my three children. I have no money to even buy the subsidized rations,” she said.Some states such as Chhattisgarh, Odisha and West Bengal have demanded payment of an unemployment allowance to MGNREGA workers for the duration of the lockdown. The Centre is yet to take a call on the demand.(Ritesh Mishra in Raipur, Debabrata Mohanty in Bhuvaneshwar and Tanmay Chatterjee in Kolkata also contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-states-struggle-to-distribute-ration-demand-for-work-surges/story-tDhSTlY7mX9eqdMEg09sGM.html
04-04-2020||India||93-yr-old Kerala man, 88-yr-old wife cured of Covid-19||A 93-year-old man and his wife 88-year-old wife were discharged from the Kottayam Medical College Hospital in Kerala on Friday after being cured of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) , nursed back to health by a committed medical team. Members of the medical team were seen wiping teary eyes as the couple emerged from the Covid ward on wheelchairs.“It is a glorious moment for the medical fraternity. It was a big challenge to save their lives and we did it ,” said Dr Jose Joseph, principal of the medical college. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicChief minister Pinarayi Vijayan congratulated the medical team, saying they had made Kerala proud. The couple were rushed to hospital after their Italy- returned son, daughter-in law and grandchild tested positive for Covid-19 last month. They both were put on ventilators. “We are really indebted to the medical team. We erred first {in exposing them to the virus} because of our ignorance. It is a miracle my grandparents were cured fully,” said their grandchild Rijo Moncy, who works in Italy.Doctors said their disciplined lifestyle, food habits and appetite for life helped them bounce back.Kerala was outraged after reports that the three Italy-based members of the family had hid their travel history and attended many functions social functions . Seven of their relatives tested positive after coming into contact with the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/93-yr-old-kerala-man-88-yr-old-wife-cured/story-FlAwzIJq6fkLvwgv3KQKzL.html
04-04-2020||India||Lack of PPE, poor infection control put medical staff at risk of Covid-19||Healthcare workers risk contracting Covid-19 due to a lack of infection control in hospitals, doctors say amid complaints about substandard personal protective equipment ( PPE) and lack of basic items like N 95 masks and even sanitisers.Dr Indranil Khan, an oncologist in Kolkata, who was detained for complaining about sub-standard PPEs on March 29, said doctors are at risk of getting infected along with other patients.“I have friends, juniors, seniors who are working in various hospitals in Kolkata and outside like in Siliguri who will not lie. The material supplied to hospitals has been substandard and inadequate. ...fighting a disease like Covid-19 is not a joke,” said Khan. “...we were not prepared for an epidemic of this scale but government hospitals are not equipped at all which, in turn, will lead to the spread of infection not just among health workers but also among other patients.” He said doctors and sanitation workers interacting with any suspected patient need to be protected because they go to other wards as well. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicKhan on March 29 cited a news report about substandard PPEs and tweeted to request West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to take necessary action. “All I need is real PPE to protect frontline doctors nurses fighting COVID 19. Raincoats are not adequate...,” he tweeted. Also Read: In crisis, Indian firms hope for quick payments of dues by govtHe received a response from the government assuring him of immediate steps to address the situation. “But that evening I was picked up by cops for bringing disrepute to the government. After moving the high court, I got interim relief after the court upheld freedom of speech,” Khan said.Also Read: Delhi CM calls for calm over spike in coronavirus cases, allays fear of spreadDr Raveendra Reddy, an Intensive Care Unit consultant in Bengaluru, said anybody interacting with patients with Covid-19 like symptoms or even with asymptomatic ones will need a good two-layered fluid-resistant apron. “They will need goggles, N 95 masks, ideally a face shield, PPE gowns. China had two to three different kinds of PPEs. That is not needed. We need basic fluid-resistant gear. The load of asymptomatic patients is very high and for interactions particularly in fever clinics, this is a must. It should be a composite kit. That is not happening.”Krishna Murthy, a doctor at a private Bengulrur hospital, said let alone N95 masks, there is a shortage of surgical masks. He added some vendors are providing PPEs but its very difficult to get them and so health workers are wearing raincoat like gowns. “Even hand sanitisers are not available. We have some pneumonia patients but they have not been tested yet. N 95 masks used to cost Rs 150 but are being sold at Rs 400 now. Bodysuits cost Rs 2,000 per piece, surgical masks are being procured for Rs 20; they used to cost Rs 2. These need to be standardised very urgently.”Some doctors and nurses at Delhi’s Hindu Rao Hospital have submitted resignations allegedly due to lack of safety and protective gear, the hospital administration said on April 1. The resignations are not being accepted in view of Covid-19 pandemic. “They are resigning because of some family issues. We are getting PPEs here but they are not of appropriate quality. The matter is being taken up with authorities to procure better and safe material,” said Dr Piyush Pushkar Singh of the Hindu Rao Hospital’s Resident Doctors’ Association.Federation of Resident Doctors’ Associations president, Dr Shivaji Barman, said it is still being investigated whether the doctors, who have contracted the infection, got it in hospitals or outside. “As far as doctors and health workers quitting in some hospitals... I think those are individual decisions. The resident doctors can complain to the hospital authorities if there is a shortage.”Officials said the Union health ministry has designated public-sector undertaking (PSU), HLL Lifecare Limited, as the single window procurement agency for PPEs for hospitals and healthcare organisations. The ministry has also issued guidelines on the rational use of PPEs. An HLL executive responsible for procurement said, “I do not want to comment. We have been asked not to.”Preventive Wear Manufacturers’ Association of India chairman, Sanjiv Relhan, said they are getting frantic calls from hospitals to provide PPEs, which means there is an acute shortage. “Manufacturers are not able to comply with guidelines issued by the government. The material cannot be sent for testing to Coimbatore, as per protocol because of the lockdown. This needs to be addressed urgently,” he said.The health ministry on Saturday announced it will procure a million masks from other countries and was in talks with Indian manufacturers to supply PPEs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lack-of-ppe-poor-infection-control-put-medical-staff-at-risk-of-covid-19/story-5jmeJgwUAaFuu4wfiCu8XN.html
04-04-2020||India||800-plus foreign Jamaat workers found hiding in Delhi mosques, trigger Covid-19 alarm||Early this week when the security establishment and health workers came close to completing the evacuation of 2,300 people from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in central Delhi, investigations led the police to conclude that there were more foreigners staying in different mosques in the national capital. On 31 March, the Delhi Police sent an urgent message to the Delhi Government. It was to seek help to locate the remaining Jamaat workers out of the city’s mosques. The police communication listed 16 mosques.Investigators were prepared to find 187 foreigners and two dozen Indian nationals who had shifted to the mosques after attending congregation meetings at the headquarters of the religious sect in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area.It turns out they were horribly wrong.Also Read: ‘With full weight of law’: MHA orders FIRs against 960 foreign Jamaat workers, sponsorsIn four days, the combined teams of police, health workers and civil servants widened the net to cover a large number of mosques and have located over 800 foreigners linked to the Jamaat in the national capital. And they still have some more distance to cover.“The big fear is that many of them would turn out to be positive cases, and could have already infected many others,” the official said.The Jamaat workers have been placed in multiple government-run quarantine facilities across the national capital. The ones who were found hiding in mosques are yet to be tested. That process is expected to begin in a day or two.A senior official in the Delhi government’s home department confirmed the development but underlined that he couldn’t put a number on the foreigners found. “We are still in the process of getting final reports from the field,” he told Hindustan Times.But there are some ballpark numbers from some districts. About 100 foreigners had been found in mosques of north-east district, 200 in south-east district, 170 in south district and 7 in west district, a senior official in the security establishment said.Also Read: In 4 years, India put 4,200 foreigners on visa blacklist for Tablighi activitiesSecurity agencies who poured over the registers for foreigners maintained at the Markaz found 2,100 foreign nationals had touched base after landing in the country between March 1 and 18. Of them, 216 were still at the Jamaat headquarters when the crackdown took place and 824 had already left for chilla, or proselytising activities.“We believe that the remaining 900-odd foreigners are mostly hiding in mosques around the city,” he said, adding that they were keeping their fingers crossed.Officials recall that by the time they evacuated the followers from the Markaz this week, 24 people had already tested positive and nearly 200 had symptoms. The Delhi government hasn’t received all the test reports. But the Markaz-linked cases already make up for two-thirds of all coronavirus patients in Delhi.Also Read: Markaz leadership resisted, then NSA Ajit Doval dropped by at 2 amBy this evening, the Delhi government counted 386 confirmed coronavirus cases in the city. Of them, a whopping 259 are Markaz Masjid cases. Reports from different parts of the country have also indicated that quite a few people who had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz congregation had tested positive.Three of Delhi’s six deaths are also linked to the Markaz, the biggest hot spot of the Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-600-foreign-tablighi-jamaat-workers-found-hiding-across-delhi-and-counting/story-QyDtKl39OT5sLmlUGQJ5fK.html
04-04-2020||India||Centre releases Rs 17,287 crore to states||New Delhi: The Union government on Friday released Rs 17,287 crore to the states a day after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a video conference on which cash-strapped states urgently sought funds to combat the disease coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and its aftermath.The funds included a Rs 6,195 crore a revenue deficit grant to 14 states, meant to cover the gap between their revenue and expenditure. The states are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a tweet.“The remaining Rs 11,092 crore is to all States as advance payment of Central share of 1st instalment of SDRMF [State Disaster Risk Management Fund],” she wrote.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“The @FinMinIndia today released a total of Rs 17,287.08 crore to different States to enhance their financial resources during the #COVID19 crisis. This includes Rs 6,195.08 crore on account of ‘revenue deficit grant’ under 15th Finance Commission recommendations to 14 States,” she tweeted.State governments on Thursday raised the issue of paucity of funds in fighting Covid-19, an official aware of the matter, said requesting anonymity. Hindustan Times reported about states’ demand for funds in its Friday edition.An official of the West Bengal government welcomed the move, but sought the payment of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation,meant to offset a shortfall in GST collections, to states in this time of crisis. In a letter to Sitharaman, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Thursday asked the centre to immediately release Rs 2,875 crore outstanding GST compensation to the state.“You are aware that the spread of Covid-19 pandemic has created havoc to the state finances. Business activities have been hit badly, severely impacting the revenues of the state. You would appreciate that under these circumstances, non-receipt of GST compensation from the Central Government has further aggravated the already stretched State finances,” Mitra said in the letter, a copy of that has been reviewed by HT.According to the letter, the GST compensation is due for the period from October 2019 to March 2020. The total compensation payout to the states in 2019-20 is expected to be over Rs 1.20 lakh crore while total collection from GST compensation cess was less than Rs 80,000 crore, officials aware of the matter said.The GST law assures the states a 14% increase in their revenue for five years and the Centre is committed to meeting any shortfall in revenue through the cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes and other tobacco products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-17-287-crore-to-states/story-S4uIEiCs7f2zXhhJkth6eK.html
04-04-2020||India||SC seeks Centre’s reply on minimum wage to migrants||The Supreme Court on Friday sought the response of the Central government in a plea seeking to ensure payment of minimum wage to all migrant workers within a week, whether employed by establishments or contractors or self-employed.The petition filed by activists Harsh Mander and Anjali Bhardwaj pointed out that migrant workers are unable to work and earn wages during the 21-day nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic.A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Deepak Gupta posted the case for next hearing on April 7.The petitioners submitted that the lockdown order issued March 24, for which no prior intimation was given, created a panic across the country and led to instantaneous loss of jobs and wages of millions of migrant workers employed in establishments and households across India or self-employed as street vendors, rickshaw pullers, petty job workers, etc.“The (lockdown) order ignores the harsh realities that workers have to persistently face in cities further compounded when a lockdown order deprives them of their job, daily wages and hence means of survival, thus violating their Article 21 (right to life) rights,” the petition stated.PETITION SEEKING FREE COVID 19 TESTINGThe SC asked the Centre for its response a petition praying that Covid-19 test should be provided free of cost to all citizens at all private and government-run testing laboratories.At present, private laboratories are allowed to charge people to test for Coronavirus, though its price is capped at Rs 4,500.“It is urgently required that the respondents have to provide free of cost testing for covid-19 to all citizens”, the petition stated.The petitioner, advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, submitted that government hospitals are packed to capacity and it has become difficult for the common man to get himself/herself tested in government-run labs. With no alternative in sight, they are forced to pay money to get the tests done at private labs, the petition stated. Saddling ordinary citizens with such financial burden effectively deprives them of their accessibility to medical facilities and is violative of right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, the petitioner submitted.Sudhi also pointed out that there are only 114 identified testing centers for Covid-19 in a country with a population of 1.3 billion people. Due to this, he claimed that adequate testing was not happening making the situation dangerous with each passing day.He, therefore, prayed that testing facilities should be ramped up so as to ensure that adequate tests are done and all Covid-19 tests must be conducted by pathological laboratories accredited with National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). SC WANTS STRICT ACTION ON PRICE GOUGING OF MASKS AND SANITISERS The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Central government to publicise measures taken by it to deal with price gouging of masks and hand sanitisers. A bench told the government to take strict action against those flouting the price control notification issued by the authorities concerned. The court disposed of the case after the government told the SC on Friday that it would publicise helpline numbers for customers to reach out if they come across any violation of the price control notification. The plea by NGO Justice for Rights Foundation claimed there was a rise in demand for masks and sanitisers and, consequently, chemists and medical shops were selling them at a price much higher than the maximum retail price (MRP) and the price prescribed by the government. The petitioner alleged that chemists and medical outlets, in an attempt to defraud and profit from the coronavirus outbreak, were striking out the MRP and applying their own price labels.To address this, the government had come out with notifications and orders declaring face masks and hand sanitizers as essential commodities and capping their prices. “The Department of Consumer Affairs, in wake of the need and urgency of the present condition, published a notification dated 21 March 2020, fixing the prices of the mask i.e. 2 ply masks to be priced at ₹8 and 3 ply masks to priced at ₹10 and that the sanitiser bottle of 200 ml to be sold at a price of ₹100,” the petition pointed out.The petitioner claimed that despite the notification, medical outlets were selling masks and sanitisers at higher prices. KERALA -KARNATAKA BORDER: SC BATS FOR AMICABLE RESOLUTION The SC issued notice to the Central and Kerala governments in an appeal filed by state of Karnataka challenging an April 1 order of Kerala High Court directing the Central government to remove the road blockades erected by Karnataka on the Kerala-Karnataka border. The top court did not stay the Kerala HC order, but asked the chief secretaries of both states and the Union health secretary to hold a meeting to arrive at a solution so as to ensure movement of vehicles in case of medical emergencies.The case will be heard next on April 7.In a bid to tackle coronavirus spread, the Karnataka government had blocked the roads including the National Highway 66 connecting the state with Kerala’s northern districts. It had erected mud mounds on the roads, thereby, preventing all vehicular traffic between the two states. Kerala, with 286 Covid cases, has third highest number of cases in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Out of these, 129 cases are from state’s northern most district of Kasaragod, which shares its border with Karnataka.The Kerala High Court Advocates Association had approached the HC against the blockade. The HC had, on April 1, noted the national highway network comes under the Central government and had told the Centre to remove the blockades.“We, therefore, direct the Central government to forthwith intervene in the matter and ensure that the blockades erected by the State of Karnataka, on the National Highways connecting the said State to the State of Kerala, are removed forthwith, and without any further delay, so as to facilitate the free movement of vehicles carrying persons for urgent medical treatment, across the border between the two States”, the HC had directed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-reply-on-minimum-wage-to-migrants/story-zivw8qf4SLjeBZwZDYrv0L.html
04-04-2020||India||MPs give Rs 365 cr from local area development fund to fight Covid-19||A week after Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu appealed to Members of Parliament (MPs) to contribute towards the government’s efforts to contain the spread of Coronavirus, about one-third of Rajya Sabha MPs and half of the sitting Lok Sabha MPs have committed contributions.As per the latest information available with the Parliament secretariat, a total of 339 MPs have contributed a total of Rs 365 crore from their MPLADS to the Central pool for measures towards tackling exigencies in India emerging from the effect of the pandemic.PPK Ramacharyulu, secretary in the Rajya Sabha secretariat, also informed that the contributions include Rs 100 crore from 74 Rajya Sabha members and Rs 265 crore from 265 Lok Sabha members.Both Naidu and Birla have been appraised about the latest status of contributions. Officials close to Naidu indicate that additional measures would be adopted to urge remaining members to send their consent letter to the Ministry of statistics and programme implementation, the nodal ministry for MPLAD.Some opposition MPs, however, have decided to spend their local area fund within their constituencies instead of committing the money to the central pool. “We also need to do our bit in our constituency to contain coronavirus. Why should we give up our fund to supplement Centre’s effort or leave it to the ministry to decide how to spend the money,” said an Opposition MP who did not wish to be named.In the last week of March, Birla and Naidu had appealed to MPs to earmark Rs 1 crore from their MPLAD to help fight coronavirus. “I appeal to all Hon’ble MPs to forward Consent Letters to Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation towards utilizing a sum of Rs 1 crore or more from their MPLAD Funds & supplement Govt efforts to fight the pandemic,” Birla had tweeted.The MPLAD scheme, initiated in 1994, gives Rs 5 crore per annum to an MP to spend it on development projects in his or her constituency. The scheme also allows MPs to contribute up toRs 1 crore in case the Centre attributes a calamity as a “calamity of severe nature” such as the Corona outbreak. The scheme also allows contribution of MPLAD funds to a place outside an MP’s constituency or even outside his state/union territory.Apart from their MPLAD contributions, MPs have also been urged to donate a month’s salary for the newly created PM CARES fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-give-365-cr-from-local-area-development-fund-to-fight-covid-19/story-qUIHp1Fp3TNzpgqruCbr2H.html
04-04-2020||India||‘Action will follow if platforms don’t act against fake news’: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has warned of strict action against those spreading fake news about the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. In an interview with Smriti Kak Ramachandran, Prasad also spoke about the 21-day lockdown imposed to halt the pandemic, delivery of essential supplies and other related issues. Edited excerpts:Does the government have a plan to combat misinformation and fake news circulating on social media about the pandemic?The PM has shown great leadership when the pandemic has affected the world. Our country has responded in unison, except for occasional politicising (of the issue) by the Congress. A county of 1.3 billion has followed the lockdown. The PM has also shown great leadership in terms of engagement, with chief ministers, health care workers, media, sportspersons and manufacturers. He has interacted with the most of civil society. Many of us are in touch with district magistrates and police officers, which is a feedback mechanism. That way the entire country has been aroused by the PM to fight against this virus. It is in this light that religious leaders, too, need rise to the occasion. Many of them are doing it and we appreciate that. The Tabligi congregation at Nizammudin and the way its leaders behaved was irresponsible. I am happy that the central government and the state governments are working together to contain, isolate and subject them (members of the congregation) to quarantining and testing. I also appreciate the quick decision of home minister Amit Shah who cancelled the tourists visas of all foreigners (who had come to attend the congregation) who were moving around in violation of norms.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn this scenario, it is very important that the social media platforms are very responsible. I am a great supporter of social media; it is very empowering. We respect freedom, but during these challenging times, these platforms have to rise to the occasion and show greater sensitivity and accountability so that the common resolve is not weakened.I hope platforms such as TikTOk, WhatsApp, Twitter, Facebook and others are not abused to spread fake news or disturbing videos, or mocking the resolve to fight the virus. If they do not rise to the occasion, action will follow. I reiterate that some offensive videos are reprehensible and should be removed forthwith.How is the government addressing concerns about the internet bandwidth and the pressure on IT infrastructure with so many working from home because of the lockdown?India is an important country of back-end offices. The first thing we did was to relax the guidelines enabling people to work from home. It has been appreciated. In case of emergency, if officers need to step out, they are allowed with due permission. Yes, there is a load on the internet and we also sensitised the stakeholders to take suitable technological measures so that the load on internet, mobile phones is reduced. About 40% of the data consumption is through videos on the mobiles. We appreciate that they have taken measures to reduce the load by 15-20%. BSNL has extended the validity of the SIM cards so that at least poor people can continue to talk. Some of the private operators are also doing the same. Our postal department has also stepped up and is helping recharge the SIMs. With the interstate transport systems not functioning, will the postal department be able to step in during this crisis?I appreciate the role of the postal department and its vast network, which, apart from delivering goods, medicines through air courier services, and other urgent requirements in the fight against corona, is also assisting in food supply for those in need. The postal department is in the exempted category. Their network is huge. The cargo flights for the postal services are working and we are coordinating in every way. There been an increase in digital transactions; what does Covid-19 mean for e-commerce companies?Digital payments have risen in India. In fact, the larger narrative of digital India, the digital delivery of services to digital payment to UPI platform to Aadhar-enabled payment system to direct benefit transfer... all these are working in coordination. That is what digital India is meant for. India will be a big place for e-commerce. A large number of e-commerce corporations are being used in small towns and in the hinterland that do not have big malls. Here the postal department is emerging as a big power in the delivery of e-commerce products. I see very promising future for them... e-commerce is going to be a huge enterprise in India.There has been a problem in delivery of goods though...These are challenging times. The postal department is also helping them... As of now the main focus is the success of the lockdown and social distancing and containing the spread (of the virus).Do you think laws need to be changed to deal with such pandemics? The government had to invoke the lockdown under the Disaster Management Act, which provides limited powers to the Centre. The Act is sufficient. It is a pan India act, and gives sufficient powers, including penal. It also allows prioritising deliveries during the emergency times, what should be the exempted categories etc. But, yes this kind of pandemic happens once in 100 years. Even big countries have been brought to their knees. Therefore, with the experience of this, we will have to explore future challenges.Is there a need for a new law or an amendment to provide protection to doctors and health staff facing attacks? As of now, the health workers have been given Rs 50 lakh of additional [insurance] cover. It is important that while the law should be enforced, society too must rise to the occasion. I very strongly condemn the attacks on doctors who are doing a great service. You all need to appreciate the vision of the PM, who asked people to clap for these doctors and health care staff (on March 22). And this programme on Sunday night-- of lighting a lamp-- is also designed to ensure a lamp of hope is lit that India will overcome (this pandemic).How will the restrictions be eased post the 21-day lockdown?The decision should be left to the health care professionals, depending on the condition in the country. The PM has already briefed the chief ministers. This should not be considered in isolation; it should be left to the wisdom of the PM. He is in consultations with the stakeholders and health care professionals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/action-will-follow-if-platforms-don-t-act-against-fake-news-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-HIv1uwscYKNo6MPqHSjedP.html
04-04-2020||India||Lockdown does what decades of schemes couldn’t: Clean Ganga||The nationwide 21-day lockdown to combat the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is doing what ambitious schemes could not do over the decades—cleaning the Ganga. Since 1986, when the Ganga Action Plan was conceived, the Central government has pumped in about Rs 5000 crore to clean a river considered holy by hundreds of millions of Indians, but with little impact. Now, real time data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) shows that the water quality of the river has improved considerably during the lockdown, notably in industrial towns through which it passes.The deserted ghats also tell a whole new story as the river flows silently -- and bare, with no signs of bodies, human waste, old clothes or general garbage.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicPandit Narendra Tripathi, who attended to thronging pilgrims in Varanasi before the lockdown said: “On an average, 3000 to 4000 devotees take a dip in the river. Now they are home.” Besides, funeral pyres at the Manikarnika Ghat in Varanasi are not burning 24X7; many believe cremation here assures salvation to the dead. Gulshan Kapoor, managing trustee, Baba Mahashamshan Nath Mandir, Manikarnika Ghat said: “Earlier, on average 80 to 100 bodies reached the ghat daily for their last rites. Ever since the lock-down has been enforced, the number has gone down to 15 -20.”Experts say that if not for the presence of natural bacteria in the river, the water at this point of time is good enough to be consumed. such that it could be consumed. And after a long time, the river water has finally become fit for bathing, they add. Kalika Singh, the regional officer at Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board at Varanasi, says the water has improved in terms of both colour and quality. “The dissolved oxygen level upstream is 8.7mg per litre and it is 8.1 mg per litre downstream, which is good enough for bathing,” he says. It is widely accepted that healthy water has a dissolved oxygen level of at least 7 mg/litre, although CPCB’s bar is marginally lower. CPCB has three real time monitoring stations in Kanpur. One is upstream of the Ganga Barrage, the second, downstream of the barrage, and the third is at Shuklagunj.The CPCB monitors a range of parameters : dissolved oxygen (it should be more than 6 mg per litre), biochemical oxygen demand (BOD, less than 3 mg/ litre), ph (range between 6.5 and 8.5), ammonia (less than 1.2 mg/litre). The monitoring station located upstream reported on March 28 that the dissolved oxygen level was 8 mg/litre, BOD was 2.1 mg/litre, ph was 7.90 and ammonia, 0.49 mg/litre. At station number two downstream, dissolved oxygen level was 7.90 mg/litre, BOD, 1.21 mg/litre, ph, 7.91 and ammonia, 1.1 mg/litre. The third station reported a dissolved oxygen level of 8.51 mg/litre, BOD, 2.1 mg/litre, ph, 7.68 and ammonia, 0.79 mg/litre.The chemical oxygen demand was less than nine at all the three monitoring points. It should be less than 10 mg per litre. CPCB officials say the water quality has seen a significant improvement, particularly in industrial towns along the river, including Kanpur. The city has a cluster of industries along the river. The leather industry, with nearly 400 units, is one. The river had been reduced to a dumping ground for industrial and domestic waste. According to a CPCB survey in 2013, Kanpur was home to 475 of the 764 grossly polluting industries around the river. While 400 tanning units were assessed to be contributing 50 MLD (million litres per day) of hazardous waste in the river, seven drains, including the biggest Sisamau nullah, were carrying 140 MLD of domestic waste straight into the river.The biggest success under Namami Gange project came when the Sisamau drain was tapped and its waste flow diverted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the achievement when he held the first ever meeting of the National Ganga Council in Kanpur in December 2019. PK Mishra , a professor at the department of chemical engineering at the Indian Institute of Techonology-Banaras Hindu University, says: “30% of the total BOD load is due to industries along the river Ganga, which amounts to 130 to 150 tons per day. The total effluent dumped into the Ganga is around 6500 to 6700 MLD (in) its UP stretch and onwards. Around 10% is toxic load from industries, which is equal to approximately 700 MLD. Since all the major grossly polluting industries are closed due to the lockdown, this toxic load is not entering the river now. As a result, one-third of the pollution load has been minimised. The only load now is due to sewage from major cities.” Experts say the improvement in the Ganga’s water during the lockdown is a sign that the river can recover. Rama Rauta, former member of National Ganga River Basin Authority, says the data is encouraging. “This proves that dams and industries are the biggest enemy of the purity of the river water. If free flow of water in Ganga is restored and industrial pollution is checked, 75% of the river water will turn into “quality water” for human consumption,” she says.Santosh Nigam, 27, who lives a few metres from the river bed in Kanpur’s Parmat, one of busiest and revered ghats, is elated. “I have never seen the river looking so clean,” he says. “It is beautiful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anxiety-more-time-to-study-for-40k-students-stranded-in-kota/story-LgCluBkrFEITG9qyX16IEI.html
04-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 crisis, Indian firms hope for quick payments of dues by govt||India’s businesses are expecting the government to roll out a fiscal relief and stimulus package of the same magnitude as the one unveiled by the US -- equivalent to around 10% of GDP -- but are also hoping the Centre and states, various administrative departments, state-owned companies and utilities will accelerate payments owed to them as they battle an economic crisis of never-seen-before proportions. A consolidated amount of what the government owes companies, large and small, isn’t readily available, but HT learns that it could run into a few lakh crore with the big-ticket ones being the money owed by the Centre to fertiliser companies towards subsidies and that owed by state power distribution companies to power producers. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicFor instance, by last month, the amount owed by the Centre to fertiliser companies had touched Rs 60,000 crore, according to KS Raju, the chairman of industry body Fertiliser Association of India. This, after payment of Rs 10,000 crore last month. The money owed is on account of a fertiliser subsidy. Raju explains that for every tonne of urea made at a cost of around Rs 20,000, the selling price, fixed by the government, is just Rs 5,000. The government compensates the companies for the rest -- including a fixed rate of return -- but the payments are usually late. Also Read: Government may borrow Rs 40k crore as cash-strapped states seek fundsFertiliser minister Sadanand Gowda was unavailable for comment and his office said he is busy overseeing the lockdown in the states he has been assigned. The 21-day lockdown (ending April 14) was instituted to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and ministers given the task of overseeing the situation in specific states. Gowda has the responsibility for Kerala and LakshadweepPower companies say they have it worse. The amount owed by state-run power distribution companies (discoms) to power generating companies (gencos) stood as high as Rs 88,426 crore until February . It is likely to have increased since, although the latest data is yet to be compiled. The ministry of power’s payment ratification and analysis portal Praapti shows the discoms, so far, have only paid Rs 10, 259 crore of the total dues pending. Power producers give 60 days to discoms for paying bills for the supply of electricity. After that, outstanding dues become overdue and generators charge penal interest in most cases.  Experts have said gencos too are in need of a fiscal stimulus. “Government may have to facilitate interest-free working capital loans for gencos. Else, this contagion will spread to fuel suppliers and sustainability of all sector entities will come under question,“ said Debashish Mishra, a partner at Deloitte India. Also Read: As states struggle to distribute ration, demand for work surgesAmong the worst affected are micro, small and medium enterprises, or MSMEs. The government in October 2017 launched a portal to facilitate payments due to small businesses by government departments and ministries. In the Union Budget 2020-21, an app-based invoice financing loans product was launched to obviate the problem of delayed payments and consequential cash flow mismatches for MSMEs.According to the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises’ Samadhaan portal, approximately Rs 4,000 crore of payment requests had been filed by MSMEs as of April 2, ready for consideration by the MSME Facilitation Council (MSEFC) for settlement. Also Read: Centre releases Rs 17,287 crore to statesDK Aggarwal, president, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said many state-owned companies that are loss-making had not been able to make timely payments to their vendors/MSMEs. “Further, some payments get held up due to procedural delays,” he said.“As a result of payment delays, businesses, especially MSMEs, face financial hardships and liquidity constraints which lead to severe pressure on their working capital management. This severely affects sustainability of their operations,” he added.He proposed that the central government “speed up the process of payment clearances, especially in this difficult time when the businesses, especially MSMEs, are facing problem of liquidity.” The office of Nitin Gadkari, the minister in charge of MSMEs, said the ministry was looking at the finance minister’s task force, set up to ensure the economy doesn’t suffer during this crisis, for direction. Officials in the finance ministry said there was absolutely no question of delay in making payments to vendors and contractual workers because of paucity of funds. All government expenditure is in line with the approved budget, two officials working in two different departments of the finance ministry added, requesting anonymity.“There could be two possibilities for delay in payments [to vendors]; inability of some vendors to provide bills and invoices in a particular format, and lack of manpower in certain departments to process pending bills of vendors. While vendors must follow rules, the department of expenditure has told all ministries to ensure timely payment without resorting to any excuse such as the 21-day lockdown,” one of the officials said.The department of expenditure, an arm of the finance ministry, has advised all ministries and government departments to ensure there are no procedural issues regarding government expenditure, which is necessary to keep the economy healthy, the second official said. “The instructions clearly said the expenditure system must function more quickly than normal in certain sectors to cope with emerging situations due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. Delayed payments are likely to hit companies across sectors that work with the government or which provide products or services to it -- especially at a time when business-as-usual has been disrupted by the lockdown in place to combat Covid-19. Also Read: SC seeks Centre’s reply on minimum wage to migrantsThe pandemic itself has also roiled the economy, with credit rater Fitch estimating on Friday that the Indian economy would grow at a 30-year low of 2% in 2020-21. For instance, the Association of Radio Operators For India, an industry body , has sought relief from the government to cope with the crisis, and also wanted the government’s advertising arm, the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP), to clear its dues. A member of the Indian Newspaper Society (INS), who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the DAVP also owed some money to newspapers. An official at the information and broadcasting ministry, under which DAVP falls, said that the department has “paid most of the bills. I am not saying all of them but most have been cleared by us by the end of March”. The official requested anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-crisis-indian-firms-hope-for-quick-payments-of-dues-by-govt/story-SpkiBKPqPlDgo8ojYro0uI.html
04-04-2020||India||Nizamuddin dargah: Sufi central suffers ripples of Jamaat||Being the nerve centre of Sufi culture in India and the home of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, after whom the area was named, congregations are a daily affair at Nizamuddin Basti. Every year, thousands gather here in the Islamic month of Rabi-ul Awwal to observe the urs (death anniversary) of the Auliya on the 17th and 18th of the month (to fall sometime in November this year, as per the Christian calendar). Besides the urs, hundreds pay obeisance at the dargah (resting place) of the Sufi saint every day at the locality which announces its existence by the blue dome, or the Neela Gumbad, on the intersection of Mathura Road and Zakir Hussain Marg.Besides its Sufi character, Nizamuddin is also a backpacker’s and gourmand’s delight with several small lodges; eateries churning out qorma, nahari, paaya and biryani; and small shops that sell attar (perfumes), skull caps, kurtas, and Islamic books. It also has one of the first branches of the famous Old Delhi Mughlai restaurant, Karim’s. Residents of nearby colonies also visit the various meat shops in the area for their daily supply.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIt is said that Auliya’s basti never stands still. However, over the last three days, hundreds of potential Covid-19 patients were evacuated from the Markaz, the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, located just a few metres away from the Dargah. A congregation of indeterminate length held last month at the Markaz has now emerged one of the biggest spreaders of the Sars-Cov-2 virus.Farid Nizami, the 48-year-old caretaker of 13th-century dargah, says he has been getting queries from across the world and from those who live in the surrounding area about the rise in Coronavirus cases caused by a religious gathering of members of the Tablighi Jamaat in mid-March.“The moment the name of Nizamuddin occurs anywhere, people immediately associate it with the dargah. I am having to explain to everyone over and again that this incident has nothing to do with the Dargah,” he said, adding that the mausoleum had for the first time in its history last month shut its doors to the thousands of pilgrims who visit it every day -- the moment the Prime Minister announced the March 22 “janta curfew” to control the spread of the virus.“The members of the Jamaat have nothing to do with the Dargah, or with sufism. Their religious traditions are different and they hardly ever even visit the dargah,” Nizami added.The spread of Covid-19 at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters situated in the same Nizamuddin Basti, however, has caused worry among the residents of the 700-year-old settlement spread around the mausoleum of the Sufi saint.Abdur Rahmaan (56), a local resident, said: “Ever since the government began alerting us on Coronavirus cases, we have been spreading awareness among the people of this basti about social distancing. However, for the past few days we have been facing a lot of discrimination when we go out to get grocery and other essential commodities from nearby markets. People feel that we are carrying the virus and refuse to supply us with any goods we need.”The settlement around the dargah, where a thriving population of those claiming lineage to Hazrat Nizamuddin and his disciples dwells, has been at the centre of cultural activities in Delhi since the 13th century. “Every dynasty that ruled Delhi since has built in this area, because of the proximity to the saint’s grave,” said Ratish Nanda, CEO of the Aga Khan Trust for Culture, which has been carrying out development efforts in the basti for at least a decade. A large number of royal tombs came up in the vicinity, including Humayun’s tomb, which is one among the three Unesco world heritage sites in Delhi. The presence of a 16th century heritage park, Sundar Nursery, which was redeveloped three years ago, is yet another attraction for tourists.“Like every other urban village in Delhi, the Nizamuddin basti has grown organically, and has several segregated communities who came to the area at different points in time.” added Nanda.There are about 400 families in the area who trace their descent to the saint. Then there was a wave of refugees from West Punjab who came here in 1947. Nizamuddin still remains one of the first ports of call for a Muslim immigrant in Delhi. During the 1982 Asian Games, a large population of labourers came to the area and continued to stay here long after the games were over.Nizamuddin is also a cultural hub. “Many things that are deeply connected to the idea of India found their origins in Nizamuddin,” said heritage enthusiast Sohail Hashmi. “While the Chisti saint Nizamuddin Auliya decided to stay here, it is through his closest disciple, the poet, musician and scholar, Amir Khusrao, that Sufi thought is transmitted into the language of Delhi. It is he who begins the musical tradition of Qawaali, drawing in elements from folk music in Delhi and Punjab. The beginning of the langar tradition also took place in the hospice of Nizamuddin,” adds Hashmi.The Qawali tradition at the Nizamuddin Dargah continues to draw about 1,500 visitors every Thursday night. The mausoleum is visited by thousands of pilgrims from across the world on the birth and death anniversaries of Nizamuddin and Khusrao as well.Being a space of cultural significance, literary figures such as the 17th century poet Abdul Rahil Khan-i-Khana and the 19th century poet Mirza Ghalib also came to be buried there. “Thousands of people come here every year to celebrate Ghalib in seminar, mushairas, and ghazal programs,” said Aqil Ahmad, secretary of the Ghalib academy, a cultural and educational institution established in 1969 in West Nizamuddin, consisting of a research centre, art gallery, and a calligraphy training centre.In was in the 1920s that the Tablighi Jamaat was given land by the Nizamuddin Dargah to build their headquarters. Speaking about how the present controversy about the Jamaat gathering might be affecting the health and reputation of people at Nizamuddin, Nanda said “presently our only concern is the well being of the 20,000 residents of the basti and to identify anyone who will need hospitalisation”. “Thereafter much needs to be done to reiterate that the mammoth Tablighi Jamaat headquarters that now overshadows the basti, has in fact little association with pilgrims to the dargah or with the local residents,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nizamuddin-dargah-sufi-central-suffers-ripples-of-jamaat/story-4NnomWLvZkxRBFaVzxGwqM.html
04-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra may have to extend lockdown by few weeks, says minister||Maharashtra reported 67 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 490, and the total deaths reported in the state touched 26, Maharashtra health Minister Rajesh Tope said “43 of these new cases are from Mumbai, 10 from Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), 9 from Pune, 6 from Ahmednagar, and 1 each from Ratnagiri and Washim.” He also said Maharashtra is likely to extend the lockdown beyond April 14, especially in Mumbai and other urban areas by two more weeks. Maharashtra traced seven persons – two each in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Ahmednagar and one in Hingoli district – who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event have tested positive. The state government could contact 1033 people of the 1,225 who went to New Delhi and has put 738 in government quarantine facilities, a state official said.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged everyone to switch off their lights, and light candles, oil lamps, or flash torch or mobile lights for 9 minutes at 9pm on Sunda, Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut released a video appealing to citizens not to switch their lights off, and light candles or oil lamps with a tube light on. He said sudden decrease in demand could lead to a grid failure, owing to high frequency at power stations. It would then take between 12 and 16 hours to restore power supply. As of the last update of April 3, a total of 10873 persons were tested in government and private labs in Maharashtra, approximately 97% of which tested negative, and 3% tested positive for Covid-19. Maharashtra has 2455 flying squads to screen persons living in containment zones, and has screened 9,25,828 persons, as of April 3. Of these 292 flying squads are active in Mumbai, 140 in Thane district, 161 in Navi Mumbai, 413 in Pune, 38 in Pimpri Chinchwad, 210 in Nagpur, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-may-have-to-extend-covid-19-lockdown-minister/story-IddrBVogGepJERryDjLJhI.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Anxiety and a lot of time to study for students stuck in coaching hub Kota||Rashi Todani, 19, one of the around-40,000 students stranded in the coaching hub of Kota, sees a silver lining to the nationwide lockdown.“Though I am away from my parents, I am focusing on my studies,” says Todani, a resident of West Bengal’s Raniganj who is preparing for the National Medical Entrance Examination (NEET). Not everyone feels the same way. Manavi Soni, 17, a Madhya Pradesh resident who stays in the same paying guest (PG) accommodation as Todani, wants to return home at the earliest and be with her family “in this hour of crisis”. The responses of Todani and Soni book-end the feelings of students in this bustling Rajasthan city, which, like the entire country, has suddenly fallen silent in the wake of the 21-day lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Some are anxious, worried about the well-being of their families. Others have calmed down after the initial panic triggered by the lockdown and are using the time at their disposal to sharpen their preparation for the competitive exams that stand postponed for now.At peak season, Kota is home to 150,000 students, with private coaching centres dotting the streets that are usually teeming with engineering and medical school aspirants, according to Nidhi Prajapati, a teacher of peace studies in a private college in the city who has studied the Kota phenomenon. Currently, around 40,000 students are stuck in the city, surviving on free food packets provided by hostel owners, philanthropic organisations and the institutes, says Naveen Maheshwari, the director of a coaching centre.Students come to the city, which also finds itself in the news regularly for stress-related suicides, because the institutes here have acquired a reputation for prepping students for the Indian Institutes of Technology-Joint Entrance Examination (IIT-JEE) and NEET exams, which usually take place in April-May. This year, all exams have been indefinitely postponed.Students have the option to choose a one-year preparatory course or one that lasts two years. They typically give their school-leaving examinations also from Kota. “The coaching institutes are closed and we cannot go home. So there’s no option but to study, which is not a bad option. The JEE-Mains have been postponed and we get more time to study for it,” says Vishwendra Pratap Singh, an 18-year-old from Lucknow. “The messes and roadside eateries are closed, but the coaching institutes, hostels and social organisations provide free food,” he says.Several coaching institutes have come to the aid of those stranded, distributing food packets. “Students in Kota are following the lockdown strictly, confining themselves in their hotels and PGs. We are taking care of their needs,” adds Maheshwari. He and the people who run other coaching institutes have urged hostels not to charge rent from students till the lockdown is over.Hostels too are looking after the students and organising food for them, says Vishwanath Sharma, the former president of a body of hostel owners. The association is also regularly sanitising the hostels.“I don’t have any financial crunch. Even if someone is lacking money to buy an essential, hostel owners are helping them,” says 18-year-old Stuti Agarwal, a Patna resident preparing for NEET.Coaching institutes are making the best of the digital tools they already have, conducting online classes for students. “We have a mentorship mobile app on which we address students’ problems — academic, psychological and health-related. Our faculty and counsellors reach out to them with help,” says Maheshwari. “We have also launched a dedicated health helpline for students apart from general student helpline to resolve their health concerns,” he adds.Rakesh Sharma, the manager of another institute, is reaching out to students on WhatsApp. “We have made WhatsApp groups of students and their faculty members for academic queries. We will soon launch a mobile app for these issues,” he says.But for 18-year-old Mohammad Waseem, all these mean nothing. He wants to go back home to Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly.“I stay in a PG. The owners went to Uttar Pradesh for a wedding and got stranded there due to the lockdown. Now, I am left to fend for myself,” he says. “Organisations are providing food to us, but I want to be with my parents.” District collector Om Kasera has advises students not to venture outside. “There are strict government instructions on compliance, in which any kind of unnecessary movement is not allowed. So students are not allowed to return to their homes,” he adds.On March 31, he sent a message to students over phone, asking them not to be depressed and also told them not to make any attempts to return to their homes during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anxiety-and-a-lot-of-time-to-study-for-students-stuck-in-coaching-hub-kota/story-qVwAzrHh1SgIA36JXwfwXO.html
04-04-2020||India||647 Covid-19 cases across 14 states traced to Tablighi Jamaat: Govt||India has recorded 647 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that can be linked to a religious gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, which has emerged as a hot spot of the disease in the country, the Union health ministry said on Friday.These cases were detected in 14 states/Union Territories, namely Andaman and Nicobar Island, Assam, Delhi, Himachal, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, the government said.A March congregation of Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat at its six-storey headquarters has set the alarm bells ringing, with authorities in states launching hectic efforts to trace the footsteps of those who visited Nizamuddin for the gathering and subsequently fanned out across the country.Twelve deaths due to Covid-19 surfaced in the past 24 hours, Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary of the Union health ministry, said at a press briefing on Friday afternoon, putting the total number of fatalities in the country at 56.When asked how many of the 12 deaths were linked to the Jamaat congregation, Agarwal said: “It is difficult to ascertain at this point.”The country has registered a total of 2,301 cases, and 336 of them have been reported since Thursday, Agarwal said. He added that 157 patients have recovered from the disease caused by the fast-spreading Sars-CoV-2 virus.Agarwal added that about three million people downloaded the AarogyaSetu app, developed in public-private partnership to help people in assessing their risk of catching the coronavirus infection.He asked citizens to support health workers in the backdrop of attacks on doctors conducting door-to-door drives to screen suspected coronavirus patients.“The Union health minister (Harsh Vardhan) has conveyed that he is concerned over attacks on health workers. Even the Prime Minister has appreciated health workers. Under such challenging circumstances, we should support them in every way possible,” Agarwal said.At the same briefing, Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary of the Union home ministry, said the central government has asked states to take strict action against those targeting health workers. Manoj Murhekar of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said guidelines for rapid antibody diagnostics are likely to be released by Saturday.India has allowed faster and cheaper antibody tests to check for the coronavirus disease in so-called hot spots -- these show clusters of infections -- of which there are 20 in the country.Murhekar said India has conducted around 66,000 tests, of which around 8,000 were done on Thursday — the highest in a single day so far.“Testing has process and guidelines. Unnecessary testing for the sake of confidence building, especially when kits are limited, is not the right strategy. However, if we feel it’s needed, testing criteria can be revised. But, so far, no decision has been taken on that,” he said, responding to a question on whether India will ramp up testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-related-to-tablighi-jamaat-reported-from-14-states-says-govt/story-hjSdFvCasQKK0iDCblBQGO.html
04-04-2020||India||Humour does what force can’t: Policemen show their fun and quirky side||Laughter is the best medicine, even in the time of corona! In order to spread awareness about the pandemic, police officers are coming up with fun and novel ideas. Putting up a funky dance performance to demonstrate how to wash hands to fight corona virus, doing an aarti of those stepping out without a reason, singing parodies – police officers across India are exhibiting their cool, quirky side.In Bilaspur, Chhattisgarh, police officers are doing the aarti of violators to stop them from stepping out without any purpose— they are putting tika on their foreheads, showering them with flowers and circulating an aarti plate with a dia around them! Lalita Mehar, the DSP we see in the viral video performing the aarti, says, “Why use lathis when aartis work better? The purpose was to make people realise how people are putting everyone’s life at risk. They were initially puzzled but they understood and pledged to stay safe.” The police officer performs these aartis across the city along with her colleague, SHO Mohammad Kalim Khan. SP Bilaspur Prashant Agarwal says this is a trying phase, and amid all the gloom, he wanted his team to do something positive. “We thought we should do something light hearted to urge people to stay at home. We were like, sab kuch toh try kar liya, dara liya, dhamka liya, pyar se samjha liya, ab kya arti utaarein aapki...and we literally did it! We got just the right reaction. People were embarrassed, they accepted their mistake and realised the efforts we are putting in to fight the pandemic.” The videos are being shared and appreciated in other countries as well. “We are getting calls from across the world,” shares the SP. Bilaspur Police has also penned a cool parody to make people aware about the precautions they must take to fight COVID-19. Officers go from one locality to another singing it soulfully, and people join in from their balconies. Bilaspur DSP Abhinav Upadhyay, who you see singing melodiously in video, says that police officers were a bit stressed, as people were posting memes mocking the police, such as ‘police waale PUBG khel rahe hain’. “Our intent is the welfare of our people. We wanted to present a counter narrative, and tell people that it will be disastrous to step out. A parody seemed perfect,” he says. While the police officer was listening to the timeless ‘Ek Pyar Ka Naghma Hai’ from Shor (1972), his wife, Shruti Upadhyay, suggested that they modify the song. “Within 20 minutes, we put it together. Mostly, she wrote the lines and I edited,” he shares. The police officer was overwhelmed with emotions when he received a call from veteran lyricist Santosh Anand, the original writer of the song. “I could hardly believe when Anand ji himself called and appreciated the parody. It was a priceless moment,” he says. Singer Daler Mehendi , who saw the videos on social media, says, “Huge respect for these officers who have taken this initiative in this critical time. It’s a great way to bring the nation and the entire human race together. Have never come across a policeman who can sing so beautifully!” “The aarti video is the coolest that I have seen on social media. Much better than hitting anyone! What a cute, fun message, ki boss, stay at home, warna aapki bhi aarti utarenge,” says actor Sonu Sood. Police officers in other states are also singing to urge people to stay at home. A video of a Pune police officer singing ‘Zindagi maut na ban jaye, sambhalo yaaro’ to make people aware of the crisis that we are facing is also being shared on social media. The Kerala police had also earlier released a video of officers dancing to demonstrate how to wash hands properly to fight coronavirus. In Chennai, the police invented a quirky way to tell people that they can’t be taking COVID-19 lightly. Police officers made violators wear coronavirus helmet (a headgear with tentacles jutting out) that resembles the virus. The police officers also made people hold placards reading “Don’t come out and go near coronavirus.” Inspector Rajesh babu himself wore one of these headgears designed by artist B. Gowtham. The police officer hoped that people get scared of the deadly virus and do not step out without a valid reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humour-does-what-force-can-t/story-8kRxW8yYiwtcbMgYafptdI.html
04-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: How world reached a million cases in 93 days||At exactly 12pm IST on December 31, a 280-word report from news agency AFP made its way to newsrooms around the world. Citing local media, the report said a mystery virus was causing “viral pneumonia of unknown origin” in the city of Wuhan, where 27 people had been infected till then. The story drew little attention, as the world prepared to celebrate the beginning of a new year later that night.In less than 100 days in the new year – Thursday is the 93rd day to be precise – the virus has infected 1 million people and killed 50,000, ripping through 203 countries in a rampage that will likely exact as severe an economic, social and psychological toll as the number of casualties by the time humanity can beat it. Till now, a little over 200,000 have recovered from the disease.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn India, infections crossed 2,000 on Wednesday and the country was on course to add 514 more on Thursday -- the first time daily new cases crossed the 500 mark. New fatalities too logged a big jump -- 19 -- taking the total toll to 72 in the country, which is in the middle of a three-week long nationwide shutdown to ensure the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak does not assume the proportions it has in countries such as Italy and the United States.The United States is now the worst-hit region, accounting for more than a third of all daily new cases around the world. New York has lost 2,200 people and the virus was on course to surpass the 9/11 terror attacks in the next 36 hours as the deadliest tragedy in a city that is at the heart of modern day pop culture. Almost 10 million Americans filed for unemployment benefits in the last two weeks. The United States and Europe are largely being regarded as the current hot spots of the pandemic, with world leaders expecting “the roughest two or three weeks” in their country. “We’re going to lose thousands of people,” US President Donald Trump said earlier in the week, while projecting that up to 240,000 people could die.Italy, with a large ageing population that is the most vulnerable to the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen, has seen the highest number of deaths at 13,000. Spain, the United Kingdom, France and Germany together account for close to 20,000 fatalities.China, where the pathogen is believed to have mutated in either bats or pangolins to jump to humans, has recorded 3,300 deaths – with a rate of growth that slowed into single digits only after what has been a close two months of lockdown in large parts of the country.Stock markets around the world suffered historic losses in the first three months of the year. The Dow Jones Industrial Average and London’s FTSE 100 saw their biggest quarterly drops since 1987, plunging 23% and 25% respectively.In India, Bombay Stock Exchange investors lost around Rs 33.38 lakh crore (in market value) in March, the month when the coronavirus contagion spread to equities.In an age largely defined as the era of social media, Covid-19 has now introduced a new zeitgeist: social distancing. Jobs that can be done are now being done from home -- as are classes for schools and college, and even the UK parliament. As a result, digital pipelines are sagging under the load of unprecedented video streaming and conferencing. Also Read: Genetic sequencing takes lead in Covid-19 vaccine developmentIn India, authorities have now begun preparations to deal with what may be an inevitable surge in infections, and chart out strategies to allow at least some people to resume work when the lockdown ends on April 15. “It is important to formulate a common exit strategy to ensure staggered re-emergence of the population once the lockdown ends,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi told chief ministers on Thursday, asking states to send their suggestions for such an exit strategy.“It can’t be business as usual,” a government release quoted the PM as saying, perhaps summing up the reality the rest of the world will need to confront – at least for the next 12-18 months by when a viable, mass-produced vaccine is expected to be a reality. Research labs and pharmaceutical companies in the US, China and European nations are working at full tilt to develop a vaccine that can fight stem the pandemic. Trials have begun in China, United States and Germany with first participants taking shots of the first vaccine candidates. A drug used in the treatment of malaria has also held out hope, and prompted India to prescribe it as a prophylactic for medical staff dealing with the cases. Hydroxychloroquine when paired with azithromycin (an antibiotic) has been shown to clear patients of the virus at a much faster rate than seen usually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-how-world-reached-a-million-cases-in-93-days/story-gWNlBC9XMeSNJURmCeWloN.html
04-04-2020||India||‘Insult heaped on injury’: Omar Abdullah on govt’s tweak to Kashmir domicile law||National conference leader Omar Abdullah on Monday denounced the Centre’s move to rework the domicile laws in the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir at a time when the nation is pooling all resources to stave off the coronavirus pandemic.The leader, who was until recently in detention, questioned the timing of the move as the entire nation is under lockdown to halt the spread of the Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. He called the law “hollow” and said it does not offer the protections that it had promised.According to the change in laws, anyone who has resided for 15 years in Jammu and Kashmir or has studied for seven years and appeared in Class 10 and Class 12 examinations in an educational institution located in the union territory is a domicile. Also, those registered as a migrant by the Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner (Migrants) will also be deemed to be a domicile.“Talk about suspect timing. At a time when all our efforts & attention should be focused on the #COVID outbreak the government slips in a new domicile law for J&K. Insult is heaped on injury when we see the law offers none of the protections that had been promised,” tweeted the former chief minister. Talk about suspect timing. At a time when all our efforts & attention should be focused on the #COVID outbreak the government slips in a new domicile law for J&K. Insult is heaped on injury when we see the law offers none of the protections that had been promised.Abdullah said that the recently formed ‘Apni Party’, which he alleged was formed with the blessings of the Delhi, was critical of the changes in the law.“You can imagine how hollow the domicile law is from the fact that even the new party created with Delhi’s blessings, whose leaders were lobbying in Delhi for this law, have been forced to criticise the #JKdomicilelaw,” said the NC leader in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insult-heaped-on-injury-omar-abdullah-as-govt-tweaks-kashmir-domicile-law/story-hF1irhloZi7YwbMqU2i0IM.html
