10-04-2020||News||In the Covid-19 fight, how the Indian armed forces can assist the State| Analysis||The Indian armed forces have been called upon to combat terrorists, violent ideologies and natural disasters. In rare instances, they have been ordered to enforce law and order in riot situations. However, they have not dealt with pandemics. The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) currently poses a threat which, affecting the entire spectrum of society and State, can be classified in terms of its first-and-second-order impact. The first order or direct impact is on the patient affected by the virus in terms of illness, possible death and the risk of infecting others. Medical services and related infrastructure are also directly impacted. The second-order impact is manifold and on infrastructure and services such as communications, law and order, and finances. These can be managed and controlled through various departments of the government. The questions that then arise are the following: Should the armed forces be deployed to deal with pandemics? If yes, what are the ways of utilising them?To answer this, one must understand the concept of securitisation. This means that security, as understood from a realist point of view, is a social construct rather than a condition. In other words, the affected political system may define what a security threat is, and it may not be what is commonly considered a threat. The armed forces can deal with pandemics as a lead agency in countries when they are defined as security threats, and if the forces are equipped accordingly. However, if defined from the perspective of aid to civil authorities, the forces are likely to deal with the second-order impact. Additionally, the forces have a sterling reputation in the public eye and this can be “weaponised” and used to stabilise the situation, if it worsens. The armed forces have developed several advanced capabilities in communications, logistics, inventory management, surgery and rapid insertion and deployment of modular teams. While dealing with pandemics, the armed forces can be used to supplement and, at times, complement the efforts of the civil administration.The Indian Navy and the Indian Air Force (IAF) have significant capabilities such as secure and robust communications, near blue-water presence and dominance and strategic airlift, which puts them in the driver’s seat when it comes to out-of-area contingencies. After the outbreak of Covid-19, the two major contingencies that arose were the evacuation of Indian nationals from affected countries and providing trained medical manpower to friendly countries. The mass evacuation of Indians and nationals from at least 23 countries was earlier conducted successfully during Operation Raahat in 2015 from Yemen. In the case of Iran, India flew some of its scientists from the Indian Council of Medical Research in an IAF aircraft to set up a lab to test 1,200 stranded Indians for Covid-19. On March 13, doctors and paramedics from the armed forces were flown to the Maldives to provide medical assistance. Both these actions were made possible due to the bilateral and multilateral exercises with friendly countries on humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations, port calls, participation in air shows, seminars and discussions in various multinational forums. With the severity and spread of Covid-19 increasing, the armed forces may likely see an accelerated deployment cycle in the Indian Ocean region.The sharp increase in the number of infected cases in almost all affected countries is an indicator that India will face this situation soon. There will be a clamour for wards and open spaces for patients, in case hospitals are overwhelmed. As the forces have shown, by creating quarantine zones and wellness centres out of pre-existing accommodations, they have the capability and manpower to do so at a larger scale, and in a much shorter time frame. The engineering equipment in the Army’s inventory can be used by local formations to support and augment civilian capacities in respective areas. The human resources of the armed forces can also be used to rapidly convert open spaces such as stadiums and parks into closed ones with basic facilities. If there is a breakdown of law and order, there may have to be flag marches or other interventions by the forces. This is in case the police and Central Armed Police Forces are overwhelmed. The panic likely to be generated due to the news about casualty figures may lead to violence, which may be intrinsically created or inflated by external factors. The armed forces need to weaponise their perceived impartiality in cases of intra-community violence, if any. Violence in a jail in Bogota, Colombia, over Covid-19 rumours, which resulted in 23 deaths and 83 people being injured in March, is a stark reminder of what can happen if false information is allowed to spread uncontrolled. In such a situation, the forces can be pressed into action. With rugged distribution networks, the armed forces are adept at the distribution of basic amenities during natural calamities, as has been evident in the aftermath of many natural disasters in India and abroad. These capabilities can be utilised by the government and local administration to provide basic food and medicines to remote places as well as to specific sections of society most affected by the lockdown. The forces can also be used to carry out awareness campaigns within the civilian population, thanks to their credibility. The unique capabilities of the armed forces in terms of their trained manpower, communications and extensive distribution networks will complement the government’s efforts. They must be prepared for a role that will be challenging and risky. However, all these capacities can be brought to bear on the condition that the forces themselves are safe and infection-free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-the-covid-19-fight-how-the-indian-armed-forces-can-assist-the-state-analysis/story-WkN3bTTWb1sTeXMAS9oKkI.html
10-04-2020||News||How DBT helps the poor during emergencies||On March 26, 2020, the government announced free gas refills for three months for Ujjwala beneficiaries who were facing economic challenges due to the coronavirus lockdown. The policy came into effect from April 1. From April 3, the government started transferring the subsidy money for the first cylinder into the bank accounts of 8.3 crore Ujjwala customers, at the rate of about one crore transfers per day. Things were very different a few years ago. On January 26, 2001, a major earthquake, with its epicentre in Kutch, shook Gujarat, killing thousands, injuring and rendering homeless lakhs, and destroying crores worth of property. Besides organising rescue operations, one of the first steps that the state administration took was to distribute cash relief. This was, as local officers told me when I joined the Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority (GSDMA) in Kutch, one of the most difficult tasks for them. Most people were not in a position to bring identity cards and address proofs. A large amount of cash had to be organised, with police deployment to manage the crowd. The public servants involved in the cash distribution were worried: “How will I prove that I paid the cash dole to the eligible beneficiary, should an enquiry be made at a later date?” they wondered.At one time, we struggled to distribute cash during emergencies in a single city. Now, we have, thanks to Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT), the capability to transfer money to almost the entire country in a matter of days. This has been possible because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of JAM (Jan-Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile), which enables a swift response in emergency conditions. Today, more than 121 crore people have Aadhaar card and over 33 crore have Jan Dhan, the basic savings accounts in banks. Under PAHAL (Pratyaksh Hastantarit Labh), the world’s largest DBT scheme, about 25 crore LPG customers receive subsidy in their bank accounts. In 2019-2020, DBT crossed Rs 2.5 lakh crore mark, in a total of 410 crore transactions. In short, the reach of an all-electronic, Aadhar-enabled, DBT is unmatched. Then we have the benefit under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana for Ujjwala customers who receive about Rs 750, the average retail selling price of a cylinder. They also receive an SMS from their bank, updating them about the credit. Some may buy refills immediately, while others may use the money for food or other necessities. In times of uncertainty, people are the best judges of what they need. As the majority of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana customers use both LPG and other biomass-based fuels, they are in the best position to make adjustments at the household level.Those who buy a refill will be issued an advance for the next refill in May and so on. Those who don’t buy a refill right away can come back later. Some may not need to take out cash right away, but the knowledge that there is some money in the account will give them a sense of security. This will be quick, without any leakage and allow the ministry of petroleum and natural gas and the oil marketing companies to focus on ensuring supplies, last-mile deliveries and concurrent feedback from the field. Of course, the challenge of people being able to withdraw money without hassle while maintaining social distancing still remains. One hopes that the government and banks will provide due attention to this aspect as well. Overall, DBT will provide some immediate support to poor families, allow the administration to focus on those who are for some reason left out, and address numerous other challenges that continue to unfold every day in the fight against Covid-19. Nidhi Prabha Tewari is a senior social sector specialist (consultant) with PMUY and has previously worked in a few disaster recovery programmes in IndiaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-dbt-helps-the-poor-during-emergencies/story-2PaLtVyXvWIyUyn2WcV0dK.html
10-04-2020||News||Covid-19: How the crisis can help businesses successfully reorient human interactions||The primary casualty of the coronavirus pandemic is confidence. A thorough cessation of any degree of certainty in the medium- and long-term socioeconomic activity is causing deep resets across the business landscape. At the heart of this crisis is “social distancing”, with everything else being secondary. As a consequence, human interactions are undergoing a change, and, with it, interpersonal activities are getting reformed. Whether it is politics, governance, legal deliveries, education and learning, or business activities based on networking and relationship building, all are changing irrevocably. It is in this context that modern industries and business activities and manufacturing need innovative solutions and radical outlooks to not only ride out the virus storm but remain strong in the recovery as well as the growth phase. Since the Covid-19 outbreak has imposed a new normal on us, it is important that businesses too consequently find their own new normal. Here, the direct selling industry, being so inextricably human networking-based, has to reinvent itself around this new imperative. There are three broad mindset change directions that may help organisations to maintain business continuity during and after these trying times.First, the technology must be fully and creatively leveraged. While digital and virtually addressable solutions and tools are in abundance, the mindset to let them overwhelm human interaction is missing. The mindset change here relates to pervasive adoption and scaling up the reach. For instance, virtual seminars, e-trainings, and on-line dealer meets which can involve even 200-300 attendees could become the future order. In order to overcome the limitations of social distancing, tools such as those available for doing routine meetings must be fully used. This can also lead to the introduction of more sophisticated technologies that enable near-life interactions. In fact, an added advantage of such adoptions at work would be reduced commuting needs in an already overcrowded world. It would be a great move toward whittling carbon footprints and cleaning up our cities’ foul air. The reduction in air pollution in metro cities during lockdown already echoes this potential gain.Second, a nuanced adoption of what is termed as “proximity quotient” can make all the difference in our interactivity mores. Expect people to ask to stay at a safe “working distance” in industries ranging from manufacturing to services to information technology.Last, a defining change for industries must be the adoption of better meeting efficiency standards. It would be useful to get into the discussion, talk straight, and go out with a quick, useful conclusion. Efficiency will rise, as will bottomlines.We have learnt to deal with a volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity (VUCA) world. This is what has put Indian leadership at the top of global companies such as Google, Pepsi and Microsoft. Indian business leaders possess the resilience and adaptability to deal with a world full of unknown variables. As change stalwarts, Indian entrepreneurs are savvier than most in dealing with uncertainty and challenges. The sheer diversity of the Indian market is a powerful teacher. Thus, in the direct selling business, where every member is verily an independent owner and a businessperson rolled into one, we can see this rapid adaptability to new realities.Extraordinary circumstances require extraordinary measures. It is often a crisis that brings out the best in us. The coronavirus crisis has reminded humanity that no amount of planning, forecasts and analysis are foolproof. Gautam Bali is managing director, Vestige Marketing Ltd, a leading direct selling company dealing in health and wellness productsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-how-the-crisis-can-help-businesses-successfully-reorient-human-interactions/story-aCcpPzlxbk6kBeZvKuQ0dM.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||NDMC issues show-cause notice to Bengali Market pastry shop owner||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Friday issued a show-cause notice to the owner of a pastry shop in Central Delhi’s Bengali Market above which as many as 35 workers were found living in “unhygienic conditions” and not following social distancing norms to contain the spread of Covid-19.NDMC officials said the shop owner has been asked to explain why the health license issued by the civic body to the shop should not be cancelled for violating social distancing norms amid Coronavirus pandemic.“As per the provisions of Section 339 of the NDMC Act, 1994, the NDMC has directed the vendor to show cause why the said health license could not be revoked on account of violations within 10 days of issuance of the notice, otherwise NDMC could seal the premise without further notice,” the NDMC said in a statement.The statement added that similar action will be taken against others if found violating guidelines laid down by the administration for the containment of Sars-Cov-2.The popular market was sealed after it was declared a containment zone when three cases had come out positive. The district administration had conducted screening of the entire area on Wednesday where it found that 35 workers of the popular Bengali Pastry Shop were living in unhygienic conditions in a cramped space above the shop, violating social distancing norms. The Delhi Police had also registered an FIR against the owner of the shop on Thursday for not following social distancing measures which may have caused the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ndmc-issues-show-cause-notice-to-bengali-market-pastry-shop-owner/story-GRnVAkS09iw4BSJPEB4RnM.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||Disinfectant tunnels installed at Azadpur Mandi||The Delhi government on Friday installed two disinfectant tunnels at Azadpur Mandi in north Delhi. Now everyThe person entering will have to pass through the tunnel to get sanitised before entering Azadpur Mandi—Asia’s largest fruit and vegetable wholesale market. While inaugurating of the tunnel, Delhi’s development minister Gopal Rai said depending on how successful the tunnels prove to be, the Delhi government will install such machines in the other wholesale markets in Delhi.“The Azadpur Mandi is open during the lockdown as it supplies essential items for residents of the entire city. The Delhi government has installed two full-body sanitisation machines at the market gates. Every person entering and exiting the Mandi will have to pass through these machines which will automatically spray a sanitising solution on them. This will protect the people from the coronavirus spread,” Rai said. “This machine is developed by the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi. I have instructed the traders to maintain social distance and the government has also marked circles in front of the shops for the purpose. Special attention will be given to the cleanliness of the market. I have instructed all the labourers and traders to wear masks as well. The Delhi government is distributing masks to everyone here,” he added.To sensitise the workers at the wholesale market, the government is distributing pamphlets on the dos and don’ts on controlling the coronavirus spread. Disinfectants are being sprayed at the market daily. The government is also providing meals to the drivers and workers at the wholesale market every morning and evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/disinfectant-tunnels-installed-at-azadpur-mandi/story-6X7AodE1asB2eMa0hB8KIK.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt shuts paid quarantine facility at Aerocity||Once the largest quarantine cluster facility in the country, the paid quarantine centres in Aerocity near the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport were shut by the Delhi government on Friday. From now, all Covid-19 suspected patients will be taken directly to government quarantine centres set up in various parts of the national capital.The paid centres were opened on the night of March 16 at five hotels of Aerocity — Red Fox, IBIS, Aloft, Holiday Inn, and Pride Plaza — and as many as 608 people were put under quarantine. Most of the them were passengers who had arrived at the Delhi airport from other countries and had to undergo the mandated quarantine. According to district magistrate (New Delhi) Tanvi Garg, of the 608 people under quarantine, five tested positive for Covid-19. Three of them had come from the Untied States while two were from Australia. “The Aerocity’s paid quarantine facility saw the last batch of passengers check out on Thursday. With this, the paid quarantine achieved its purpose successfully with only five positive (asymptomatic) cases. The remaining 603 persons were discharged after they tested negative for Covid-19,” Garg said. The five Covid-19 patients are being treated at Lok Nayak hospital. Piyush Rohankar, the area’s subdivisional magistrate and the nodal officer of the paid facility, said the hotel quarantine facility has now been closed by the government.“Now, every district has quarantine centres, so there is no need for the paid facility anymore. In case there is a spurt in cases, then the government itself will book the hotels. The people will not have to pay,” he said.A few persons who stayed at the quarantine facility told HT over phone that some of them had to stay there even after their 14-day mandatory quarantine was over as the government did not have a standard operating procedure (SoP) in place for their movement, what with the 21-day nationwide lockdown in place from March 24.“Although my quarantine got over last week, I had to stay on as officials could not tell us how we could go back to our homes. Cabs are not plying and friends or family could not come because of the lockdown. From this week, they started issuing transit passes which is acceptable all over India for a fixed period of time,” a 47-year old man, who did not wish to be named, said. It was only on April 4 that Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev issued the SoP which allowed persons who have completed their mandatory 14-day quarantine period to return home via routes approved by the district administration and within a specified time frame.“Transport arrangement has to be made by the person and transit for fixed route with specified validity for such person will be issued by district magistrate of district concerned. Such person will further remain under home quarantine for a period of 14 days, as per standard protocol on the matter; the details of such person will be shared with State/UT Government for necessary follow-up,” read the SoP. Rohankar, who issued the transit passes for all the hotel quarantine persons, said there were people who went as far as Andhra Pradesh by road. He, however, refused to provide the contact details of such persons citing confidentiality.But, Sudipto Chakraborty (27), who left the quarantine facility on April 5 had no option but to shift to another hotel in Delhi. “While leaving, they gave us a certificate for completing the mandatory quarantine and also the Covid-19 test report. My home is in Assam, and the authorities offered a cab on payment basis. But, I opted out because it would have cost me a bomb to go all the way to the north-east in a cab. So, I am staying in another hotel in Delhi,” he said. “I got a call form the district administration today. They asked me about my health and if I am showing any flu-like symptoms. So, they are doing solid follow-up even on those who have completed the quarantine,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-shuts-paid-quarantine-facility-at-aerocity/story-U0BTGfsxahh0M6P8UdJ9FM.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s one-fifth cases from Mohali village alone||Mohali district’s Jawaharpur village, which has emerged as a hotspot of Covid-19 in Punjab, now accounts for as many as 21% cases of the disease in the state, with 10 more persons found infected on Friday.The number of total cases in the village that falls in Dera Bassi sub-division has reached 32. Now, the district has 48 positive cases, contributing 31% to the state’s tally.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “Extensive sampling has enabled us to detect more positive cases in the village and isolate them timely. Without testing, containing the village of around 2,500 plus population would not have achieved the desired results”.Of the 206 samples collected from the village, reports of 12 are awaited.On Friday, 20 new cases reported in Punjab, yet another day of highest spike in a single day.Earlier on Wednesday, as many cases were reported. With one more death in Mohali in a 78-year old woman, the total count of Covid-19 casualties in the district rose to 2. The samples of the woman, who died on April 6, came out positive on Friday.However, the state government’s media bulletin mentioned only one death in the district.With 15 cases, Pathankot district’s Sujanpur has emerged as another hotspot as 14 people have been found infected from the town. Of a total of 3,461 tests conducted in the state, reports of 2,972 samples have been received. Of these, nearly 95% have turned out be negative.Even as the state government is claiming to have increased its testing capacity to 800 tests a day, only 269 samples were sent for testing on Friday.State health department’s Covid-19 official spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the department is waiting for rapid testing kits from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which will be used in the hotspots.“In a rapid test, results arrive within 15 minutes. The samples found negative during these tests will be sent to our state laboratories to reconfirmation. Our increased capacity will be fully utilised during the rapid testing,” said the spokesperson.“Everyday, ICMR officials assure us that rapid testing kits would be arriving anytime. We are waiting for these kits for the last three days,” a senior health department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-one-fifth-cases-from-mohali-village-alone/story-qlSgL8mckktB8fSFF6v1hO.html
10-04-2020||Lucknow||‘Happy, digital village’ waging musical war against corona||A rather queer makeshift barrier, made up of some old wooden logs and worn out plastic contraptions, announces that the entry of outsiders to the village is banned.Some youths using ‘gamchas’ (multi-purpose cloth wrap-around) as their face masks keep an eye on all arrivals at the barrier from a distance. This is the scene at the entry point of Latifpur, about 40 km from Lucknow and part of the ‘Maal-Malihabad’ famous mango belt.This village, with a population of around 2,000 people, had over the last couple of years also taken to digitisation in a big way, especially under its young woman pradhan Shweta Singh, who holds a master of computer applications (MCA) degree.But where is she? It didn’t take long to locate her, though. That’s because following the sound of music that emerged from the centre of the village, we reached her when she was busy leading a music party, playing cymbals, to create awareness on novel coronavirus. The lyrics of the song, penned by the music party, were self explanatory: “...agar corona se bachna, bachaana hai, to ghar ke baher nahi aana hai, gamcha se mooh dhak ke hi bahar aana hai ... (to save oneself and others from corona stay indoors and wrap a ‘gamcha’ on your face while going out ..).”A ‘dhol’ player was also part of the musical group that clearly appeared to be drawing a number of villagers towards it. “See, music is hugely popular in villages. So we thought of creating awareness through music and as you can see it seems to be working, though we intend to improve on the lyrics,” says Shweta.She is aware of the return of migrant labourers to their villages from across the country.“We are in touch with all of them who have gone out for work. Seven of those who had returned to the village were quarantined for 14 days at a special isolation facility we have set up here,” she said.“Coronavirus has delayed our plans for the village. We have prepared a Rs 420 million (Rs 42 crore) five-year plan for the village and our village panchayat works on both long, mid and short term goals,” she said.“In many ways we are self sufficient. We are growing vegetables and the rural belt has enough availability of fruits, too. Our village is geared up to deal with the lockdown, even if it were to be extended,” said a village elder. “We had gone digital long back. There is internet connectivity, we have a whatsapp group which helps keep us posted about the requirements of the villagers.” We have also been going around telling the masses why it was necessary to frequently wash hands with soap,” the village head said.“We like to call ourselves – a happy, digital village,” she said. A village projector is also used to screen movies and other important documentaries and messages.The village has also inked a pact with Japan for a mango-honey project and can also offer, in normal times, a camel ride to people around the village. A ‘camel safari’ if you like to call it so!BEATING THE CORONA SCARE ‘DIGITALLY’Functional village whatsapp group for two-way information.The village has its own website and a mobile app – digitallatifpur – to disseminate information to villagersThe gram panchayat is also running a common service centre (CSC) which helps villagers keep connected Doorstep banking facility which helps provide banking services right at the doorstep. A banking correspondent is posted there to take care of the banking needs. In these times it’s specially useful as money for various government schemes like Ujjwala, MNREGA, Jan Dhan account money, Kisan Samman Nidhi is being sent directly to their accounts Doorstep banking is helping the village guard against overcrowding in banksCommunity kitchen is also operationalHome delivery of essentials is being ensured by two localsSolar systems available that guard against power crisis Quarantine facility||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/happy-digital-village-waging-musical-war-against-corona/story-ECq28pYozyuv6Qyw06rZtM.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||Society in Mumbai sealed, residents step up to help each other||Until a week ago, the residents of a society housing 300 flats at Raj Arcade society in Kandivli could take walks in their complex while following the social distancing norms. However, on April 7, the civic body sealed their society after four members of a family were tested positive for Covid-19, forcing around 1,000 residents of the society to remain restricted to their homes until April 19. The family has been quarantined at a civic facility while the members of two homes, who were close contacts of the family, have been asked to follow self-isolation. More than 20 residents who came in contact with the family have been tested for negative for the virus, but there is panic among the residents but they are cooperating with the officials. “No one was taking the lockdown seriously. The supermarkets were open till 4am and residents continued to roam out. Now after finding corona-positive patients in our society, residents are worried and are now staying indoors,” said one of the residents Mihir Jobanputra, who is a businessman.With the society gate sealed now, residents have to place online orders for vegetables, fruits and groceries or through guards, which will be delivered outside the gate.“BMC officials have been of a great help to us. A WhatsApp group has been created by them in which we can inform what we need and they get it delivered outside the gate. The commodities are sanitised by the security guard and police officers deployed at the society gate and sent to residents through a small window outside the gate. From Friday, a vendor has been delivering vegetables outside the premises to the guard,” said Divya Agrawal, one of the residents.Some residents are helping senior citizens living alone to place grocery orders. “There are some senior citizens, who are facing difficulties, but order their groceries and place it outside their door,” said Sneha Sedani, a photographer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/society-in-mumbai-sealed-residents-step-up-to-help-each-other/story-Y9tfcOTC3QJAnxamdtzLTP.html
10-04-2020||City||No inquest needed in Covid-19 cases: Maharashtra government||The state home department issued a circular stating that inquest – the judicial inquiry by police in any case of unnatural death – in the case of coronavirus fatalities need not be conducted. The decision has been taken to prevent the infection from spreading among police personnel, officers and health workers amid the Covid-19 outbreak. “We had received a request to waive off the procedure. There is risk of infection through contact even from death bodies of an infected person,” said a home department official. The circular stated that inquest will be waived off until further order. The state government has used its powers under Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, imposed in the wake of the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-inquest-needed-in-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-government/story-8nv4NlSMVAIxfJxKD9ZkoJ.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 outbreak: Delhi University may shift admission process completely online||Delhi University (DU) on Friday recommended to all its colleges to shift the admission process completely online, including the verification of documents and certificates, for the academic session 2020-21, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In a communication sent to colleges on Friday, Shobha Bagai, the dean of admissions, said that the varsity’s admissions branch has been working towards ensuring a friendly admission process for the students for the coming academic session amid the pandemic. “There have been conscious efforts to minimise visits of the students for physical verification of the mandatory documents during the admission process. In the current scenario, it is recommended that it becomes more imperative to have the complete admission process online, which also includes the online verification of the certificates,” it stated.In DU, the process of registration for admission to undergraduate courses and submission of fee is already online. However, candidates have to visit the colleges of their choice for the verification of certificates and documents to complete the admission process.The varsity’s admission branch has also asked all colleges to provide information about the number of course combinations offered by them and the additional eligibility criteria by Monday.The registration process for admission in DU colleges begins in the last week of May every year, immediately after the announcement of CBSE class 12 results. However, this year, the CBSE had to suspend exams midway after a nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of Sars-Cov-2. The board is yet to announce a fresh date sheet for the remaining exams. Although the university has not announced any delay in the admission process as of now, a senior official said they are monitoring the situation. “We are not sure for how long the lockdown will continue. We will wait for the CBSE and other state boards to complete their exams and announce results before starting the registration process. We are also waiting for some communication on this from the University Grant Commission,” said the official, requesting anonymity. Besides, the university has asked all colleges to make relevant information about the admission process available on their websites, including names of courses offered and the number of reserved seats under different categories in each course. The colleges were also asked to constitute their own admission teams to coordinate the process. Some college principals, meanwhile, said it won’t be feasible to verify certificates and documents online. “On one hand, the university asks us to do forensic checking of the certificates and documents and on the other, it’s now recommending online verification. The university’s colleges are not equipped for that. The varsity should postpone the admission process by a week or two rather than bring in sudden changes,” said the principal of a north campus college, requesting anonymity.DU postpones semester examsDelhi University has postponed all theory and practical exams scheduled this month as well as for the next month till further notice, amid the coronavirus outbreak. In a notification, the university said the date sheets issued earlier now stand withdrawn and fresh dates will be issued soon. The university has also postponed exams of the School of Open Learning (SOL) and Non-Collegiate Women’s Board (NCWEB). DU is shut till April 14 in view of the 21-day nationwide lockdown. A senior university official said, “The UGC has constituted a committee to take a decision on the completion of exams and the academic calendar for all central universities. We will issue a fresh notification for the examination based on the recommendations of that committee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-outbreak-delhi-university-may-shift-admission-process-completely-online/story-Sb5HzbardDJX1I2kQmzXoJ.html
10-04-2020||City||Street vendors urged Ludhiana administration to fix rates for ward wise vendors||At a time when the residents are raising hue and cry over high rates of vegetables, the members of Ludhiana Rehri Fadi Association met the Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Agrawal on Friday and demanded that the administration should fix rates on which the ward wise vendors would supply vegetables to the street vendors.The street vendors rued that the mandi board has fixes the rates on which the ahrtiyas would sell the veggies to the ward wise vendors, who have the responsibility to supply veggies to street vendors in every ward. Further the board also fixed the rates on which the street vendors have to sell the vegetables to the residents. But no heed is being paid on the rates on which the ward wise vendor is selling the veggies to the street vendors.The street vendors rued that the ward wise vendor enlisted by market committee fleece the street vendors, who then have no other choice other than charging high prices from the residentsPresident of the association, Tiger Singh said that the residents and councilors are blaming the street vendors for higher prices but the ward wise vendors are fleecing the street vendors with no check from the side of administration. They have raised the issue in front of DC Agrawal and he has assured that the problem would be resolved in the coming days, said Singh. Chairman of market committee, Darshan Lal (Laddoo) Baweja said that it has already been finalized that the ward wise vendors would sell the veggies to street vendors keeping 10 per cent profit and the street vendors would sell the vegetables to residents by keeping 15 per cent profit on purchase price. They are already keeping a tab on ward wise vendors so that they do not fleece the street vendors and the councilors have been checking the street vendors so that the public is not cheated by the street vendors, said Baweja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/street-vendors-urged-ludhiana-administration-to-fix-rates-for-ward-wise-vendors/story-U1Pji9UReFxMbjtqW2KdOM.html
10-04-2020||Lucknow||Amid Covid-19 threat, self help groups making PPE kits in Kheri||In the wake of growing demand for personal protection equipment (PPE) kits in the district to fight Covid-19 pandemic, Kheri district authorities have roped in self-help groups (SHGs) to fulfil the demand. “Self help groups (SHG) formed under national rural livelihood mission (NRLM) have been engaged in preparing PPE kits,” Kheri district magistrate Shailendra Kumar Singh said.CDO Arvind Singh said self help groups engaged in Lakhimpur, Pallia, Isanagar, Nighasan and Gola blocks had the capacity to produce 1500 PPE kits a day subject to availability of raw material. “What has boosted our confidence is that the health directorate has approved the Kheri-made PPE kits,” Singh told media persons in his video message.“In the next few days, Kheri would be able to fulfil the needs of PPE kits not only of Kheri but of other districts as well,” the DM said.After the outbreak of Sars-Cov-2 in the district, an urgent need for PPE kits was felt by administrative, police and the health officials who were on the forefront in the fight against the disease.So, chief development officer (CDO) Arvind Singh in consultation with health department officials engaged SHG workers to prepare a prototype model of a PPE kit.On April 4, chief medical officer Dr Manoj Agrawal sent a sample of Kheri-made PPE kit to the director general of UP health directorate for its technical and quality evaluation and issue a no objection certificate. In a letter dated April 8, the director, communicative diseases said a technical team found the quality and design of the PPE kit satisfactory and fit to be used. “Principal secretary, health has not only cleared the quality and design of Kheri-made PPE kits at very reasonable price but also assured to procure all PPE kits prepared by our SHG groups,” said the CDO.“Initially, a demand for 1000 PPE kits has been placed,” Singh added.“UP medical services corporation has also approached Kheri administration expressing its intention for PPE kits procurement.”“However, the very idea behind the PPE kits was to equip our health and the police officials which prompted us to find ways to prepare the kits at local level as we did not expect the kits from the government in a large numbers given the huge demand everywhere.”“But we wanted certification of quality, design and price from the government before taking up their production,” he said adding “we are glad that apart from approval, the health department has assured to procure them.”Regarding production of the PPE kits, the CDO said, “Polypoplin fabric used in making PPE kits is of a very high quality.” “This material is available at select markets in Lucknow, Noida, Mumbai and Chandigarh,” he said and added “but the lockdown has put some hurdles in collecting raw material.”“Our commitment to serve the humanity is such that we would overcome this hurdle.” He said some PPE kits had already been provided to Kheri police and health staff. So far, four Covid-19 patients have been detected in the district. The first such patient, who was undergoing treatment at KGMU in Lucknow, was discharged on Friday. The other three are under treatment at the institutional quarantine centre at Behjam—15 km from the city. -----Deokant Pandey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/amid-covid-19-threat-self-help-groups-making-ppe-kits-in-kheri/story-GidzTS06Xwi7y6ewe2lrpK.html
10-04-2020||City||Wearing face masks made mandatory in Gurugram, Faridabad||Gurugram: In view of the Coronavirus outbreak, the administration has now made wearing a mask while stepping out of the house compulsory in Gurugram, officials said Friday. The move comes a day after nine containment zones were identified in Gurugram city and it was decided that these areas should be sealed to prevent the spread of the pandemic. The decision to make masks mandatory has been taken under sections 2, 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Act, 1897 and the Haryana Epidemic Disease, Covid-19 Regulations, 2020, said the government order.According to the order, all persons going out in public places like streets, hospitals, offices, markets etc., must be compulsorily wearing a 3-ply mask or cloth mask. The mask has also been made compulsory for any person moving around in their personal or official vehicle, including government officials. The order further said that no person/officer will attend any meeting/work place without wearing these masks.“Any person found violating these orders will face action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. The directions in this regard make it clear that all government and private officials who are out are required to wear a mask to prevent the spread of this virus,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram.Similar instructions had been issued by Faridabad deputy commissioner Yashpal Yadav Thursday evening, making masks compulsory for residents of the district while stepping out of their homes. “In the last few days, the number of Covid-19 positive cases has been on the rise in Faridabad and in order to prevent the spread, it has been decided to make masks mandatory for all citizens while stepping out of their houses,” said Yadav.Till Friday, Gurugram had recorded 32 Covid-19 positive cases and Faridabad district had recorded 28 positive cases.Yadav also said that 13 areas in Faridabad were declared containment zones on Thursday and measures are being taken to conduct door-to-door screening of suspects, testing of suspected cases, quarantining, isolating and ensuring social distancing. The areas in Faridabad included in containment zones are sectors 11, 37 and 28, Badkhal Village, Green Field colony, AC Nagar, Fatehpur Taga, Khori, sectors 16 and 3, Chandpur Arua, Mohna, Ranhera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wearing-face-masks-made-mandatory-in-gurugram-faridabad/story-SFWhAuBKMojBAudM2VUeVO.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi HC directs AIIMS to treat HIV-positive woman with mouth cancer||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to provide necessary treatment to a woman who has been an HIV positive patient from the past 20 years and was diagnosed with mouth cancer in March this year.Justice Mukta Gupta also asked the Delhi government to issue a curfew pass to her if the lockdown is extended beyond April 14 so that there is no inconvenience caused to the petitioner or her family members.The court’s order comes on the plea filed by the woman who was an HIV patient and had developed mouth ulcers since 2015. The plea sought direction to AIIMS to provide her necessary treatment after AIIMS Delhi had referred her to AIIMS, Jhajjar. According to her plea, before she could visit AIIMS, Jhajjar with the relevant reports, she received a message that her appointment date has been cancelled because the hospital had been notified as an exclusive hospital for treatment of coronavirus patients.Following this, she visited AIIMS, Delhi but was only examined at the OPD and no treatment was given. The plea also alleged that no date of surgery was given and she had started bleeding from her mouth, resulting in aggravation of her condition.In a status report, AIIMS informed the court through video conferencing that she was admitted to AIIMS on April 4. She was evaluated and it was observed that in view of the nature of growth, poor general condition and anticipated poor surgical outcomes, the surgical procedure for her disease stage would be a high-risk, major, radical procedure with substantial morbidity (Subtotal Glossectomy) and she may not withstand such surgical procedure.Following this, an opinion was sought from the radiotherapy department on April 6 which recommended definitive chemo radiation. The report also said that her tooth would be extracted and radiotherapy will be administered thereafter, to which the petitioner has agreed. The court then said that considering the physical condition of the petitioner as well as her other ailments and if the doctor opines that performance of the surgery would be at high risk to the patient, it would not direct the doctors to take a different view. The counsel appearing for AIIMS assured the court that the treatment will be administered to the petitioner as an in-patient and later as an out-patient by giving her definitive chemo radiation.The court disposed of the plea and said that the petitioner be discharged only after her condition stabilises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-hc-directs-aiims-to-treat-hiv-positive-woman-with-mouth-cancer/story-yJ2UIcQnpsFAVElie1v1JI.html
10-04-2020||City||Musical evenings at Time Residency to keep Covid-19 tension at bay||Gurugram: Keeping spirits high while living in the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus can be a difficult task. However, for the residents of Time Residency in Sector 63, respite has come in the form of musical entertainment. The initiative has been designed, keeping in mind social distancing norms being observed during the ongoing lockdown. The society has been organising musical evenings for the past one week. The residents are participating as well as enjoying the musical evenings from their balconies The first event held on April 4 saw songs by the participants being played on a loudspeaker system. They even had a live singing session from balconies for the first event. The residents had signed up for this ahead of the event and a line-up was decided accordingly.“We had close to 10 residents participating from their balconies. The line-up was shared with them beforehand and they sang one after the other. One person sang while playing his guitar. The idea is to keep spirits high during the lockdown,” said Upendra Pande, vice-president of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) and one of the pioneers of the initiative. The musical programme usually starts post 7.30pm so as to make sure that the residents can join in after finishing their work. The event, mostly planned for weekends, can last up to an hour. It was previously held on Ram Navami and Hanuman Jayanti when bhajans (religious songs) were played. The society has now decided to take the event a step further and is planning to organise a music quiz contest on Saturday. “There will be 10 songs in different languages. These songs will be similar to a Hindi rendition. Residents have to guess which song it is and what is the language of the song,” said Pande. For the residents, the musical evenings are a welcome break from the tedious lockdown. Lalitha Iyer and her family used the event as a family activity. Her husband, mother-in-law and 10-year-old daughter sang from their balcony.“My husband sang Kishore Kumar’s ‘O Mere Dil Ke Chain’ and my daughter and mother-in-law sang to the tunes of Ajeeb Dasta Hai Ye,” said Iyer, a resident.The musical programme, however, was not well received by all residents as some complained of it to the police. “A few people don’t like it. They complained to the police and our speakers were temporarily confiscated. But we spoke to the authorities and sorted it out. Our musical events will proceed as discussed,” said SK Mishra, RWA president. Mishra adds that since the lockdown started, the society has strictly banned the entry of outsiders. All deliveries, except that of LPG cylinder, are made at the main gate and the residents are expected to collect their packages from there. “The truck is allowed to deliver a cylinder at the lobby. From there, the resident has to take it up to his/her apartment,” said Mishra. At the main gate of the condominium, the society is using thermal scanner to detect individuals with high temperature and also mandating all passing through its gate to use sanitiser. “Everyone has to wear masks when outside,” said Mishra. Walks have been banned while pet owners need to step outside the society to let their pets relieve themselves. Since the lockdown began, the society has been providing accommodation and food to around 22 staff. They have been housed inside vacant apartments and the clubhouse. The residents have donated mattresses and pillows for their temporary living quarters. “We are providing them an additional 10% amount, along with salary,” said Mishra. While the staff are provided meals three times a day free of cost, the residents are also pitching in to make their stay comfortable from time to time. Sanya Goel’s family has been offering tea to the staff twice a day. “My parents have been distributing tea in the morning and evening,” said Goel. Much of the social interactions have now shifted to chat groups, and the residents share with each other online games and puzzles. Moms also put out links from time to time to keep children active at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/musical-evenings-at-time-residency-to-keep-covid-19-tension-at-bay/story-4cqI3mqNdDpDokh8KybEiL.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to keep eye on cured coronavirus patients too||Although no cases of Covid-19 relapses have been reported so far among those who have recovered from the disease, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed its 24 administrative wards to monitor and follow up with those patients who have been discharged. As of Thursday, 73 patients have been discharged in Mumbai and 125 have recovered in the state.BMC officials said that in other countries, there have been instances of Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19, reappearing in those who had reportedly recovered from the disease. Additional municipal commissioner, BMC, Suresh Kakani said, “One cannot rule out completely that the virus cannot reappear after being discharged, considering there are enough cases globally where people have been diagnosed after being discharged. In Mumbai, there are no cases yet, but we are following up with all the patients who have been discharged.”As per the state health department, Mumbai has the highest number of Covid-19 cases (1,008) in the state where altogether 1,574 people have tested positive for Sars-Cov-2 as of Friday. However, with 73 people discharged, Mumbai has also seen the most recoveries followed by Pune (27), Sangli (12), Nagpur (four), Yavatmal (three) and Ahmednagar (two). Aurangabad, Ratnagiri, Satara and Sindhudurg have each reported one patient having recovered from Covid-19.The BMC has directed its 24 wards to set up special teams to follow up with patients who have been discharged. Upon recovery, patients are given post-discharge instructions that include maintaining safe distance from others at home and remaining as isolated as possible. Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department of the BMC said, “We have a standard practice of following up with patients after they are discharged. All medical health officers in the respective 24 wards will follow up with patients to ensure medical attention, if any is required, is given.” Patients are considered recovered only after they test negative for Sars-Cov-2 twice.Kakani added that patients were also being asked to monitor their own recovery and report any returned symptoms to the BMC. “The first 14 days after being discharged are crucial. We expect patients to report back to us, if there is anything,” he said.As of Thursday, Mumbai has reported 54 deaths from Covid-19, which is more than 50% of the state’s tally of 97. Pune has reported 24 deaths from Covid-19 followed by eight in Thane, three in Palghar, one each in Aurangabad, Nagpur, Ratnagiri, Satara, Buldhana, Jalgaon, Nashik and Amravati districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-keep-eye-on-cured-coronavirus-patients-too/story-CW8DKoHTUZ6Pn7CjMfdPNJ.html
10-04-2020||City||Suspected Covid-19 patient made to run from pillar to post in Ludhiana, probe launched||In a case reminiscent of the district’s first coronavirus disease (Covis-19) casualty, another suspected patient was allegedly denied admission to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMC&H) on April 5 and made to run from piller to post for treatment. A probe was initiated in the matter on Friday.The 35-year-old suspected Covid-19 positive woman was suffering from renal failure. The patient, who stays in the Durgi area, was first taken to the Civil Hospital on March 30 for dialyses.A health department official, on condition of anonymity, said, “The woman had been referred to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, for dialysis but as she could not travel amid the lockdown, the patient sought treatment at a private hospital in Model Town on April 3.”“Soon after, her condition began to deteriorate and she developed a fever and dry cough. She was rushed to the Civil Hospital for treatment on April 5. However, the doctors referred her to CMC&H as they suspected of having Covid-19,” the official said.The patient said that instead of admitting her to the hospital, CMC&H authorities sent her back home.On April 8, her condition worsened and she was rushed to the hospital in Model Town where hospital authorities after reading the referral slip of the civil hospital, which mentioned that she was suspected of having Covid-19, raised the alarm.Thereafter, a social activist reached out to the woman and got her admitted to the Civil Hospital.When deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal heard of the patient’s ordeal on Thursday, he directed thecivil surgeon to submit a report in the matter.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga initiated an inquiry into the matter on Friday and asked Dr Baldeep Singh, a medical officer at the Covid-19 unit of the civil hospital, about the incident. The reports of the suspected patient are still awaited.Medical superintendent Anil Luther said the woman had not been denied admission. “We have 14 beds, including seven ventilator beds, dedicated to those suspected of Covid-19 and all of them were occupied. The patient and relatives were apprised of the issue and as per protocol were further referred to another tertiary care hospital for treatment,” said Dr Luther.History repeats itselfThe first patient in the city to die due to Covid-19 was also referred from one hospital to another until she finally breathed her last at Rajindra Hospital Patiala.The 42-year-old, mother of three, was made to visit the Civil Hospital multiple times from March 19 to March 26. When her condition worsened, she was rushed to the Civil Hospital on March 29, from where she was referred to CMC&H, and later ESI Hospital. Ultimately, she was again admitted to the Civil Hospital from where she was rushed to Rajindra hospital, Patiala, at midnight where she succumbed to the infection in the small hours of March 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/suspected-covid-19-patient-made-to-run-from-pillar-to-post-probe-launched/story-0PSsD7WEKz2rwoVoRCYtOI.html
10-04-2020||City||In Greater Noida’s sealed hot-spot areas, essential items to be given to volunteers for doorstep delivery to residents||To ensure strict implementation of social distancing norms, the Greater Noida authority has directed its staff to deliver essential items such as milk, vegetables, fruits, groceries and medicines to the office bearers of the apartment owners associations of housing complexes or to volunteers, who will then deposit the goods at the doors of each resident in hotspots which are sealed till April 14. The move is to ensure that people stay inside their homes and do not come out at all in sealed places. Greater Noida authority CEO Narendra Bhooshan said he monitored the distribution of essential services and conducted inspections on Thursday – the first day of the implementation. However, the goods could not be supplied at the door steps of residents in large housing societies.In Greater Noida, the hotspots are Sector Alpha 1, Nirala GreenShire sector 2, Patwari village, ATS Dolce Zeta 1, Omicron 3 Sector 3, Mehak Residency Acheja village, Village Visnoi post Dujana, Ghodi Bachcheda, Strellar Mi Sector Omicron 3, Palm Olympia Gaur City 2 Greater Noida West’s Sector 16. In many sectors, vegetable vendors delivered ferried carts at houses so that the residents could buy vegetables without stepping out. But in housing societies, the apartment owners had to come out, walk all the way towards vendors to buy vegetables or milk, etc. Despite the CEO’s directions to deploy volunteers to deliver goods at the door step, the system could not take off in large housing societies, unlike in plotted areas.“As of now, we are walking to vendors at the main gate to buy essential goods. In big societies, it is not possible for volunteers to deliver goods at every door step. In Palm Olympia and Gaur City 2, for instance, we faced issues on day one. As of now, we are walking to the gates,” said Rakesh Ranjan, a resident of Gaur City 2, one of the hotspots. Similarly, at ATS Dolce in Sector Zeta 1, essential goods are available at the society’s gate.“Residents are coming out to buy essential goods as per their requirement,” said Akhilesh Kumar, assistant facility manager at this project.In sector Alpha-1, which is a plotted area and one of the hotspots, the supply of vegetables or milk was smooth.“We faced problems on Thursday as many areas were sealed. But now a vegetable cart is moving in lanes and milk is being delivered to houses on order from the local vendor. Many volunteers are also helping deliver essential goods to our society that has around 900 houses,” said Alok Singh, former vice-president of sector Alpha-I resident welfare association and founder member of the active citizen team of Greater Noida.“Our staff members are ensuring essential services are provided at all hotspots. If there are issues, we will resolve the same,” said Bhooshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-greater-noida-s-sealed-hot-spot-areas-essential-items-to-be-given-to-volunteers-for-doorstep-delivery-to-residents/story-eGHGVU3KpoZcI8VLkMzozH.html
10-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram administration allows online delivery retailers to continue services in containment zones||People living in the nine containment zones in Gurugram can continue to procure essential items through online delivery retailers, district administration officials said on Friday.The nine containment zones in Gurugram are Nirvana Country in Sector 54, Palam Vihar, Emaar Palm Gardens in Sector 83, Laburnum in Sushant Lok Phase 1, Sector 9, Sector 39, Fazilpur Jharsa, Ward 11 in Pataudi, and Raipur village in Sohna.“Delivery of essential items from online delivery retailers will be allowed in the nine containment zones provided all necessary safety precautions are undertaken by the agent delivering the items as well as the residents taking them,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said.The district administration officials further said the spot where the essential goods will be delivered would be chosen by respective RWAs or village panchayats.In a statement released by the district administration on Wednesday, Khatri had said that areas falling within a 3-kilometre radius of the epicentre, from where a positive case is reported, will come under a containment zone. The administration has also issued orders stating that RWAs of condominiums, societies, and residential sectors can also approach Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB), district food and supply controller (DFSC) as well as Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) for getting essential items.HSAMB officials said RWAs of condominiums, societies, and residential sectors can send an email to rwa.covid@mcg.gov.in for procuring essential items such as vegetables, fruits, milk, ration. The essential items that would be put together in packets and subsequently delivered inside the residential areas.“Since last month, we already have a mechanism in place for delivering essential items to RWAs and in the past we have already delivered essentials to a few societies that fall under the nine containment zones. We will emulate the same process unless the administration gives new directive stating otherwise,” Vinay Yadav, secretary, HSAMB, said.On March 25, the MCG had issued a public release stating that the civic body will provide fruits, vegetables, pulses, flour, rice, sugar, and salt to RWAs of condominiums, gated colonies, and residential sectors that do not have a local grocery within their premises. The MCG had also issued a price list of each item along with the release.The MCG, the HSAMB, and the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) have joined hands to deliver essential goods to city residents.As per Mitu Dhankhar, zonal administrator, HSAMB said that after an order has been placed on the MCG’s email address, a disinfected bus operated by the GMCBL would be loaded with all the stock. The stock would then be dropped by delivery teams at designated sites chosen by respective RWAs. The drop-off spots would be within the establishment and would be open sites where circles would be marked to ensure residents maintain social distance.The delivery teams would all be provided with a Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit, which will include masks, gloves, sanitisers, full-body and shoe covers.The team members will be directed to not make any physical contact with any resident under any capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-administration-allows-online-delivery-retailers-to-continue-services-in-containment-zones/story-4U4dHpzUvnXSRrfJwkUj4M.html
10-04-2020||City||Principal secretary sent on leave by Maharashtra government for allowing DHFL scam accused to travel||The state government on Friday sent principal secretary Amitabh Gupta on compulsory leave, a day after it came to light that his letter helped 23 people, Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) scam accused Wadhawan family and their friends, travel to Mahabaleshwar amid national lockdown. The police have booked the 23, including Kapil Wadhawan, a promoter of DHFL, and Dheeraj Wadhawan, former executive director of DHFL, and put them in “institutional quarantine”, even as the incident led to a blame game between political parties.Sources said the Wadhawans were staying in a rented accommodation in Khandala, a hill station around 80km from Mumbai, from where they were asked to vacate. They decided to move to their farmhouse in Mahabaleshwar, also a hill station around 220km from Mumbai. The Wadhawan family could bypass the sealed district borders and travel from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar thanks to the letter by Gupta on his letterhead as the principal secretary (special), home department. According to officials in Satara collectorate, locals from Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani objected to allowing them to stay in their farm house or keep them under quarantine at Panchgani facility, which unearthed the violation. As the letter was leaked, home minister Anil Deshmukh announced a probe on Thursday night. Gupta was summoned by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta on Thursday night and the home minister on Friday morning. He has reportedly admitted to giving the letter to the Wadhawans. Gupta reportedly tried to convince the home minister and the chief secretary that the wrong letter was sent out by his personal secretary to Wadhawans. He reportedly told his political bosses that the second letter had the words ‘they are my family friends’ removed from the draft. “He did not say whether he was pressurised to do so,’’ said a senior bureaucrat. Gupta was not available for a comment.On Friday, Deshmukh tweeted, “As per discussion with Hon CM, Mr Amitabh Gupta, Principal Secretary (special), has been sent on compulsory leave with immediate effect, till the pending inquiry, which will be initiated against him.” The state has ordered an inquiry by additional chief secretary (finance) Manoj Saunik, while the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) have written to the authorities in Satara to restrain any further movement of Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan. Tejaswi Satpute, superintendent of police, Satara, said that all the 23 members of the family are under “institutional quarantine” for a stipulated period of 14 days. “The CBI learned that both the accused were located in Satara and lodged at a government institutional quarantine centre at Panchgani. Thereafter, an email was sent to the district magistrate and superintendent of police of district Satara to not release them without a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the CBI or an order of the court,” a CBI spokesperson said. “Even after the issuance of notices and non-bailable warrants, they have not appeared before CBI or the court.” In March, the ED, too, had issued multiple summons to Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan over money laundering charges in Yes Bank case. The brothers had mentioned Covid-19 pandemic as one of the reasons they are not travelling. The ED said the cars too are proceeds of the crime and should be seized. “The agencies have told us that the two are accused in their cases. We will provide assistance,” said Satpute.The Satara police have filed an FIR was filed against the 23 people under sections 188 (disobeying government direction), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code, along with Epidemic Act.The controversy is said to have damaged the image of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said: “Thackeray should tell the people of Maharashtra that under whose pressure the letter was issued.” BJP leader Kirit Somaiya alleged that Wadhawan family had close ties with NCP chief Sharad Pawar and other leaders of the party. Deshmukh and NCP leader Jitendra Awhad rubbished the allegations. Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “We suspect that the permission given to Wadhwans was at the behest of some BJP leader as the family has been very close to the party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/principal-secretary-sent-on-leave-by-maharashtra-government-for-allowing-dhfl-scam-accused-to-travel/story-oj17f2RgwFSzlk3mnDiXtK.html
10-04-2020||Gurugram||Mobile ATM van reaches out to residents running low on cash||The district administration on Thursday roped in banks to make cash available to residents through a mobile ATM van in some of the city’s newly developed areas located along the Dwarka Expressway at Sector 37 C and D. The residents had reached out to deputy commissioner after facing a cash crunch for the past few weeks and had sought the administration’s intervention.Deputy commissioner(DC) Amit Khatri said after talking to some residents he got in touch with the lead district chief manager (LDCM), Gurugram, and asked him to send a mobile ATM van to Sector 37 C and D at the earliest to provide residents of over eight housing societies in the area. An LDCM is responsible for coordinating between banks and the district administration.“The residents were in need of cash and there are no ATMs within their societies, and visiting the nearest ATM would have been difficult for the residents. Residents of seven or eight societies needed our help, and I spoke with the LDCM and a cash van reached Sector 37 C and D by Thursday evening,” Khatri said. The societies whose residents need help with withdrawing cash were Corona Optus, Takshila Heights, ILD Green, Iperia Esferia, Our Homes, BPTP Park Serene, Ramprastha City, and NBCC Green View.LDCM Prahlad Roy Godara said the mobile ATM van carried adequate cash and it started dispensing cash at Sector 37 C and D societies within two to three hours of getting the orders from the DC office.“As per deputy commissioner’s directions, we told the residents to maintain social distancing while withdrawing cash. We had mapped the entire localities and all the mentioned societies before reaching,” said Godara, adding that nearest ATM from the Sector 37 C and D is at a distance of 1.5km in Sector 10.The residents on Wednesday had taken to social media and tweeted their concern regarding cash crunch and had tagged Khatri and other top district administration officials.Hemant Kumar, a BPTP Park Serene resident, said, “I sent a message to the DC on WhatsApp raising our concern, and he quickly responded and also sought a list of other societies where residents were falling short of cash. We shared the names of all eight societies by evening we got a call from Godara. We need cash to buy fruits vegetables for other purchases for which digital payments are not possible.”In the district, after the national lockdown came into effect, ATM cash withdrawal has reduced by 50 to 60 percent. “We have observed that in all the 1,440 ATMs in the district that usage has gone down 50 to 60 percent as fewer people visit these kiosks after amid the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. This is the first time during the lockdown we have supplied cash through a mobile ATM van,” Godara said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mobile-atm-van-reaches-out-to-residents-running-low-on-cash/story-gcmhK02w8OQXN65GNeDSgK.html
10-04-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Two currency notes cause a scare in Mahanagar||Two currency notes of Rs 500 denomination lying on the road scared people in Paper Mill colony on Thursday night.Locals informed the police and later cops seized the currency notes using proper protection due to corona fear. The locals told policemen that these notes were deliberately thrown to spread Sars-Cov-2.Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Sarvshreshth Tripathi said, “We got information last night about currency notes lying on the road. Locals were apprehensive that currency was thrown intentionally.”“We seized the notes and have kept them separately as suggested by a doctor,” said Tripathi, adding, “So far none has complained about any such deliberate attempt nor does the investigation hint at such a theory.”Another cop privy to the matter said, “People were scared since several videos and messages are viral that currency notes may transmit the disease.” Police asked people to remain indoors and follow the lock-down.Locals also showed a video viral on social media to the police in which a message was being given that coronavirus was being spread through currency notes too.Tripathi added, “People were worried due to the social media messages. No one saw any person throwing the currency on the road. However, it is good that people are alert and informed the police. But such videos and messages have spread fear among the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-two-currency-notes-cause-a-scare-in-mahanagar/story-6OqHcsJzXHz2pl6NP6G2YO.html
10-04-2020||Gurugram||MCG marks six funeral sites in Gurugram for those who die of coronavirus||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has designated six sites for the funeral of people who die of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to an order issued by MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh Thursday evening, total three cremation grounds have been finalised for the purpose at Sector 32, Sukhrali village near Atul Kataria Chowk, and Madan Puri near Pataudi Chowk, while three burial grounds have been earmarked at Sector 58 near Power House, Sector 58 near Ghata village, and Badshahpur village. A team of seven officials, comprising five medical officers and two junior engineers of the MCG, have been picked up to oversee the last rites of the deceased Covid-19 patients. The order by the MCG commissioner states that all seven members would have to undergo training on handling and sanitising the body of a Covid-19 patient.An MCG official privy to the matter said the basic training will include directions on sanitising the body properly, covering it in a transparent, protective sheet, and ensuring the body is in an enclosure from which families of the deceased can view the body at a distance and not touch it through the entire process.MCG officials further said that only process or ritual wherein the body is not touched can be conducted, and if a body is cremated, the ashes can be handed over to the family later.In addition, the seven-member team, and the priest performing the rituals, will also be provided with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, which will include masks, gloves, sanitisers, full-body and shoe covers. MCG officials said that for every funeral each team member will be rewarded with ₹2,000. Satyawan Singh, superintendent engineer, MCG has been appointed as the nodal officer for “carrying out disposal of Covid-19 bodies as per the guidelines and protocols issued by the health ministry,” as per the order.“Our main task for this operation would be ensuring that necessary equipment for the last rites and for the priests performing them are in place. The funerals can take place according to the tradition of different religions. All team members will be given proper training from the health department to ensure they themselves don’t contract the infection, and also prevent it from spreading to another person by following the correct burial or cremation process,” Satyawan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-marks-six-funeral-sites-in-gurugram-for-those-who-die-of-coronavirus/story-OXYNsKIm8LQxC5iRJI4TSP.html
10-04-2020||City||10 Tablighi Jamaat members and 3 locals booked in Greater Noida||The Greater Noida police have registered a case against 13 persons for breaking the lockdown norms. Ten of them are Tablighi Jamaat members, while three are locals who sheltered them. The five men and five women are from Usmanabad in Maharashtra and had attended a programme at the Nizamuddin Markaz and from there visited Greater Noida. However, they did not disclose their association with the Markaz when Greater Noida police approached them on Wednesday.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said two days ago, Surajpur police received information that a group from Maharashtra was staying in the neighbourhood. “A team reached the Beghampur village in Surajpur and found 10 persons in a house. The police interrogated them but they did not reveal the exact reason for being in Greater Noida. They were quarantined in Greater Noida for safety,” he said.However, on Friday, the Greater Noida police received information from the Maharashtra Police that the quarantined people had attended a programme at Markaz Nizamudddin in Delhi in mid-March and they are suspected to have contracted the coronavirus. “The local police again questioned them and they admitted to have attended the programme,” Chander said. Following this, Salim Ahmad, a sub-inspector, filed a complaint at the Surajpur police station against the Jamaat members for lockdown violation and three local people for sheltering them. Chander said a case has been registered against 13 persons under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC. “The health department has collected samples from these people and their medical reports are awaited,” he said. The family members of three local residents have been home quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-tablighi-jamaat-members-and-3-locals-booked-in-greater-noida/story-u1zthvq0ArCVgfjd0LdIoN.html
10-04-2020||City||2 held for killing liquor vend staff in Ludhiana||Seven days after a liquor vend employee was found murdered in Chupki village, the Sadar police have solved the case with the arrest of two addicts. The accused had killed the victim over money and liquor. After murdering the victim, they had robbed ₹16,000 and four liquor bottles from the vend.The police have also recovered murder weapons—a hammer and an iron rod— on the information provided by the accused.The accused have been identified as Amandeep Singh, 26, and Gursangant Singh, 20, of the same village.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said that the body of liquor vend employee Ramesh Chand, 45, was found on April 3 in the village’s liquor vend. A murder case had been registered against unidentified accused at Sadar police station. As there was no sign of forceful entry in the vend, the police were suspecting role of some acquaintance behind the murder.As curfew has been imposed in the city and no one can easily come in or go out of the area, the police started zeroing in on locals. Due to the lockdown, the accused remained at their homes.During investigation, the police rounded up the accused and questioned them, who confessed to their crime.The ADCP said that the accused are addicts and on April 2, they had gone to buy liquor from the vend. After consuming some liquor, they planned to loot the vend for money and more liquor. The accused over powered Ramesh Chand and robbed ₹16,000 in cash and four liquor bottles from the vend. After they realised that Rameh Chand knows them and will identify them, they bludgeoned him to death.The police are investigating whether they have past criminal record, the ADCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-held-for-killing-liquor-vend-staff-in-ludhiana/story-A02h99SyoP9ALVyFflIZ9I.html
10-04-2020||City||Assuming they came for NPR survey, Mumbra locals push TMC staff||Around seven medical staffers of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), who had gone to survey the houses at Amrut Nagar in Mumbra on Friday, were pushed and abused by a group of residents, who thought the survey was for National Population Register (NPR).TMC registered a case against two residents and locked down 38 buildings with 7,500 residents.Manish Joshi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Residents got into a scuffle with our staffers —one medical officer, two clerks and four nursing staff. They also tried to attack the medical team. We have registered a case against two people under IPC section 353 for obstructing work of a public servant among other sections.” Twelve buildings in Kalwa too will be locked down. A TMC official said, “There are nine positive cases from Amrut Nagar which is the highest in a one-kilometre area across Thane. Our medical staff has started door-to-door survey to screen residents’ health. We had to ask questions on how many members live in one house, do they have any travel history, their age and sex.” A woman from Amrut Nagar, Kausa, said they refused to give details as they thought it is either for census or NPR. “However, after the local corporator and civic officials spoke to us, we cooperated with them.”Assistant commissioner of police, S Ghosalkar, said, “We have registered a case against two people who are in their 40s. We have sent a notice to them to be present in the police station for further inquiry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assuming-they-came-for-npr-survey-locals-push-tmc-staff/story-AP0nktItJQrcx9uqfEN6OP.html
10-04-2020||City||Newly opened quarantine facility shut, health dept to hand over 500 personal kits to patients||Two days after 10 people suspected to the Covid-19 disease alleged lack of facilities at the BBDIT College, Muradnagar, the Ghaziabad health department, on Friday, closed the centre and shifted the patient back to MMG Hospital, which only has 50 beds and is severely short of staff as well. The 100-bed quarantine facility at BBDIT College campus in Duhai had admitted 10 suspected cases and they were shifted from MMG Hospital on the night of April 7. A day later the patients took to social media and also posted videos showing According to the videos shared by the suspected patients and the report published in HT, the centre did not have electricity, there was no water to drink, no water or soap to wash hands, no sanitiser, the toilet doors were broken, there were no blankets and the food was inedible. One woman seen in one of the video broke down while stating that some rooms were accommodating two people, instead of one. “After the patients flagged lack of basic facilities, we shut it down a day later. Five patients were sent to MMG Hospital and eight were discharged as they had tested negative for Covid-19,” chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said, adding the facilities at BBDIT College, as per the administration, were proper and each patient had one bed in one room, unlike MMG Hospital where there is a dormitory-type bed arrangement.“From our side arrangement was proper. Since the patients did not like the facility and raised issues we decided to shut it down instead of ramping up facilities which would have diverted more of our resources,” Dr Gupta added.It must be noted that the district needs at least 500 more quarantine beds to cater to patients in future. At present, the district has different quarantine facilities with a total of 554 beds, where 436 people were housed till Thursday afternoon. “We are looking for more colleges we can turn into quarantine centres and require at least 500 more beds to cater to patients in future,” Dr Gupta said, adding that the items purchased (water bucket, mug, slippers, toothbrush, toothpaste, mosquito repellent, liquid hand wash, sanitizer, soap, face masks and gloves, among others) to meet the patients’ demands will be handed over for use at MMG Hospital.Meanwhile, the people who were shifted back to the MMG Hospital said they felt safer there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/newly-opened-quarantine-facility-shut-health-dept-to-hand-over-500-personal-kits-to-patients/story-Qzwq2xDB8HbgP9Jrsb0YYP.html
10-04-2020||Noida||UP govt defers lease, water charges of commercial, industrial establishments for three months||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday said it has decided to postpone recovery of water or sewer charges and lease rent charges of industrial, commercial and institutional premises for three months amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The move comes after the Noida Entrepreneur Association (NEA) demanded relief as their operations have been shut due to the 21-day nationwide lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of Sars-Cov-2. The NEA -- a body of around 10,000 industrial unit owners -- however is not happy with the decision as they had demanded a complete waiver of such charges for the period during which their operations were shut due to the pandemic.After the NEA’s initial letter, the UP government had formed a committee headed by the Noida authority additional chief executive officer. The committee decided that the payment of lease rent and water charges shall be postponed from March 21, 2020 to June 30, 2020, in view of the lockdown.“However, the postponement of lease rent and water charges will be effective only if the industrial, commercial and institutional businessman pays their respective dues by June 30, 2020. If they are not able to pay up by that date then the respective authority will impose an interest on the allottee,” said the order.According to rules, the industrial, institutional and industrial allottees have to pay 2.5% of the total plot cost as lease rent annually or they can choose to pay monthly. Similarly, they can pay water charges monthly to the authority and if it is delayed then the authority can impose an interest.The NEA office-bearers, meanwhile, say this move will not benefit them at all.“The government has already completely shut down operations and we are facing huge financial issues. The government has forced us to pay the salaries of the staff. We had demanded that they not charge lease rent and water charge as we are staying home and not using any of these facilities. Therefore, they should have completely waived it off. How will we arrange funds when our operations are shut and we are facing a funds crisis? We will write again and demand a waiver,” said Vipin Malhan, president of NEA.When contacted, the Noida authority’s chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari said, “We have given what was possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-govt-defers-lease-water-charges-of-commercial-industrial-establishments-for-three-months/story-YpUTxoPhXhZngv45CGtLXK.html
10-04-2020||Noida||UP may defer land dues collection as builders hit hard by Covid-19 lockdown||The Uttar Pradesh government may defer the instalments of housing land dues to Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway industrial development authorities, following requests by builders, as the Covid-19 pandemic has shut down construction and drastically affected the real estate sector.The state government said that it will address the economic crisis being faced by the real estate sector after the national real estate development council (Naredco) demanded a relief package and submitted a demand letter to the Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary, RK Tiwari.“We have received a letter from builders’ body, Naredco. They are demanding the state government’s attention on issues, which are being witnessed by developers amid the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. Our infrastructure and industrial department that deals with the real estate sector will look into their demands and take action on the basis of merits and demerits of the issues. The government will take appropriate action as per law,” said RK Tiwari Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary speaking with Hindustan Times.Tiwari said, “Nadredco’s Uttar Pradesh president has spoken with me on the issues faced by builders. We have asked the concerned department to look into the matter so that an appropriate decision can be taken.”The state’s industrial bodies, Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway industrial development authorities, need to recover at least ₹35,000 crore land dues from the builders. The builders are of the view that as the construction is shut in the view of Covid-19 pandemic, they will not be able to repay the installments of land dues.“We have requested the UP government that they should postpone the repayment of land dues for one year and reduce the compounding interest on land dues because we cannot pay our installments amid fund’s liquidity crisis after Covid 19 pandemic forced us to shut all operations. Also, we have requested the government to extend the time for two years, in which many of the builders were supposed to repay financial dues. Another important issue is that the government had earlier fixed June 2021 date to deliver flats and claim some relief on financial dues. Now we have demanded that this flat delivery date should be extended to June, 2023 because construction, which is shut down, will not be restarting any time soon,” said RK Arora, president of Uttar Pradesh chapter of Naredco. Naredco also demanded that many builders, whose projects were disrupted due to a National Green Tribunal order in 2013, are yet to get financial relief package. “We have requested from the government to look into many such issues because only government support can help revive this sector,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-may-defer-land-dues-collection-as-builders-hit-hard-by-covid-19-lockdown/story-UrIsdAYanP0HsmQt4iqKVP.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus scare: Medical students upset over hate hurled on doctors||The medics have been at the forefront to serve the nation since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic in India. Not just the Prime Minister, but most from Bollywood and even the sports world, have been praising their painstaking services. Time and again their videos and messages have surfaced on social media, asking everyone to follow social distancing. However, now, the medical residents (young doctors) have taken to social media to voice their anguish over the recent attacks on doctors — who are treating corona positive patients — that include being pelted with stones and even being spat on. READ | Covid-19: Health workers attacked in cities, 7 held in Indore for pelting stones“We are only trying to help. These incidents make me fearful for my future. I don’t want to be beaten up once I’m on the field serving patients,” says a second year undergraduate student of the University College of Medical Sciences, Delhi, and Dr Lokesh Raghav, an orthopaedics resident, currently pursuing post graduation from Lady Hardinge Medical College, adds, “How will the country survive if the soldiers ie the doctors who are fighting against the world’s common enemy (coronavirus) are beaten for keeping their everything at stake?”  Medical students from across India are concerned about this issue. A senior resident of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, Bengaluru, says, “In these tough times, motivation is one of the greatest weapons that we can use. And I feel perpetrators — who have attacked doctors — should be brought to justice so that the doctors have faith that the system backs them.” READ | Rishi Kapoor, Raveena Tandon lead Bollywood in condemning attacks on doctors, cops: ‘They are endangering their lives’Dr Nikita Garg, a junior resident at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh, who is under self-isolation after tending to coronavirus patients, says, “What has happened is terrible! Doctors are fighting like soldiers in the current situation. Despite lack of personal protection equipment, we are doing all that we can. In my family, my mother is a heart patient and my grandfather has hypertension; they can even get this disease from me and I don’t know what will happen then. It’s time that everyone realises what doctors are doing for them. Please support us, stay in your homes, and do not harm us!” Author tweets @fizzybuddha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/coronavirus-scare-medical-students-upset-over-hate-hurled-on-doctors/story-antymUGe4dw9TO1Tkn1ttI.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||600 SRPF personnel, 6 drones deployed in Mumbai amid lockdown||The Mumbai Police on Friday has deployed five platoons of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) with 120 personnel in each platoon to ensure strict lockdown in the 380 odd containment zones across Mumbai. Six drones are hovering over these zones, making announcements asking people to stay at home. Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and spokesperson for Mumbai Police confirmed the development. Till Friday 4am, 34,010 FIRs were registered in the state over lockdown violations with maximum offences in Pune city with 4, 317 cases followed by Ahmednagar with 3,215 cases. About 468 people were booked for violating home quarantine and 161 people were arrested for assaulting police officers. About 18, 995 vehicles were seized and a fine of about ₹1.22 crore was collected from the offenders. Lockdown violations continued on Thursday, with 92% of the total cases in city registered against people gathering in one place.A total of 275 FIRs were registered by Mumbai Police on Thursday in which 254 cases were for gathering in public. A total of 504 people were booked and 324 were arrested in all cases. The remaining 21 cases were for unnecessary use of vehicles and keeping shops open that are not part of essential services. In all, Mumbai Police have so far lodged 2,205 cases against 4,138 people. The central region, that comprises of areas like Mumbai Central, Byculla, Mazgaon, Prabhadevi, Worli Koliwada, are the worst hit by Covid-19 with 268 positive cases being reported till Thursday. When contacted, S Veeresh Prabhu, additional commissioner of police, central region said, “We are strictly following all the instructions given by the BMC to stop the virus from spreading further.”Meanwhile, The state’s cyber cell registered 161 cases are registered regarding fake news, rumours and hate speech over social media in Maharashtra. “There is a rising trend in hate speech cases and 73 cases are registered in this regard. In all 39 accused are arrested and 33 are identified,” said Balsing Rajput, SP, Maharashtra cyber. Six in Dharavi booked for attending prayer meetDharavi police caught over 10 people who attended a prayer meet at a house at Gandhi Nagar society in Dharavi. The police lodged an FIR against six people including the organiser. Cops face home quarantineEarlier this week, a police sub-inspector staying in Yogi Nagar in Borivali (West) tested positive for Covid-19 after which two buildings in Borivali police quarters were sealed by the BMC. Further several police officers were asked to quarantine themselves at home. Police helpline gets 60,727 calls for Covid 19 queriesThe state police have so far received a total of 60,727 calls related to Covid 19 from across the state on its helpline number “100” in which 16,111 calls were from the city. Cops caution admins of social media groups Mumbai Police on Friday issued an order under section 144 of CrPC warning Mumbaiites to refrain from indulging in spreading coronavirus-related misinformation, hate speech against any community, mistrust against government agencies on social media. The admins of such groups on platforms like WhatsApp will face action if they fail to report such activity to cops. Those violating the order will be booked under IPC section 188. (Inputs from Manish K Pathak, Vijay Kumar Yadav, Suraj Ojha, Yesha Kotak and Faisal Tandel)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/600-srpf-personnel-6-drones-deployed-in-mumbai-amid-lockdown/story-sHgKw4ouKI6h1cAl4bO3KI.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||Shutdowns at 9 Mumbai’s coronavirus hospitals put 1,700 beds off treatment grid||Nine major private hospitals in Mumbai with a cumulative capacity of 1700 beds have been asked to partially or completely shut down their emergency and out-patient department (OPD) services, in addition to some hospitals being told to not admit new patients. The reason: Over the last two weeks, 99 medical staffers from these hospitals have tested positive for Covid-19.Shushrusha at Shivaji Park on Friday was the latest hospital to be placed under the Covid-19 scanner by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) after two nurses tested positive. Following this, 28 nurses in the hospital were put under quarantine and the hospital was asked to shut down its emergency services immediately and shift existing patients to other hospitals in the area within two days. It has 130 regular beds and 17 intensive care unit (ICU) beds.Earlier, Jaslok (Pedder Road), Saifee (Charni Road), Bhatia (Tardeo), Wockhardt (Agripada), Breach Candy (Bhulabhai Desao Road), Nanavati (Vile Parle), Sai (Chembur) and Hinduja (Khar) had been placed under various degrees of restrictions by municipal authorities.BMC officers said they are taking action as per Union health ministry rules. “Covid-19 is a highly transmissible virus. As a precaution, we have to close down some hospitals for the safety of other patients and staffers. We fumigate the hospitals and take samples of all close contacts, and keep others under observation for 14 days,” said Dr Daksha Shah, deputy health officer, BMC. “Most of these patients were asymptomatic, so it is quite possible that medical staffers got unknowingly exposed to the virus and turned into carriers,” she added.Wockhardt and Jaslok have reported the highest number of cross-hospital transmissions. At Wockhardt, 56 medical staffers, including doctors, nurses and ward boys have contracted the virus, making it the worst-affected hospital in Maharashtra with in-house infection cases. This 20-storeyed tertiary care hospital has 350 beds.At Jaslok Hospital, 1005 staff members were tested, of which 21 were found infected with Sars-Cov-2, the coronavirus responsible for the current pandemic. The multi-speciality hospital has 364 beds with 75 ICU beds. At Breach Candy hospital, which has 201 beds, one doctor and two nurses contracted the infection. At Saifee hospital, two doctors contracted the disease through close family contacts. This hospital has approximately 250 beds with 44 ICU beds and nine operation theatres. On Thursday, a nurse at Nanavati Hospital also got diagnosed with Covid-19. This multi-speciality suburban hospital has 350 beds with 75 critical care beds and 11 operation theatres.The number of infected staffers at Bhatia hospital (capacity: 200 beds) increased to 14 on Friday. This is in addition to three patients that had tested positive. Hinduja, with one Covid-19 positive patient and Sai Hospital with three have also come under BMC’s scanner.Following the infections, all hospitals barring Sai Hospital, tied up with the state health department to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients in their isolation wards at concessional rates. However, BMC has not only stopped new admissions but has also kept close 500 medical staffers from these hospitals under quarantine, thus taking away crucial medical manpower resources.Doctors HT spoke to said partially or completely shutting down hospitals for 14 days is impractical, especially since all of them have government accreditation to handle infectious diseases. “A rescue plan to isolate infected workers and the sanitisation of premises should be formulated to reopen these institutions within 24–48 hours instead of a prolonged shutdown of 14 days or more,” said Dr Ramen Goel, President, Indian Association of Gastro-intestinal Endo-Surgeons (IAGES).Other doctors raised the need to divide healthcare facilities into Covid and non-Covid hospitals to protect uninfected patients from the virus. “In China when over 3,000 medical staffers contracted the infection, the country made a makeshift hospital with a 5,000 bed facility. This not only decreased the chances of infection among other patients but managing the resource became handy,” said Dr Vikrant Shah, infectious diseases specialist from Zen Hospital in Mumbai.Dr Mukesh Gupta, president of Association of Medical Consultants said it is important to start more fever clinics at private hospitals, and these should be dedicated for patients with symptoms. “There is a need to have a separate exit and entry point for these fever clinics. If a patient has symptoms, he or she should be directly referred to Covid-19 care facilities,” he said.Doctors also blamed the unavailability of protective kits as the reason behind the spread of the infection within hospitals. Due to a sudden surge in demand for personal protective equipment (PPE), the price of per kit has increased to Rs5000, which, according to the government, shouldn’t cost more than Rs1000.“We can’t use the same PPE for more than one patient. The patients get scared if we have examined any infected patient with the same gloves,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra. “There is so much scarcity of PPE that doctors are now wearing raincoats,” he added.In a meeting held on April 8 with the state health minister Rajesh Tope, IMA said it had asked for Rs 1crore to be assured for doctors in they died performing Covid-19 duties.Meanwhile, on Friday, in a meeting with the representatives of private hospitals, civic chief Praveen Pardeshi warned the hospitals to abide by the safety rules. “The hospitals have been asked to use PPEs and ensure there are separate exit-entry routes for suspected and confirmed Covid-19 patients, failing which they must stop admitting coronavirus patients,” said a doctor who was a part of the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shutdowns-at-9-mumbai-s-coronavirus-hospitals-put-1-700-beds-off-treatment-grid/story-amN3vX2MKUEnKt2ORfXBKI.html
10-04-2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Women to be shifted out of quarantine centre after they complain about unhygienic toilets||The district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar has ordered to shift all women Covid-19 suspected patients to a facility at Galgotias University, Greater Noida, after some of the patients allegedly created a ruckus over the hygiene of a government quarantine centre developed at the Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar hostel in Gautam Budh University in the same city.On Friday, the women patients had complained to the doctors and the nurses that they had to share the toilet and bathroom with male Covid-19 suspected patients amid unhygienic conditions. “The condition of the toilets is really unhygienic. We were allotted single rooms which were decent but the toilet facilities were a massive problem. It was uncomfortable to share the washroom with men. Many people who were kept under quarantine at the facility were complaining of the same,” said a 39-year-old woman from Noida who was kept under quarantine and was discharged Friday afternoon after her reports came negative for Sars-Cov-2.“I had travelled to Chennai from Delhi and recently I received a notice from Chennai authorities to get myself checked at the government hospital in Greater Noida. I was told that I will have to stay at the quarantine centre for two days till my reports are received but I ended up staying there for almost five days as my reports got delayed,” added the woman.District magistrate Suhas LY said he has asked the district chief medical officer (CMO) to look into the matter and to write adverse remarks for the doctor heading the facility at Ambedkar hostel. “On Thursday evening itself, I had asked to shift the persons under quarantine to the other, better facility. The CMO has been asked to make adverse remarks against the concerned doctor handling the facilities at the centre. We have made multiple arrangements in the district to ensure that none of the Covid-19 suspects or patients face any inconvenience,” said Suhas LY, DM.Despite multiple attempts, the district CMO was not available for comments.According to the officials, Covid-19 suspected patients at the Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar hostel quarantine centre are given a soap bar, a personal bucket and mug for bathing, and mosquito repellent, along with a separate room. There are 15 cleaning staff members at the Ambedkar hostel who are provided with personal protection kits, which they have to wear before entering the wards.All the women COVID-19 suspects will be shifted to the new facility in the Galgotias University by Friday night, officials said. Till now, a total of 64 confirmed cases of Sars-Cov-2 have been found in the Noida district, out of which 12 have been discharged while the remaining are under treatment for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-women-to-be-shifted-out-of-quarantine-centre-after-they-complain-about-unhygienic-toilets/story-4rNBO9WVo2TdFTiIrJgMNL.html
10-04-2020||Noida||MMG Hospital Covid team tests negative for coronavirus, to remain in quarantine||A group of 12 doctors and staff members, who have been on duty at the MMG District Hospital since the first case was reported in the district in early March, have tested negative for the Covid-19 disease in first of the two tests required as per protocol, officials of the district health department said Thursday. “The report of the first team has come out negative for Saras-Cov-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19 disease). They had been on duty since early March and are now in passive quarantine. The second team is looking after patients in the isolation ward. Once the first team completes 14 days, they will return to active duty. They will then stay in active quarantine and continue to stay away from their families,” Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said.The development comes as a sigh of relief for the hospital authorities as the group includes the hospital’s only physician, besides six nurses and six ward boys. The hospital faces staff shortage even as 13 areas have been made containment zones in the district. “The first team to go on passive quarantine includes our only physician. In absence of our only physician, we have deployed three doctors—radiologist, skin specialist and paediatrician—for attending to patients in the 50-bed isolation ward. Four staff nurses, three pharmacists, three ward boys and three cleaning staff members are now on duty. The two teams will work in rotation,” said Dr Ravinder Rana, chief medical superintendent of MMG District Hospital.CMO Dr Gupta said the first Covid test of the medical staff is done on 12-13th day after last contact with a positive patient. In case the first report is negative, a second test is repeated after 24 hours. In case the first report is positive, the second test is repeated after 2-4 days. “They will be considered negative when two consecutive reports are found negative. For positive patients, the second test is also repeated on 12-13th day,” he added.The physician, who is presently in passive quarantine at a hotel room in Mohan Nagar, said he had been on duty from March 12 when first Covid-19 patient was detected in Ghaziabad. “It has been a long time since I have been able to meet my two daughters and wife. Although it is a major relief that I have tested negative for Covid-19, but I have been cut off from home and am only in touch with them through the mobile phone,” the physician from MMG Hospital said.“When they were on duty, they were not allowed to go home and were residing in the hospital complex itself,” Dr Rana said. No new cases were reported from Ghaziabad on Friday. The total number Covid-19 cases remained 25, of which three have recovered; no fatalities have been recovered from Ghaziabad. There have been instances in Delhi and Mumbai where doctors and nurses have tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/mmg-hospital-covid-team-tests-negative-for-coronavirus-to-remain-in-quarantine/story-YGX2AJscufcmp7lO8meabJ.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||CM will get 2 months as MLC if appointed||The Covid-19 outbreak has complicated chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray’s election to the state legislature. While the state cabinet decided that governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari must nominate Thackeray from his quota to the state legislative council, the CM will get a tenure of only two months to the upper house. This is because the term of the two vacant seats from the Governor’s quota ends on June 6. Thackeray will only get the remainder of this term.The Governor can appoint 12 people from the fields of art, sports and social work to the upper house on the recommendation of the government.Thackeray was not a member of the legislative council or the legislative assembly when he took over the reins of the state on November 28. He had six months to get elected to either of the house and that period ends on May 28. If he is not nominated or elected in this time, not just Thackeray but the entire cabinet would have to resign.The CM was to get elected to the council through elections for one of the nine seats to be held in April. However, the polls have been indefinitely postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak.“Thackeray will not get a full term of six years. He will be able to get only the remainder term as an MLC and the term of that particular seat is ends on June 6. He will have to be re-nominated by the Governor to continue working as the CM,” said a senior official from the state legislature.Given the uncertainty due to the outbreak, the question is what happens after June 6 when Thackeray’s term as a potential MLC ends. If the governor renominates him to the post, all may be well but there could be a legal tangle over whether a person can be reappointed as a minister without being elected to (any of the two Houses of) the state legislature.A Supreme Court judgment issued on August 17, 2001 has termed such reappointment of a minister in the then Punjab government without getting elected as “improper and undemocratic”. “Tej Prakash Singh had resigned from the position as a minister on March 8, 1996, but was reappointed without getting elected in the same term of the legislative assembly as a minister on November 23, 1996, which was challenged in the court of law. The judgement was given by the bench of justice RC Lahoti and KG Balakrishnan,” said a senior law department official.According to Article 164 (4) of the Constitution, “a minister, who for any period of six consecutive months, is not a member of the legislature shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a minister”.The article is silent on reappointments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-will-get-2-months-as-mlc-if-appointed/story-8fkehn66zjLURvfp5FeyFK.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||Juhu school distributes food to 700 people every day||A school in Juhu is setting an example by providing nearly 700 cooked meals to old age homes, street children, orphanages, HIV patients and transgenders in various places across the city. From March 31, Jamnabai Narsee School has been using its kitchen to make food packets and distribute those to people in need with the help of the parent teacher association (PTA). “We are using the school kitchen to cook meals for those in need. Our in-house cooks are preparing these meals and parents are helping with distribution. The idea was to use our existing resources in this current crisis,” said Sujay Jairaj, trustee of the school. So far, nearly 6,000 meals have been dished out of the school canteen. Lunch boxes are packed in the school premises. In addition to this, parents are also trying to distribute masks, cookies and other essentials depending on the need and availability of resources.Manan Doshi, vice-chairperson of the school PTA said every day fresh meals are cooked, packed and then distributed across the city. “The cooks working in the school are from other parts of the country and were unable to go home. Thus, we decided to involve them and take up the initiative. Many places, such as old age homes, have challenges with respect to cooking as their staff returned to their respective hometowns. The idea is to reach out to the people in need,” he added. The school has also redesigned its logo for the time being. The sides of the hexagon have been separated to give out the message of social distancing. “This is the least we can do to spread awareness about the importance of social distancing,” said Jairaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/juhu-school-distributes-food-to-700-people-every-day/story-YHuBaGQCGsFocPxzZFcW8J.html
10-04-2020||City||Day 2 of sealing: Deliveries still hampered in hot spots, vendors allege police harassment||The delivery of essential items to 13 Covid-19 hot-spot areas in Ghaziabad was hampered for the second day of the intensive lockdown, announced by the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday. Residents in these clusters complained that they were not receiving essential items at doorstep, as promised by the government, while vendors roped in to make these deliveries said their distribution network was hampered by several administrative bottlenecks and delivery persons accused the police of harassing them.Under the intensive lockdown, 13 hot-spot areas of Ghaziabad were sealed on April 9 and will remain so till the morning of April 15. According to official figures, the 13 hot spots in Ghaziabad have a population of 74,208. On Wednesday night, more than 24 hours after the intensive lockdown was announced, the Ghaziabad district administration roped in multiple vendors for each hot spot areas to supply milk, medicines, vegetables and grocery items.“One of the two milk vendors for our high-rise told us that they could supply only 500 litres of which will be insufficient for 1,300 families. However, our earlier vendor who supplied milk was roped in to offset the shortfall. The designated vegetable vendor told us that he will be able to supply us only by 3pm Friday and residents kept waiting for delivery,” Mukesh Kumar, a resident from Oxy Home, said.The high-rise is located near Tila Morh behind the Hindon airbase and has about 6,000 residents.“The designated chemist also was unable to make deliveries, while the grocery vendor told us that he is short of delivery persons. So for the second consecutive day, residents are struggling to daily need items,” Kumar said.Rajiv Mishra, the business head (retail) of Gopaljee Ananda, a dairy company, said milk supplies in city areas were better but his delivery persons faced issues with the police during distribution.“There are a lot of checks on the road and delivery persons are not allowed to move to rural areas. They are harassed by police and so they refuse to go to such areas. So far, we have deployed 25 delivery persons on motorcycles and have a capacity to scale it up to 100 or 125. But police must also cooperate so that the supply chain is not hampered,” Mishra said.He added that freezers have also been placed in a few high-rises.“We have informed the administration officials about this but the problems persist. There is another problem --- many delivery persons have left due to lockdown. In areas such as Masuri, we have been able to provide only 200-250 litres of milk on Thursday as a result,” Mishra said.Masuri near NH-9 is the biggest of the 13 hot spots in Ghaziabad with a population of about 50,000 living in 5,000 houses. Residents here complained that they were not able to get milk or vegetable supplies ever since intensive lockdown kicked in.“We have been able to supply about 45 crates to areas such as Masuri. Each crate has 12 litres of milk. The supply in other areas is streamlined with the help of our company vehicles and also the vehicles deployed by our distributors,” Sharad Garg, senior superintendent (infrastructure development), Mother Dairy, said.Some other retail outlets which are designated to supply to areas such as Raj Nagar Extension and Nandgram, which are among the 13 hot spot areas, said shortage of delivery persons is a major impediment.“We received no orders from Nandgram and only about five orders from Raj Nagar Extension on Thursday. We just have three delivery persons and none of them was available on Wednesday. Only one arrived on Thursday. So the distribution has been affected,” Krishan Kumar, an employee of a retail chain deployed for doorstep delivery, said.Residents of high-rises such as Savior Park said their deliveries regularised on Thursday, unlike the previous day. “The deliveries on Thursday were streamlined and even milk vans and garbage vans were allowed in. Authorised vegetable vendors were made deliveries by Thursday afternoon,” Sandeep Sharma, a resident of Savior Park in Mohan Nagar, said.The high-rise has about 800 flats, occupied by about 2,500 people. It was sealed on March 28 after a couple tested positive for Covid-19 and again, after the intensive lockdown was announced.“To ensure proper supply, we have roped in magistrates and also informed the local councillors and RWAs. Milk freezers have been installed at KDP High-rise in Raj Nagar Extension and Savior Park. Places facing water issues have also been provided with packaged water. About 3,400 litres of milk, 10 quintals of fruits, 21 quintals of vegetables and seven quintals of ration were supplied till date. About 128 calls were received by us requesting medicines and these were catered to,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said.Superintendent of police Neeraj Kumar Jadaun said he will look into complaints of police harassing delivery staff.“We will speak to the vendor and get all issues rectified. It has already been communicated that no essential supply will be hampered. It has also come to light that delivery persons are fearful of going to hot spot areas due to fear of contracting the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/day-2-of-sealing-deliveries-still-hampered-in-hot-spots-vendors-allege-police-harassment/story-oECi2P6mcncM1P9dpoJVJK.html
10-04-2020||City||Now order veggies through NMMC app||Residents of Navi Mumbai have another option to order vegetables, fruits and groceries online.Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has launched an app ‘Navi Mumbai Bazzar’ so that residents do not crowd markets and shops for essential items.NMMC public relations officer said, “Residents can download the app and place their order. People can select their node and choose a store or vendor and place their order.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-order-veggies-through-nmmc-app/story-4TW4V7I2lBsvWtlGuaSXmN.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||Church distributes 1,000 masks to residents of Aarey village||A church in Aarey Milk Colony has been making masks for the residents of a tribal hamlet amid the Covid-19 lockdown. St Paul’s Methodist Tamil Church began their efforts on Monday with two members stitching masks. Within three days, they distributed 1,025 masks across the hamlet (in unit 7), where the church is located, and at Aarey Chowk as the police were detaining commuters for not wearing masks.After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday made wearing mask mandatory while stepping out, they intensified their efforts and started making another 2,000 masks in a bid to cover 3,000 residents across the 1,000 hutments in the dairy unit.“We must realise that prayer has to come with action,” said priest in-charge reverend Godson Samuel. “During this difficult time, residents of this hamlet were finding it hard to procure masks which are being sold at ₹200 per piece. As we did not have funds, I asked two of our church members, who are excellent tailors, to help. With the cloth available with us, we managed to stitch 1,000 masks within three days.” Megalingam Meyyan and Samlet Yesumani have been stitching black and white masks at home since then. However, they have exhausted their resources. “We have run out of elastic strings that we attach to the ears and we have also used most of the cloth available with us. We are currently making arrangements to procure more resources,” said Meyyan. Reverend Samuel said church members and locals struggled during the first week of the lockdown. “Our members were not getting the basic essentials. However, with the help of friends across the city, 55 members and local residents were provided with 4kg rice, 2.5kg daal, and one-litre oil each. Then we realised that the next most important thing is to provide personal protective equipment,” he said.Samuel, who stepped out on Thursday to distribute masks, said, “As priests, we too are public servants like doctors and police personnel. It is time for us to take up such efforts on war footing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/church-distributes-1-000-masks-to-residents-of-aarey-village/story-APCW4rxG5TFjQsQb53mxXL.html
10-04-2020||Lucknow||111 Muslims get heads shaved to fight corona in Firozabad||After 70 cops at Fatehpur Sikri police station in Agra got their heads shaved to express their commitment in the fight against coronavirus a few days ago, 111 Muslims, mostly youths, in a locality in Firozabad district also did so on Friday with the same motive. “We are united in our support to efforts made by PM Narendra Modi to fight Covid-19. We also pray that all this gets over paving way for lifting of the lockdown,” said one Mohd Mukarram, who was among those who had their heads shaved in Mohalla Nala under Dakshin police station where they gathered and shaved one another’s heads while shouting ‘go corona go’ slogan.“We are also offering prayers so that our country gets free of the deadly virus. The lockdown has hit the source of living of many people. Glass factories in our city provide jobs to thousands but all has come to a halt because of coronavirus outbreak,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/111-muslims-get-heads-shaved-to-fight-corona-in-firozabad/story-YffZsQGxaxndT3mDtITpXN.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||Care as per need: Hosps divided into 3 types||Just like the patients, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has split the healthcare facilities for Covid-19 positive persons into three categories – Covid Care Centres (CCC), Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC), and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) – depending on the severity of the infection, in accordance with the directives and standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, director general of health services, on Thursday.CCCs are institutional quarantine facilities set up in hostels, hotels, guesthouses, lodges, stadiums, banquet halls and schools for high- and low-risk contacts, who are not identified as Covid-19 positive, but need to be kept under observation. Cases of contact with Covid-19 positive persons, who are to be quarantined for observation, will be admitted to CCCs.The three categories of patients are mild (fever, cold, slight weakness, feverish), moderate (pneumonia with no sign of severe diseases, weakness, shortness of breath) and severe (pneumonia patients with low respiratory rate and co-morbidities or other existing conditions). Mild and moderate cases will be sent to the Dedicated Covid Health Centres. DCHCs are peripheral hospitals namely Masina Hospital, BPT Hospital, Sewri, Sai Hospital, VN Desai Hospital, Bandra’s Bhabha Hospital, Hindu Hridaysamrat Balasahab Thackeray Trauma Care, Bhabha Hospital, Rajawadi, Bhagwati, ESIC Hospital, MT Agarwal Hospital. The most severe or critical cases will be treated at tertiary care hospitals or Dedicated Covid Hospitals. These include Bombay hospital, St George Hospital, GT Hospital, Saifee Hospital, Jaslok Hospital, HN Reliance, Breach Candy, Wockhardt, Nair, Kasturba, KEM, KJ Somaiya, Global Hospital, SL Raheja, PD Hinduja, Lilavati Hospital, Seven Hills, Kokilaben Hospital, Nanavati Hospital, LH Hiranandani and Fortis Hospital, Mulund.There are 26 DCHs across the city with 1,851 beds and 109 intensive care unit (ICU) beds; 25 DCHCs with 1,130 beds, and 186 number of CCCs with 11,997 beds.The BMC’s circular read: “..available data in India suggests that nearly 70% of the cases affected with Covid-19 either exhibit mild symptoms, or very mild symptoms. Such cases may not require admission to Covid-19 blocks/dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. The purpose of this document is to put in place such SOPs to ensure optimal utilization of available resources and thereby providing appropriate care to all Covid-19 patients. This will ensure that available hospital bed capacity is used only for moderate to severe cases of Covid-19.”The SOP mandates that all three facilities will ensure a separate earmarked area for Covid-19 positive persons, and suspected cases, who will not be allowed to mix with each other. It mandates that all Covid-19 suspected cases, irrespective of the severity of the disease, will be tested for Covid-19.Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi had first spoken of this plan with Hindustan Times on Tuesday, and said: “Special care is needed for patients who have an additional health condition attached to coronavirus, such as a heart ailment, diabetes, hypertension, leukemia, among others. We need to fight the infection in these patients much in advance and care for them in advanced hospitals. I cannot mix high-risk patients who also have co-morbidity, with other Covid-19 patients who do not have other health issues. When that is happening I am not able to pay proper attention to these critical patients. So I need to separate them from the other patients and pay better attention to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/care-as-per-need-hosps-divided-into-3-types/story-KUB13flqOlPcrdKH38qa3H.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||Doctors violating quarantine norms, allege hospital staff||Doctors from KB Bhabha Hospital in Mumbai’s Bandra (West), who are quarantined in the hospital, are allegedly violating regulations and roaming around freely in the hospital premises in violation of government directive.In a letter written to on-duty medical officer, staffers complained that hospital doctors admitted in the isolation ward are wondering around and are also visiting hospital canteen frequently.”Speaking to HT, a staff member said, “If educated doctors are violating quarantine rules, what should we expect from uneducated people? By doing this, they are putting their lives in danger.”Another staffer said, “Many doctors spend most of their time outside the isolation ward. But no one from hospital administration can dare to tell them about their misbehaviour.”“After receiving a complaint, we have deployed security staffers at the floor where these doctors are kept in isolation. In addition, we have also given them strict instructions to follow guidelines issued by the Central government,” said Pradeep Jadhav, medical superintendent of the hospital.Around 40 medical staffers, including 15 doctors, 25 nurses and paramedical staffers of KB Bhabha Hospital, have been quarantined after a woman who died in the hospital tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Swab samples of all medical staffers have been sent to Kasturba Hospital. The results are yet to come. As a part of the procedure, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has stopped all non-emergency services at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/doctors-violating-quarantine-norms-allege-hospital-staff/story-ItX6gHxBylvZmRwVrPI7bJ.html
10-04-2020||City||Pak asks Afghanistan to hand over Kabul gurdwara attack mastermind||ISLAMABADPakistan on Thursday asked Afghanistan to hand over the chief of the Islamic State’s Khorasan unit, Aslam Farooqi, the mastermind behind a deadly terror attack on a prominent gurdwara in Kabul last month.The foreign office said that the demand was conveyed to the Afghan ambassador in Islamabad who was called at the foreign ministry.A heavily armed Islamic State-Khorasan suicide bomber stormed the gurdwara in the heart of Afghanistan’s capital on March 25, killing 25 Sikhs and injuring eight others.Afghanistan’s national directorate of security earlier this month said Farooqi, also known as Abdullah Orakzai, was arrested along with 19 other commanders in a “complex operation”.“The ambassador of Afghanistan to Pakistan was called to the ministry of foreign affairs and conveyed Pakistan’s views with regard to the arrest of ISIS-K leader, Aslam Farooqi, by the Afghan authorities on April 5, 2020,” a statement issued by the foreign office said here.“It was underscored to the ambassador that since Farooqi was involved in anti-Pakistan activities in Afghanistan, he should be handed over to Pakistan for further investigations,” the statement added.It said that Pakistan had been expressing its concerns over the activities of the group, “which were clearly detrimental to the country”.Pakistan’s position was being regularly shared with the government of Afghanistan and others concerned, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pak-asks-afghanistan-to-hand-over-kabul-gurdwara-attack-mastermind/story-klfdsV9InDABVuhHlHe4NL.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab police slap sedition cases against ‘Sikhs for Justice’, its chief||The Punjab Police on Friday booked Gurpatwant Singh Pannun and his banned ‘Sikhs for Justice’ (SFJ) for “seditious automated calls aimed at instigating the people, particularly youth, against the state government” during the lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.Cases have been registered against Pannun and US-based SFJ under Section 124A of IPC, and Sections 10 (a) and 13 (1) of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, at the State Special Operations Cell (SSOC), Mohali, said director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta.According to Varinder Pal Singh, AIG, SSOC, preliminary enquiries have revealed that Pannun was involved in the commission of seditious acts of advocating secession of Punjab through automated calls as well as pre-recorded audio messages to various residents of Punjab and nearby areas in March and April, with the intention to foment trouble in Punjab.He said that since the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in India, Pannun, his associates and organisation were found “incessantly disseminating seditious contents on social media to further frustrate and instigate the already anguished and distressed masses of Punjab”.Disclosing the SFJ modus operandi, the AIG said that in one such recorded audio message, sent from an international number (+1-8336101020) of North America region, Pannun instigated the listeners by alleging that the central government and the Punjab government were torturing the youth in the name of enforcing the ongoing curfew in the state due to Covid-19 pandemic. The pre-recorded interactive voice response messages through telephone calls as well as audio messages to the people of Punjab belonging to various walks of life from New York (US) are being made for pushing the secessionist agenda of SFJ, said the AIG.In one audio call, recorded by an informer, Pannu is heard asking the receivers of the voice calls to vote for SFJ if they are in agreement with the policies of the organisation by pressing ‘1’, or press ‘2’ if they are in agreement with the policies of the Prime Minister of India and the chief minister of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-police-slap-sedition-cases-against-sikhs-for-justice-its-chief/story-2QGYSCn8XuZOD9MeqNQj4K.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown: Children suffering due to lack of stationery items at home||A majority of private schools have switched over to online classes due to lockdown in the state, but parents are finding it difficult to make children complete the daily assignments because of lack of stationery items such as notebooks, pencils, erasers, scrapbooks, sharpeners, drawing books, crayons and tools of geometry.Parents rued that children have used all old notebooks to revise lessons for the final exams held last month and now, with all stationery shops closed, they have no notebooks. Scores of parents have stated that online classes are keeping children engaged for four to five hours but, with no textbooks, notebooks and other stationery material, it is becoming difficult to cope with the syllabus covered by teachers. Several parents have also stated that they did not have laptops, tablets, iPad and WiFi facilities and are facing problems to get their children attend the online classes. Garima Khosla, a resident of Dugri, said, “My kids are studying in a private school and, on March 19, the school authorities declared the result and asked parents to purchase books as per the list available online on the school website. I decided to purchase the books on March 22 but, due to Janata curfew, all the shops remain closed and then lockdown was imposed the next day in the state.”She added, “On April 2, the school sent a message that classes will be conducted online but, in the absence of books and notebooks, children are not able to complete the assigned work. School authorities have been sending many assignments in bulk due to which children are stressed.”Another parent, Arvinder Kaur, a resident of Model Town, said, “Videos and textbook images, sent by teachers, are very helpful. My six-year-old son enjoys online classes, but is not ready to note down the lessons in the rough notebook. He demands new books but I am unable to buy new books and stationery.”She said school authorities must give assignment of one subject daily as, in the absence of notebooks, it will be tough for the children to complete the work once they get notebooks.”Ravi Rajput, a parent, said, “My eight-year-old daughter remains glued to my smartphone daily for two hours to note down the work sent by the school. In the absence of a laptop or a desktop at home, she struggles to write down the work and is complaining of irritation in her eyes. I have contacted the school authorities to stop sending online work as children are spending more time by looking at gadgets, which are causing eye discomfort.”However, school principals of private schools say teachers are sending work of two to three subjects daily. The images of pages of the books are sent daily to the students to make them read the lessons online and then videos are sent to explain the concepts. The idea is to make the students busy for a few hours and videos of teachers giving tips to children to remain healthy (exercises, yoga asanas) are also being shared by a majority of schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-children-suffering-due-to-lack-of-stationery-items-at-home/story-wHPuC0RVOs9Y5e4KNv8vNN.html
10-04-2020||Noida||Patient tests positive for , Covid after surgery, private hospital staff under quarantine||After a 62-year-old woman, who had undergone a surgery for pancreatic tumour at a private hospital in Noida on April 7, tested positive for Covid-19 on April 8, 67 medical and paramedical staff of the hospital and 27 others who came in direct and indirect contact with her have been put in quarantine on the hospital premises itself. Health officials said the 62-year-old woman, a resident of Muzaffarnagar, reached the Sector 128 hospital on APril 6 and her samples were sent for a Covid-19 test as well. The next day, on April 7, she underwent the surgery for the pancreatic tumour, as she needed immediate medical attention. The woman was a regular patient at the hospital since December 2019. He reports came positive for Covid-19 on April 8 and the hospital staff was informed over the phone, but by then, her surgery had already been completed. The woman needs post-operative care and has been kept in the isolation ward of the same hospital. The floor and wing where she has been admitted has been sealed by officials. The doctors and the lab technicians have also been put under quarantine in the same wing but on a different floor. The other nursing staff has been put under quarantine in hostels on the hospital premises.The woman was accompanied by her son, who tested negative for the infection and has been kept under quarantine on the hospital premises.“The patient has been visiting us since December 2019 and it was crucial that we operate her on an emergency basis. Our 67 medical and paramedical staff have been quarantined on our hospital premises. The woman’s condition is stable. Her COVID-19 sample was collected as a protocol which we have started following for every emergency patient,” said a senior hospital official.The woman is not counted among the Covid-19 patients in Gautam Budh Nagar as she belongs to Muzaffarnagar. “She is undergoing treatment here but she will be counted in Muzaffarnagar. All persons in quarantine at the hospital will be tested for Covid-19 if they develop symptoms. The initial reports usually come negative, so we will wait for four or five days,” said Dr Sunil Dohre, additional chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. In another case, a 21-year-old woman from Sector 50 tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday afternoon. The woman along with her family members was already under quarantine at the Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar hostel in Gautam Buddha University. The woman’s sister is an air hostess who is suspected to have transmitted the disease. The tally of cases in the district is now 64.Officials have taken samples of around 10 members of the woman’s family. The reports of the air hostess sister and father came negative while the reports of others are awaited. The patient has been admitted at the Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida.The district health department has been facing trouble for the last one week following a delay in getting reports. The district magistrate has allotted ₹46.22 lakh to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida and ₹65 lakh to the Super Speciality Children Hospital in Sector 39 to develop Covid-19 laboratories so that these delays can be avoided.“Reports of over 150 samples are pending as the load on labs is huge. To resolve this issue, we have allotted money to two government hospitals to develop laboratories. We expect one lab to be ready in four days while the other will be operational soon,” Suhas LY, district magistrate,said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/patient-tests-positive-for-covid-after-surgery-private-hospital-staff-under-quarantine/story-2KDahBfZ11oZTT3md6S1JP.html
10-04-2020||City||Two Punjab-origin men held with 38kg cocaine in Canada||Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) has arrested two Indo-Canadian men and seized around 38kg of suspected cocaine from a commercial vehicle. The estimated the value of the contraband is over 4.8 million CAD, approximately ₹26.2 crore.The accused have been identified as Sukdeep Singh (31) of Brampton, Ontario, and Inderjeet Singh (26) of Lindsay, Ontario.In a press release issued on April 10, the CBSA stated that its officers seized approximately 38kg of suspected cocaine from a commercial load on March 17, 2020. The truck entered Canada through the Ambassador Bridge in Windsor, Ontario, and was referred for a secondary examination to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), Windsor Detachment (Ontario). During the examination, border services officers discovered suspected cocaine within a mixed commercial load of citrus fruits.The statement added that the RCMP charged the two accused with the importation of a controlled substance and possession for the purpose of trafficking, contrary to the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act. The subjects are scheduled in an Ontario court on June 8, 2020.“The CBSA wants to send a clear message. We are absolutely committed to working with our enforcement partners, such as the RCMP, to safeguard Canadians; especially during these trying times. We remain committed to keeping narcotics out of our communities,” said Ambassador Bridge operations district director Joe McMahon in the statement.Similarly, RCMP south west district commander Nancy Burniston said that this seizure was indicative of how both their agencies were working together to keep their communities safe. This partnership is essential in order to keep illicit drugs off the streets, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-punjab-origin-men-held-with-38kg-cocaine-in-canada/story-EM3EZx2BIhiIzbub4lloNO.html
10-04-2020||Lucknow||Five more Jamaati contacts test positive in Agra, tally rises to 89||Five more people, who had come in direct contact with Jamaatis, tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, taking the tally to 89 in Agra.Eight of those tested positive in March month have been cured and discharged while one woman died and so there are 80 active positive cases of coronavirus in Agra now.“The five people, who tested positive on Friday, had come in contacts with Tablighi Jamaatis directly. They are admitted in isolation ward,” informed district magistrate Agra, Prabhu N Singh.The numbers of Tablighi Jamaati and their direct contacts have risen to 48 in Agra and are more than half of positive cases in Agra as the city also reported such coronavirus cases which were primarily linked to travel histories.Meanwhile, strict vigil was being maintained in areas, identified as hotspots numbering to 22, in Agra district. The barricading has been done on crossings in the city even as police personnel are not allowing any unnecessary movement of the people.On the other hand, vigil has been stepped up also in district of Aligarh, where too a Janmaati tested positive on Thursday and became first case for coronavirus in the city.Police and administration sealed the area of Govind Nagar and Turqman gate in Aligarh and even supply of vegetables was monitored on Friday in these areas.The Nagar Nigam team of Aligarh began sanitising the area and police stepped up surveillance through drone cameras for which centre was established near the mosque of Shahjamal in Aligarh to keep an eye on Govind Nagar, Faiz Masjid and Turqman Gate in old city area of Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/five-more-jamaati-contacts-test-positive-in-agra-tally-rises-to-89/story-EnYjpyihDmVeKsvnpmRWsJ.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||5 more test positive in Haryana, total count climbs to 162||With five new patients, four of them with Tablighi history, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Haryana climbed to 162 on Friday. Health officials said while four case were reported from Ambala, one surfaced in Sonepat. In Ambala, three persons who tested positive hail from Maharashtra and had attended the event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz last month. The fourth patient is a 65-year-old woman relative of Timber Market area resident, who died of the infection at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on April 1. He did not have any link with the Tablighi Jamaat and the health department is yet to ascertain how he contracted the virus. One of his relatives had reportedly visited him from Punjab, it has been learnt. In Sonepat, the new patient is a contact of 58-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member, who tested positive for coronavirus, said Sonepat CMO Dr Adarsh Sharma, adding that he was admitted to the isolation ward of the local civil hospital. However, 22 people in the state have so far been cured and discharged.JHAJJAR NURSE GETS INFECTEDA 33-year-old Bahadurgarh woman has tested positive of the disease in Delhi, though the state health bulletin did not mention her case. She was working as a staff nurse at a private hospital in Delhi. Jhajjar civil surgeon Randeep Punia said the woman had herself contacted them and briefed them about the infection. “We have declared Dharampura locality, where she lived, in Bahadurgarh area as a containment zone. The nurse had quarantined herself at her home on March 30 and she tested positive at Safadarjung hospital in Delhi on Thursday evening. We have collected the samples of woman’s family members. This case is not being counted in Jhajjar’s tally as the nurse got infected in Delhi while working in a hospital there,” he added. ₹5.18 CR FOR PANCHAYATS’ SANITISATIONAs per an official release, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has granted approval to release an amount of ₹5.18 crore for the sanitisation of 2,588 panchayats across the state. He said the panchayats having annual income of less than ₹2 lakh will benefit from the grant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/5-more-test-positive-in-haryana-total-count-climbs-to-162/story-8E1MFXezN3jCD6IN4AZQTJ.html
10-04-2020||City||Unclaimed bodies to be cremated in gas chamber at cremation ground in Ludhiana||To cremate unclaimed bodies of Covid-19 patients, the municipal corporation (MC) has decided to use the cremation ground near the Dholewal military complex, run by the Ramgarhia Education Council. The bodies will be cremated in gas chambers and steps have been taken to ensure social distancing of attendants. A recent incident in the city, where a son refused to cremate the body of his mother, who died of coronavirus, had sent shock waves among city residents. Finally, the administration had to step in and perform the last rites of the deceased. MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar also visited a few cremation grounds, including those in Model Town Extension and near the Dholewal military complex on Friday. According to the officials, the cremation machinery kept at the Model Town Extension ground was not operational following which a decision was taken to finalise the cremation ground near the Dholewal military complex, where population is also low.Brar said, “So far, we have not received any information regarding any cremation ground management disallowing the cremation of Covid-19 positive victims. But, now we have finalised the Dholewal military complex ground, where bodies will be cremated in the gas chamber. Markings have already been made to ensure social distancing and only a limited number of people will be present during cremation.” President of the Ramgarhia Education Council Ranjodh Singh said he had asked the MC to sanitise the ground after and before cremations.He added personal protection equipment (PPE) kits should also be provided to the three staff members of the cremation ground, who would be present during cremation.He said only five persons would be allowed to be present during cremation.BOXVOLUNTEERS STEP IN TO CREMATE UNCLAIMED BODIESAfter the son of a woman refused to cremate the body of his Covid-19 positive mother, two groups, led by IAS officer Manpreet Singh Chhatwal and in-charge of traffic marshals in Ludhiana, have voluntarily come forward for cremating unclaimed bodies in the city. Special secretary, animal husbandry and higher education, Chhatwal said he, with other volunteers from the Maa Baglamukhi Dham, Pakhowla Road, have sought permission from the state government for this purpose and, if allowed, they would perform last rites of unclaimed bodies with full precautions. Four traffic marshals, Mandeep Keshav Guddu, Charanjit Singh Fateh, Prince Kapoor and Sanjeev Kumar Tinku, have also offered to cremate unclaimed bodies across the state.They said, “There have been reports that people are refusing to cremate bodies of their relatives. They want that no family should suffer at this time of crisis and every person, who dies due to this disease, should be properly cremated.”They would work on the directions of the administration and take all precautions while cremating the bodies, the marshals said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/unclaimed-bodies-to-be-cremated-in-gas-chamber-at-cremation-ground-in-ludhiana/story-iygEFjATGEh1tbF9mI1qjJ.html
10-04-2020||Jaipur||When Rajasthan’s Pali made reusable PPE kits from umbrella fabric||When Pali, a textile town in western Rajasthan, had its first coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient on March 19, Rohitashva Singh Tomar, a 2016-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer posted as sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), understood that in days to come the district would require many personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and the government supply may not be sufficient.According to a health ministry official, Rajasthan has been allocated 16,500 PPEs. Although health minister Raghu Sharma has repeatedly said there was no shortage, but supply to the districts wasn’t enough.Until April 10, when Pali had two Covid-19 patients, the district had locally produced 2,500 PPE kits and supplied many to neighbouring districts, too. And guess what came handy for this – the fabric used to make umbrellas in Falna, a small railway station on the Ahmedabad-Jaipur rail route.After approval of district collector Dinesh Chand Jain, Tomar called a meeting of local textile units and officials of the industries department to discuss if they could locally produce the PPEs. Syed Rajjak Ali Khan, general manager of District Industries Centre, suggested using fabric from Falna to make PPEs.“Falna is famous for production of umbrellas and its parts. There are about 80 units. After the lockdown, the factories were shut and had about 20,000 metres of the fabric in their inventory. We got 10 metres from there and gave it to local tailors to stitch,” said Tomar.He said a sample was made and given to Pali Medical College for testing. According to Dr Harish Kumar Acharya, professor and head of forensic medicine department, the kit passed the test. “It was fit to be autoclaved, and given a green signal by the colleagues from the microbiology department for infection control,” said Acharya.After the go-ahead from the experts, Anil Gulechha, chairman of Central Effluent Treatment Plant (CEPT) Foundation, an association of textile unit owners, procured the fabric from Falna. “Local tailors stitched the kit in my factory. We began supplying the kits to the district administration by March 25,” said 48-year-old Gulechha of Bherawa Textile Industries.The USP of the local PPE kits is its reusability, says the collector. “The PPEs given by the government are use-and-throw kits. For one patient, from collecting samples to get him to hospital, around 10 PPEs are used. That drains the small government supply. The kits produced in Pali can be disinfected and reused,” he said.According to Tomar, the CEPT Foundation has supplied 1,000 kits to district administration free of cost. “We have also given 400 kits each to Jalore and Jaisalmer districts, 200 to Kota and 100 to Beawar. The wildlife department of the district has also taken PPEs from us. For us, the kits are free, for the other users, they are priced Rs 485 each,” said the SDM.Acharya, who is involved in design and development, said the kit has undergone several modifications and is now being made at three levels – level 1 for use by field staff, level 2 for use by use health care workers involved in care of suspected and positive cases, and level 3 for use by people in ICU where surgical interventions are needed.Gulechha said the kit comprises a face shield, an overall, an apron and a pair of shoe covers, and taken around 4.15 mts of the fabric. Pali has around 800 textile units and the annual turnover is about Rs 8, 000 crore. Like Bhilwara textile industry is known for suiting and shirting, those in Pali are known for printing and processing of ladies wear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/when-rajasthan-s-pali-made-reusable-ppe-kits-from-umbrella-fabric/story-Gjyigfdd8OVzD6hQ5HlEdN.html
10-04-2020||City||Amritsar teacher who led oppn to ragi’s cremation suspended||Amritsar: The education department has suspended government elementary teacher Harpal Singh Verka, who had led residents of Verka village in opposing the cremation of former hazoori ragi at the Golden Temple, Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, at the village crematorium on April 2. Khalsa had died of covid-19.His suspension order, a copy of which is with HT, mentions no reason, though it is being linked to his act of opposing the cremation of the ragi, an action that had drawn criticism of the government. The order states that his services would be at the disposal of the Gurdaspur office, and he is to report there. Apart from his job as head teacher at Government Elementary School, Shehzada village, in Majitha block, Verka is known as Congress leader in the area; he is husband of Parminder Kaur, councillor of ward number 21 of his village. A few months ago, had courted controversy by putting up hoardings carrying images of Amritsar East MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu and Pakistan PM Imran Khan in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-teacher-who-led-oppn-to-ragi-s-cremation-suspended/story-ia9VMFQrWaktwMBQsP4qFN.html
10-04-2020||City||Vegetable market, shops in Thane district to be shut till April 14||Thane district administration on Friday decided to shut all vegetable markets and shops till April 14. The order by collector Rajesh Narvekar came on Friday night, after Thane and Kalyan markets saw huge crowd in the morning.The wholesale grocery market at Jambli Naka and Kharkar Ali in Thane was crowded with shoppers on Friday morning. Thane Municipal Corporation has shifted the vegetable market to other locations. Maruti Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner, said, “There was a lot of crowd outside the shops in these two markets. There were no guidelines from shop keepers to customers, leading to chaos. We have now issued notices to shopkeepers to hire volunteers to ensure social distancing is followed. Action will be taken against those shops found violating the rule.”A long queue, almost 2-km-long, was seen outside a supermarket in Khadakpada area in Kalyan (West) on Friday morning. Residents took to the social media complaining of violation. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has asked all shops, except medical stores, to remain shut after 2pm. A KDMC official said, “We will ask officials to keep watch on crowded stores.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vegetable-market-shops-in-thane-district-to-be-shut-till-april-14/story-6EaYc8lmAX9U0BD4fcBvaN.html
10-04-2020||City||Centre releases Rs 1,237 cr GST compensation arrears||CHANDIGARH: Reeling under a huge revenue loss due to the ongoing lockdown to check the spread of corornavirus, Punjab on Friday received goods and services (GST) compensation dues of Rs 1,237 crore from the Centre.The amount released as non-plan grant pertains to GST compensation arrears for financial years 2017-18 and 2018-19 on the basis of revision of the base year revenue of the state. “When the 2015-16 base year revenue was fixed, there was some gap. We submitted audited accounts and requested for its revision which has finally been accepted after two years,” said a finance department official, who did not want to be named.In its release order, the Union finance ministry said that with this amount, the total release of GST compensation to the state from July 2017 to March 2019 comes to Rs 14,094 crore.The state government has also been demanding the release of GST compensation arrears of Rs 4,400 crore for the past four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/centre-releases-rs-1-237-cr-gst-compensation-arrears/story-2geU4W4jOoeFOB7gYl7ODK.html
10-04-2020||City||4,700 inmates released in Punjab to decongest jails||The Punjab government has released more than 4,700 inmates for six weeks to decongest jails across the state amid coronavirus crisis.As per the figures of the jails department, 2,195 convicts have been released on parole till Friday, 48 on special remission, 2059 undertrials on interim bail and 408 undertrials on regular bail, besides 24 others.There were around 24,000 inmates lodged in 24 jails across the state against an authorised capacity of 23,488.The department has released around 600 inmates from central jail, Amritsar; 480 from central jail, Faridkot; 450 from central jail, Kapurthala; 377 from central jail, Bathinda; 359 from central jail, Gurdaspur; 350 from central jail, Ludhiana; and 180 from Patiala jail. On March 26, the Punjab government had announced to release around 6,000 inmates from jails across the state in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.The Supreme Court of India had constituted a high-powered committee in this regard headed by chairperson, Punjab Legal Services Authority. Punjab jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said, “The reason behind releasing these inmates was to prevent spread of Covid-19 outbreak by decongestion of jails.”Meanwhile, the state jail department facilitated 3,400 WhatsApp video call ‘mulaqaats’ of inmates since March 26 when the physical meetings of prisoners with their family members were suspended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-700-inmates-released-in-punjab-to-decongest-jails/story-wjLZW7I6OAQbmcFYMjONvN.html
10-04-2020||City||Sample of Ludhiana’s first Covid-19 casualty’s younger son sent for testing||A day after the older son of the city’s first Covid-19 casualty tested positive or the virus, the health department has sent the samples of her younger son for testing. The woman’s two sons had earlier tested negative for the virus. However, instead of keeping them in hospital for observation, the health department had sent them back home following the test. Earlier on Wednesday, the health department went into a tizzy when Puja’s older son developed symptoms of Covid-19. He was later quarantined in the civil hospital and his samples were sent for testing.Sukhwinder Singh, the brother-in-law of Puja, said that fortunately both the sons of Puja had self-quarantined themselves at home.11 RELATIVES OF TABLIGHI KEPT IN ISOLATIONHealth officials have also kept 11 relatives of a 59-year-old Tablighi Jammat follower and his 15-year-old nephew in isolation. The duo along with a 32-year-old man from Ramgarh Bhullar village has tested positive this week.‘574 PERSONS TESTED, 443 FOUND NEGATIVE’Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said that so far 574 persons have been tested, out of which, 443 have been tested negative.The reports of 108 cases were awaited. Samples of 67 persons were sent for testing on Friday. Besides, the samples of 11 persons were sent for revised testing. As many as 73 persons have been quarantined. The deputy commissioner said 12 persons have tested positive and three deaths have been reported in the district due to Covid-19 so far. Agrawal added that out of the 12 cases, one was from Barnala and another from Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sample-of-ludhiana-s-first-covid-19-casualty-s-younger-son-sent-for-testing/story-22XFfDO3GYqPwrCc5jvxrO.html
10-04-2020||Lucknow||Area around Masjid in Sangam city under intensive lockdown||In accordance with the directives issued by chief minister Yogi Adityanath to implement strict measures in areas where corona patients were found in districts, the administration of Prayagraj on Friday implemented intensive lockdown around a masjid between Shahganj police station and gate number 2 of Prayagraj railway station.According to district magistrate of Prayagraj Bhanu Chand Goswami, the action was taken to prevent any chance of further spread of the virus as the lone Covid 19 case here, an Indonesian national, was recovered from the masjid premises.“The entire area has been placed under intensive lock down with zero movement on road or places around the masjid,” he said. The ​Indonesian patient, who is presently admitted in hospital in Kotwa in Phulpur tehsil of the district, is one of the seven Indonesian nationals who are members of the Tablighi Jamaat and were recovered along with 30 more Jamaatis of Indian origin from the masjid on March 31.All 37 stayed at the masjid, said to be the district headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat, in Parayagraj between March 22 and 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/area-around-masjid-in-sangam-city-under-intensive-lockdown/story-ky6QTQndM3OSQl3nTCKH0K.html
10-04-2020||City||Covid-19: 20 more test positive in Punjab||Twenty persons were found positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 151.Mohali reported the maximum 11 fresh cases among the districts, followed by Pathankot at eight and Jalandhar at one. Of the 11 cases in Mohali district, 10 were reported from Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur alone, with the number of those infected by the disease in the village reaching 32. As many as 48 cases have been reported in the district so far. Also, a 78-year-old Mundi Kharar resident, who died at the Kharar civil hospital on April 7, tested positive for Covid-19.Of the samples of 64 persons taken from Jawaharpur village on Thursday, the reports of 32 were found negative while those of 12 were awaited. The Punjab government has the village declared a ‘containment zone’. Many of those infected are members of an extended family, including the village sarpanch. In Pathankot, 15 persons have been found infected with the virus, making it the third most affected district after SAS Nagar and SBS Nagar. Six members of a family in the Sujanpur town and their maid are among the new cases in Pathankot district. The family lives in the neighbourhood of a woman who died due to the infection on April 5. Six of her family were tested positive subsequently. Her contact mapping was done and scores of her near and dear ones were quarantined and tested.Another case surfaced in Pathankot city’s Ananadpura Rara, a densely populated locality. The patient deals with newspaper distribution in the city.Deputy commissioner GS Khaira said tracing of the contacts of positive patients is on to isolate them as soon as possible. “Sujanpur has emerged as a hotspot of the infection. We have divided the area into two zones — containment and buffer zones. A strict curfew is in place in the area,” he added.In Jalandhar, a 17-year-old youth tested positive. With this, a total of 12 positive cases, including one death, have been reported in the district.The patient is the grandson of a 72-year-old woman resident of Nijatam Nagar locality who was tested positive recently and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Ludhiana. Her 50-year-old son also tested positive on Wednesday.Jalandhar nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu said, “On Friday, we collected 43 samples of suspected patients, including close contacts of the four positive patients reported in the past two days. We quarantined people in 2,000 houses in different localities of the city where positive cases have been reported so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-20-more-test-positive-in-punjab/story-gcAQr4EGnQtb1ASDXFQ9NN.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab prepones school summer vacations; now from Apr 11-May 10||Punjab cabinet has preponed summer vacations of both government and private schools, now to be taken from April 11 to May 10 to minimise the disruption of studies caused due to lockdown and curfew in the state. School education minister Vijay Inder Singla said private schools were free to extend the vacations, as per their requirement.Singla added students of Classes 5 and 8 of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) would be promoted based on the performance in examinations before the curfew was imposed. “In case of Class 8, practical examinations were pending, but now the board would declare results without conducting any further examinations for both the classes,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-prepones-school-summer-vacations-now-from-apr-11-may-10/story-wnY5U73Pys5iiMHgOC6nyL.html
10-04-2020||City||Bathinda cancer hospital to be used as covid isolation facility||Bathinda: Setting aside initial reservations over risking the spread of infection among cancer patients, the administration has decided to use the Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI) in the city as an isolation facility for covid-19 patients. Initially, 40 beds on the third floor will be used and more space will be taken up, if needed. The decision was taken at meeting of the health department, the district administration and the vice-chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, the parent institute of ACI, on Friday. On Thursday, hospital staff, including doctors and attendants of cancer patients had protested against moving covid-19 patients to the institute.Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Amrik Singh told HT on Friday that now all suspected or positive coronavirus cases will be taken directly to the ACI for treatment at the isolation facility. “The institute will ensure separate passage for covid patients and their movement near the cancer wards will be strictly restricted,” he said, while admitting that cancer patients had low immunity and should not be exposed to the virus.“Cancer patients will have to be extra cautious at the ACI due to their compromised immunity level. BFUHS has decided to provide the X-ray test station to the covid facility. Separate lab facilities may also be started,” the civil surgeon added. He said AIIMS Bathinda cannot be used as the inpatient department (IPD) was not complete yet. The decision to rope in private institutes, including a private medical university in Bathinda may be taken, in case of emergency. Parvinder Sandhu, an oncological surgeon at ACI, said, “I put-off scheduled surgeries since Wednesday. Due to the lockdown, patients from nearby towns who used to visit Chandigarh, Ludhiana or Rajasthan for chemotherapy and radiation therapy are also coming to us, leading to 20% more load. Due to the covid facility, we have to shift ICU-ward patients to other rooms. For chemotherapy patients, we will have to use the dharamshala on campus.”ACI medical superintendent Dr Deepak Arora said the institute will need to issue advisory to its patients and attendants due to the threat of the virus infection at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bathinda-cancer-hospital-to-be-used-as-covid-isolation-facility/story-Y3sAmfJpzkKtJOwNmhK5EI.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab brings private hospitals under ambit for corona battle||The Punjab cabinet on Friday approved the Punjab Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Ordinance 2020, to regulate the functioning of the private hospitals with a capacity of over 50 beds. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had chaired the meeting held through videoconferencing. “It is necessary for private hospitals to join the battle against covid 19,” the CM said in a statement. He added it was important to activate all resources, in the larger interest of the state, in the light of the current battle that threatened to be a long-drawn one. The council of ministers has authorised the CM to approval the final draft of the bill after legal vetting. The ordinance provides for registration and regulation of clinical establishments in a professional manner to ensure compliance of clinical standards and protocols and transparency in the functioning of these establishments for fair and proper delivery of health services to the common man.IMA fumes over timingThe Punjab chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has condemned the move, saying the state government was demoralising medical practitioners by such unwarranted and ill-timed decisions. It also held an emergency meeting on Friday. “When we are fighting Covid19, our energies should be focused towards tiding over this crisis. This is a double whammy for the private health sector. After unjustly labelling doctors in private practice as ‘bhagodas’, the state government has delivered another blow, demoralising private practitioners,” said Dr Rajinder Sharma, former Punjab IMA chief and central working committee member of the national unit of IMA.He added, “The bureaucrats seem to have misguided the government. When the Disaster Management Act is already in force, functioning of all private hospitals automatically comes under the government. What is the agenda behind bringing this cowardly act, nobody knows?,” Dr Sharma added. DCs to declare new mandis as per need The cabinet has also authorised deputy commissioners to declare new mandis in their respective districts, as per local needs to meet demands of social distancing, while ensuring smooth procurement of the grain. These mandis would be in addition to 3,800 already notified.  It was also decided that procurement arrangements should be finalised and notified by April 11 so that each grain is procured, though in a staggered manner. The state has already decided to extend procurement till June 15 and has sought incentives from the Centre for delayed transportation to the mandis by the farmers due to the covid-19 criris. The Centre is yet to respond.Depts to send expenditure cut proposals by Monday The cabinet also authorised the CM to nominate four additional members on the Cabinet Sub-committee on Fiscal Management for broad-based discussion and decision on expenditure cuts needed to get over the crisis. Departments have been asked to send their proposals for expenditure cuts by Monday. Finance minister Manpreet Badal informed the meeting that Rs 30,000 crore of revenue earned through procurement operations would be infused into the state’s economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-brings-private-hospitals-under-ambit-for-corona-battle/story-4Tu60hOOgXwU6mF2fioS5N.html
10-04-2020||City||Capt asks Centre to set up virology hub in Punjab, offers land||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday proposed a ₹550-crore project to the central government for setting up an advanced virology centre in the state, offering free land for the same.In a letter to Prime Minister Narender Modi, the CM requested him to direct the Union health ministry to set up the proposed centre, which would focus on addressing regional, national and global needs in virology, diagnostic, research and therapeutic evaluations to cope with the COVID-19 pandemic.Amarinder said that the sudden onset of the viral illness and its acquiring pandemic proportions in a matter of only two months have drawn attention towards the need to devote greater resources on cutting-edge research in the field of virology. At present, the National Institute of Virology in Pune is the only institution in the country capable of providing a well-coordinated medical and public health response to such an emergency, he added.In the present scenario, wherein the world is in the grip of the highly infectious novel coronavirus, an advanced virology centre as a regional reference laboratory for virus diagnosis and research is much required, the CM stressed.The state government has thus proposed a specialised centre in Medicity, New Chandigarh, which would be well-placed to serve the interests of the northwestern region given Chandigarh’s international air connectivity, the Capt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-asks-centre-to-set-up-virology-hub-in-punjab-offers-land/story-UxpnRF9CZNiwxBQd3wAW9I.html
10-04-2020||City||45 contacts of 2 Faridkot patients test negative||FARIDKOT: Forty five of 52 samples of the contacts of two coronavirus patients in the district were found negative on Friday. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Kotkapura Kultar Singh Sandhwan, who was among these contacts, also tested negative for Covid-19. Sandhwan was quarantined at home after he had come in contact with a 53-year-old man who was found positive for coronavirus infection on Wednesday.Civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said, “One patient’s wife and daughter tested negative. The mother of the other patient also tested negative. We are waiting for the test reports of seven other contacts,” he added.16 TEST NEGATIVE IN MOGASixteen of the 20 contacts of the four Covid-19 patients in Moga district also tested negative on Friday. Civil Surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said the remaining four samples have been sent again for testing.The health department also conducted a survey of 95 houses in Moga district. A total of 242 people were home quarantined and collected 21 more samples for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-contacts-of-2-faridkot-patients-test-negative/story-eCzVtWH1NEWt3qPGjdxs4J.html
10-04-2020||City||Combine operators demand advance payment from farmers||NABHA: Combine operators here are asking for advance payment from farmers for harvesting their wheat crop, saying they are not getting diesel and spare parts on credit in view of the lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.Combine operators usually get diesel and spare parts on credit and make the payments after the crop procurement. Harvesters on Friday got announcements made from gurdwaras of various villages in Nabha subdivision that farmers who need their services must pay at least half of the payment in advance.“A pair of combine and reaper burns around 300 litres of diesel worth Rs 18,000 per day for harvesting 28-30 acres of crop,” said harvester Santokh Singh. “If we don’t get diesel on credit, how will we arrange funds? So we held a telephonic meeting and took this decision.”BKU (Rajewal) general secretary Onkar Singh Agaul said, “Small farmers will suffer the most in such a scenario as they will not be able to arrange money for advance payment to combine operators. They used to make payment to operators only after they got money for their crop following procurement. “Meanwhile, there is a shortage of combines in the state as many of these are stuck in other states where they have gone for harvesting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/combine-operators-demand-advance-payment-from-farmers/story-kdRAEHlsE6PPTLoJfFgmoL.html
10-04-2020||City||Nurses seek 2-fold hike in salaries on Haryana pattern||AMRITSAR: A day after Haryana doubled the salaries of doctors and nurses in view of the coronvirus outbreak, the nurses and paramedical staff of Guru Nanak Dev hospital (GNDH) of the Government Medical College (GMC) Amritsar demanded two-fold increase in the salaries of medical professionals dealing with Covid-19 patients, besides release of their pending salaries.Veena Kumari, a member of Amritsar nursing union, said, “In these difficult circumstances, medical professionals are working round-the-clock. Nurses, paramedical staff and doctors are working in hospitals to treat the patients, without caring about their own lives. But we are not getting our monthly salaries on time and it is being difficult for our family to meet our daily needs amid the lockdown.”“Besides releasing our pending salaries, the Punjab government should double the salary of medical professionals in the state on the pattern of the Haryana government,” she added.Lakhwinder Kaur, another member of nursing union said, “The nurses in government hospital are not getting required personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to work amid the Covid-19 patients. Medical staffs are more prone of getting infected from the patients. The government should give us adequate kits and proper incentive to work in such hard times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nurses-seek-2-fold-hike-in-salaries-on-haryana-pattern/story-UTCjtPATlD54wFklRBOH7O.html
10-04-2020||City||Ludhiana officials recall trauma of cremating woman, after family shunned responsibility||“I wish God never makes anyone suffer such a death,” says Jagsir Singh Sran, reliving the anguish and shock that raged on inside him on April 5 (Sunday) evening, before and during the cremation of 69-year-woman, Surender Kaur, who had tested positive for covid-19. Sran, a tehsilder-cum-sub-registrar (Ludhiana east division) had received the body from a private hospital and when the fear-struck family refused to cremate it, he acted sagely, and thinking on his feet, ensured that the last rites were performed. He was among the few district administration officials present at the cremation. Sran, who had joined the Punjab government in 1991, admitted that he felt surreal and strange, while claiming the body of someone who he had never seen or known. “I am a pure Punjabi by heart with a daredevil attitude. When I saw the family was not cremating the woman, my first reaction was to execute the task assigned to me,” adds Jagsir, adding his own family of wife and sons were and have been very supportive. “Most of my family is abroad. My wife knew about my going to cremation ground and was initially worried. I assured her I am taking all precautions. Now, my family is proud of my work,” he adds. Jagsir said he, and other officials present, managed to get the sewadar at the cremation ground to light the pyre after Kaur’s family members, including her daughter and son-in-law, refused to step out of the car. “I stayed on to ensure that she was cremated. I kept praying, with a sad heart. I kept thinking no one should ever meet such an end, where one is disowned by his own family members. It was tragic,” he added, in a choked voice. Additional SHO of Shimlapuri police station, sub-inspector Simranjeet Kaur was tasked with ensuring that no overcrowding took place during the cremation. What actually transpired surprised her. “My duty was to cordon off the area leading to the cremation ground and ensure that no overcrowding took place and social distancing norms were followed,” she said, adding, “I was also called to oversee the cremation. Emotions run high at the cremation ground, and people hug each other. However, at this cremation, not a single family member was present.” She added that duty came before everything else for her. “My father takes pride in my work. He sanitised my vehicle, when I reached home after duty. I also wash my uniform daily and ensure that belt, badges and even shoes are sanitised,” she adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-officials-recall-trauma-of-cremating-woman-after-family-shunned-responsibility/story-AD4KThGJo63lxve7suNskN.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Special trains moving 77,000 lakh tonne grain out of Punjab daily||Nearly 77,000 lakh tonnes of wheat and rice is being transported out of Punjab in special freight trains everyday to various states to deal with the rising demand for grains amid the ongoing lockdown to contain the coronavirus outbreak.Each train has a carrying capacity of 2,500 to 3,000 tonnes.On Thursday, 38 such wagons carried 1.15 lakh tonnes of grains of the state, the highest since the movement of grains that started on April 1 after the Centre announced to double the quota of foodgrains to 80 crore beneficiaries under the Public Distribution System (PDS). Now, each beneficiary will get 30kg highly subsidised ration.Till April 1, the authorities in Punjab were worried as the state’s godowns with a total storage capacity of 240 lakh tonne were to receive 135 lakh tonne more wheat in the rabi season. The warehouses are nearly full to the brim with 190 lakh tonnes stored. “We still have large stocks with us. The good thing is that a significant amount of grains is being moved out of the state for PDS. Such fast movement of foodgrains in the state is being witnessed after several years,” said principal secretary (food and civil supplies) KAP Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/special-trains-moving-77-000-lakh-tonne-grain-out-of-punjab-daily/story-6XlLduKfM3LAi7YNdD1HlO.html
10-04-2020||City||Ludhiana police want Covid-19 test for all offenders they arrest||A day after a man arrested on charges of vehicle lifting and snatching was found positive for novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and consequently 17 police personnel had to be quarantined, police have requested the Civil Hospital to test all arrested persons for the disease to prevent police personnel and other inmates from contracting the infection.In the meanwhile, police personnel are thoroughly sanitising themselves and the accused after making an arrest.Sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma, in-charge at CIA Staff-3, who arrested the man found positive for Covid-19 on Friday, said that after the accused test positive, they have been taking precautions while making arrests.In case of a planned raid, police personnel use the Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kit. However, in case they must arrest a person suddenly, they do not wait for PPE kits and usually arrest the accused on the spot.“Police personnel are using gloves, masks and sanitisers to keep themselves sanitised. They also sanitise the accused repeatedly and provide them with masks, too,” Sharma said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City-2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the situation was rather dicey:”We cannot stop arresting miscreants who are a threat to law and order in the city, but we must protect ourselves from the virus, too.”On Friday, the Sadar police station, under Teja arrested two persons for murdering a liquor vend employee.Police took credit for civilians’ efforts Ludhiana: The novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has exposed the police’s deceit. Police had taken credit for arresting two persons accused of snatching and vehicle lifting, but after the one of the men tested positive for Covid-19, the police had to reveal the name of the locals who actually caught the accused and handed them over to the police.Notably, on April 6, the police had claimed in a presser that the accused had been caught during a special checking.The two locals, who caught the accused, have also been placed under quarantine. One of the men, who caught the accused, said, “My friend and I were distributing langar among migrants near Jeevan Nagar on April 5, when we saw the accused snatch a local’s phone. We caught the two men and handed them over to the police.”“On Thursday, the police informed us that the accused had tested positive Covid-19 and asked us to quarantine ourselves,” he said.A total of 19 persons, including 17 police personnel, have placed under quarantine after the accused test positive on Thursday. The samples of seven policemen have also been sent for checking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-want-covid-19-test-for-all-offenders-they-arrest/story-YVKrhS5c2o6cy9w60gTU1H.html
10-04-2020||City||Kharghar auto driver dies of Covid-19; Five new cases in Thane||Panvel/Thane/ KalyanA 33-year-old autorickshaw driver, who had tested Covid-19 positive, died on Friday.A resident of Kharghar’s Gharkul housing society, he was also suffering from dengue.Panvel City Municipal Corporation chief Ganesh Deshmukh said, “He was unwell for the past 15 days and was admitted to NMMC hospital at Vashi two days ago.” “It was a complicated case as he was suffered from multiple ailments, resulting in a weak immunity,” said Deshmukh. The civic body has sealed the housing society which has seen three positive Covid cases till now.Five people tested positive for Covid-19 in Thane on Friday, taking the city’s tally to 38.Four are from Amrut Nagar area in Mumbra while the fifth is a woman pathologist, who lives near Thane Mental Hospital. Mumbra’s Amrut Nagar now has a total of 13 positive cases. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “The four people, all close contacts of one of the positive cases from Amrut Nagar, were tested positive for coronavirus on Friday.A five-year-old boy is among the six new cases of Covid-19 reported from Kalyan-Dombivli. Five cases are from Dombivli and one case from Kalyan (East), taking the toll to 49 in Kalyan-Dombivli. Nine of them have been discharged after treatment. “All the Covid-19 positive cases from Dombivli are linked to the wedding in March,” said Milind Dhat, deputy commissioner, KDMC. KDMC has started swab collection and sending samples to JJ hospital for testing. It has set up a Covid ward in the civic-run Shastri Nagar hospital and tied up with Neon, a private hospital, for treatment of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kharghar-auto-driver-dies-of-covid-19-five-new-cases-in-thane/story-uov2tZ5XVbnErxfUnk1pPJ.html
10-04-2020||City||Malerkotla patient visited mosques in Sangrur, Ludhiana||SANGRUR: The 55-year-old man, who tested positive in Malerkotla for coronavirus on Thursday, belongs to Delhi and had been visiting several mosques in Sangrur and Ludhiana districts for over a month.Sangrur deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the man had reached Malerkotla by train on March 4 and stayed at different mosques in various villages of Sangrur and Ludhiana.Thori said the victim was traced from a mosque at Dehleez Kalan village of Ahmedgarh subdivision and he has been quarantined at Mastuana Sahib in Sangrur.“Our teams are trying to trace his contacts. We have informed the Ludhiana deputy commissioner regarding his visits in the district,” said Thori.Malerkotla SDM Vikramjeet Singh Panthey said that no Tablighi Jamaat link has been established in the case so far. “The victim had visited mosques in the two districts as part of a religious programme.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/malerkotla-patient-visited-mosques-in-sangrur-ludhiana/story-0l7jzVa2uUjVBLDzuSzARL.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||Community spread on in Punjab, claims CM; Union ministry differs||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday said community transmission has started in the state with 27 positive cases coming from secondary sources, the claim that has been contested by the Union health ministry. Addressing a news conference through video-conferencing, Amarinder said: “The number of positive Covid-19 cases will increase as is happening across the world and even in India. How can Punjab be isolated from it? We have contained the pandemic to some level as compared to other states. But this will spread. We have kept our contingency plan ready and lockdown is one of the methods to cut social contacts,” he said.Punjab, which was one of the first states to impose a statewide lockdown and stop public transport, has reported 132 Covid-19 patients till Friday.The chief minister admitted that the community transmission has started in Punjab following 27 fresh positive cases with no travel history and most of them are due to secondary infection.Responding to a question during the daily Covid-19 press conference in New Delhi, Union health ministry joint secretary Lav Aggarwal said there is no community transmission in the country yet and there is no need to panic.“Today, the challenge is not local or community transmission. Whenever the community transmission stage comes, we will inform you. There is no community transmission in the country yet. There is no need to panic,” Aggarwal said.According to the World Health Organisation, community transmission is “evidenced by the inability to relate confirmed cases through chains of transmission for a large number of cases”The WHO in the latest Covid-19 situation report number 80 has termed India’s virus transmission classification as “cluster of cases” and not “community transmission” as of now.Expressing concern over the prevailing situation, Amarinder said: “We had around 1,40,000 NRIs and foreign returnees, including from those countries where the virus had spread. They were the primary ones. Now, with 27 positive cases of secondary transmission we have entered the stage of community transmission. That is a serious cause of worry,” added Amarinder.The CM said 651 people have come to the state from the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregations in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, which emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hotspots in the country. Of them, 636 have been traced and 15 remain untraced.Community transmission is the third of the four stages of the spread of an infectious disease. The first is travel history, the second is local transmission, the third is community transmission, and the fourth is epidemic. He admitted that there has been slow testing in Punjab due to lack of such facilities. “Out of the 28 million-population in Punjab, only 2,877 have been tested. It is nothing. That is because the Centre had initially approved only three centres and later added one more. Now, we have sought permission for more such facilities.”Quoting experts and reports by some national and international institutions, including Chandigarh-based PGIMER and John Hopkins University, the chief minister said the Covid-19 situation will peak in India in mid-September at a point when 58% of its population will be infected, with 87% of people likely to get affected in Punjab.“These figures are frightening. Predictions by health experts about the spread of the pandemic are horrendous. So, we have to do what we can and lockdown is one of such measures,” he added.The chief minister also rejected as “absolutely insufficient” the ₹15,000 crore announced by the Centre on Thursday for the health infrastructure in the country.“How can this be enough for the nearly 1.4 billion people of India? No state has the resources needed to fight the battle without the help of the central government and they have to come forward to help the states,” Singh said.PGIMER REFUTES CAPT’S CLAIMCHANDIGARH: Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has clarified that the institute has not undertaken any study which predicts that number of Covid-19 cases may peak by mid-September.“Assistance provided at the personal level by some faculty member should not be projected as the viewpoint of the institute. Head, department of community medicine and School of Public Health of the Institute has confirmed that the no such study was conducted and thus there is no proof regarding the numbers being projected,” PGIMER spokesperson, Dr Ashok Kumar said. PGIMER in a statement said that institute is not aware that any expert or faculty member from the department of community medicine and School of Public Health of the Institute has carried out any study or estimate that the Covid-19 may peak by mid-September and can infect 58% of country’s population. Amarinder’s media adviser Raveen Thukral, however, said the report cited by the CM is assessment of Dr Shankar Prinja, additional professor of health economics, department of community medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, and his team, using mathematical models on the basis of Punjab data provided to him. “State Committee on Health Sector Response and Procurement headed by Vini Mahajan (a senior IAS officer) with ex-PGI director Dr KK Talwar as professional advisor had sought an urgent assessment of Punjab’s Covid-19 scenario from Dr Prinja to plan its preparedness,” he tweeted. Dr Prinja did not respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/community-spread-on-in-punjab-claims-cm-union-ministry-differs/story-Anh9ilyOelk4XpnJSsml6M.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Focus in Haryana on creating containment zones||To contain the spread of novel coronavirus in the state, Haryana government is now focusing on preparing containment plans for every district and enforcing the lockdown strictly in the containment zones.As a precautionary measure, the state government has prepared a model district containment plan for all 22 districts. The deputy commissioners (DCs) have been assigned the task to prepare containment plans for their respective districts.The worst-affected districts in the state are Nuh with 38 cases, Gurugram with 32, Palwal and Faridabad with 28 cases each. Areas where Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed are being declared as containment zones.As many as 36 villages in Nuh district have been declared as containment zones and 104 villages as buffer zones.In Palwal, nine villages have been declared as containment zones and their boundaries have been sealed, while 27 adjacent villages have been declared buffer zones.“The main objective to declare containment zone is to stop the spread of the pandemic, and alert the people,” a health department official said, adding that the movement of people living in the containment zones has been completely banned and all these areas will be sealed by the police forces.In the containment and buffer zones, people will be delivered essentials like ration, milk, groceries, medicines and vegetables, in separate packets right at their doorstep. Delivery workers will wear gloves and use safety equipment. Uninterrupted supply of electricity and water will be ensured in these zones. The buses of the state transport department have been deployed for the movement of employees involved in this process.Meanwhile, the district authorities have also pressed in teams of Asha workers and ANMs to do a door-to-door screening in these areas that will also be sanitised. Masks, gloves, caps, sanitisers and shoes have been provided to the staff deployed for the task, the official said.In Kaithal, ward number 2 of Mahadev Colony has been declared as containment zone, while 13 areas in Faridabad have also been declared as containment zones.Similarly in Panchkula, Nada Sahib, civil hospital in Sector 6, Command Hospital and bus stand have been declared as containment zones. After another positive case of Covid-19 was reported in Nidani village of Jind, the area has been declared as a containment zone and the villages adjoining the area — Padana, Radhana, Dhidhana and Sindhvi Kheda— have been declared buffer zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/focus-in-haryana-on-creating-containment-zones/story-KnV9tVqD0afW53u47GA3PL.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amid lockdown, getting movement pass for harvesting machines a tough task: Karnal farmers||As harvesting of Rabi crop is underway in the state, hundreds of owners of combine harvesters have been approaching Karnal’s mini-secretariat to get movement passes for their agricultural machinery as they have to travel one district to the other for the harvesting.According to the farmers, the state government has made it clear that the farmers will have to take permission for the movement of tractors, combine harvesters and threshing machines in the district, as it has been declared as containment zone by the state government after five positive cases of Coronavirus were reported here.“For the past three days, we are making rounds to the government offices to get the movement pass, but to no avail. We want the government to ensure that the permission can be availed from local offices as well,” said Sumit Kumar, a farmer from Jamba village.Another farmer Mohit Kumar, of Bijana village, said, “As per the government norms, we have to take all our workers for medical examination, and later we need to apply for the movement pass at the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) office, but there is huge rush at the government offices for the permission.”The farmers demand that the government should ensure that they get the permission in their local tehsils without any delay, so that they can start the harvesting soon.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav, while talking to Hindustan Times, said, “We have directed the SDMs to get the medical checkup of all the people associated with combine harvesters and other harvesting machinery done soon and issue certificates immediately after it.”As per the information, 1,100 combine harvesters are registered in Karnal and among them, 700 have got the permission for the movement pass, while the applications of remaining 400 are still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-lockdown-getting-movement-pass-for-harvesting-machines-a-tough-task-karnal-farmers/story-eRtdJyviKFs5yEFf0TkgsO.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Allow farmers to store crops in govt schools: Hooda||Leader of opposition in Haryana assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday asked the state government to allow farmers to store wheat and mustard crops in the government schools across the state.The former Haryana chief minister, while talking to Hindustan Times on phone, said that the state government should allow farmers to store crops in the government schools in their respective villages and purchase it from there only. “Due to the coronavirus outbreak, the schools will remain shut for the next two months. The best way to initiate crop procurement is to utilise government school buildings for storing the grains after purchasing it from the farmers. Most of the farmers in Haryana do not have storage facility and if they leave grains in open, it can be spoiled due to untimely rain. The state government should soon take a decision on it. The decision will also help in avoiding mass gathering at mandis and procurement centres,” Hooda said.As per the state agriculture department, during this Rabi season, Haryana is expecting 135 lakh tonnes of wheat and 125 lakh tonnes of mustard crop.Welcoming the state government’s decision to increase the number of wheat procurement centres and mandis for mustard procurement, the former CM said that the government should purchase each and every grain of the farmers at the Minimum Support Price (MSP).“In the recently held all-party meeting, I had suggested CM Manohar Lal Khattar to provide gunny bags to farmers and arhtiyas so that they can start storing grains,” he added.On being asked about government’s decision to procure mustard in just five days, Hooda said that it depends on the government, how they will purchase the entire crop in such a short time span. “The government had assured us that there would be no limit on the procurement of mustard crop in mandis,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/allow-farmers-to-store-crops-in-govt-schools-hooda/story-6TNG0coD1iK4NHm1wUpFAJ.html
10-04-2020||City||Covid-19: UK to fly back its NRI citizens in 3 special flights from Amritsar||The United Kingdom on Friday announced three special chartered flights from the Amritsar international airport to fly back its Indian-origin citizens stranded in Punjab and adjoining areas amid the ongoing lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 outbreak.The flights will take off on April 13, 17 and 19 to London. In a press release, the British High Commission spokesperson in New Delhi said, “Over 3,000 British travellers currently stranded in India will get home via 12 additional chartered flights (from other airports) which opened for booking today.” Jan Thompson, acting high commissioner to India, said in the release, “We can confirm 12 more chartered flights to bring British travellers back home. Getting people home soon remains our absolute priority.” UK minister of state for South Asia and the Commonwealth Lord Tariq Ahmad said, “We are doing all we can to get thousands of British travellers in India. This is a huge and complex operation which involves working with the Indian government to enable people to move in the country to get on these flights.” The first chartered flight from India reached London on Thursday morning with 317 British nationals aboard from Goa. Apart from Amritsar, the special flights will also leave from Ahmadabad (April 3, 15), Goa (April 14, 16), Goa (via Mumbai, April 18), Thiruvananthapuram (via Kochi, April 15), Hyderabad (via Ahmadabad, April 17), Kolkata (via Delhi, April 19), Chennai (via Bengaluru, April 20). “A number of seats will be reserved for those deemed vulnerable. To book flights and register their details, British nationals should use the city-specific webpages listed on the ‘India travel advice’ page,” said the spokesperson.On April 7, as many as 96 NRIs flew back to the US and around 200 to Canada through chartered flights, but still thousands of Canadians of Indian origin are stranded in Punjab due to high cost of these flights..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-uk-to-fly-back-its-nri-citizens-in-3-special-flights-from-amritsar/story-IcYFVUtas6IocKRsmmMlOM.html
10-04-2020||City||Community transmission has begun in Punjab: Capt||New Delhi: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday claimed that community transmission has started in his state with 27 positive cases coming from secondary sources and insisted that the lockdown is the only way out to fight the deadly coronavirus.Addressing a news conference through video-conferencing, Singh said, “The number of positive Covid-19 cases will increase as is happening across the world and even in India. How can Punjab be isolated from it? We have contained the pandemic to some level as compared to other states. But this will spread. We have kept our contingency plan ready and lockdown is one of the methods to cut social contacts,” he said.Punjab, which was one of the first states to impose a statewide lockdown and stop public transport, has reported 132 Covid-19 patients.The chief minister admitted that the community transmission has started in Punjab following 27 fresh positive cases with no travel history and most of them are due to secondary infection.“We had around 140,000 NRIs and foreign returnees, including from those countries where the virus had spread. They were the primary ones. Now, with 27 positive cases of secondary transmission we have entered the stage of community transmission. That is a serious cause of worry,” added Singh.The chief minister said 651 people have come to the state from the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregations in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, which emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hotspots in the country. Of them, 636 have been traced and 15 remain untraced.Community transmission is the third of the four stages of the spread of an infectious disease. The first is travel history, the second is local transmission, the third is community transmission, and the fourth is epidemic. The Union health ministry has been consistently denying that India had reached the community transmission stage, insisting that it was still at the local transmission stage.He admitted that there has been slow testing in Punjab due to lack of such facilities. “Out of the 28 million-population in Punjab, only 2,877 have been tested. It is nothing. That is because the Centre had initially approved only three centres and later added one more. Now, we have sought permission for more such facilities.”Quoting experts and reports by some national and international institutions, including Chandigarh-based PGIMER and John Hopkins University, the chief minister said the Covid-19 situation will peak in India in mid-September at a point when 58% of its population will be infected, with 87% of people likely to get affected in Punjab.“These figures are frightening. Predictions by health experts about the spread of the pandemic are horrendous. So, we have to do what we can and lockdown is one of such measures,” he added.The chief minister also rejected as “absolutely insufficient” the ₹15,000 crore announced by the Centre on Thursday for the health infrastructure in the country.“How can this be enough for the nearly 1.4 billion people of India? No state has the resources needed to fight the battle without the help of the central government and they have to come forward to help the states,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/community-transmission-has-begun-in-punjab-capt/story-8Q9HgETWnacKrzS0CFMjfM.html
10-04-2020||City||Punjab extends curfew till May 1||Chandigarh: The Punjab government on Friday extended the ongoing curfew in the state till May 1, 2020.The decision in this regard was taken at the state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh through videoconferencing. Notably, Punjab was the first state in the country to enforce curfew on March 23 as a precautionary measure to check Covid-19 pandemic.According to an official spokesperson, the decision to extend the curfew was taken to check the community spread of the virus. The CM cited the grim projections about the spread of the pandemic in the coming weeks and said the curfew restrictions were essential so that the medical infrastructure is not burdened beyond its capabilities. “There was general consensus in the medical community that the lockdown curbs would only delay the spread of the disease,” he said, hoping that some cure is available soon.The cabinet also decided to set up a multi-disciplinary task force to formulate an exit strategy for gradual relaxation in curfew. The 15-member task force comprising representatives from trade, business, industry, agriculture, civil society and health care will submit its report in 10 days. The CM has been authorised to decide on the composition of the task force.The cabinet also approved setting up a high-powered committee to suggest a road map for state’s economic revival in post-COVID era once the crisis softens and normal working is restored. Amarinder said he will request former Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Ahluwalia to head the committee.The cabinet set up a task force under the principal secretary (PWD) to look into the quick upgrade of the state’s health infrastructure to combat the current crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-extends-curfew-till-may-1/story-MesFIKkgSPrk8ia2QnPPOM.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||3 coronavirus patients in Una recover, set to go home||Three Tablighi Jamaat members who were tested positive for coronavirus have recovered and are set to get discharged from the hospital after they tested negative for the deadly virus, officials said on Friday.As per the protocol, the Una patients, who are undergoing treatment at Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Tanda will be discharged from the hospital as they have tested negative for the disease. They were among the index (first) positive cases of Jamaat workers in Himachal.The second follow-up sample of the other three Solan Jamaat workers will be tested tomorrow. They were tested positive on April 4. With the three patients testing negative twice, the number of active cases in the state has come down to 18, all of them Jamaat workers.Additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said that a total of 76 samples were tested at RPGMC, Tanda and all came out negative including second follow-up samples of three Jamaat workers from Una.All 19 samples tested in the first run at IGMC came out negative, including the first follow up samples of three Jamaat workers from Solan. Apart from this, 18 samples of primary contacts of Jamaat workers tested at Central Research Institute (CRI), Kasauli also came out negative.In total, as many as 127 samples were tested at the three testing facilities of which 113 came out negative and reports of remaining are awaited. Negative samples include that of 35 family members and primary contact of four positive Jamaat workers from the Tissa area of Chamba.So far, the state health authorities have tested 900 people for coronavirus, whereas more than 2,500 people have been kept in quarantine.To date, the state has recorded a total of 28 Covid-19 positive cases including one casualty. Four have shifted to other states for treatment. One patient, a Tibetan man had died of the virus on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/3-coronavirus-patients-in-una-recover-set-to-go-home/story-8PODjH5VDBMiOjjKbvYDRI.html
10-04-2020||Gurugram||Wearing Masks now compulsory in Gurugram, violators will pay hefty fine||The corporate hub of Gurugram in Haryana bordering Delhi has become the latest addition to the list of places where the wearing of face masks has been made compulsory. The Haryana government released an order to this effect on Friday evening, making masks compulsory for all who are out in public spaces even if they are inside their vehicles.A similar order is in effect in several adjoining areas in the national capital region including Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad.The order released by the district authorities in Gurugram says “all persons in public places like streets, hospitals, markets, offices, etc must be wearing a 3-ply mask or cloth mask compulsorily.”It goes on to specify that any person who is moving around in his personal or official vehicle must be wearing these masks compulsorily.The order also says that any person or officer will attend any meeting or go to the workplace wearing the facemasks. It further states that any violation of this order will be punishable under Section 188 of the indian penal code and will also be penalised.States like UP and Odisha have made the wearing of masks compulsory in the entire state with Odisha even instructing all petrol pumps across major cities to not dispense fuel to anyone who is not found wearing a mask.Several NGOs and other organizations have been roped in for manufacturing masks, which are either being supplied to state administration or distributed among the providers of essential services.The health ministry has also released guidelines on the specifications for homemade masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/wearing-masks-now-compulsory-in-gurugram-violators-will-pay-hefty-fine/story-a5IgdAjLv1RKPhnDdcVRwK.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police book 137 for not wearing masks||The Delhi Police on Friday said that they had so far booked at least 137 people for violating a government order that made wearing of masks in public places mandatory.The north-west district led in terms of prosecution, with 32 offenders being booked from the area on Thursday. The south and north districts followed with 23 and 20 such cases respectively, said a statement released by the police . All the alleged violators have been booked under Indian Penal Code Section 188 that deals with disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant. If convicted, they can be jailed for up to six months, or be fined Rs 1,000, or both. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday had made it mandatory for people to wear masks while stepping out of their homes. Cloth masks too will be acceptable, he had said, adding that wearing of masks could “reduce the spread of Coronavirus substantially”. District police officers said that they have dealt firmly with people they found on the streets without masks.“The police officers on the ground are able to identify those who are regular and repeat offenders. If someone without a mask had a genuine reason, their response was considered before deciding to book him or her,” said Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police of north-west district that booked the most number of violators. “For example, if someone was just outside their house without a mask, they were warned not to repeat the mistake,” she said. She said that the prosecution would get more strict as people get to know of the criminality of not wearing masks.Meanwhile, the police also acted against people trying to violate the lockdown during the Shab-e-Barat. In south district, an FIR under IPC section 188 was registered at Mehrauli police station after some people came out on the streets. In North district, 240 persons were detained before being let off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/police-book-137-for-not-wearing-masks/story-4edtj5C4RrJkHFRwyxbxSN.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||32 booked for not wearing masks in public places in north-west Delhi||As many as 32 people have been booked for stepping out of their homes without wearing masks in the northwest region of the national capital amid the coronavirus lockdown, Delhi Police said on Friday.FIRs have been registered against 32 people in the matter.This comes after the Delhi government, on Wednesday, made it compulsory for people to wear face masks in public places to prevent the spread of coronavirus.“Wearing of facial masks can reduce the spread of coronavirus substantially. Therefore, it has been decided that facial masks will be compulsory for anyone stepping out of their house. Cloth mask shall be eligible too,” Kejriwal said while announcing the decision in a tweet.Earlier today, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain informed that the number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital had surged to 720.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/32-booked-for-not-wearing-masks-in-public-places-in-north-west-delhi/story-A0izlyKUatjDGFwCbY6uaK.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||Destitute roam the streets in search of food, govt says plenty of room at shelters||The strict imposition of the 21-day nationwide lockdown rules in the national capital has deprived the destitute of their only source of income — seeking alms outside religious places or at traffic signals.While social activists say the government should make efforts to ensure all destitute people are placed in government-run shelter homes and screened for Covid-19, Delhi Police officers said measures have been taken to ensure that they don’t roam the streets in search of food.Delhi Police said as prohibitory and lockdown orders are being strictly enforced in the city, no one, except those who are part of essential services, is being allowed on roads.But social activists say many still seek alms on the road. Indu Prakash, a member of the Supreme Court-appointed a committee on homeless shelters, said, “I have got calls from homeless people in need of help. The police and the Delhi administration should ensure that all destitute people are taken to shelter homes.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Friday said his government has taken numerous steps to extend help to the poor. He said the availability of food at their hunger relief centres has exceeded the demand. “We are giving 7.5kg free ration to 71 lakh ration card holders in the city and 60% have already availed of this. Besides, we have been offering free lunch and dinner for all through 1,780 hunger relief centres. More than 12 lakh people are eating at these centres every day,” he said. The chief minister also said the government has set up shelters at 328 locations for migrant workers, destitute and those in need. “These 328 shelters have the capacity to accommodate 57,270 people. But, only 11,443 people are currently using these facilities. So there is no dearth of room at shelters,” Kejriwal said. A senior police officer, who did want to be named, said on the orders of Delhi’s lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, each police station has been given a bus to shift migrants, the destitute and the homeless to shelter homes.The police personnel deployed on street patrolling have been asked to stop such people, and send them to the permanent shelter homes as well as schools that have been converted into temporary homes.“Those having homes are asked to immediately return there, while the homeless are shifted to shelter homes,” a Delhi Police officer said. In government-run shelter homes, the number of destitute has increased since the lockdown. Nishu, caretaker of a shelter home in Yamuna Pushta, said there are a lot of people at the shelter who used to beg on the streets.Ashok Pandey, convener of Shehri Adhikar Manch, said, “The main problem is that not all homeless people have got space in shelter homes. You can still find people sitting on the pavement outside shelter homes. During this time, social distancing is essential. The government should ensure that all those who live on the streets are taken to shelter homes. They should also start mobile health vans to screen these people for Covid-19 symptoms.”Apart from destitute people, a senior police officer said there are many living in poor neighbourhoods who also come out on roads and ask for money from motorists stopping at traffic signals. “We constantly warn them and send them back whenever we see them at it,” the officer, requesting anonymity, said.“We arrange food packets from various volunteers and distribute them among the destitute and all those who are not able to arrange food for themselves and their families due to a lack of daily income. The food is distributed twice a day,” deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said.According to the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), all of its 238 night shelters are seeing an average occupancy of 9,000 per night, which before the coronavirus outbreak used to be around 7,000. “Usually, we keep our night shelters closed during the day since the purpose is to provide a comfortable roof for the homeless and daily wage earners to sleep. But, now we keep our shelters open 24x7. Sanitisation is also being done at least twice a day,” Bipin Rai, member, DUSIB, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/destitute-roam-the-streets-in-search-of-food-govt-says-plenty-of-room-at-shelters/story-GWCjHpIK2hIUomQe8bscgO.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC risking lives by continuing Coastal Road work: Citizens’ group||A citizens’ group has issued a legal notice against the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), alleging that they are risking the lives of Mumbaiites by continuing the Coastal Road construction work, despite the Covid-19 lockdown in place.The notice was issued on Wednesday and circulated on Friday by Save Our Coast, Mumbai, a group of citizens from Nepean Sea Road, Bhulabhai Desai Road, Haji Ali, Worli and other areas of Mumbai. HT has a copy of the notice.The 9.9-km current phase of the Coastal Road project, proposed at Rs 12,969 crore, is to be an eight-lane highway which will connect Marine Drive to the southern end of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link. The BMC said it was carrying out pre-monsoon work including sea wall construction and completing reclamation and bringing activities to a ‘safe stage’ to ensure there was no flooding during monsoon. “We aim to complete all work by last week of May. We already lost precious time in February and March due to the coronavirus outbreak as we failed to procure crucial equipment from China. Now, massive armour rocks and boulders are being brought from quarries for remaining reclamation work,” said Jayashree Bhoj, additional municipal commissioner.Attaching pictures, the notice claimed that the work was in violation of several sections of the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act (DMA), 2005, and orders passed by the Centre and state. The notice, filed through lawyer Karma Vivan, called for immediate termination of construction activity, failing which both civil and criminal proceedings would be initiated against the civic body. “In the context of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the DMA, the word ‘essential’ can only be understood to mean something that is required to be done for the safety of the citizens. The ongoing work is not of the nature that will protect the area from flooding. Therefore, the argument that this work is essential is a fallacious one,” stated the notice, adding that bus-loads of labourers were being brought to the site posed a high risk. “Moreover, requiring labourers to work even during the lockdown, endangers their safety and of millions in the city.”Bhoj countered the allegations. “The health checkup for all workers has been done. They have been provided personal protective equipment (PPE), are following social distancing norms and using sanitisers regularly. Even though we want more labourers, they are not available. We are making do with the numbers we have,” said Bhoj.The work not only includes completing reclamation but also conducting testing work for the bridge which will connect to the Bandra Worli Sea Link road. “This cannot be classified as essential pre-monsoon construction work. Also, we need to be careful about several contaiment zones in Worli, especially the Koliwada area. Partially completed reclamation work poses losses to the contractors. It is not a risk to the safety of residents,” said Shweta Wagh, petitioner before the Supreme Court who is challenging the Coastal Road project construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-risking-lives-by-continuing-coastal-road-work-citizens-group/story-At4t1p0VPSUxZLK1cX9JwN.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||Zoos in Maharashtra have to submit details of suspected Covid-19 cases in animals by Sunday||The Maharashtra zoo authority (MZA) has issued directions to all zoos and rescue centres towards the containment of suspected coronavirus cases in captive animals.Zoos have been asked to send reports on animals displaying medical issues such as coughing, nasal discharge, respiratory distress, diarrhoea, anorexia, nervous symptoms and fever, as well as on the overall sanitation, regular health check-up of zoo workers, bio-containment and safety measures taken and the usage of personal protective equipment (PPE) while feeding the animals.The 13 zoos, rescue centres and national parks (having captive animals for safaris) across the state, including Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) and the Byculla Zoo, have to submit the report to the authority by Sunday.“Until now, we have no report of any animal showing unusual symptoms or poor health across any captive animal centre in Maharashtra,” said Ravikiran Govekar, member secretary, MZA.“However, considering the seriousness of the issue, this checklist has been prepared to understand the current status of all centres. If any suspected case is found, the sample needs to be collected immediately and remedial measures need to be provided according to the central government guidelines,” Govekar added.Zoological parks and animal safaris across the country have been asked to be on high alert and inspect if animals show any symptoms of the Covid-19 virus after a tiger in a New York zoo developed the infection last Sunday, in the first such case in the world. On Monday, the Centre appointed three animal health institutes to initiate Covid-19 testing for animals.“The testing method for animal samples was developed at our Hisar facility almost a month ago. Captive or wild animals need to be tranquilised first, following which their throat swab must be collected and transported to Bhopal [National Institute of High Security Animal Sciences] or to Hisar under cold chain. Results will be declared within a day,” said Dr BN Tripathi, director, National Research Centre on Equines at Hisar, Haryana.MZA has further directed every zoo to demarcate its premises with different colour codes (using coloured ribbons), indicating restricted entry even among staff (in some areas only certified veterinarians would be permitted). “Zoos have been asked to keep a record of staff exiting and entering the premises, restrict entry for any unauthorised person, keeping records of treatment to animals discreet and documentation of bio-safety measures taken,” said Govekar.Meanwhile, the Byculla Zoo said it had consulted the Maharashtra government for PPE acquisition. “Since the outbreak, our staff who are in direct contact with animals have maintained appropriate social distancing and have not stepped out of the zoo premises. Also, they are maintaining physical distancing guidelines while feeding or taking care of animals,” said Sanjay Tripathi, director of the zoo.Currently, the number of captive cats across zoos and rescue centres in Maharashtra include 36 tigers, five lions and 88 leopards. “There is no reason for panic. All animals in SGNP are healthy and eating well (buffalo beef and chicken). We haven’t noticed any specific symptoms such as nasal discharge, coughing or respiratory distress. Maximum care for personal hygiene, sanitation and bio-security measures are being taken,” said Shailesh Pethe, veterinarian, SGNP. US authorities on New York caseThe United States Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) National Veterinary Services Laboratories issued a statement confirming SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19 in humans) virus in the New York zoo tiger. “This is the first instance of a tiger being infected with Covid-19. Samples from this tiger were taken and tested after several lions and tigers at the zoo showed symptoms of respiratory illness. Public health officials believe these large cats became sick after being exposed to a zoo employee who was actively shedding the virus. All of these large cats are expected to recover. There is no evidence of this virus affecting animals at any other facility in the United States,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-asks-zoos-to-submit-details-of-suspected-covid-19-cases-in-animals-by-sunday/story-6C6kPVfJd20Dz3acr9hr7K.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal govt identifies seven Covid-19 hotspots in state||Seven hotspots of the coronavirus (Covid-19) have been identified in Himachal Pradesh and curfew-like restrictions have been imposed in these places to contain the fast-spreading viral infection, officials said on Friday.The areas where hotspots were identified are Una, Baddi, Nalagarh, Tissa, Misserwala, Taruwaala and Lohgarh. The government will follow the cluster containment strategies in these hotspots which include geographic quarantine, social distancing measures, enhanced active surveillance, testing all suspected cases, quarantine of contacts and risk communication to create awareness among the public on preventive public health measures.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur who also holds the health portfolio directed chief medical officers of all the 12 districts to seal these hotspots to contain the spread of Covid-19. The move comes after a rise in Covid-19 cases in the state. As many as 5,035 persons were kept under surveillance, of which 2,556 people had completed 28 days of surveillance period. Around 773 persons had so far been screened in the state for coronavirus, 28 people had been found positive out of which, two persons have been discharged after being tested negative, remaining 21 persons are undergoing treatment and are Tablighi Jamaat workers who attended the Markaz prayers in Delhi. The government has directed that no relaxation will be provided in the hotspots.The health department has defined a protocol for the containment zones. It will be mandatory for all people to wear mask when they move out of their houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-govt-identifies-seven-covid-19-hotspots-in-state/story-0P3L6vXxSVEZBD7KDUL15L.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||684 Tablighi Jamaat workers quarantined in HP, says DGP||Till date, a total of 684 Tablighi Jamaat workers have been kept under quarantine in the state, director-general of police Sita Ram Mardi said on Friday.Around 211 have been quarantined in Baddi of Solan district followed by 168 in Sirmaur, 106 in Chamba and 92 in Kangra. Thirty-nine have been quarantined in Una, which has emerged as coronavirus hotspot in the state with a total of 12 Covid-19 cases related to Jamaat workers.Mardi said that the police have also registered 20 FIRs against 97 Jamaat workers for hiding their travel history and misleading the administration by giving false information. He added that there were reports of some officers misusing their privileges by plying government vehicles and even ferrying people.“After the liquor ban due to curfew, incidents of bootlegging have been reported in the state. The locally distilled liquor is quite dangerous and may also result in deaths,” he said.The police chief also exhorted people to beware of fraud links to the PM CARES Fund. “Make donations only after verifying the link or donate only through government websites,” Mardi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/684-tablighi-jamaat-workers-quarantined-in-hp-says-dgp/story-6Iu73tOcuchX0BIOwHztuL.html
10-04-2020||Lucknow||How Yogi’s Team-11 is tackling Covid-19 challenges||Uttar Pradesh had no laboratory to test the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen when the first coronavirus positive case was reported in the state on March 3. The state now has 10 such laboratories.“When UP reported its first coronavirus positive case, we had no testing laboratory. We now have 10 laboratories. We are setting up a lab at each of the 18 divisional headquarters,” chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, while recently speaking about capacity building for laboratories, setting up of new hospitals, quarantine and isolation wards and ensuring the supply of medicines.The challenges are, however, manifold for the most populous state. Besides threatening human lives, the lockdown is adversely affecting the economy. In order to meet these challenges, chief minister Yogi Adityanath constituted 11 committees, called Team-11, for expeditious action.Yogi’s Team-11 is now coming in handy as the state begins acting tough to fight the coronavirus. It was after a review with officers of Team-11 that Yogi Adityanath decided to intensify the lockdown in nearly 105 hot spots of 15 districts that have reported six or more coronavirus positive cases. “Yes, the chief minister decided to intensify the lockdown and seal the hotspots after a review meeting on Wednesday,” said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, who is part of Team-11 and has been monitoring enforcement of the lockdown. “The chief minister decided to set up 11 committees soon after the lockdown. We have regular meetings and the progress made by the 11 committees is reviewed at the chief minister’s level every day. Although the agenda for the committees is already set, the points for action are worked out for any new issues and the action taken is reported,” said chief secretary RK Tiwari, who heads the committee set up for coordination with the union government and other states, and oversees the functioning of 11 committees.Adityanath and his Team 11 worked almost round the clock to set up shelter homes, arrange transportation, establish quarantine centres and isolation wards after a flood of migrants was reported soon after the lockdown. A decision to disburse financial relief, give free food to the poor, run community kitchens and ensure supply of essential commodities and doorstep delivery are some other major steps taken after the setting up of the 11 committees.“We got three bank holidays on April 2, 6 and 10 cancelled to ensure that funds being transferred to beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Kisan Yojana, the state government’s pension for aged persons, widows, disabled and leprosy patients reach the people. We are also overseeing implementation of other schemes as asked by chief minister,” said additional chief secretary, Finance, Sanjiv Mittal, who heads the committee set up to monitor the availability of funds, study the impact of the lockdown on the state’s economy and recommend the future course of action.Director general of police HC Awasthi heads the committee that has been asked to ensure that all the coronavirus positive cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat are quarantined. Another major task for the committee was to protect the police force and jails from infection, he said.UP produces 30 to 40 million litres of milk every day. As the demand for milk has gone down due to the lockdown, its transportation to cities and maintaining the supply chain is also proving to be a major task. “Besides maintaining the supply chain of milk in urban areas, we have ensured that 22 private companies make milk powder out of excess milk. These units used to run in winter to make milk powder and meet the rising demand during summer. They are now making milk powder. To a large extent, this is ensuring that the milk producers get the price for their produce,” said principal secretary, animal husbandry Bhuvnesh Kumar, who, as head of one of the 11 committees, is ensuring the supply of fodder to animals. “We are also working with the Society for Prevention of Cruelty against Animals (SPCA) so that stray animals and monkeys also get regular food,” said Kumar.THE COMMITTEESThe chief secretary heads the committee set up to coordinate with the union government and other states and oversees the functioning of all committees. The infrastructure and industrial development commissioner (IIDC) heads the committee set up to ensure implementation of various schemes launched by the Centre and the state government for welfare of workers and ensure payment of wages. The agriculture production commissioner heads the committee to monitor the supply chain and ensure doorstep delivery of food grains, milk and vegetables. The additional chief secretary, home, heads the committee set up to check blackmarketeering of essential commodities. The additional chief secretary revenue’s committee oversees the setting up of community kitchens. The principal secretary, rural development and panchayati raj, leads the committee set up to take care of cleanliness, sanitisation and supply of clean drinking water in rural areas. The principal secretary, medical and health, heads the committee working on strengthening surveillance setting up of level 1, level2 and level 3 hospitals, testing labs and provides other facilities. The principal secretary, animal husbandry, heads the committee set up to take care of the welfare of stray cattle, birds and ensures the supply of fodder. The DGP’s committee is working on protection of the police force and jails from infection. The ACS finance heads the committee set up to monitor implementation of schemes for the people’s welfare, provide finance and recommend follow- up action after studying the economic impact of the lockdown. The principal secretary, agriculture, heads the committee set up to look into the problems of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/how-yogi-s-team-11-is-tackling-covid-19-challenges/story-Q2BicCMhAFE3LZw9rVXXFO.html
10-04-2020||City||Himachal’s pharma units gear up to meet rising global demand for HCQ to treat Covid-19||SHIMLA: Drug manufacturing units in Himachal Pradesh are gearing up to meet the rising global demand for hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), an anti-malarial drug being used to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19).There are 40 drug units in the state that have the approval to make the anti-malarial drug. They are based in the pharmaceutical hubs of Baddi and Nalagarh in Solan district, Kala Amb and Nahan in Sirmaur district and Sansarpur in Kangra district.The small-scale units in Baddi have the capacity to produce about one to five lakh tablets daily, while the bigger companies can produce about one crore tablets a day.ADEQUATE STOCK FOR COUNTRYIndia produces 70% of world’s hydroxiychloroquine supply and has adequate stock for itself.“The government has ordered the drug manufacturing units to enhance the production of HCQ. The units in Himachal Pradesh can meet the bulk supplies,” state drug controller Navneet Marwah said, adding that the state has adequate stock of HCQ to meet its own needs.“Not only can we meet our own needs but also that of other states,” Marwah said.Panacea Biotech, Glenmark, Zydus Cadila and Unichem are some of the major pharmaceutical companies manufacturing hydroxichloroquine in the state.GOVT ASSURES FULL SUPPORT TO UNITSChief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday held a video-conference with drug manufacturers and asked them to increase the HCQ production to meet the rising demand. The government has assured full support to drug manufacturing units of the state.However, the availability of raw material and labour shortage at the units are a concern for the drug manufacturing units. “Drug manufacturing units in the state can produce 30 to 40 crore tablets in a month but it all depends on the availability of raw material,” said Dr Rajesh Gupta, the president of the Himachal Pradesh Drug Manufacturing Association.The units producing active pharmaceutical ingredients for the manufacturing of hydroxychloroquine are based in Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh.There is no China link in the supply chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-s-pharma-units-gear-up-to-meet-rising-global-demand-for-hcq-to-treat-covid-19/story-clkz7llWLSYZ599g8wIBeI.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||Rapid increase in leopard movement in Aarey Colony: Forest department||Over the past two weeks frequency of leopard sightings at Aarey Milk Colony in Goregaon has increased significantly, the Maharashtra forest department said. From an average of two a week, camera traps captured images of free roaming big cats daily during the past 16 days of the lockdown.Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), said, “We have observed a noticeable increase in leopard movement, especially during evening and night, on a daily basis during lockdown. This type of movement has not been observed before by any of the four camera traps in the area. Images of not only adults but quite a few cubs have also been observed from different units in Aarey.”Limaye said the department along with a team of researchers spotted big cats at locations inside Aarey where they had not been seen before. “This indicates that these big cats are moving freely without any fear due to lack of human movement across roads or along hamlets. We cannot disclose the exact locations where the animals have been spotted for safety of those zones and their habitats, but these are all case studies of wildlife reclaiming their habitat,” said Limaye.Sharing its boundary with Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), which is home to at least 47 leopards (according to wildlife biologist Nikit Surve and SGNP officials), the 16-sq km Aarey Colony has a resident population of six to seven leopards including cubs, as well as a transient population moving from SGNP. The forest department shared latest images of the cats. “One of our researchers, Kunal Chaudhary, took a few photos apart from camera trap images of big cats moving along a boundary wall inside Aarey. He, too, has confirmed daily sightings,” said Limaye.The department added that there was a spike in free movement of Sambar, Chital deer and a host of primates across SGNP as well. Citing that the numbers are unprecedented, Limaye said, “Similar observations have been recorded in Karnala and Tansa.”Meanwhile, captive big cats in SGNP’s safari section, which were being fed chicken during the first week of the lockdown, will be given frozen buffalo meat as Deonar abattoir has agreed to supply the meat for the next two months from April 4 onwards. The meat was originally meant for export purposes, which has been put on hold due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rapid-increase-in-leopard-movement-in-aarey-colony-forest-department/story-eM2QtHjqGa23kL1zhuaZZM.html
10-04-2020||Lucknow||UP govt provides financial aid to over 11 lakh workers amid lockdown||The Uttar Pradesh government has provided Rs 1,000 financial aid each to over 11 lakh construction workers in the state till date amid the nationwide lockdown, said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday.Addressing media here, the Chief Minister said: “The State government had decided to extend help to those people whose livelihood has been affected due to COVID-19. In this context, in the first phase, more than 11 lakh construction workers in the state have been provided Rs 1,000 each in their accounts.”On Thursday, Adityanath had held a COVID-19 review meeting with senior administrative officials at his official residence.The Chief Minister and officials were seen wearing masks and maintaining social distancing during the meeting.Meanwhile, earlier on Wednesday, Additional Chief Secretary, Awanish Awasthi had announced that as per the decision taken by the Chief Minister, hotspots in 15 districts which have six or more cases of coronavirus will be sealed.So far, Uttar Pradesh has reported 410 positive COVID-19 cases, including 37 cured/discharged or migrated cases and four deaths, as per the Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-provides-financial-aid-to-over-11-lakh-workers-amid-lockdown/story-quH8pCgjOEAisWLcihB16M.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh move to make masks a must in public not in tune with WHO, Union ministry guidelines||The Chandigarh administration’s recent decision to make the wearing of masks mandatory in public places is not in tune with the guidelines of World Health Organisation (WHO) and Union ministry of health and family welfare.The administration, in its media release on Wednesday, cited Maharashtra’s example – where confirmed COVID 19 cases are exponentially higher than Chandigarh – to make wearing a mask mandatory in public places to tackle coronavirus crisis. The UT police have also been asked to warn people to wear the masks in public places. Chandigarh has seen 18 coronavirus cases so far but no one has tested positive since Monday, whereas in Maharashtra, the positive cases have crossed 1,100.The Punjab government has also made wearing masks a must in public spaces as a preventive measure.‘CREATES FALSE SENSE OF SECURITY’In its updated guidelines on April 6, the WHO said: There is limited evidence that wearing a medical mask may be beneficial as a preventive measure. Moreover, it may create a false sense of security, with neglect of other essential measures, such as hand hygiene practices and physical distancing.Also, Union Ministry of Health in its advice on masks too said that the masks should only be worn if one is ill with COVID-19 symptoms (especially coughing) or looking after someone who may have symptoms.The most effective ways to protect yourself and others against Covid-19 are to frequently clean your hands, cover your cough with the bend of elbow or tissue and maintain a distance of at least 1 meter.PREVENTIVE MEASUREDr JS Thakur, a professor at the department of community medicine in PGIMER, agreed that except patient, hospital staff and attendants, not everyone is required to wear mask. There is already shortfall of masks in hospitals, recommending it to the general public will create further shortfall, he said.The president of the Chandigarh chapter of Indian Medical Association, Dr Rajesh Dhir, however, said that WHO’s recommendations are just advisories. “Wearing a mask is definitely an additional protection from the virus. But one must understand it is not dilution of other prevention measures. Secondly, people must know how to use and dispose it of,” he said.When contacted, Dr G Dewan, the director of health services, UT, said that the move will help in stopping community transmission. Neighbouring states have also followed it.LACK OF AWARENESSOn the ground, the UT lacks an awareness drive despite pressing for the use of masks in public spaces.Local resident welfare association president Hitesh Puri said that people are using the same mask multiple times, while the medical superintendent at the government hospital in Sector 16, Dr VK Nagpal, clarified that the maximum life of a surgical mask, normally available in chemist shops, is not than eight hours or even less if it gets dirty.UT adviser Manoj Parida’s tweet on Wednesday suggesting that homemade masks are less effective in dealing with the virus has also added to confusion at a time when the Centre is advocating home-made masks, which according to experts, can be reused after washing. TIPS TO GET IT RIGHTPlace the mask over the nose, mouth and chin and ensure there is no gap.Avoid touching the mask while in use.Don’t leave the mask hanging from the neck.Don’t touch potentially contaminated outer surface while removing it.Change the mask after six hours.Never reuse disposable masks.Dispose the used masks in a closed bin after disinfecting them.Source: Ministry of health and family welfare||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-move-to-make-masks-a-must-in-public-not-in-tune-with-who-union-ministry-guidelines/story-mldNzITKQVyGlzFHQw3AWP.html
10-04-2020||Jaipur||65-yr-old woman dies of COVID-19 in Rajasthan, state reports 26 fresh cases||A 65-year-old woman who had tested positive for coronavirus died here, taking the toll in Rajasthan to eight, an official said on Friday. The state also reported 26 fresh cases of the deadly virus Friday morning, taking the total number of COVID-19 patients to 489. The official said the woman was undergoing treatment at SMS Hospital for COVID-19 and she breathed her last Thursday evening. “The woman from Ramganj in Jaipur was admitted to SMS Hospital on Wednesday with complaint of respiratory distress pneumonia and co-morbidity hypertension. She had tested positive for COVID-19 and was on a ventilator,” the official said. This is first death of a coronavirus patient in Ramganj and second in Jaipur. On Sunday, a man from Ghat Gate in the capital city had died of COVID-19. The state reported 26 new positive cases in the last 12 hours till 9 am Friday, officials said. While 12 cases are from Banswara, eight are from Jaisalmer, three from Jaisalmer and one each form Alwar, Bharatpur and Kota, they said.  A total of 489 persons have been tested positive for coronavirus in the state so far and 168 of them are from Jaipur. The maximum number of cases in Jaipur are from Ramganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/65-yr-old-woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-rajasthan-state-reports-26-fresh-cases/story-03PfDxEnX2fWHmd8QgOWEK.html
10-04-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa appoints district in-charge Ministers to oversee COVID-19 relief work||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has appointed new district in charge ministers, who will work towards checking the spread of coronavirus and implementation of relief measures. According to the government order issued on Thursday, Yediyurappa will be in charge of Bengaluru urban district whereas his Deputy Chief Ministers Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, Laxman Savadi and Govind Karjol will be in charge of Ramanagara, Raichur and Bagalkote. In all, 25 ministers including the Chief Minister have been assigned one district each. However, the ministers who have been excluded from district level responsibilities are Ramesh Jarkiholi, Shrimant Patil and K Gopalaiah. According to sources in BJP, the district responsibilities were revamped following reports that many ministers did not visit their respective districts to oversee the COVID-19 related relief work despite the increasing number of cases in the state. The Chief Minister had to confront questions on the issue during a recent media interaction, where he had promised to strengthen the relief work monitoring system at the ministerial level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-appoints-district-in-charge-ministers-to-oversee-covid-19-relief-work/story-GwjNp2ro11WCUs17zH1wbP.html
10-04-2020||Education||Rajasthan schools told not to charge advance fee till lockdown||The Rajasthan government on Thursday barred schools in the state from taking three months’ advance fee from students till the lockdown imposed to check the coronavirus spread is in place.It also directed the schools to promote students, except those of classes 10 and 12, to the next standard. According to an official release, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot took the decisions at a video conference with officials and state ministers Bhanwar Singh Bhati, Govind Singh Dotasara and Subhas Garg.He said online classes and e-learning should be arranged by schools and colleges for the continuity of education, according to the release. Higher Education Minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati said a five-member committee has been formed to decide the exam schedule of universities. Dotasara said school books have been made online while Garg told the CM that mid-semester exams in technical institutions have been conducted online and a YouTube channel has been introduced to provide e-content to students. He said over 600 lectures have been uploaded on the channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/rajasthan-schools-told-not-to-charge-advance-fee-till-lockdown/story-IZamIobv3pBRFZSncE82VK.html
10-04-2020||Mumbai||Five prisons in Maharashtra to be `locked down’ over coronavirus fears||An order has been issued to “lock down” five central prisons in Mumbai, Pune and Thane districts to prevent the spread of coronavirus among inmates, a senior official said on Thursday.As per the order, no new inmates would be admitted and no one would be let out. Even the staff will not leave the prisons.The order would apply to Arthur Road jail and Byculla jail in Mumbai, jails in Thane and Kalyan, and Yerawada jail in Pune. Additional Director General (Prisons and Correctional Services) Sunil Ramanand said this preventive step was being taken as these jails are located in coronavirus-affected areas, and house a large number of inmates, much beyond their capacity.“Medically examined prison staff will lock themselves up until further orders and administer the prisons without stepping out,” he said.In an official statement, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said the decision was aimed at preventing the contagion from spreading in prisons.Arrangements will be made for food and stay of jail staff inside prisons, he said. “Steps will be taken to keep the main gates of the prisons completely closed during the lockdown,” the statement said. Contact numbers of senior prison officials will be shared with families of staff so that they can call up the senior officials if there is a problem, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/five-prisons-in-maharashtra-to-be-locked-down-over-coronavirus-fears/story-IlIs3vtddHOChJFFAQ1VBL.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown effect: At PU, monkey business becomes a thing of past||Amid reports of wild animals straying into urban spaces, including Chandigarh, due to the Covid-19 lockdown, Panjab University that was plagued with simian menace is witnessing a reverse trend, as all of a sudden monkeys are nowhere to be seen on the campus.Hundreds of simians, who had made Panjab University their home over the years, are a rare sight now. Panjab University has been grappling with the monkey menace from past many years but with no success.Before the lockdown began, hundreds of monkeys used to be spotted at the Students Centre, University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS), hostels and other places.According to university officials, the lockdown has resulted in lack of food compelling the simians to move to nearby forests. PU chief security professor Ashwani Koul said, “I have not seen monkeys ever since the lockdown began. They had made PU their home because they could feed on garbage and left-over food. They will return as soon as things return to normalcy.”PU suspended its classes since March 15. Only few students are still residing in the university hostels. With the rise in monkey menace at the campus over the years, monkey bites had also been reported several times.Monkeys were a common site at PU hostels especially at boys’ hostel number 4, 5 and 6. Nikhil Narmeta, who resides in boys’ hostel number 5, said, “We seldom see a monkey now. Earlier, hundreds of monkeys used to be at the rooftop of our hostel. They used to topple dustbins to get food and sometimes take away the clothes of the students. There has been a drastic decline in the number of monkeys ever since the university suspended the classes.”The most striking fallout can be witnessed at the Student centre. Security Guard, Manjit Singh, who still visits Student Centre many times during the day said, “Monkeys used to feed on leftover food of students. There has been a drastic decline in monkeys around Student Centre, UIPS, UILS and department of laws since university was shut down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-effect-at-pu-monkey-business-becomes-a-thing-of-past/story-0D9jvHCE2NS2qBJNuVmdxJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Cops turn counsellors for denizens||When everyone in the country has been asked to remain indoors during lockdown, and is receiving all the gyan in the world on how to deal with social isolation, it’s mostly the cops that you get see on the roads. And it’s the men in uniform who aren’t just maintaining law and order but also doubling up as counsellors to help people stay safe and sane amid the coronavirus scare. Mitali Khuranna, a resident of Delhi’s Moti Bagh, says, “I live alone with my house help; my kids are settled in London. So, when the lockdown was announced, I was so scared about the whole scenario that I called on the Delhi Police helpline number for senior citizens, and was directed to a personnel at the Covid-19 helpline. And I must say that the cop on the phone were really patient, heard me, and even asked me if I needed them to visit my place. It’s satisfying to know that someone is there for me.” READ | Delhi police head constable posted at IGI airport immigration tests Covid-19 positiveThere have been instances of people, who had stocked up ration in their homes much before the lockdown was announced, also calling the cops out of panic. Asif Mohd Ali, DCP Licensing — who is heading the Covid-19 helpline of Delhi Police — says, “Many want to store maximum ration in their houses. We told them there is nothing to worry. And our beat officers are even meeting the senior citizens who feel depressed and alone at home in these times. We have clearly briefed our staff to be gentle and caring towards the people who are already in a state of panic right now.”   The 24X7 helpline number issued by the Delhi Police (011-23469526) received a total of 10,352 calls from the day the lockdown was announced till April 3. And there are also personal interactions that the cops on beat have been having with public in general. Ali adds, “Our role has evolved from just being cops who look after law and order to be counsellors. A few days back, we got a call on the helpline where a family wanted to take their relative’s body to their hometown in Bihar, for cremation. We met them, and made them understand the whole scenario where all of us are expected to follow social distancing, and then we helped them cremate the body in Delhi itself.” READ | Social distancing in Delhi: Grocers say stuck between defiant customers and police booking violatorsBesides, don’t be surprised if you see cops distributing food packets to the needy. Prahlad Singh, SHO, Barakhamba, says, “We have been distributing food packets during the day and night time, to the daily wage labourers who hail mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. While distributing food we even explain them the concept of maintaining social distance and how important it is to not to go back to their home town in this situation. Aur hum unko roz samjhate hain, taki unko iski gambheerta samajh aaye.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/covid-19-lockdown-cops-turn-counsellors-for-denizens/story-Yi9pfXCr2IyFhjb5XifZsM.html
10-04-2020||City||Covid-19 infection can’t spread through cremation, burial: Mohali civil surgeon||There is no chance of disease transmission when cremating or burying people dying from Covid-19 if health authorities and families follow defined disposal procedures, Dr Manjit Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, said on Thursday, to dispel myths around the pandemic.Covid-19 was transmitted mainly through droplets, not through bodies if safety procedures were followed. “Temperatures generated during burning of bodies reach 800-1,000 degrees Celsius, in which the deadly virus can no longer remain viable,” Dr Singh said in an advisory released on Thursday.Quoting the World Health Organization and Union health ministry guidelines, he said there was no evidence of people becoming infected from exposure to bodies of persons dying from Covid-19.Appealing to people not to panic or object to such cremations or burials, Dr Singh said even the ash did not pose any risks and could be collected to perform the last rites. He said as per health ministry guidelines crematorium and burial ground staff had to ensure hand hygiene after the cremation/burial and while handling the body and use masks and gloves.What was allowed, Dr Singh said, was viewing of the dead body by unzipping the face end of the body bag (by the staff using standard precautions) to let relatives take a last look at their loved one, as well as reading from religious scripts, sprinkling holy water and any other last rites that did not require touching the body.However, bathing, kissing or hugging the body was not allowed.Large gatherings at the crematorium/ burial ground should also not be allowed as a social distancing measure, the advisory added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-infection-can-t-spread-through-cremation-burial-mohali-civil-surgeon/story-uhldyNR7XhmVsxYhBseGLO.html
10-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: No mask in public will land you behind bars||Two days after the administration made it mandatory for residents to cover their mouth with a mask or cloth in public places to contain the spread of Covid-19, it has now empowered the police to arrest the violators from Friday.An order issued by UT adviser Manoj Parida on Thursday said, “All persons moving for whatsoever purpose and under whatever reason/authority in public places like street, hospital, office and markets must wear 3-ply mask or cloth mask compulsorily. Any person moving around in his personal and official vehicle must be wearing these compulsorily.”“These masks may be standard mask available with the chemist or even homemade washable masks and can be reused after proper washing and disinfecting them. Violation of these instructions will be punishable under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, and the police are empowered to immediately arrest the violators,” it stated.Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) entails imprisonment of up to six months, or fine, which may extend to ₹1,000, or both.“Masks are mandatory for persons working at any site/office/workplace, etc. No person/officer/officials will attend any meeting/gathering without wearing these masks. It shall be the responsibility of the employer to ensure that the employees wear the 3-ply mask or cloth mask without fail,” the order read.It elaborated, “It has been observed in some studies that wearing of facial masks can reduce the spread of coronavirus substantially, from and to persons coming in contact with each other, apart from compulsory social distancing measures. It has become imperative that in the larger public interest, Covid-19 being contagious in nature and already strict observance of lockdown and isolation measures being enforced by Chandigarh administration, now wearing of masks by any person who is moving in any public space is essential to protect themselves from the infected persons.”The decision to make masks mandatory in public places was taken at a meeting held by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-no-mask-in-public-will-land-you-behind-bars/story-QsEik5bDjQErlILLHlBXZP.html
10-04-2020||City||Three Panchkula men who attended Sikar Jamaat +ve; 1 more case in Dera Bassi||Three Panchkula men, who attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in Sikar, Rajasthan, last month, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the district’s count – stable at two over the last eight days – to five. In Mohali, one more Covid-19 case was reported from Dera Bassi’s hotspot, Jawaharpur village, pushing the count there to 22 and the district’s to 37, the highest in Punjab.As UT, with its count of 18 over the last eight days, did not register any new case, the number of positive patients in the tricity now is 60 (Mohali with 37 cases and Panchkula with five ).Three new Covid-19 cases were reported in Panchkula eight days after a 36-year-old staff nurse at the local civil hospital tested positive on March 31. The men, aged 18, 37 and 80, residents of Banoi Khuda Baksh and Bakshiwala villages in Pinjore block of the district, had returned from Sikar on March 30 after attending Tablighi events for about 40 days.District nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajiv Narwal, said the men, who were related, were traced at Banoi Khuda Baksh village on April 1 and were moved to quarantine facilities at Nada Sahib gurdwara with other persons who had attended Jamaat events in other states. “Their samples were sent for testing among 50 others on Wednesday and returned positive on Thursday. The remaining tested negative. The three patients are admitted in isolation ward of the civil hospital,” Dr Narwal saidOfficials said the 80-year-old man, on his return from Sikar, did not go back home to Bakshiwala village, but stayed with the 18-year-old man at Banoi Khuda Baksh village, which was cordoned off after the men tested positive. Till now, about 127 persons who had attended Tablighi Jamaat events in different states, including Maharashtra and Rajasthan, have been quarantined in Panchkula. Around 60 of them have tested negative in the past two days.In Dera Bassi, the 67-year-old father-in-law of the sarpanch of Jawaharpur village was admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur, after testing positive.With the cases in the village climbing from 1 to 22 in five days, health authorities have declared the village a “containment zone”.With this, 14 members of the extended family of the sarpanch and her cousin, a panch, have contracted the disease. The panch was the first to test positive on April 4.The two, it is believed, did not observe social distancing norms. They organised community meals and distributed masks and medicines among the needy and migrant labourers in their area. “All 22 patients are responding well to treatment. The reports of 16 more residents of the village are awaited,” said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. “Five coronavirus patients have been cured and discharged from various hospitals of the district over the past four days,” he added.Meanwhile, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan took to Twitter on Thursday to confirm the number of cases in the village. “House to house survey on in neighbouring villages also. 54 more samples taken. Sealed villages of Mukandpur, Devi Nagar and Haripur Kurha as well,” he tweeted.The Covid-19 test reports of senior Congress leader Deepinder Singh Dhillon have come out negative. Mohali’s health department had taken his samples on April 7 after a spate of Covid-19 positive cases in Dera Bassi. Dhillon had participated in some meetings in the area to check the state of preparedness. These meetings were also attended by some locals, who later tested positive. Dhillon said his reports were negative and he had not been put under quarantine by authorities. “I am observing self-isolation like many others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-panchkula-men-who-attended-sikar-jamaat-ve-1-more-case-in-dera-bassi/story-MA3UV4e8QjidLKm63qAnIP.html
10-04-2020||Lucknow||‘Padhne-likhne walon ki liye koi taklif nahi hai…’||Actor Atul Srivastava’s approach of taking long breaks to select projects is coming handy during the lockdown. Quarantined in his house with wife, son and mother-in-law in Mumbai, the Lucknowite is keeping himself busy with his second favourite thing after acting – reading!“It’s for my son and others like him that this lock down period is a big issue. ‘Padhne-likhne walon ki liye koi taklif nahi hai,’ (there is no problem for those who love reading and writing). I am enjoying reading books that I was longing to complete since a long time. I have collected a lot of books over the time but was not able to read them as had no me time because of shoots. So currently, I am all into reading most of the time,” he said over phone.Besides, he is catching up with old classic movies and digital shows on OTT. “With hectic shooting schedules and travelling health takes a backseat but these days I am following a strict timetable to be keep fit. Staying home has regulated my exercise routine and I myself have started feeling good about myself,” he says.The ‘Stree’, ‘Luka-Chuppi’ and ‘Bajrangi Bhaijaan,’ actor did shoot for a digital show ‘Mannphodganj Ki Binni’ two years back in Lucknow that was recently released. Where he plays father to the protagonist, talking about the show, he says, “We shot 95% of the show between Lucknow, Kakori and Malihabad. Only, a small portion has been shot in Allahabad as Mannphodganj is a very popular locality in the Sangam city. It’s a very interesting family-oriented story and is being well received. I enjoyed shooting every bit of it in my hometown.”Before the shooting came to a halt in the wake of the coronavirus spread, he was scheduled to go Badayun near Bareilly for the last leg of his next. “We have shot ‘Sonam Gupta Bewafa Hai’ last year. The shooting of the film is nearly only over. There is some patchwork left to be completed. But everything has been put on hold. Let’s see when things get back on track. I hope this phase gets over soon.” Srivastava has also shot for Partho Ghosh’s ‘Pyar Main Thoda Twist’ in Lucknow last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/padhne-likhne-walon-ki-liye-koi-taklif-nahi-hai/story-4pGKqgWmaOOIUmCcAkfvqL.html
10-04-2020||Lucknow||‘Initiatives by Akshay & Salman will help all in a big way’||Actor Jameel Khan was in Delhi for one of his upcoming films when Section 144 was imposed. “I had left for the shoot and we were in prep rounds when this was announced, we had to rush back before the lock down. I don’t know when will we be able to restart the shoot. I don’t think it will be possible before September because we need to match the dates of all the artistes which is a difficult task,” says the UPite.As the nationwide lock down was announced Khan managed to reach Mumbai in time. “My wife did deter me from leaving for Delhi but as the entire cast and crew had reached Delhi so I couldn’t say no to the team. And, as the situation got tough everything was halted. I desperately required a break to spend time with my kids but definitely not like this and of course not this long. Like all, I too want to go back to work.”After a string of roles in films like ‘Gangs of Wasseypur’, ‘Baby’, ‘Setters’ and the web show ‘Gullak’ made him a household name. “Yes, the series did give me a much-awaited instant recognition and we were all set to start the shoot of second season too. But, due to the Covid 19 crisis everything is on hold,” said the versatile actor over the phone.Hailing from UP’s Bhadohi, Khan has spent much time in Lucknow, Aligarh before reaching Delhi and then Mumbai, “I too had to start from scratch and struggle a lot. This crisis scares me for small artistes, technicians coming from small districts and cities. Many amongst them must be hand to mouth. Too much is on stake and we all fear the repercussions. But there is a hope as big actors like Akshay Kumar and Salman Khan have come up with initiatives that will help all in a big way, I am sure and hopeful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/initiatives-by-akshay-salman-will-help-all-in-a-big-way/story-2SJPJeg6v3QpLIby2owYVO.html
10-04-2020||Gurugram||Eight arrested for assaulting migrant workers||The police on Thursday said that eight people were arrested for allegedly assaulting at least four migrant workers with sticks at their rented room in Aliyar village, IMT Manesar. The alleged incident took place after the migrant workers allegedly protested the closure of a vegetable shop by the members of a committee which was created by the village panchayat and given the responsibility of making sure that residents follow the lockdown order, the police said. However, the migrant workers denied the claim and said that they were being harassed by the arrested men, who are part of the committee, for getting out of their house to get drinking water and groceries.The arrested men were identified as Ravi Singh, 36, Narendra Chauhan, 39, and Sudhir Singh, 31, who were nabbed on Wednesday. The five other men were arrested on Thursday and identified as Pritam, Ramesh Kumar, Alok Singh, Ravindra and Rahul Singh. The police said all of them are residents of Aliyar village. In the police complaint, Krishna Kumar, one of the victims, alleged that on Wednesday around 11.30am, he and his friends, all of whom are migrants who work at different automobile industries based in the area, were sitting in their rented room when at least 20 people came there with sticks and began beating them. “One of the men hit me on the head with a stick, after which I began bleeding profusely. The men assaulted and abused many people who stay in my building. They threatened to kill them and fled the spot,” he added in the FIR. Arvind Kumar, station house officer (SHO), IMT Manesar police station, said, “The arrested men are part of a committee which was set up by the panchayat to make sure that village residents follow the orders of the lockdown. On Wednesday morning, when the members of the committee reached near where the migrant workers live, they saw a vegetable shop open. They then asked the owner to shut down his shop. However, when the migrant workers saw this, they began protesting, hooting and created noise. Subsequently, the committee members went to their building and assaulted them.” He added that only one migrant worker sustained an injury during the incident and his condition is reported to be stable.The police said that the committee had decided that grocery shops and other shops of essential items will remain open in the morning between 8am and 11am and in the evening between 4pm and 8pm. Chotu Kumar Singh, one of the victims, refuted the police’s version and said that the suspects have been harassing him and the other migrant workers for the past five days. “We do not get clean drinking water in our building. So, we have to go to our workplace which is located nearby and get the water. These men have been abusing us and threatening us against getting out of our house. But we need to get groceries and water for our survival. Eight of our friends have sustained injuries due to the assault and one of them is in the hospital currently,” he added. A case was registered against the men under sections 148, 149, 323, 452, and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at IMT Manesar police station on Wednesday. The SHO said that police personnel are posted at the village and the law and order situation is under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/eight-arrested-for-assaulting-migrant-workers/story-U8Z9iLlGZO6pjLEchhhbNP.html
10-04-2020||Gurugram||Woman alleges rape, changes statement to blackmail; man arrested||A 29-year-old medical professional alleged that she was raped by a 21-year-old man in February in Old Gurugram area, the police said on Thursday. However, the woman later changed her statement, stating the man was only blackmailing her. The man was arrested under the IT Act.The police said the woman had told them that the man also threatened to release an objectionable video of hers on social media, following which she reported the incident on Wednesday. According to the police, the suspect, who works in a private company, was arrested and produced in a district court on Thursday. The police said the woman had alleged in the FIR, registered on Wednesday, that she met the man three years ago at her hometown Agra and reconnected with him after they both moved to the city for their respective jobs. “In the FIR, the woman had alleged that the suspect took her to his room to discuss something in the last week of February and raped her. She said that for the past few days, he had been threatening to share a video of her on social media with the intention of making it viral,” the police officer said.The police said the woman, however, contradicted her earlier statement when it was recorded before a duty magistrate. “In her statement under section 164 of CrPC, she denied that the suspect had raped her and stated that he had hacked her social media account and was threatening to share her pictures online and blackmailing her,” Raj Bala, station house officer (SHO), women’s police station (west), said.The police said the relevant sections of the IT Act would be added to the FIR and the allegations would be verified. A case was registered against the man under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the women’s police station (west) on Wednesday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-alleges-rape-changes-statement-to-blackmail-man-arrested/story-w1lyT9xRj2ItMRami7U3nK.html
10-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body to disinfect, sanitise 253 residential areas in city over four days||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) initiated a four-day sanitisation drive on Thursday aimed at disinfecting and sanitising common spaces of 253 residential areas, including condominiums, gated societies and residential sectors.According to corporation officials, the common spaces which are to be disinfected include lifts, staircases, parks, and streets. They will be sanitised with isopropyl alcohol hydrochloride to contain the spread of the Sars-Cov-2.“The MCG has constituted nine teams for this, which will sanitise and disinfect condominiums, gated societies and residential sectors falling in zone 1 on Thursday, zone 2 on Friday, zone 3 on Saturday, and zone 4 on Sunday,” said SS Rohilla, public relation officer (PRO), MCG. The total number of areas which will be covered in zone 1 is 57, 61 in zone 2, 63 in zone 3, and 72 in zone 4.On April 2, the MCG had launched a week-long drive to sanitise and disinfect around 350 residential areas in the city along with ATM kiosks, bank branches, and chemist and grocery shops. MCG officials said the four-day drive has been initiated to include those residential areas not covered in the April 2 week-long drive, the residential welfare associations of which subsequently reached out to the MCG for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-civic-body-to-disinfect-sanitise-253-residential-areas-in-city-over-four-days/story-WnswewiupEkOkr8QrlcDiO.html
10-04-2020||Gurugram||RWAs ask police to ensure people maintain social distance during food distribution||The residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of Sector 21 and 22 on Thursday wrote to the local police demanding deployment of more police personnel at the food distribution centres in their respective sectors to ensure that the beneficiaries maintain adequate social distance.The RWAs had said in the letter that a large number of people gather at the food distribution centres and alleged that the people are not able to maintain social distance. The RWAs further alleged that adequate police personnel is not deployed to ensure that people who walk to the centres from their homes for meals twice a day follow social distance norms.Like many other municipal wards in the city, the community centres at sector 21 and 22 ( Ward 4) have been developed by Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) as food distribution centres where meals are provided to daily wage earners, migrant workers, and those living in slums and villages. After the nationwide lockdown came into force on March 25, many people have been left with little or no money and do not have access to food and other essential goods.Residents said that at least 2,000 people from Salapur, Mulahera and other areas in the vicinity come to the two centres to collect their food.“On their way to the, the people walk almost touching each other. It is the responsibility of the police and MCG appointed nodal authority to ensure they maintain social distance. We have written to the station house officer(SHO) of Palam Vihar to deploy adequate police to ensure everyone stands in queue at the centre and walks maintaining at least a one-metre distance from one another,” Bhim Singh Yadav, president, Sector 22 RWA, said.The residents have also appealed the area councillor to approach the police in this regard. “We have observed that people wait for at least an hour or so two hours for meals daily. This long wait is the main reason that a large crowd swells up at the centres. We have requested the councillor and MCG officials to address the issue,” Shashi Pal Yadav, president, Sector 21 RWA.Beneficiaries who collect meals from the food distribution centres said maintaining social distance becomes harder during the long wait at the facility. “We wash our hands, cover our faces and usually maintain social distance, but at the Sector 21 food distribution centre we wait for hours for food due to which a crowd swells up there and we are unable to avoid standing in close proximity, ” Mohan Singh, a daily-wage earner who lives in Mulahera, said. Virender Yadav, area councillor, said, “ After residents raised concerns, we spoke to the food distribution in-charge in this regard. We will ensure people at these two centres stand in queue and we will also ensure they do not have to wait long for food.”MCG has set up over 40 food distribution centres and set up a team of officials and volunteers to distribute food in the city with the help of police during the lockdown.Vivek Kalia, one of the two nodal officers appointed by MCG for the purpose, said, “I will ask the officials concerned and in-charge of these centres to make people aware about the importance of social distance. Police should also step in and ensure people stand in queues at the centre.”The police said they will look into the matter and take adequate steps to ensure people follow social distance.Rajender Yadav, SHO, Palam Vihar, said, “If required, we will deploy more personnel to ensure people follow social distancing guidelines. I also take rounds every day in the entire area to observe the law and order situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/rwas-ask-police-to-ensure-people-maintain-social-distance-during-food-distribution/story-Smq0SXADaqGNmPj7FSStVK.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||Case against sweet shop owner in Bengali market containment area, residents claim no home deliveries||A day after the popular Bengali Market in central Delhi was marked as one of the 23 containment zones to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the city the police on Thursday registered a case against the owner of Bengali Pastry Shop for violating social distancing norms and keeping workers under “unhygienic conditions”.The upscale neighbourhood made was listed as a containment zone after a surveillance team of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Wednesday found 35 workers of the Bengali Pastry Shop living under unhygienic conditions in a congested space and violating social distancing norms. Two workers, who had flu-like symptoms (common in Covid-19 patients), were shifted to a quarantine centre after being tested at RML Hospital. The test reports are awaited.The owner of the shop did not respond to calls and text messages from HT seeking a comment.The NDMC on Thursday sanitised the area and sprayed 6,000 litres of disinfectant.The area was surveyed on Wednesday after three persons were found positive for the coronavirus disease from the neighbourhood between April 4 and April 6. Deepak Yadav, additional deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), said the three people found Covid-19 positive in Bengali Market are the owner of Bangla Sweets in the Gol Market area, his son, and a cook.There was no response from the owner of Bangla Sweets when HT tried to contact him.“The first person who was infected with the virus was admitted to Apollo Hospital with fever on April 4. His son also developed symptoms and had to be admitted on April 5. Their cook fell ill the next day (April 6). Both of them tested positive later,” said YK Anand, president, Bengali Market residents’ welfare association.A senior administration official said the tracing of their contacts is still on, and that they are unsure if any of them have any history of travel to foreign countries.The surveillance team, which comprised officials of the district administration and those from NDMC, on Wednesday screened 325 houses, two markets and about 2,000 people in the Bengali Market and Mandi House area.Bengali Market, which was founded in 1930, has now been sealed by the police, who have blocked all entry and exit points to the neighbourhood. According to an order issued by New Delhi district magistrate Tanvi Garg, the adjoining areas of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane, and School Lane have also been blocked.“An extensive disinfection drive on the sealed containment area of Bengali Market, Babar Road and their adjoining lanes, sub-lanes, residential complexes, parks of the area, was carried out to prevent the spread of the virus,” said S Chellaiah, director (horticulture) at NDMC.“A case was registered against the shop owner for violating social distancing norms, prohibitory orders and keeping workers under unhygienic conditions amid the coronavirus pandemic. Investigations in the case is going on,” the Delhi Police said in a statement on Thursday.About 2,000 families live in Bengali Market neighbourhood, which extends from The Lalit hotel on Barakhamba Road to Sangeet Bharti near Mandi House. Within the Bengali Market containment zone, the police have set up double-layer iron barricades at 10 entry and exit points, and at least 100 security personnel have been deployed on the pickets and on patrolling duty in the containment area.“Nobody is being allowed to enter the containment zone or come out. All emergency services, such as ambulances, have been stationed near pickets. The live footage of the CCTV cameras installed in the neighbourhood is being monitored to keep a check on residents. Those found violating orders will be booked,” additional DCP Yadav said .Yadav said drones cannot be used for surveillance in Bengali Market containment because the area comes under the “no-fly zone” . No supply of essentials: ResidentsAfter being declared a containment zone, residents are not allowed to step out of their homes, even to buy essentials. Authorities said these essentials will be delivered to doorsteps of residents when they need them.Contacted over phone, residents, however, said they had already begun facing problems, with essential food items not being delivered.Vinod Juneja, a resident of Babar Road, said the police had circulated the contact numbers of 14 vendors authorised to deliver these goods.“However, all the vendors we call are refusing to come. For example, the vegetable vendor I called said he did not get fresh supply today as his truck was stopped somewhere. The milk vendor said he has no staff to send ,” Juneja said.District magistrate Garg admitted that there may have been some problems since it was the first day of containment. “We will keep a stricter vigil from tomorrow and ensure that everybody get their essential supplies,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/case-against-sweet-shop-owner-in-bengali-market-containment-area-residents-claim-no-home-deliveries/story-0fITnjDwScB34SsPGEOkaP.html
10-04-2020||Gurugram||78-year-old Italian woman dies of Covid-19 in Gurugram||A 78-year-old Italian woman, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on March 3 in Delhi and was on a ventilator for almost a month, died on Thursday, state health department officials said.The woman, part of a group of 14 tourists from Italy who 14 tested positive for the virus in one of the first set of cases reported in India last month, was being treated at Medanta - The Medicity. The other 13 members of the group recovered from the disease and were released between March 21 and March 30.Doctors at Medanta said the woman was the worst affected in her group. The 14 Italian tourists were moved to Medanta from an Indo-Tibetan Border Police’s (ITBP) Chhawla camp in Delhi on March 4. Dr Yatin Mehta, an intensive care expert at Medanta, who handled the treatment of the group, said the woman was struggling with illness despite showing some signs of improvement. “She was on the ventilator for almost a month. Her health condition improved in between while undergoing treatment, but her lungs did not show any major improvement. She struggled with her health condition as she had chronic kidney diseases,” he said.The woman died around noon on Thursday. Mehta said her family has been informed. “It is up to them to decide what is to be done next. We will get more clarity on Friday,” he said.Another Covid-19 patient, a 65-year-old man from Fazilpur village in Jharsa, near Sector 39, died on Tuesday. He was undergoing treatment at Artemis Hospital and died of a heart attack due to co-morbidity issues, officials said.District health department officials said the Jharsa resident had tested positive on April 4.Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, Gurugram’s chief medical officer, said: “he patient was coronavirus positive but he had comorbidity issues that led to death. He was highly diabetic and had leg wounds, for which he was already undergoing treatment in a private hospital.”It was not clear how the man was infected.VS Kundu, the monitoring incharge for all Covid-19 cases in the district, confirmed the two deaths. “There are two deaths in the district. The 65-year-old man died on Tuesday. He was a Covid-19 positive patient but the exact reason for his death is a heart attack. He had other complications and was under observation. The post-mortem examination report clearly shows that his Covid-19 symptoms were not so intense that they could have led to death. In another case, an Italian tourist who was undergoing treatment in a private hospital for Covid-19 has also been declared dead.”A statement issued by the district administration said that the Fazilpur patient admitted to Artemis hospital died due to uncontrolled diabetes and heart attack, and that his death should not be linked to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/78-year-old-italian-woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-gurugram/story-Q9WsQULSV2BTrVanOc64sN.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus: Delhi launches Operation SHIELD to tackle virus spread in containment zones||‘Operation SHIELD’ has been announced to tackle the coronavirus (Covid-19) spread in Delhi’s 23 containment zones. The chief minister, making the announcement, warned those misbehaving with healthcare personnel in of strict action.Addressing the media via video conference, Kejriwal said, “We have begun Operation SHIELD in the containment zones. The S in SHIELD stands for sealing the immediate area or surroundings after geographical marking, H for home-quarantine for those living in the area, I for isolation and tracing of people who have been first and second contacts, E for essential supplies, which involves doorstep delivery to the people in those areas, L for local sanitisation and disinfection of those areas, and D for door-to-door checking of these areas, so that people having symptoms of coronavirus are isolated, and testing done,” he said.Till Thursday, Delhi had 720 coronavirus positive cases, which included 12 deaths and 25 recoveries. For the first time since the cases linked to Tablighi Jamaat were revealed, the number of fresh contact history-related cases (35) was more than those linked to the Nizamuddin Markaz (4) on Thursday. The total foreign travel and local transmission cases are now 249, and the Markaz cases are 430.The declared containment zones comprise individual buildings — the Markaz in Nizamuddin, and three apartment complexes in east Delhi and one in Dwarka, neighbourhoods of Bengali Market, two blocks in Nizamuddin and one in Malviya Nagar, and congested alleys in Sadar and Laxmi Nagar.Earlier in the day, Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal chaired a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), Kejriwal, other ministers and top bureaucrats, and directed officials to strictly implement containment strategy in high-risk zones.“Strict geographical quarantine with preventive control, rigorous contact tracing and enhanced surveillance should be the priority at the moment,” a statement quoting Baijal said.Photos released by the L-G’s office later showed that all participants, including Baijal, Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain and others, wore masks during the meeting. This came a day after the government made it mandatory for people to wear masks in public places. Not wearing one could land a person in jail for a period between 1 to 6 months, a fine or both under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, as per an order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev on Wednesday.During the meeting, the health department officials said the government has secured supply of 3,500 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits per day and 28,000 N95 masks, per week, for front-line health workers and health professionals. The L-G’s office stated that 5,995 ASHAs and 1278 ANMs have been trained as the second line of support.Referring to an incident of assault on two women doctors in Gautam Nagar, Kejriwal said the government will not tolerate such incidents. “These days, doctors and nurses have been putting their lives in danger by treating Covid-19 patients. We will take strictest possible action against those misbehaving with healthcare personnel,” he said.The warning comes a day after two women were allegedly assaulted by a 42-year-old man, who accused them of “spreading” the disease in their neighbourhood.Kejriwal said that the government has cut its expenses as tax collection “has almost come to nil”. “Everyone will also have to cut their expenses at their level in view of the current situation. Besides, we are giving free ration to 71 lakh people in the city. We are facing some teething problems in disbursal of free ration to non-card holders. It will be resolved soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-launches-operation-shield-to-tackle-virus-spread-in-containment-zones/story-e4MQj214R5xN7F8jgXTdFN.html
10-04-2020||Gurugram||Coronavirus: Gurugram admin declares nine containment zones in city after Covid count touches 32||The Gurugram administration has declared nine containment zones in the city after two men from Pataudi tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the district’s total count of cases to 32.The containment zones will come up at Sectors 9, , 83, 39, Nirvana Country, Palam Vihar, Laburnum society Sushant Lok Phase 1, village Fazilpur Jharsa, ward no 11 Pataudi and Village Raipur, Sohna .In a statement released by the district administration, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said that areas falling within a 3-kilometre radius of the epicentre, from where a positive case is reported, will come under a containment zone. “In sector 9, 83, 39, Nirvana Country, and Palam Vihar, where the first 10 cases were reported, screening has already been done. In other areas, like Pataudi and Sohna, intensive screening is taking place. Even in Fazilpur, where a death has been reported, at least 57 samples have been taken from houses near where the deceased lived ,” he said. On Thursday, two men — in the age group of 30-35 — tested Covid19 positive. Officials said both the men were in contact with a Tabhlighi Jamaat-linked Covid-19 patient from Pataudi, who is undergoing treatment in sector 10 civil hospital. Health officials said both the men were initially kept in the quarantine centre in sector 9 and have now been shifted to the isolation ward in the civil hospital. On Wednesday, the city had reported its highest spike with at least 10 Covid-19 cases being reported from Raipur village Sohna. All those who tested positive were residents of Himachal Pradesh and were tracked by the police after they attended Nizamuddin congregation in Delhi last month.The administration has issued orders of intensive screening and testing in all containment zones. Khatri said the teams conducting screening will comprise of ASHA, ANM and medical officers. The suspected cases from these areas will be taken to ESIC Hospital and to a quarantine facility in sector 9, both declared as nodal Covid hospitals. As per the order, the health department officials will be conducting screening and thermal screening, while Municipal Corporation of Gurugram staff will sanitise the containment zones. The police department will restrict the movement of residents to or from these areas, with barricades manned by police personnel being set up. The public works department will assist the Gurugram police in the barricading.The Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board along with the food supplies department will work out a plan for supply of essential goods — ration, grocery, milk, medicine and vegetables. As per the order, separate packets of vegetables, grocery items, milk, etc will be delivered in these zones at doorstep of residents. The delivery personnel, in personal protective equipment (PPE), would drop the packets at the doors.Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said teams have been formed, who will collaborate with medical staff and officials of district administration. “The teams will visit door to door and screen each individual from Friday morning. We will release a plan of action on Friday and deploy teams accordingly. The movement in the nine zones will be restricted and anyone found loitering will be booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-admin-declares-nine-containment-zones-in-city-after-covid-count-touches-32/story-U1527Yx4JpzFFbRHW0e84I.html
10-04-2020||City||DHFL scam accused received Maharashtra home department’s nod to travel amid lockdown||Amid the national lockdown, a senior home department official’s letter allowing the Wadhawan family, which is caught in the multi-crore Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) scam, to travel from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar on Wednesday has left the government red-faced. Home minister Anil Deshmukh late on Thursday announced a probe into the issue, as the letter was leaked to the media.The safe passage was given to DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, along with 21 other members of their family and friends, in five cars. The letter allegedly signed by Amitabh Gupta, principal secretary, home department, states: “This is to just inform you that following are my family friends and travelling from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar for family emergency. Particulars of the cars are given below.”The letter, which HT has a copy of, goes on to give details of the five cars, their numberplates and names of the persons travelling in every car. The Wadhawans were allowed to travel from Pune district to Satara district, bypassing the state norms that district borders be sealed. After they landed in Mahabaleshwar in the Dewan bungalow, residents protested, which brought the issue to light. Deshmukh tweeted: “We will probe how permission was granted to allow 23 members of the Wadhawan family to travel from Khandala to Satara. I had no idea about this letter. This was given by Gupta that’s true, but I don’t know the details over why this letter was given. So, we will conduct a probe and tomorrow a strict decision will be taken. This was not appropriate, I completely accept this.”A senior state secretariat official said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is irked with the incident as it embarrasses his administration which has been stringent with the lockdown measures. As per the government protocol, the home department is currently giving such leeway or travel pass only to those who have family emergencies, including hospitalisation or death of a family member. “The CBI had issued non-bailable warrants against the Wadhawan brothers, who are accused in Yes Bank/DHFL fraud. Instead of handing them over to the police, the government gives them VVIP treatment. Deshmukh owes the country an explanation,” said former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya. At the time of going to press, Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan were detained in Mahabaleshwar. Milind Bharambe, inspector general of police (law and order), said “They are in quarantine.”When asked, if Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan have been detained in Mahabaleshwar, in violation of Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code( CrPC), Suhas Warke, inspector general of police (Kolhapur range), said, “An offence is being registered against them. They are kept in institutional quarantine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dhfl-scam-accused-received-maharashtra-home-department-s-nod-to-travel-amid-lockdown/story-4VpZbYm0I08ri60hGtj0CJ.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: At funerals, distance between the living and the dead gets wider||Five masked men stood a few feet from each other around a pyre while a weeping teenager walked around it as part of a funeral ritual. Every now and then, he pulled down his mask to wipe his nose. A short distance away, a girl recorded the rituals on her phone while two other women held her and wept even as the priest repeatedly asked them to stand apart.“I have been cremating bodies for a decade. Never before did we have to interrupt relatives grieving over a dead body,” said another priest Arun Sharma, while he watched the proceedings at the Shiv Shamshan Ghat in east Delhi’s Geeta Colony.Several kilometres away, at the Shaheen Bagh cemetery in south Delhi, Habib Ahmed is resting after three hours of digging a grave with his colleague on being intimated about a death in the neighbourhood. “Often, the relatives of the dead choose to dig the pits. But we have disallowed that for now. We have to hurry up the burial process for social distancing,” said Ahmed, adding that residents here were told to ensure that the cot carrying the body is shouldered by only four persons.Amidst the spread of the Covid-19, the nationwide lockdown has led to unusual scenes at the crematoriums and burial grounds.The funeral rites are done quickly, the mourning is subdued, the attendance at crematoriums is unusually thin, close relatives are deprived of a chance to say their final goodbyes and the last rites have a changed format.“My uncle Amrit Lal wanted his last remains to be submerged at Haridwar. But we beg his forgiveness and will submerge it in the Yamuna near our home,” said Amir Chand, a resident of Karawal Nagar at north Delhi’s Nigam Bodh Ghat – one of the biggest crematoriums in the national capital region.A dozen relatives and friends of Lal -- who died of old age -- turned up at the Nigam Bodh Ghat in north Delhi. Only four of them were allowed to board the hearse van while others followed on motorcycles. Lal’s daughter couldn’t visit Delhi from Mau in Uttar Pradesh due to the lockdown. She tried to make it to Delhi, but couldn’t get beyond a couple of police checkpoints. “We will share a live video of the funeral with her,” said Chand.Behind them, another family walked in with a body on a bier. “My grandfather was loved by all and every relative wants to shoulder his bier. It has been painful for me to deny them the chance,” said Gautam Singh.Singh’s family will keep his ashes at their home for how long it may take, but they will submerge it in Haridwar.At the same crematorium, four pyres burnt adjacent to each other without anyone in attendance. “We are requesting the kin of the dead to leave immediately after hitting the pyres with sticks (as part of the rituals),” said Vishal Mishra, the supervisor at this crematorium.The supply of wood at the crematoriums has been hampered and the staffers are asking the kin of the dead to opt for the CNG cremation. “But we don’t want to add to the pains of a grieving family, so we don’t insist on it,” said Mishra.He said that there are many who have put off or even cancelled their immediate plans to carry out the last rites – which mostly involve submerging the ashes of the dead in the Ganges at Haridwar. “They are either submerging it in the Yamuna or leaving them in earthen pots in our lockers,” said Mishra.The 228 lockers at the crematorium here are fast filling up, but Mishra said that they have relaxed the rule of collecting the last remains within 15 days.Suman Kumar Gupta, the chief manager of the Nigam Bodh Ghat, said that while he expects the kin of the dead to collect the last remains after the lockdown ends, those that still get left behind will be submerged in the Ganges by his staff who will take the ashes to Haridwar.At the Shaheen Bagh cemetery, caretaker Abdur Raziq, said that when the kin of the dead alert them about a burial, they are in turn told to ensure not more than 20 people visit the cemetery – as per government orders for the lockdown. “During the burial, they are required to stand around the grave and not in a huddle. We keep a watch on them when they take turns to throw mud at the grave as part of the last rites,” said Raziq, adding that having the local police station right next door has helped with enforcing social distancing.‘Fewer unnatural deaths’Delhi has about 50 crematoriums and 10 cemeteries which are run by the civic agencies, apart from a few which are privately managed.Not only has the attendance of people visiting the major crematoriums have dipped, the number of bodies being cremated here too have reduced.“There are much fewer unnatural deaths, almost no accidental deaths in the city. Earlier, we would cremate 60 bodies a day on an average. During winters, when homeless people died, I remember two bodies being cremated on one pyre on multiple occasions. After the lockdown, the number has dipped to 30-40,” said Gupta.The dip in funerals at Delhi’s crematoriums is also because hardly any bodies are brought from the neighbouring cities. “Many from Noida, Ghaziabad and other parts of Delhi preferred crematoriums like Shiv Shamshan Ghat and Nigam Bodh Ghat due to their proximity to the Yamuna. But now they are cremating them at the nearest crematorium,” said priest Sharma.From 10-12 bodies a day, now only about five-six bodies are brought to the Shiv Shamshan Ghat, he added.While a few are able to arrange vehicles for bringing the bodies for cremation, during the lockdown most others are relying on hearse vans run by crematoriums and hospitals. “RWAs and people in residential neighbourhoods usually have the contact numbers of our hearse vans. The numbers are also mentioned at hospitals, at the crematoriums and other such places,” said Gupta.The people venturing out of their homes for cremations do not require a special permission, said the police. “They are not stopped at the checkpoints. Our only focus is to ensure social distancing everywhere, be it in the hearse van and other vehicles accompanying the bodies. Our PCR teams are also helping move bodies and arrange for hearse vans if needed,” said Anil Mittal, Delhi Police’s additional spokesperson.The crematorium staffers said most kin of the dead have behaved responsibly because of which social distancing has been possible during the funerals. At the Shiv Shamsham Ghat, about 10 relatives accompanying the body of an 85-year-old woman repeatedly reminded each other to stay apart.“On another day, there would be 300 people attending my mother-in-law’s funeral. But we didn’t allow relatives from even other parts of Delhi to visit us,” said a woman, Mridula.The last rites, which as per the Hindu customs are performed after 10 days of the death, too have witnessed a change.Ram Singh, whose mother Chameli succumbed to tuberculosis a day after the lockdown was announced, said that he not only regrets not being able to throw a feast for his mother’s death, even the prayers and rituals 13 days later were curtailed. Upon much insistence, a priest visited his home to perform the hour-long prayers in just 10 minutes. “We’ll ask other priests if we can hold another prayer and feast maybe a year later,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-funerals-distance-between-the-living-and-the-dead-gets-wider/story-mgIFdVSbOFPrwZofPYTLLJ.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||FIR against Maharaja Agrasen for negligence after patient dies of Covid||The Delhi Police on Thursday registered a case against Maharaja Agrasen hospital in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh for alleged negligence after two patients, one of who later died, and six staff members tested positive for Covid-19. The hospital, however, denied any wrongdoing.The Delhi government also ordered the hospital to shut its out patient clinics. The hospital claims it had done so from March 20 itself.According to police, the hospital had referred a 72-year-old woman to Sri Ganga Ram hospital on March 10. There, when she presented with inflammation of the lungs, doctors tested her for Covid-19. Her results came back positive. Over 100 staff of the hospital were asked to be in quarantine.The government then ordered that all patients and 82 employees at Maharaja Agrasen hospital who had been in the vicinity of the woman be tested. Deputy commissioner of police (West) [DCP] Deepak Purohit said six staff members and another patient were found positive. “When the patient died at the hospital on April 4, the hospital handed over the body to the family without alerting the government and violated the dead body management rules,” said the DCP. The cremation was subsequently attended by many people and the patient’s brother turned out to be positive later. The police registered a case under the Indian Penal Code, the Endemic Act and the Disaster Management Act.“We were the first private hospital in the city to shut the clinics in March to maintain social distancing. We had also stopped the elective surgeries as per government directions. So, right now we take in only emergency cases and there are very few patients in the hospital,” said Dr Deepak Singla, medical director of the hospital. “We took all steps suggested by the government. The entire hospital has been sanitised.”He said that both patients had been admitted to the hospital around March 10, much before the infection was widespread. “We had not tested them for the infection as neither they nor their family members had any history of travel. Later on, they tested positive for the infection,” he said, adding the 72-year-old went to Sri Ganga Ram hospital against medical advice. “When the second patient tested positive, we immediately informed authorities and were trying to coordinate his moving to a government hospital. However, no ventilator beds were immediately available. And, by morning he died. We followed protocols, and gave the body the relatives after explaining about Covid-19. They assured us they would take the body to the nearest crematorium, but took it to Sonipat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fir-against-maharaja-agrasen-for-negligence-after-patient-dies-of-covid/story-u8QT3CKcaYEeP2xgZg3bAO.html
10-04-2020||Noida||Noida uses drones, disinfectant tunnels to contain coronavirus spread||The Noida authority is using disinfectant tunnels to ensure that its staff members, who are engaged in providing essential services to the public, are sanitised properly. In order to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the authority has also started using drones to spray sanitising solution over densely populated hot spots in the city. On Wednesday, the authority installed two disinfectant tunnels—one at its Sector 39 office and other at its main administrative building in Sector 6—to disinfect its employees, who are working on providing all essential supplies such as milk, grocery, fruits, vegetables to the residents and food to those in need amid the 21-day nationwide lockdown.People other than the authority’s employees can also use the disinfectant tunnels, said officials. The authority plans to install five more disinfectant tunnels in the city. The authority uses sodium hypochlorite solution in these tunnels that take over 30 seconds to disinfect a person who walks in it, said, officials. “We use anti-bacterial solution spray in the tunnel. In 30 seconds, it will kill all germs, bacteria and also help in containing the virus. Now, our employees will pass through these two tunnels before entering the office premises,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer, Noida authority.Apart from the tunnels, the authority is using drones to spray sodium hypochlorite solutions on some hot spots, which are sealed till April 15 in order to contain the spread of Covid-19, officials said.“We are using drones to disinfect those hot spots which are densely populated. We are using the drones to disinfect clusters in sectors 5, 8, 9 and 10,” Maheshwari said.The authority has plans to continue disinfecting hot spots with drones for at least the next three or four days until these areas are sanitised thoroughly. The administration and health department has taken at least 200 people in the slum cluster of Sector 5 to a quarantine facility after they came in contact with a Covid-19 positive family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-uses-drones-disinfectant-tunnels-to-contain-coronavirus-spread/story-S2OOyGPwmgfJZ5MnfYOCUK.html
10-04-2020||Noida||Don’t throw away used masks, hand them over to waste collectors for proper disposal||The Noida authority has appealed to residents that they should help in the scientific disposal of used masks. The staff of the agency appointed by the authority for sanitation work will collect such waste from each household. “All residents are using masks to protect themselves from the Covid-19 infection. We are requesting residents that they should hand over used masks in a separate packet to the staff that collects waste from households in the city. The masks will be treated as medical waste and handled as per rules to contain the spread of Covid-19,” Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority, said.The request was made after reports emerged that people were dumping used masks in wet and dry waste bins. Collecting them separately is crucial as medical waste is disposed of in a different way. If they are mixed with household waste, they will not be treated properly, officials of Noida authority said.Noida produces at least 650 metric tonnes of solid waste daily and the staff collects waste from each household and transport it for remediation to the Mubarakpur,Sector 145, storage site. All biodegradable, degradable and construction waste is treated there.The district administration also reiterated that citizens in Covid-19 hot spots should stay at home and not worry about obtaining daily need items.“Our vehicles will carry out deliveries of essential goods at doorstep. We are trying to provide all services so that people do not face any inconvenience,” Suhas LY district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/don-t-throw-away-used-masks-hand-them-over-to-waste-collectors-for-proper-disposal/story-wZEWbaM0qSmIKuPa7U3EZP.html
10-04-2020||Noida||Containment work underway in 22 hot spots in GB Nagar||A total of 300 containment and surveillance teams have surveyed 5,52,130 families by late Wednesday night. On Tuesday, these teams started containment and surveillance work and, on Wednesday, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered to seal all the identified hot spots in 15 districts of the state for containment and surveillance.Gautam Buddh Nagar reported its first Covid-19 case on March 12. Teams were constituted, and containment and surveillance exercise of the hot spots started after 25 days of the first incident.Each team consists of a health worker, a revenue department worker and a policeman or an official from any other department. These teams cover an area of three kilometres around each hot spot. There are in total 22 hot spots in the district. During the drive, officials have identified 338 persons with travel history.Officials are visiting each house in the 3-km area to spread awareness about Covid-19. These teams are informing residents about the precautions required to avoid infections, techniques to sanitise the house and proper hand washing techniques. Officials will also be collecting information about people who have a travel history in the last one or two months. Officials will also be finding out if any of the locals have any symptoms of the infection.“The containment work is underway in all the identified hot spots. Our officials are maintaining data of each and every house and persons who have travel history. We will keep a tab on the health of all these identified persons,” said Dr Sunil Dohre, additional chief medical officer, GB Nagar.One new case was confirmed in Noida during the wee hours of Thursday. A 67-year-old woman from Sector 50 of Noida was tested positive. The woman had got herself tested at a private lab, after which she informed the officials. The total number of cases in the district has reached 63. The woman is undergoing treatment at a Delhi hospital. Two other patients, a 58-year-old woman and her 14-year-old son from Sector 37, had also gone for treatment to a private hospital in Delhi on March 31. Presently, these three Covid-19 patients from GB Nagar are undergoing treatment in Delhi.The 67-year-old woman is a heart patient, which makes her case a bit serious. Her son had returned from Scotland on March 18. He has been put under home-quarantine as he has no symptoms. The patient developed symptoms after which she got herself tested at a private lab. Officials haven’t taken samples of any other member of the family yet as nobody has developed any symptoms of Covid-19.Officials have increased the number of sampling in the district and are collecting around 100 samples everyday. Samples of 41 persons, out of the 366 people who were quarantined as a part of the cluster containment exercise in JJ Colony in Sector 5 and Sector 8 have been taken on Tuesday. These people were quarantined after four people related to the employees of Ceasefire, a firesafety solutions company in Sector 135, were tested positive for Covid-19.On Wednesday, four cases of Covid-19 were found, including the wives of two Ceasefire employees, who had tested positive earlier. Till now, 41 persons attached with Ceasefire have been found to be positive for the infection.Patients include a 35-year-old wife of a Ceasefire employee from Sector 74 and a 27-year-old wife of another employee, living in Chauda Village in Sector 22. The other two cases are of a man in his 50s from Sector 93A and a woman from Greater Noida.“We have three patients till now who are undergoing treatment at Delhi hospitals. They got themselves tested at private labs and later informed us,” added Dohre. By Thursday night, the health department had notified 1,862 travellers and 809 people have been put under surveillance. A total of 1,168 samples have been collected. A total of 63 cases have come out positive while 12 have been discharged. There are 51 active cases in the district. Presently,15 patients have been admitted at GIMS, 29 in child PGI and 4 in Sharda hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/containment-work-underway-in-22-hot-spots-in-gb-nagar/story-YK9USbEBRHlBZDVjSAuTNL.html
10-04-2020||Noida||People cry foul in Noida hot spots as administration fails to deliver essential goods at home on Day 1 of sealing||The Gautam Budh Nagar district administration’s promises of ensuring the doorstep delivery of essential commodities to people living in 22 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spots or containment clusters, which were sealed by the authorities from Wednesday night till April 15, rang hollow, as residents encountered enormous difficulties in sourcing the ingredients for one square meal on Thursday, the first day of the complete lockdown.On Thursday morning, the district administration released a list of dedicated suppliers of milk, vegetables, fruits, and medicines to each of the 34 localities that come under the purview of these hot spots.But, a first-hand reality check showed the vast difference between promises made and deliveries denied.For instance, in neighbourhoods adjacent to the district magistrate’s (DM) camp office, which included the upscale sectors 27 and 28, chaos reigned supreme on Thursday. Vinod Kumar, a resident of Sector 27, said that he was unable to contact the vendor assigned for his locality. “I have run of out of milk and fruits at home. My six-year-old son is crying for bread and cheese. The vendor’s mobile phone number is switched off since morning,” he said.Similarly, Dinesh Sharma, a resident of Sector 28, said that he couldn’t get any green vegetable for his diabetic father. “I was worried that with only potatoes left at home and how could my father eat lunch? Fortunately, my neighbour gave me some bitter gourd and capsicum to tide over the crisis,” he said.HT tried to verify the sectors 27 and 28 residents’ complaints and called up the vendor, Viseem Subodh Imran, on his mobile phone, but it was switched off until the time of this report was filed.Similarly, Sanjay, who goes by his first name and has been assigned by the district administration to supply goods to high-rises in ATS Dolce Zeta-1 (Greater Noida), started speaking even without listening to the queries. “Hum doodh nahin sabji supply karte hain. Kam se kam char ghante lagenge (I don’t supply milk. I only supply vegetables and it’ll take at least four hours for me to deliver).”Kale Choudhary, the designated supplier for Logix Blossom County and Paras Tierea in Sector 137 and Wazidpur village in Sector 135, didn’t answer his phone, despite repeated attempts.Supreme Court advocate Abhinav Ramkrishna, who lives in Omaxe Grand in Sector 93B, said, “We’ve been told by our supplier that we can buy fruits and vegetables from our apartment complex’s main gate at 5pm. Our society has 1,300 families and there will be just one seller. Imagine the inconvenience faced by hundreds of residents, as they will be queuing up to buy at the main gate within a stipulated timeframe. The idea of social distancing will go for a toss if a few hundred people gather near the gate to buy vegetables together. And, I am still unable to reason why the administration ordered the closure of the only Mother Dairy booth in the society and the medical store.”The situation was equally bad in Wazidpur village, another hotspot in the district. Sushil Kumar, a carpenter and a resident of Wazidpur village, said that his family has run out of rice, as his last bit of stock was exhausted during Thursday’s lunch. “When my seven-year-old son asked me what we would eat at dinner, I told him to have faith in God. We’re at the mercy of the district administration since we’re holed up here,” he said.The plight of 130-odd workers’ families, living in Harijan Basti in Sector 37, is even more deplorable. Their hutments are located around the hot spots of Sectors 27 and 28, and the residents have chosen the Gandhian way of protest to go on a mass fast, albeit for half a day, while pinning the blame on a ‘callous’ district administration.Nitish Modi, who was working as a painter in Arun Vihar society before the ongoing nationwide 21-day lockdown started on March 25 to contain the spread of Covid-19, said both the district administration and the police authorities didn’t pay any heed to their entreaties. To make matters worse, most of the vendors said that it would take up to seven hours to get the orders delivered, he added. “All 75 workers living in this colony were on fast for half a day. Women and children, however, didn’t take part in this protest against the district administration,” he said.Dilkhus Pandit, a plumber living in the same colony, questioned the district administration’s “cruel joke” on them. “How can we get these vendors to deliver essential suppliers to us when they never answer their calls?” he asked.Subhas Singh of the same area also alleged that the residents of his society did not get supply despite repeated calls. “The Noida authority, administration and police must look into the issues hampering supply,” he said.Sudarshan Awasthi, a resident of Sector 22’s A-block, which is also a hotspot, also said that many persons from his area kept calling the vendors’ numbers for supply but they refused to supply. “Then we called an integrated number advertised by the administration (18004192211). They provided a vendors’ mobile number who was assigned for hotspot areas, which are sealed. That person also refused to supply anything, saying he will not do it. Despite trying the whole day we failed to get essential goods at home. We borrowed vegetables from neighbours for today evening. Let’s see what will happen on Friday,” he said.In non-hotspot areas such as Shahdara village in Sector 142, workers engaged in unorganised sectors were also denied groceries and vegetables. “We’re fast running out of cash. Unfortunately, none of the administrative officials has come to our village to take stock of the situation. We’ve no ration left at home. I don’t know how long will we survive amid this crisis,” said Jyoti Sahu, who works as a domestic help in a neighbouring high-rise in Sector 137, a Covid-19 hotspot.“We called and gave our family details on the Noida authority’s hunger helpline on Monday, but no one came to deliver food till now. On Wednesday, we called emergency number 112, the police took the details and promised to visit, but no one has come yet,” she said.Bhure and Prahlad, migrant workers who chose to stay back in Noida, echoed Jyoti.The newly appointed DM, Suhas LY, however, allayed the harried residents’ concerns. “There is nothing to be worried about. We’re looking into the discrepancies. The additional chief executive officer of Noida authority is identifying the spots where meals will be delivered soon,” he said.Ritu Maheshwari, the chief executive officer of Noida authority, however, claimed that designated dedicated vendors are supplying essential goods including vegetables, fruits, grocery and medicine to hotspot areas. “If there are gaps in the service line, they will be streamlined and sorted out soon,” she said. (With inputs from Vinod Rajput)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/day-1-people-cry-foul-in-noida-hot-spots-as-administration-fails-in-home-delivery-of-essential-goods/story-8PCBTivtekvIM5Tgvd0WOL.html
10-04-2020||Pune||Police intercept truck with 82 UP-bound labourers in Bhosari; driver arrested||A truck carrying 82 labourers was intercepted and seized by the Pimpri- Chinchwad police and a case has been registered against the driver on Thursday. The workers were headed from Pune to Uttar Pradesh and were taken to relief camps, according to the police.The driver has been identified as Govind Ram Sukhhari, 24, a native of Uttar Pradesh who was residing in Chikhali, according to police sub-inspector Amardeep Krushna Pujari of Bhosari MIDC police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 188 and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the driver. However, he was later released on bail by a local court.“We have been getting such cases regularly. A few days ago, 132 people were crammed in one truck and were headed north. After getting hold of these workers, we sanitise them, note down their information and send them to relief camps where they are provided with essential items. These workers are in a state of panic, so explaining to them that they cannot go any further is difficult,” said senior police inspector Rajendra Kunte of Bhosari MIDC police station.In Pune region, there are 699 relief camps which are home to 66,123 stranded labourers, according to a statement issued by Deepak Mhaisekar, divisional commissioner, Pune region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/police-intercept-truck-with-82-up-bound-labourers-in-bhosari-driver-arrested/story-KYkCowiscZVqEHN3vSEjlM.html
10-04-2020||Pune||6 die, 7 new cases in Pune; no fresh cases in PCMC||Six new deaths related to Covid-19 were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours.Five patients who died are from Pune city, while one Covid-19 positive patient who expired is from Baramati taluka. The total death toll in Pune involving persons afflicted with Covid-19 is now 24. Seven fresh positive cases were confirmed today, all from areas under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jurisdiction.There is no fresh case reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad or from the Pune rural area.According to information released by district health officials, the deceased include a 62-year-old female patient from Parvatigaon, admitted on March 31, with giddiness, fever and vomiting. She died today at 2 pm at Jehangir hospital. She was intubated and on a ventilator. The patient did not have any travel history or contact with any other known cases. She was a pre-Covid patient of Jehangir hospital, being treated for ulcerative colitis.Other deceased patients include a 42-year-old male patient admitted to Sahyadri Hospital, Karve road. Four deaths were reported from Sassoon Hospital - a 58-year old woman who was admitted on April 8, and was diabetic; a 64-year-old woman who had hypertension; a 65-year old woman with bronchitis and a 44-year old man; all died on Thursday.The total number of positive patients in the district is at 210, with 176 in PMC areas; 22 in PCMC, and 12 under Pune rural.3.9 % of tests positive in PuneBetween March 5 and March 31 Total of 1,235 samples tested in Pune district 148 tests positive110 tests negative3.9 per cent of samples tested positiveOf the total deceased in Pune80 per cent - senior citizens Above 60 age, diabetic with high blood pressure dominant co-morbid conditionSource: PMC health department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/6-die-7-new-cases-in-pune-no-fresh-cases-in-pcmc/story-wSRBL3y2L3QPqWGuG4n46H.html
10-04-2020||Pune||On the Frontline: There is need for awareness on social distancing, says Dr Ghatge, nodal officer, Swachh Survekshan||As the assistant medical officer of health under the Solid Waste Management department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Dr Ketaki Ghatge is also working as the nodal officer in Swachh Survekshan under Swachh Bharat Mission. She is involved in solid waste management, natural resource management, energy conservation and sanitation.What is your role in this crisis?I am responsible for several projects in dealing with the Covid-9 pandemic in Pune. Such as provision for waste collection and disposal from quarantined households, where PMC has asked quarantined households to keep the quarantined person’s waste separately. PMC has given instructions to hand over segregated waste and sprinkle Sodium Hypochlorite solution or Ethyl Alcohol before handing over this waste to PMC. We have provided separate bags to collect waste from quarantined homes. This bag needs to be kept at a designated place given by PMC. The waste is being collected by ghantagadis on a daily basis. It is treated as bio-medical waste and is disposed of by an incinerator as per the state government’s guidelines. PMC has ensured a ghantagadi for each ward office and has given proper training to the driver and assistant to handle and treat the contaminated waste.Protective Personal Equipment (PPE) such as cap, mask, hand gloves gumboot, soap and protective eyewear has also been provided to the drivers and workers.We have also provided guidelines and equipment for spraying of sodium hypochlorite solution on waste and vehicle. All the vehicles need to be kept clean and disinfected and disposable PPEs should be incinerated after work.How does your day begin and rolls out?My day begins very early, with the handling and management of the PPE distribution and other allied issues and management of vehicles.I conduct awareness workshops conducted with all coordinators and supervisors of SWaCH in batches and detailed information is disseminated. The sanitary inspectors and supervisors are also given training about handling any waste related to Covid-19, biomedical waste and household level hazardous waste.What precautions are you taking?I exercise regularly even at home; follow a proper diet and ensure adequate sleep which is important. The moment I reach home, I first wash my hands and feet as I have elderly people at home. I also disinfect my house twice and use triple layer cloth mask once I leave home for my duties. What is your assessment of the Covid-19 crisis in Pune? How is it unfolding?Covid-19 spread is increasing day by day. We have imparted training to the additional staff for handling this increasing amount of waste. Provision for PPEs , disinfectants and collection bags has also made’ but it is very important to maintain the morale of sanitary workers and wastepickers. We have also undertaken health check-ups and awareness activities of more than 500 contractual workers on various processing plants with the help of private doctors to keep a balance of their duties especially while handling waste from quarantine homes.What gaps do you see in health and relief work? There needs to be greater awareness about social distancing among the general public and etiquette of mask usage and handling of this special waste, which we are trying our level best to make people understand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/on-the-frontline-there-is-need-for-greater-awareness-on-social-distancing/story-YPWtRd16oKVQPVbcF9YPHI.html
10-04-2020||Pune||False information for curfew pass: Six noncognisable cases registered in Pune||The Pune police on Thursday lodged six noncognisable cases under section 177 of IPC for giving false information to secure the curfew pass.The centralised digital pass system implemented in Pune started on March 28 wherein a total of 3.18 lakh requests have been received as of April 9.At least 1.63 lakh requests have been approved. Of these, 1.07 lakh are already exempted as per govt orders wile 47,000 are those having medical conditions and need urgent care according to Bachchan Singh DCP (Crime).DCP Singh said that while running through the data, 917 Aadhar entries were incorrect. SMS was sent to all of them requesting for resubmission of corrected information or legal action will be taken. On checking through resubmitted information, some doubtful entries were given to Unit2 crime branch inspectors to verify them physically6. On verification, six non cognisable cases were registered against people who had given wrong information“Residents are requested to cooperate with the police. Requests which are urgent are cleared on priority. Giving false information will invite action,” warned DCP Singh.Number of requests facilitated on priorityCancer patients: 1,598Intensive Care Unit: 1,164Surgery: 1,043Dialysis: 993Diabetic patients: 411Pregnant women: 2,691Infant / child: 619||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/false-information-for-curfew-pass-6-noncognisable-cases-filed/story-sLpUu3C2u2Khu1D798fAbJ.html
10-04-2020||Pune||PUWJ advocates setting up of stalls to increase sale of newspapers in Pune||The Pune Shramik Patrakar Sangh (PUWJ) has decided to spread awareness among the residents and bust myths that newspapers spread coronavirus. In a meeting held on Wednesday under the presidentship of Prasad Kulkarni, PUWJ also decided to assist the vendors in making the distribution of the product smoother in the city. The PUWJ has advocated setting up of newspaper stalls in the city wherein vendors will be provided with necessary protective gear to prevent them from contracting the virus. The association has sought support and backing from the police department to strengthen the newspapers distribution networks in the city.The decision to streamline newspaper distribution work and spreading awareness about coronavirus was taken by the office-bearers of PUWJ. Kulkarni said, “Efforts are underway to ensure that the flow of newspaper distribution is restored at the earliest,” The main issue discussed during the meeting was related to the challenges of newspaper distribution due to the lockdown and no sale of newspapers at residential societies. The PUWJ in its release stated that a misconception was prevalent among the citizens that coronavirus spreads through newspapers which has stopped newspaper buying habits among the citizens. The World Health Organisations (WHO) has made it clear that the infection does not spread through newspapers and they come under the category of essentials, the release stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/puwj-advocates-setting-up-of-stalls-to-increase-sale-of-newspapers/story-GR9AY6JvsVFwd06YwkBZFJ.html
10-04-2020||Pune||Wholesale market at Pune’s Market Yard to remain closed from Friday||Stating that public gathering could pose health risk, Pune Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) has decided to stop its operations at Market Yard from Friday [October 10].The circular issued by Pune APMC administrator BJ Deshmukh on Thursday states that the arrival of agriculture produce at its submarket in Pimpri and Manjri areas will continue.The state government is also planning to keep vegetable markets in the urban areas of Mumbai and Pune closed to keep people from crowding these areas despite issuing warnings. Revenue minister Balasabheb Thorat said vegetable markets in urban areas could be closed to check spread of Covid-19 (coronavirus).According to the Pune APMC, “PMC had sealed Gultekdi, Kasewadi, Nana peth, Bhavani peth, Rasta peth, Mahatma Phule Mandai, Somwar peth, Mangalwar peth, Budhwar peth, Guruwar peth, Shaniwar peth, Raviwar peth and Kondhwa areas. As maximum people visiting Market Yard, mainly tempo drivers, potters, retail traders and middlemen are residents of these areas, traders and staff are unwilling to continue operations because of health risks involved.”Deshmukh said people living near Market Yard are facing inconvenience as police are not allowing them to leave the area. Vilas Bhujbal, president, Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard traders’ and agents’ association, said, “With some positive cases reported from Gultekdi area, APMC has decided to close operations. We have appealed to traders to not bring vegetable supply from outstations and farmers till further instructions.’“There is a rush to buy vegetables, ever since the news arrived that the Market Yard will be closed. Since there is less supply of vegetables, the prices have increased,” said Mayur Kalate, a retail vegetable vendor at Jijamata Bhaji Mandai, AundhMeenal Patil who came along with her mother-in-law to buy vegetables for the week said, “The prices of the vegetables are skyrocketing and some vegetables like ginger and coriander which are used in most of the dishes is not even available.” Markets closed to check footfallEven as Pune APMC has decided to close operations from Friday, traders and Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board (MSAMB) officials claim that it will not affect residents. Residents and retailers say the decision will escalate the prices of vegetables and fruits.A MSAMB official on condition of anonymity said, “Residents used to crowd markets and hoard vegetables and fruits despite telling them that supply will be regular. Hence, it is necessary to close markets for at least a week. Grocery shops selling cereals and other edibles would remain open and direct supply from farmers is also not stopped. “I have been going to Market Yard on alternate days to buy vegetables and sell it at the retail market. The prices have already shot up because of short supply. The closure of wholesale market for an indefinite period will cause further price escalation,” said Sarika Deshmukh, a vegetable vendor from Pune-Satara road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/wholesale-market-at-pune-s-market-yard-to-remain-closed-from-friday/story-WPEElTO045J3TOpA2iIHBK.html
10-04-2020||Pune||Shadow practice at Pune home helps Pritha Vartikar paddle through the gloomy lockdown||One of the finest paddlers from the city, 13-year-old Pritha Vartikar, is definitely upset with the lockdown as she had planned to participate in internationals tournaments, but she believes this is necessary to win the war against Covid-19 and is following a strict practice routine.Coach Soumen Saha’s video calls, shadow practice of different shots and fitness drills at home or on the terrace – sum up Vartikar’s day, who is no. 2 in sub-junior girls category in Table Tennis Federation of India ranking.Vartikar had a memorable 2019 as she became a national champion in the sub junior category in the UTT 81st Cadet and Sub-Junior National Table Tennis Championship, Dharamshala in November. Good form continued till January as Vartikar won the under-14 title in UTT 65th National School Games table tennis championship in Vadodara. Along with her practice routine, Vartikar is also in touch with NGO Lakshya. Every Tuesday, Lakshya conducts a conference call from 11am to 2pm where all supported athletes are updated about their diet, fitness and mental training. Vartikar, is currently locked down at her home at Sus road, Pashan.Morning session: I wake up at 8:30am and from 9am, shadow practice starts. The session is of one hour and after that 20 minutes is allotted to exercises like skipping. My coach has fixed the schedule and every day, I have shadow practice of a different shot. Shadow drills actually help a lot as you start getting the feel of how your shot will be played. I finish my training by 10:30am and then, have my breakfast and take rest. (In a shadow drill, a player practices the shot without using a ball. Only action of a shot is repeated to get it done perfectly. It helps players to get feel of one’s shot. Player can also practice footwork drills along with shadow drill.)Afternoon session:After having my lunch, I listen to music or watch the television. I also sleep for an hour and spend time with my mother.Evening session:In evening, I dedicate one hour to fitness in which focus is on core exercises and stretching along with squats, push-ups, lunges and burpees.I like to write so once my fitness routine is complete, I spend time writing. It is basic writing like reading text from my English textbook and writing it down in my notebook. After all these activities, I have my dinner and then, again I watch television for sometime or read a book.GymI don’t have gym sessions in my normal days as well. The work out which is given by my coach takes care of my fitness level. I do miss training on the court as it was the season of international tournaments and I was preparing to take part in those tournaments. I was selected to play the 2020 ITTF World Junior Circuit Premium, India Junior and Cadet open, Kolkata, Belgium Junior and cadet Open and French Junior.Situation is not conducive to play and as players we need to be focussed on our fitness drills during this time. I hope the situation improves soon as I am eager to see all the sports action in the city getting back on track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/shadow-practice-at-pune-home-helps-this-india-sub-jr-girls-no-2-paddle-through-the-gloomy-lockdown/story-SPL9Y51P5a16fMajclivtL.html
10-04-2020||Delhi||City hospitals start giving HCQS to health care workers to protect them from Covid-19||Government hospitals across the city have started giving the antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQS) to doctors and health care workers in Covid-19 wards as prophylaxis (a medicine given to a person to prevent the onset of a disease). The Indian Council of Medical Research had recommended the drug for people at a “high-risk” of contracting the virus, such as close contacts of Covid-19 patients and health care workers taking care of Covid-19 patients. As on Wednesday, Delhi has reported 669 Covid-19 cases and nine deaths. “The scientific evidence that HCQS helps is not very strong. It is voluntary and we have circulated a message to those working in Covid-19 wards that the medicine is available and whosoever wants it, can get it from the administration,” Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said.The health care workers have to consume two 400mg tablets of HCQS on Day 0, followed by a tablet once every week for seven weeks, a doctor said.However, hospitals have also warned their staff about contraindications of the medicine.“We don’t know how effective the drug is in preventing the infection, but we do know that it is cardiotoxic, so we have warned that people with existing heart conditions should not take it,” Dr BL Sherwal, director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty hospital, which is treating the second highest number of Covid-19 patients in the city, said. The hospital has also started giving a combination of the antimalarial drug and antibiotic azithromycin to its critical patients. A French study published recently in the International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents found that a combination of the two may be effective against Covid-19.The doctors have, however, warned against people against indiscriminately consuming the medicine without a valid doctor’s prescription. “It is only recommended for those at a high risk of contracting the disease. We still do not know the effects of the drug. Not everyone should start buying and consuming it,” Dr Sherwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/city-hospitals-start-giving-hcqs-to-health-care-workers-to-protect-them-from-covid-19/story-wrbFBZf3jFhrpLnEcFA9IP.html
10-04-2020||World||UK expects first batch of 3 million paracetamol packets from India soon||The UK on Friday expressed its gratitude to the Indian government as a first batch of 3 million paracetamol packets is all set to arrive in Britain within 48 hours after New Delhi lifted its export ban amid the coronavirus pandemic.Lord Tariq Ahmad, the Minister of State for South Asia and the Commonwealth in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), said the shipment is symbolic of the cooperative way both countries have been working through this unprecedented global crisis.“The UK and India continue to work in close partnership to respond to the COVID-19 threat. My sincere thanks on behalf of the UK government to India for approving this important shipment,” Ahmad said.The shipment, set to arrive on a plane by Sunday, will coincide with a series of charter flights laid on by the UK government to ferry thousands of British residents stranded in India’s coronavirus lockdown.“We have been working very closely with the Indian authorities, here at the Indian High Commission in London, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), and at state level in India to put in place all the necessary requirements for British nationals wanting to return to the UK,” Ahmad said.“The sheer logistics of this exercise involves every individual who has registered on to our central database being sent detailed information about booking their seat on the flights as well as local support for them to be able to get to the airports in the particular states, given the lockdown and curfews in place,” he said.The travellers are set to be flown out from Goa, Mumbai, Delhi, Amritsar, Ahmedabad, Thiruvananthapuram via Kochi, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Chennai via Bengaluru over the coming week. They will be checked for any symptoms of the novel coronavirus before being allowed to board the charter flights and on landing in the UK, they will be subject to the same self-isolation and social distancing stipulations as other UK-based citizens, the FCO said.An estimated 21,000 British residents are currently in India, of which around 5,000 are set to be repatriated over this weekend and the next week with a total of 19 charter flights confirmed between the different cities of India back to London. Passengers are given a chance to book on to these flights at a standard 600-650 pound rate, with those facing financial difficulties given the opportunity to access an interest-free loan to be paid back over a six-month period.The British High Commission in New Delhi has said that it is prioritising the more vulnerable within the nationals registered on its database wanting to return to the UK. The charter flights announced so far are expected to make “serious inroads” into repatriating the large numbers stranded in India, with an end of April target set for getting the majority back to the UK.In reference to some calls for a possible passenger swap on these flights, for thousands of stranded Indians in the UK to be flown back to India by return journey, the UK government said that is a decision for the Indian authorities – given the ban on international flights in India. The FCO said in the spirit of cooperation it has announced a series of measures to assist the Indians caught up in the crisis in the UK, including an extension to any expiring visas until the end of May and steps to safeguard university accommodation for Indian students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-expects-first-batch-of-3-million-paracetamol-packets-from-india-soon/story-ik9AYCyXGiMyo6cWKSez0H.html
10-04-2020||World||From outbreak to pandemic: The WHO’s coronavirus response||The World Health Organization (WHO), attacked by the United States for its handling of the coronavirus outbreak, has published a blow-by-blow account of its actions from the first cases in China at the end of December up until the declaration of a pandemic on March 11.Here are key points of the WHO’s timeline covering the first 100 days of the coronavirus outbreak.- First cases in Wuhan -On December 31, 2019, China reported to the WHO a “cluster” of pneumonia cases “of unknown cause” in Wuhan, in the province of Hubei.Of a total of 44 cases, 11 patients were “severely ill”, the others stable.On January 1, the WHO activated a crisis group, putting the body “on an emergency footing for dealing with the outbreak”.On January 4, the WHO on social media reported a cluster of pneumonia cases “with no deaths”, in Wuhan. A day later, it published its first “Disease Outbreak News” destined for scientists and public health specialists on the new virus.On January 10, the WHO sent “technical guidance” with advice to all countries on how to detect, test and manage potential cases. Evidence at the time suggested “no or limited human-to-human transmission”, the WHO said.- Outside China -On January 11, China gave the WHO the genetic sequence of Covid-19.On January 13, Thailand reported the first imported case on its territory.On January 14, Maria von Kerkhove, Covid-19 technical lead at the WHO, told a press briefing that there “may have been limited human-to-human transmission”, based on 41 confirmed cases, and that there was the risk of a wider outbreak.On January 20 and 21, WHO experts from China and the western Pacific region went on a brief field visit to Wuhan.On January 22, the WHO mission to China said there was evidence of human-to-human transmission in Wuhan -- among close contacts such as families or in health care settings -- but that “more investigation is needed to understand the full extent of transmission”.On January 22 and 23, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus convened an emergency committee to assess whether the COVID-19 outbreak constituted a “public health emergency of international concern”.The committee, consisting of independent international experts, was unable to reach a consensus and asked to meet again 10 days later.On January 28, a WHO delegation travelled to Beijing, led by Tedros, who agreed with the Chinese government that an international team of scientists would be dispatched to China.- The road to pandemic -On January 30, the WHO declared Covid-19 to be “a public health emergency of international concern”.Between February 16 and 24, a scientific mission of experts from the US, China, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Nigeria, Russia, Singapore and Canada travelled to Wuhan.On February 24, a team of experts from the WHO and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control travelled to Italy, which became the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak after China.On March 11, the WHO designated Covid-19 as a pandemic.At that time, 90 percent of cases were declared in just four countries, according to the WHO, with 81 countries reporting no cases at all, and 57 countries reporting up to 10 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/from-outbreak-to-pandemic-the-who-s-coronavirus-response/story-me7rXDePphgAgPJ0kQw0eI.html
10-04-2020||World||New Ebola case in Congo days before outbreak’s expected end||A new case of the Ebola virus has been confirmed in eastern Congo, just three days before the country expected to declare an end to the outbreak, the World Health Organization said Friday.The new case was confirmed in Beni, a community which had been an epicenter of the second-deadliest Ebola outbreak in history.It had been nearly 42 days without a case, and WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the declaration had been planned for Monday. “We have been preparing for and expecting more cases,” he said, reflecting the caution that mixed with optimism in recent days.“I am so sad,” WHO Africa chief Matshidiso Moeti said in a tweet.Health workers in Congo had been awaiting the end of one global public health emergency — Ebola — while bracing for the arrival of another: the coronavirus.“We’ll just have to go for another 42 days,” or the required period of time without a case for the Ebola outbreak to be declared over, said Mike Ryan, the emergencies chief for the WHO.“Maybe that’s our lesson for COVID-19: There is no exit strategy until you’re in control of the situation,” Ryan said. “You must always be ready to start again … never be surprised.”The Ebola outbreak has claimed more than 2,260 lives — second to the 2014-2016 outbreak in West Africa.The current outbreak declared in August 2018 has occurred in especially challenging conditions amid deadly rebel attacks, community suspicion and some of the world’s weakest infrastructure in remote areas. Some Ebola responders were attacked and killed.“This is a devastating development for the communities in eastern (Congo) who are also under threat from the coronavirus outbreak, in addition to ongoing conflict and displacement,” Kate Moger, a regional vice president with the International Rescue Committee, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-dr-congo-ebola-case-emerges-just-before-epidemic-s-expected-end/story-at0joFaWklEo0xiyALC5RI.html
10-04-2020||World||WHO warns about dangers of premature lifting of Covid-19 restrictions||The World Health Organisation (WHO) warned countries on Friday to be cautious about lifting restrictions introduced to curb the spread of the new coronavirus.The WHO would like to see an easing, but at the same time “lifting restrictions could lead to a deadly resurgence,” Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a press conference.He said there had been a “welcome slowing” of epidemics in some European countries - Italy, Germany, Spain and France - but there had been an “alarming acceleration” in other countries including community transmission in 16 countries of Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-warns-about-dangers-of-premature-lifting-of-covid-19-restrictions/story-8b4nM9orOL57Zeugl5vQEO.html
10-04-2020||World||Singapore witnesses jump in coronavirus cases||Singapore reported almost 200 new coronavirus cases and one death Friday as a country previously seen as a model for tackling the disease battles a fast-moving second wave of infections.The city-state was among the first places to report Covid-19 cases after the virus emerged in China, but kept the outbreak under control with a strict regime of testing and contact-tracing.It has however seen a sharp surge in locally transmitted cases this month, prompting the government to impose tough curbs it had previously resisted, including the closure of most workplaces.On Friday health authorities reported 198 new cases and an additional death, taking the city-state’s total number of infections to 2,108 including seven fatalities. The figure is low by global standards -- the worldwide death toll is approaching 100,000 -- but observers say Singapore’s experience offers a warning to other countries to keep their guard up, even when it appears they have got on top of the crisis.Several places in Asia which kept cases down in the early stages of the outbreak are now facing a second wave as infected citizens return from overseas and local transmissions increase.Massive dormitory complexes housing mostly South Asian workers have emerged as infection hotspots in Singapore, with more than 500 cases so far reported at the sites. Authorities have quarantined several dorms housing tens of thousands of workers, and are moving a large number to other living quarters in a bid to reduce the chances of infection.Speaking Friday, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said: “We are paying close attention to the welfare of the foreign workers. “They came to Singapore to work hard for a living, and provide for their families back home.”sr/axn||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-witnesses-jump-in-coronavirus-cases/story-wwkxuj3oFEG3IvIsAomfhO.html
10-04-2020||World||WHO denies ignoring Taiwan early coronavirus warning||The World Health Organisation on Friday denied having brushed off a Taiwanese warning on human-to-human transmission of the new coronavirus soon after its outbreak in China late last year. The US has accused the body of “putting politics first” by ignoring Taiwan’s warning in late December, and thus helping Beijing conceal the pandemic’s gravity. President Donald Trump has threatened to withhold funding for the WHO, which is at the forefront of fighting the pandemic that has infected more than 1.5 million people worldwide since emerging in Wuhan, China. The United States said Thursday it was “deeply disturbed that Taiwan’s information was withheld from the global health community, as reflected in the WHO’s January 14, 2020 statement that there was no indication of human-to-human transmission”.But on Friday the Geneva-based UN body sent AFP an email in which it denied the charges. The WHO said it received an email on December 31 from Taiwanese authorities which mentioned “press reports of cases of atypical pneumonia in Wuhan and that Wuhan authorities believed “it was not SARS”, or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome which killed 774 people in 2002 and 2003. “There was no mention in this mail of human-to-human transmission,” the WHO maintained. The UN body said it had asked Taiwanese authorities to show how it “communicated to us” their suspicions about transmission, insisting “we are only aware of this single email which makes no mention of transmission between humans”. “But we have not received a response,” the WHO said. Its boss Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, who has urged world leaders “not to politicise the virus” has received the backing of UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres who said it was not the time to criticise an “essential organisation”. Relations between the WHO and Taiwan had been strained even before the pandemic but have deteriorated even further over the past three months. Critics of Tedros have accused the WHO under his leadership of being too close to Beijing and complimentary of China’s response to the coronavirus.Some public health experts say that the WHO had little choice but to cooperate with China to preserve access in Wuhan. China considers Taiwan -- a self-ruling democracy where the mainland’s defeated nationalists fled in 1949 -- to be a province awaiting reunification and has sought to exclude it from all international organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-denies-ignoring-taiwan-early-coronavirus-warning/story-uN5ebrCidDoOyUrXJ3tTUJ.html
10-04-2020||World||UK Covid-19 death toll nears 9,000; PM Boris out of ICU||Prime Minister Boris Johnson was described on Friday as being in “very good spirits” after being moved out of the intensive care unit of the St Thomas’ Hospital, as the death toll from the coronavirus pandemic in the UK neared 9,000.The UK-wide figure released on Friday evening was 8,958. However, the figure relates to those who passed away in hospitals and does not include those in retirement villages, care homes and hospices. There are concerns that the overall figure may be much higher.A Downing Street spokesman said on Friday evening: “The Prime Minister has been able to do short walks, between periods of rest, as part of the care he is receiving to aid his recovery.“He has spoken to his doctors and thanks the whole clinical team for the incredible care he has received. His thoughts are with those affected by this terrible disease.”Stanley Johnson, the prime minister’s father, expressed relief that his son is out of the ICU and wanted him to rest. His illness had “got the whole country to realise this is a serious event”, he told BBC.The government immediate concern is the prospect of people moving out of homes during the Easter holiday weekend, particularly as the weather is increasing warm and sunny.Health secretary Matt Hancock harped on the core message to people to stay at home at the daily briefing, cautioning that Easter will be a “test of the nation’s resolve. However warm the weather, however tempting the beach or park, we need everyone to stay at home”.“NHS staff are battling day and night to keep desperately sick people breathing and they need you to stay at home.”The police warned those breaking social distancing rules during the warm weekend that they can expect prosecution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-death-toll-crosses-8-000-pm-boris-out-of-icu/story-kkzMlcujyrhWcmSQ1uJuqI.html
10-04-2020||World||South Korea holds parliamentary polls amid Covid-19 pandemic||More than 450 South Koreans quarantined at special facilities for coronavirus patients started casting their ballots Friday, as the country kicked off early voting for next week’s general election. South Korea is among the first countries to hold a parliamentary election during the pandemic, with citizens still asked to maintain social distancing after enduring one of the worst early outbreaks of the virus. Seoul authorities set up polling stations at eight quarantine facilities nationwide -- provided for patients with mild symptoms -- so they can vote without having to leave the premises. At one such facility in the southern city of Gyeongju, patients queued to cast their ballots, spaced at least one metre (three feet) apart and wearing protective masks and disposable plastic coats. They were asked to wear plastic gloves after washing their hands with a sanitiser. Medical staff also voted.Polling station officials donned full-body protective gear, including goggles. Vice health minister Kim Gang-lip said Friday people who were under self-quarantine -- who are banned from leaving home during the early voting period -- would be able to vote on election day Wednesday with special time slots reserved for them. More than 5.3 million Koreans cast their ballots Friday -- the first day of the two-day early voting period -- in a record high early voter turnout, Yonhap news agency reported. South Korea was among the first countries to be hit by the virus outside China, where the coronavirus first emerged, and for a time had the world’s second-largest outbreak before it was largely brought under control through a widespread testing drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-holds-parliamentary-polls-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-uDuX7uJqgEEMREH3gtfxXN.html
10-04-2020||World||Saudi, Russia seek to finalise oil cuts in G20 talks, want US involved||Saudi Arabia, Russia and their allies will press Mexico on Friday to join an accord for collective oil production cuts equivalent to 10% of global supplies and will push the United States and other producers to remove a further 5%.The plan for cuts top the agenda for Friday’s video conference of energy ministers from the Group of 20 (G20) major economies, after Moscow, Riyadh and others in the OPEC+ group forged a deal in marathon talks on Thursday, only to have it stumble when Mexico balked at the initiative.Oil prices have plunged to their lowest in two decades as global measures to prevent the coronavirus spreading led to a collapse in demand for crude, at the same time as Moscow and Riyadh’s battle for market share produced a flood of extra oil.U.S. President Donald Trump had threatened OPEC leader Saudi Arabia, which hosts Friday’s call, with punitive steps if it did not fix the oversupply problems, which has hit budgets of oil producing nations and hammered higher-cost U.S. oil production.As OPEC+ sought to finalise its deal on cuts after 10 hours of talks via video link, Trump spoke by phone with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin and King Salman of Saudi Arabia.“We had a big talk as to oil production and OPEC and making it so that our industry does well and the oil industry does better than its doing right now,” Trump said.Mexico, which has long been in a standoff with Washington over Trump’s plan to build a wall between the two countries, cares less about low oil prices because of its unique hedging programme, which protects it against price falls.The G20 video conference, which will be joined by U.S. Energy Secretary Dan Brouillette, is due to start at 1200 GMT.Markets were closed on Friday for the extended Easter break in major centres. Brent oil prices closed on Thursday at about $32, half their level at the end of 2019 and finding little support despite the unprecedented cuts outlined by OPEC+. U.S. WTI prices closed below $23 per barrel, a level which drives most of the American oil industry into losses.OPEC+, which groups the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Russia and other allies, drew up plans for combined cuts of 10 million barrels per day (bpd) in May and June, with calls by OPEC+ officials for U.S. producers and others to cut a further 5 million bpd.Even if OPEC+ secures agreement on those curbs that will cut the equivalent of 15% of global production, it still leaves the market with a huge overhang of crude as demand has plunged by as much as 30%.PATCHING UP DIFFERENCESOil importing countries could offer some additional support during Friday’s talks by announcing extra purchases of crude for their strategic reserves, International Energy Agency Executive Director Fatih Birol said on Thursday.But there is only so much importers can buy when the world’s storage capacity on land and at sea is rapidly filling up.In a statement on Friday, Birol said he hoped the G20 talks would “help restore some much-needed stability to oil markets.”The crisis in the oil market has pushed Russia and Saudi Arabia to patch up differences after their acrimonious OPEC+ meeting in March where a dispute over how best to tackle falling prices led them to scrap their existing pact on production restraint that had helped balance the market for three years.The Kremlin said Thursday’s talks showed the desire to coordinate for “the stabilisation of the global oil trade situation and the mitigation of the negative impact from volatile oil prices on the global economy.”But a final push by OPEC+ to close the deal on Thursday tripped when Mexico refused to sign up to the plan under which it would cut about 400,000 bpd. Mexico said it had proposed a cut of 100,000 bpd.“This whole agreement is hinging on Mexico agreeing to it,” Saudi Energy Minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman told Reuters, adding he hoped it would “see the benefit of this agreement not only for Mexico but for the whole world.The deal envisaged all members reducing output by 23%, with Saudi Arabia and Russia each cutting 2.5 million bpd and Iraq cutting over 1 million bpd. Riyadh and Moscow agreed that their cuts would both be calculated from an October 2018 baseline of 11 million bpd, even though Saudi supplies surged to 12.3 million bpd this April.Under the plans, OPEC+ would ease cuts to 8 million bpd from July to December and relax them further to 6 million bpd between January 2021 and April 2022, OPEC+ documents showed. UBS said the cuts were still not enough because of a rapid decline in demand. It also said the effective cuts will be smaller than the headline number because the baseline used was from October 2018 levels, when overall production was higher.“We still see Brent falling to $20 per barrel or lower in the second quarter of 2020,” UBS said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-outbreak-saudi-russia-seek-to-finalise-oil-cuts-in-g20-talks-want-us-involved/story-cwfiJzbkslnnhVSyLleVzI.html
10-04-2020||World||What you need to know about the coronavirus right now||Here’s what you need to know about the coronavirus right now:The spread: 100,000 deathsIn all likelihood the Covid-19 illness associated with the new coronavirus will claim its 100,000th death during the next 24 hours. From the report of the first fatality in early January, it took a month to record 1,000 deaths and a further month to hit 10,000. That was just three weeks ago. The death toll now compares with that of London’s Great Plague in the mid-1660s, which killed an estimated 100,000 people, about a third of the city’s population at the time.But it is still far short of the so-called Spanish flu, which began in 1918 and is estimated to have killed more than 20 million people by the time it ended in 1920.A very European compromiseEurope’s finance ministers put the phone down on each other last night having achieved a compromise agreement on half a trillion euros’ worth of support for their coronavirus-battered economies - but left open the question of how to finance recovery in the bloc headed for a steep recession.The controversy over whether - as countries in southern Europe had sought - members of the eurozone could issue joint debt has also been left until another day.Relax? Don’tU.S. state and public health officials are doubling down on their message that Americans must resist the impulse to ease social separation measures at the first glimpse of progress now being seen in the coronavirus battle.Calls for heightened vigilance, countering talk from the Trump administration of reopening the economy next month, came as new evidence emerged that stay-at-home restrictions were working to flatten the arc of infections in New York state, the U.S. epicentre of the pandemic.Virtual EasterThis Easter weekend, chocolate-makers of the world will miss out on what is one of their biggest sales bonanzas of the year. With big family gatherings off limits, friends and relatives are unable to meet and hand over Easter egg treats, and chocolate makers’ online sites are struggling to keep up with demand for deliveries. Easter eggs are on sale in shops but those customers who do venture out have been focused more on stocking up on basics such as pasta and tinned food.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-you-need-to-know-about-the-coronavirus-right-now/story-aVGWKzBsoRHxt3SfgKFtgI.html
10-04-2020||World||Spain sees lowest daily toll in 17 days, with 605 deaths||Spain has recorded its lowest daily death toll from the new coronavirus in 17 days, with 605 people dying, the government said on Friday.The update raised the overall number of fatalities to 15,843 in Spain, which has suffered one of the worst outbreaks of Covid-19 in the world, and where the total number of confirmed cases now stands at 157,022.The figures showed the death rate slowing to four percent, down from just under four percent on Thursday in line with a trend which began on March 25 when it stood at over 27 percent. The rate of infection also slowed, with 4,576 new cases over the past 24 hours, while the number of people who recovered from the virus rose to 55,688. Although health chiefs say the pandemic has peaked, they have urged the population to pay strict attention to the ongoing national lockdown which was put in place on March 14 in order to slow the spread of the virus. The restrictions will remain in place until April 25 although the government has made clear it expects to announce another two-week extension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-sees-lowest-daily-toll-in-17-days-with-605-deaths/story-kozx4kCn4d2g1OdOYmINDN.html
10-04-2020||World||New York using mass graves amid Covid-19 outbreak: Report||Images have emerged of coffins being buried in a mass grave in New York City, as the death toll from the coronavirus outbreak continues to rise in the epicentre of the pandemic in the US, a media report said on Friday.The drone images come from Hart Island, off the Bronx in Long Island Sound, which has been used for more than 150 years by city officials as a mass burial site for those with no next-of-kin, or families who cannot afford funerals, said the BBC report.It is probable that many of the coffins are for coronavirus victims, but it was not clear whether they fall into the above categories.Burial operations at the site have ramped up amid the pandemic from one day a week to five days a week, according to the Department of Corrections.As of Friday, New York state now has more coronavirus cases than any single country. The state’s confirmed cases jumped by 10,000 on Thursday to 159,937, of whom 7,000 have died, the BBC reported.The US as a whole has recorded 466,299 cases, the highest in the world and 16,686 deaths. The news of the images have come after New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio had indicated earlier this week that “temporary burials” might be necessary until the crisis had passed. “Obviously the place we have used historically is Hart Island,” the BBC quoted the Mayor as saying.Stay-at-home orders have in the meantime closed non-essential businesses in 42 states, while drastically slowing the US economy.New data on Thursday showed unemployment claims topped 6 million for the second week in a row, bringing the number of Americans out of work over the last three weeks to 16.8 million.Chicago meanwhile imposed a curfew on liquor sales from 9 p.m. on Thursday to stop the persistent violation of a ban on large gatherings.The measure, due to remain in place until 30 April, comes after health officials this week said black Chicagoans account for half of all the Illinois city’s coronavirus cases and more than 70 per cent of its deaths, despite making up just 30 per cent of the population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-new-york-using-mass-graves-amid-covid-19-outbreak-report/story-CfPPh6OBgAqY6dKGCaiUBN.html
10-04-2020||World||Italy eyes lockdown extension to May 3||Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte was reportedly ready Friday to extend most measures of Italy’s month-long lockdown until early May in order to avoid a second coronavirus wave.Italy’s main newspapers said Conte will published a decree either Friday or Saturday prohibiting people from taking walks or lounging in parks until May 3.The reported decision followed days of consultations with government scientists and regional leaders.Italy’s death toll from the novel coronavirus has officially reached 18,279 since the end of February, the highest in the world.But daily rises in new infections have slowed dramatically and Italy is gradually approaching a point when the number of people officially suffering from COVID-19 might begin to drop.The Corriere della Serra newspaper said Conte will bow to growing pressure and allow a tiny number of businesses to reopen when the existing restrictions expire on April 13.These reportedly include book and stationery stores as well as lumber companies and factories that make agricultural machinery.The government and scientists reportedly view these as businesses with the least amount of human interaction.It will represent “a small, cautious, symbolic opening,” the Corriere della Serra wrote.“We do not have the conditions to restart thing now,” Conte reportedly told union and business leaders during a private videoconference on Thursday.Only grocery stores and pharmacies have been allowed to operate since a general lockdown began at the peak of the Mediterranean country’s outbreak on March 12.A study released by the Confcooperative small business lobby said the closures have left more half of Italy’s 1.3 million construction workers and over a third of the 11.4 million services sector employees furloughed.Government scientists have also been pushing for the ban on public gatherings to be extended as long as possible as a safety precaution.But Conte was now reportedly ready to let Italians freely leave their houses for the first time time in nearly two months on May 4.“If scientists confirm it, we might begin to relax some measures already by the end of this month,” he told the BBC on Thursday. (AFP) RS RS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-eyes-lockdown-extension-to-may-3/story-g4aUoPCFfT2iASO0s6bqfM.html
10-04-2020||World||Indian-origin Seema Malhotra, TS Dhesi in new Labour leader’s shadow cabinet||Labour leader Keir Starmer on Thursday appointed Seema Malhotra and Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi to his shadow cabinet to monitor the work of the Boris Johnson government, increasing the number of Indian-origin MPs in the frontline opposition team.Malhotra is MP from Feltham and Heston, while Dhesi is MP for Slough. They join Lisa Nandy and Preet Kaur Gill in the shadow cabinet, who were earlier appointed as shadow foreign secretary and shadow international development secretary respectively.Malhotra has been appointed shadow employment minister, while Dhesi, who is the first turban-wearing Sikh MP elected to the House of Commons, is shadow railway minister. Goa-origin Valerie Vaz continues in her role as the shadow leader of the House.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicStarmer said: “This is a new team that will take the Labour Party forward in a new era. Under my leadership, the Labour Party will be utterly focused on working in the national interest, rebuilding people’s trust in our party and winning the next election”.According to parliamentary rules, the shadow cabinet is the team of senior spokespeople chosen by the leader of the opposition to mirror the cabinet in government. Each member of the shadow cabinet is appointed to lead on a specific policy area for their party and to question and challenge their counterpart in the cabinet.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakIn this way the official opposition seeks to present itself as an alternative government-in-waiting, the rules state.Starmer, who promised to be a rallying figure in the party, defeated Nandy and Rebecca Long-Bailey in the leadership election that was triggered after Corbyn stepped down following the party’s fourth election loss in a row in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malhotra-dhesi-in-new-labour-leader-s-shadow-cabinet/story-KiJYVvfNymmwT5bXTh3yDI.html
10-04-2020||World||Wuhan rent protest shows unrest brewing in China after lockdown||Dozens of small shop owners protested outside one of Wuhan’s biggest shopping malls to demand a cut in rent, in one of the first signs of unrest since authorities lifted a lockdown at the epicenter of the coronavirus outbreak.Sitting down about one meter apart, the shop owners on Friday sat or kneeled outside the Grand Ocean Department Store, wearing masks and holding placards as police monitored. A day earlier they chanted “Exempt rental for a year, or refund the lease” in videos uploaded on the Chinese social media platform Sina Weibo that were quickly censored.“Can’t survive” said a sign held by one woman who rented a stall at Grand Ocean, which also called on the landlord to return the rent and security deposit during the period of the lockdown.The woman said the property developer in charge of the mall, which translates to World City, should exempt rent for them because 99% of protesters are small shop owners and they haven’t had any business since the virus outbreak. Most neighborhoods in the city are still facing string restrictions on movement and there’s little business traffic.Another protester said the government didn’t respond after their protest yesterday, and said the police had assaulted people on Wednesday. None of the protesters Bloomberg spoke with revealed their names due to concern of retribution.A woman who answered the phone at World City said they haven’t restarted work and couldn’t answer questions. A call to Grand Ocean’s general office was not answered.Hubei ClashesWuhan officially emerged on Wednesday from a mass quarantine put in place on Jan. 23. The strict restrictions helped China stem the outbreak of the deadly disease known as Covid-19, but it also led to a deep slump in investment and consumption that pushed the economy into its most dire situation in decades.The demonstration, however small, shows the challenges President Xi Jinping now faces in getting millions of people back to work all while preventing a second wave of infections. Early in the crisis, Xi warned the virus posed a threat to “social stability” in China, and since then he’s seen tensions flare both within the country and with the U.S., its main export market.The protest in Wuhan this week comes after earlier violent clashes on the border of surrounding Hubei province and neighboring Jiangxi province in late March. Scenes captured on videos posted on social media showed Hubei police clashing with officers from Jiangxi who wanted to keep the border closed.China has recently signaled its desire to deal with any signs of dissent harshly. Earlier this week, Chinese authorities placed outspoken property tycoon Ren Zhiqiang under investigation after a copy of an essay widely attributed to him criticizing the government’s virus response was circulated on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wuhan-rent-protest-shows-unrest-brewing-in-china-after-lockdown/story-6WT0OeeTX7LhPe4nRveLZN.html
10-04-2020||World||Top oil producers except Mexico agree to output cuts: OPEC||Major oil producers except Mexico agreed to cut output in May and June by 10 million barrels per day, OPEC said Friday, after marathon talks to counter a collapse in prices.The agreement, which reduces production to eight million bpd from July to December, depends on Mexico’s consent for it to take effect, the oil cartel said after a videoconference.The virtual meeting of OPEC countries and their OPEC+ allies including Russia, as well as other key non-members, began just after 1440 GMT on Thursday.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIt was seen as the best chance of providing support to prices, which have been wallowing near two-decade lows due to the coronavirus pandemic and a Saudi-Russian price war.Talks dragged on into the small hours of Friday. Bloomberg News reported that the main sticking point was the refusal of Mexico to sign up to its share of cuts under the deal, which would have been 400,000 barrels per day.Mexican Energy Minister Rocio Nahle Garcia tweeted that her country had suggested a cut of 100,000 barrels.Venezuela’s state oil company PDVSA said in an earlier statement that Caracas “supports the proposal of Saudi Arabia and Russia to reduce production by around 10 million barrels per day”.xClick here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakUS President Donald Trump had expressed optimism about the prospects for an agreement -- even as the talks appeared to be at an impasse.“I would say they are getting close to a deal. We will soon find out,” Trump told a press briefing at the White House at around 2230 GMT on Thursday.Trump was speaking fresh from a conference call with Russian President Vladimir Putin and Saudi leader Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman -- both countries being key players in the talks.At the beginning of the meeting, OPEC Secretary General Mohammad Barkindo warned that the rapid economic damage wrought by the virus meant the industry’s “supply and demand fundamentals are horrifying”.“Our industry is hemorrhaging; no-one has been able to stem the bleeding,” Barkindo said, bemoaning companies already filing for bankruptcy and tens of thousands of jobs that have been lost.Another virtual meeting is scheduled for June 10 “to determine further actions, as needed to balance the market”, OPEC said.“The extraordinary producing-countries meeting is the only hope on the horizon for the market that could prevent a total price collapse,” said Bjornar Tonhaugen, head of oil markets at Rystad Energy.Saudi Arabia will on Friday host a separate virtual gathering of energy ministers from the G20 group of major economies in a similar bid to ensure “market stability”.Oil prices have slumped since the beginning of the year as the COVID-19 pandemic sends large parts of the planet into lockdown and brings the global economy to a virtual standstill.Compounding the problem, Riyadh and Moscow have both ramped up output in a bid to hold on to market share and undercut US shale producers.“Saudi Arabia and Russia have been extremely clear that they will cut production if -- and only if -- other major oil producers join in as well,” said SEB oil analyst Bjarne Schieldrop.While the US is not in the OPEC or OPEC+ groups, it is supportive of a reduction in supply in order to stabilise prices and breathe new life into its shale industry.Shale has transformed the nation into the world’s top producer, but the industry cannot sustain its high cost base as prices collapse.Yet the US oil sector appears reluctant to trim production, having extracted a near-record 13 million barrels per day in the final week of March. This fell to 12.4 million bpd last week.At the same time, the global supply glut -- already weighing on oil markets before the new coronavirus crisis -- has stretched oil storage capacity to its limits, forcing many producers to scale back output.In his opening statement to the meeting carried by the Rossiya 24 channel, Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak welcomed the presence of several nations outside the OPEC+ alliance, namely Canada, Norway, Argentina, Colombia, Egypt, Indonesia, Chad, Ecuador and Trinidad and Tobago.The International Energy Agency warned Monday that the world is set for its first annual decline in oil consumption in more than a decade because of the pandemic.The outbreak has shut down large swathes of the global economy, including key sectors such as air travel, manufacturing and retail.The global oil glut could reach 25 million bpd in April, according to Rystad Energy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-oil-producers-except-mexico-agree-to-output-cuts-opec/story-AF3VlLUQSU4iuBA1tqzHsN.html
10-04-2020||World||Covid-19 update: Saudi-led ceasefire in Yemen begins, lifting hopes for peace||A nationwide ceasefire in response to the global coronavirus outbreak went into effect in Yemen on Thursday, raising hope for an end to the five-year-old war that has pushed millions to the brink of famine.A Saudi-led coalition fighting Yemen’s Houthi movement said it would halt military operations from 0900 GMT for two weeks in support of United Nations efforts to end the conflict that has killed more than 100,000 people.The Iran-aligned Houthi movement, which controls the capital Sanaa and most big urban centres, has yet to announce whether it will follow suit in what would be the first major breakthrough in peace efforts since late 2018.The coalition said its move is intended to facilitate talks sponsored by U.N. envoy Martin Griffiths for a permanent truce, motivated in part to avoid a potential outbreak of the new coronavirus, though no cases have been reported in Yemen.U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in a statement said Washington welcomed the ceasefire announcement and urged Houthis to respond in kind to the coalition’s initiative. He called on all parties to cooperate with Griffiths’ efforts for talks.In a statement, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres urged the Saudi-backed government and the Houthis to engage “in good faith and without preconditions” in the talks to agree a nationwide truce mechanism, humanitarian and economic confidence-building steps and a resumption of negotiations on a political settlement.“We are tired of the war,” said 49-year-old Abd al-Basset Muhammad, who owns a juice shop in the southern port of Aden, interim seat of the Saudi-backed government. “If the war hasn’t already killed you, you are dying of hunger or disease.” The conflict, widely seen in the region as a proxy war between Saudi Arabia and Iran, has been in military stalemate for years. Riyadh last year took over most of the costly and unpopular military campaign after coalition partner the United Arab Emirates significantly scaled down its presence.Some Saudis and Yemenis residing in the kingdom, where cities have been targeted by Houthi missiles, welcomed the news.“A lot of money was spent on the war. If there was no war, that money would be spent on education,” Saudi national Ammar Khaled told Reuters outside a supermarket in the capital Riyadh.A Houthi official said on Wednesday the group had sent the United Nations a proposal calling for an end to the war and what it describes as a coalition blockade. The coalition, which patrols the coast and controls airspace, denies imposing a blockade and says it aims to halt import of weapons.In the Yemeni capital, some remained sceptical. Engineer Abdulrahman al-Qadi said he saw no point in only a two-week ceasefire. Ahmed al-Nuwaira, a member of Sanaa’s parliament, agreed: “Let them (the coalition) open the airports, (humanitarian) corridors and ports,” he said. CORONAVIRUS FEARSThe United Nations and Western allies have pointed to the threat of the coronavirus to push the combatants to restart talks to end the war, which has shattered Yemen’s health system.The U.N. humanitarian coordinator in Yemen, Lise Grande, told Reuters at least half of Yemen’s population was in a “very degraded health status” while three quarters require some form of humanitarian assistance or protection.“There aren’t sufficient supplies, capabilities, facilities. If the virus spreads the impact will be catastrophic,” she said. The warring parties last held U.N.-sponsored political negotiations in Sweden in 2018. They agreed a peace deal for the Red Sea port city of Hodeidah, but this has yet to be fully implemented because of deep mistrust on all sides.Yemen witnessed a lull in hostilities after Saudi Arabia and the Houthis began back-channel talks late last year. But there has been a recent increase in attacks, including Houthi missile launches at Saudi cities and retaliatory coalition air strikes.“We cannot control a global pandemic amongst bombs and airstrikes,” said Tamuna Sabedze, International Rescue Committee’s Yemen country director.Two weeks was not enough time to prepare for any coronavirus outbreak, she said. The Houthis ousted the government of Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi from power in Sanaa in late 2014, prompting the coalition to intervene in March 2015 to restore him. The Houthis say they are fighting a corrupt system. (Reporting by Muhammad Ghobari, Reuters TV teams in Yemen and Saudi Arabia, Lisa Barrington and Aziz El Yaakoubi; Writing by Lisa Barrington; Editing by Ghaida Ghantous, Peter Graff, Timothy Heritage and Daniel Wallis)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-saudi-led-ceasefire-in-yemen-begins-lifting-hopes-for-peace/story-GUhP7kT5vfHvzQxkQMCGSK.html
10-04-2020||World||‘We can get creative’: Pope guides locked-down world through virtual Easter||Church doors will be shut and the Vatican sealed off when Pope Francis leads 1.3 billion Catholics in Easter Sunday celebrations held under a worldwide coronavirus lockdown.Fear and confusion in the face of a disease whose toll has unrelentingly climbed towards 100,000 are reshaping society and transforming the way religion is observed.Even such hallowed traditions as the pope’s messages to the faithful on Saint Peter’s Square are being replaced by livestreamed prayers that Francis reluctantly records from the seclusion of his private library.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Vatican has been closed to visitors for a month and the 83-year-old pontiff -- beloved for breaking stuffy customs and mingling with the people -- has complained of feeling “caged”.“We have to respond to our confinement with all our creativity,” Francis said in an interview published by several Catholic newspapers this week.“We can either get depressed and alienated... or we can get creative.” RELIGIOUS IMPROVISATIONThe pope’s virtual prayers are just the starkest example of religious improvisation in the age of social distancing and confinement.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakOthers abound worldwide -- from the Archbishop of Panama blessing his tiny Central American nation from the air in a helicopter to the faithful in Spain blasting religious music from their balconies during Holy Week.The scale of the unfolding tragedy has seen a New York City cathedral replace rows of wooden seats with hospital beds in case of overcrowding in surrounding emergency wards.The powerful Catholic Church in the Philippines is urging the faithful not to kiss the cross and its Orthodox counterpart in Greece is planning to hold mass behind closed doors for its Easter on April 19.“Seven out of 10 Greeks enjoy roasting lamb for Easter,” Greek meat trader Angelos Asteriou told AFP in Paris.“That’s not happening this year.”Jews across the world did their best by using Zoom or other video conferencing apps to “seder-in-place” when the eight-day Passover holiday kicked off on Wednesday evening.Westminster Abbey in London is following the technological trend by releasing Easter podcasts for the faithful of the Anglican Church.Prince Charles -- the heir to the British throne who was briefly quarantined last month after testing positive for the virus -- recorded a reading of the Gospel for Easter Sunday.And priests at France’s Roman Catholic shrine in the southwestern town of Lourdes began relaying nine consecutive days of prayers on Sunday by Facebook Live and YouTube.“Since the pilgrims can no longer come to us, we invite ourselves into their homes,” Sanctuary of Lourdes rector Olivier Ribadeau Dumas said.‘SAINTS NEXT DOOR’The pope himself previously observed Holy Thursday service marking Christ’s last supper -- most famously depicted by Leonardo da Vinci in a mural housed in Milan -- by washing the feet of 12 inmates on the outskirts of Rome.The virus has now made this impossible.Francis instead said a prayer for the dozens of priests and health workers who have died across Italy while attending to the sick since the outbreak began in the Mediterranean country’s north in February.“They are the saints next door, the priests who gave their lives by serving,” Francis said.The Argentine-born pontiff has reportedly been tested twice for COVID-19 since coming down with a cold at the end of February.He has enjoyed a life of good health despite losing part of a lung as a young man and suffering from sciatica -- a nerve condition that causes pain in his hip.Francis told the Catholic newspapers that people across the world can try to spiritually escape their confinement through introspection.“So: to be in lockdown, but yearning, with that memory that yearns and begets hope,” the pope said.“This is what will help us escape our confinement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-can-get-creative-pope-guides-locked-down-world-through-virtual-easter/story-4hxWduAoQ4HlLQHnnGXFMP.html
10-04-2020||World||Saudi, Russia outline record oil cut under US pressure as demand crashes||OPEC, Russia and other allies outlined plans on Thursday to cut their oil output by more than a fifth and said they expected the United States and other producers to join in their effort to prop up prices hammered by the coronavirus crisis.But the group, known as OPEC+, said a final agreement was dependent on Mexico signing up to the pact after it balked at the production cuts it was asked to make. Discussions among top global energy ministers will resume on Friday.The planned output curbs by OPEC+ amount to 10 million barrels per day (bpd) or 10% of global supplies, with another 5 million bpd expected to come from other nations to help deal with the deepest oil crisis in decades.Global fuel demand has plunged by around 30 million bpd, or 30% of global supplies, as steps to fight the virus have grounded planes, cut vehicle usage and curbed economic activity.An unprecedented 15 million bpd cut still won’t remove enough crude to stop the world’s storage facilities quickly filling up. And far from signalling any readiness to offer support, US President Donald Trump has threatened Saudi Arabia if it did not fix the oil market’s problem of oversupply.Trump, who has said US output was already falling due to low prices, warned Riyadh it could face sanctions and tariffs on its oil if it did not cut enough to help the US oil industry, whose higher costs have left it struggling with low prices.A White House aide said Trump held a call with Russian President Vladimir Putin and King Salman of Saudi Arabia about the talks, after a US official said the OPEC+ move towards cuts sent an “important signal” to the market.Officials from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and Russia have said the scale of the crisis required involvement of all producers.“We are expecting other producers outside the OPEC+ club to join the measures, which might happen tomorrow during G20,” the head of Russia’s wealth fund and one of Moscow’s top oil negotiators, Kirill Dmitriev, told Reuters.Thursday’s OPEC+ talks will be followed by a call on Friday between energy ministers from the Group of 20 (G20) major economies, hosted by Saudi Arabia.OPEC and Russian sources said they expected other producers to add 5 million bpd to cuts, although an OPEC+ statement on Thursday made no mention of any such condition.Brent oil prices, which hit an 18-year low last month, were trading around $32 a barrel on Thursday, half their level at the end of 2019.US DILEMMAOPEC+ would cut output by 10 million bpd in May to June, OPEC+ documents showed. All members would reduce output by 23%, with Saudi Arabia and Russia each cutting 2.5 million bpd and Iraq cutting over 1 million bpd.Under the plans, OPEC+ would then ease cuts to 8 million bpd from July to December and relax them further to 6 million bpd from January 2021 to April 2022, the documents showed.The United States, whose output has surged to surpass Saudi and Russian production, was invited to Thursday’s OPEC+ talks but it was not clear if it had joined the video conference. Brazil, Norway and Canada were also invited.US officials have already said US output would fall naturally over two years but have not committed to any cuts.In a sign OPEC+ was struggling to win broader support, Canada’s main oil province of Alberta said output had already dropped and that it had not been asked by OPEC for more cuts. The province said it backed a US idea for tariffs on imported crude.Before the talks, Moscow and Riyadh had been at odds over what level of production to use to calculate reductions, after Saudi Arabia hiked its supply in April to a record 12.3 million bpd, up from below 10 million bpd in March. Russian output, meanwhile, has been running about 11.3 million bpd.The two nations fell out during an acrimonious meeting in Vienna in March, when a previous production deal collapsed.The two sides agreed on Thursday that cuts would be made from an 11 million bpd baseline for both countries, OPEC+ documents showed.“We have managed to overcome differences. It will be a very important deal. It will allow the oil market to start on a path to recovery,” said Dmitriev, who last month was the first official to propose a deal involving members other than OPEC+.Several US states could order private companies to limit production under rarely used powers. The oil regulator in Texas, the largest producer among US states with output of about 5 million bpd, meets on April 14 to discuss possible curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-russia-outline-record-oil-cut-under-us-pressure-as-demand-crashes/story-o7wl31WA0TXW5mA9u11rxH.html
10-04-2020||World||Canada flags report on terror||Canada’s law enforcement establishment has circulated a US intelligence report that says terrorists could “exploit” the stress placed on the public safety system in countering the pandemic, to attack supermarkets and hospitals.The report pointed to chatter on social media from some terrorist elements pushing for targeting stores owned by people of “Indian descent”.The alert was issued by the National Counterterrorism Centre in America, and formed part of a security advisory from the US rail industry. The existence of this document, which has been distributed in Canada by the First Responder Terrorism Awareness Program of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police or RCMP, was first reported by the Canadian outlet Global News.Meanwhile, Canada’s PM Justin Trudeau came out of self-isolation after 25 days and chaired a cabinet meeting. He warned that the government is unable to predict when the pandemic will peak in the country. Trudeau had been in a self-isolation in Ottawa since his wife Sophie Gregoire had tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-flags-report-on-terror/story-q2kYqpK6Rqj7HCo6e9dbRK.html
10-04-2020||World||At UNSC meet, the US spotlights origin of Covid-19 in swipe at Beijing||At the UN Security Council’s virtual meeting on the coronavirus pandemic late on Thursday, the United States called for “science-based data collection and analysis of the origins, characteristics and spread of the virus”.“We cannot stress enough how important these methods are,” Ambassador Kelly Kraft told the security council at its first closed-door meeting to discuss the pandemic that has killed 90,000 and infected 1.5 million people across 200 countries.Ambassador Kelly Craft’s reference on the origin of the virus echoes a point that US President Donald Trump and his administration has frequently made, variously labelling the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen the “Chinese Virus” to underscore that it was spotted in the Chinese city of Wuhan and message that Beijing should have acted faster to warn the world.China has blocked the pandemic from being discussed by the UN Security Council for all of March when it held the UNSC president’s post, arguing that the pandemic was not within its mandate.Washington, on the other hand, insisted that any council action refer to the origins of the virus, much to the annoyance of China. US President Trump had set the tone for his administration’s stand at Thursday’s council meeting this week when he put the World Health Organisation on notice, calling it “China centric” and giving the US bad advice.“The United States reiterates today the need for complete transparency and the timely sharing of public health data and information within the international community. The most effective way to contain this pandemic is through accurate, science-based data collection and analysis of the origins, characteristics, and spread of the virus,” Ambassador Kelly Craft said early in her remarks on the disease.China’s UN Ambassador Zhang Jun, according to news agency Reuters, told the Security Council that it should reject any acts of stigmatization and politicisation. The UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, who briefed the council about the pandemic, described it as the “gravest test” since the UN was founded 75 years ago.The secretary-general reiterated that the United Nations faces “its gravest test” since the organization was founded 75 years ago from the pandemic and concluded saying: “This is the fight of a generation — and the raison d’être of (the reason for) the United Nations itself.”The council had met on Thursday at the request of nine of the elected members. After the meeting the council issued a short statement, agreed by consensus, which expressed support for Guterres’ efforts concerning “the potential impact of Covid-19 pandemic to conflict-affected countries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-unsc-meet-the-us-spotlights-origin-of-covid-19-in-swipe-at-beijing/story-SFObtDYas43W5XKZbm7vKK.html
10-04-2020||World||Covid-19 and the $90tn question: How to get people to return to work?||Officials from Rome to Washington are mapping out plans to loosen lockdowns and reboot their economies. Trouble is, there’s no master plan.The juggling act for policy makers will be to reopen without triggering a second wave of infections. History serves as a warning. The 1918 Spanish Flu pandemic hit in three waves before finally being contained.Wuhan, the original epicentre of the outbreak, provides a test case after China lifted its quarantine. Austria, Denmark and Norway are on course to open up.Even Italy, which has the highest death toll from the disease, has been weighing its exit strategy after a moderating trend in infections. And in the US, Donald Trump is talking about getting people back to work.As leaders prepare to tackle phase two of the pandemic - the gradual reopening of the world’s shattered economy - the stakes could scarcely be higher. With planes grounded, supply chains ruptured and factories idled, the $90 trillion global economy is enduring one of its worst shocks since the Great Depression.Unfortunately, there’s no off-the-shelf plan for governments to decide when to rev up the economic engines.“We have to reopen somehow. We can’t go in shutdown mode for 20 months,” said Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy and professor at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis. “If we shut down like Wuhan, we destroy society as we know it. If we allow the virus to run willy nilly, we will destroy our health-care system and the economy with it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-and-the-90tn-question-how-to-get-people-to-return-to-work/story-cDEldqlzc5mUseCLh9sexH.html
10-04-2020||World||Coronavirus crisis could plunge half a billion people into poverty: Report||The fallout from the coronavirus spread that has killed more than 83,000 people and wreaked havoc on economies around the world could push around half a billion people into poverty, Oxfam said on Thursday.The report released by the Nairobi-based charity ahead of next week’s IMF-World Bank annual meeting calculated the impact of the crisis on global poverty due to shrinking household incomes or consumption.“The economic crisis that is rapidly unfolding is deeper than the 2008 global financial crisis,” the report found. “The estimates show that global poverty could increase for the first time since 1990,” it said, adding that this could throw some countries back to poverty levels last seen some three decades ago.The report authors played through a number of scenarios, taking into account the World Bank’s various poverty lines.Under the most serious scenario - a 20% contraction in income - the number of people living in extreme poverty would rise by 434 million people to 922 million worldwide. The same scenario would see the number of people living below the $5.50 a day threshold rise by 548 million people to nearly 4 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-crisis-could-plunge-half-a-billion-people-into-poverty-report/story-uadI8xt36ETreUEGEHTEFI.html
10-04-2020||World||Coronavirus cases hit 1.5 million, deaths near 100k||The coronavirus pandemic notched up another round of record death tolls in the US and Europe, dousing the optimism of American President Donald Trump who insisted there was light at the end of the tunnel.The virus has now killed more than 92,000 people and infected over 1.5 million, sparing almost no country and tipping the world into a devastating crisis as global commerce shudders to a halt.While the US and the UK continued to report a high number of deaths and cases, France saw its number of dead go past 10,000 as the country prepared to extend its lockdown measures. Spain reported 446 new deaths and Italy confirmed 610 new fatalities as the two countries continue to bear the brunt. In Italy, which is now planning to extend its lockdown until May 3, about 100 doctors have died since the pandemic reached the country in February.The pandemic is marching into areas previously only lightly affected: in Africa, Ethiopia declared a state of emergency and Liberia said it was locking down its capital Monrovia.Its deadly tentacles also crept deep into the Amazon rainforest, with the first case detected among the Yanomami, an indigenous people isolated from the world until the mid-20th century and vulnerable to disease.Also on Thursday, the US accused the World Health Organization (WHO) of putting politics first by ignoring Taiwanese warnings over China’s coronavirus outbreak, laying out its case against the UN body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-cases-hit-1-5-million-deaths-near-100k/story-Iv3hxKWNv5fHIwy6HbksPP.html
10-04-2020||World||Covid-19 update: World should brace for worst economic fallout since Great Depression, says IMF chief||The global coronavirus pandemic has inflicted an economic crisis unlike any in the past century and will require a massive response to ensure recovery, IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva said Thursday.The warnings about the damage inflicted by the virus already were stark, but Georgieva said the world should brace for “the worst economic fallout since the Great Depression.”With nearly 89,000 deaths in 192 countries and territories and the number of cases now surpassing 1.5 million worldwide, much of the global economy has been shut down to contain the spread of the virus.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The International Monetary Fund expects “global growth will turn sharply negative in 2020,” with 170 of the fund’s 180 members experiencing a decline in per capita income, Georgieva said.Just a few months ago, the fund was expecting 160 countries to see rising per capita income, she said in a speech previewing next week’s spring meetings of the IMF and World Bank, which will be held virtually due to the restrictions imposed due to the Covid-19.‘It could get worse’Even in the best-case scenario, the IMF expects only a “partial recovery” next year, assuming the virus fades later in 2020, allowing normal business to resume as the lockdowns imposed to contain its spread are lifted.But she added this ominous caution: “It could get worse.”There is “tremendous uncertainty around the outlook” and the duration of the pandemic, Georgieva said.The IMF will release its latest World Economic Outlook on Tuesday, with grim forecasts for its members this year and next. In January, the IMF projected global growth of 3.3 percent this year and 3.4 percent in 2021. But that was a different world.Also read: India sets up 1,200 Covid-19 containment zones; Maharashtra tops this listThe US economy has purged 17 million jobs since mid-March, with the latest weekly data issued Thursday showing 6.6 million workers filed for unemployment benefits, and economists projecting a double-digit jobless rate this month.The World Bank said Thursday the pandemic might cause the first recession in Africa in 25 years.Researchers at the Institute for International Finance (IIF), a global banking association, expect a 2.8 percent plunge in global GDP, compared to a decline of 2.1 percent in 2009 during the global financial crisis. That is a sharp reversal from October, when the IIF predicted 2.6 percent growth.Recovery depends on decisive actions now, Georgieva said. The IMF has $1 trillion in lending capacity and is responding to unprecedented calls from 90 countries for emergency financing.Send more lifelinesCountries already have taken steps worth a combined $8 trillion, but Georgieva urged governments to do more.“Lifelines for households and businesses are imperative” to “avoid a scarring of the economy that would make the recovery so much more difficult.”The IMF board approved a doubling of emergency lending facilities that will provide about $100 billion, and is moving ahead with debt relief for the poorest countries and also help for countries with unsustainable debt levels.“The bleak outlook applies to advanced and developing economies alike. This crisis knows no boundaries. Everybody hurts,” Georgieva said.Also read: Coronavirus may not go away in warmer weather, says US reportShe noted that about $100 billion in investments already had fled emerging markets -- more than three times the capital exodus seen in the 2008 global financial crisis.US officials have scrambled to apply a tourniquet to stem the bleeding of jobs in the world’s largest economy and keep the financial system from freezing up. The Federal Reserve rolled out another series of lending programs Thursday totaling $2.3 trillion to help small and medium businesses as well as state and local governments facing cash shortages.The US is moving “with alarming speed” from unemployment near a 50-year low, to a “very high” rate, Fed chair Jerome Powell said in a speech Thursday.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageAnd like Georgieva, he indicated the US government will have to provide more direct support, since the Fed is limited to lending to solvent entities.“All of us are affected, but the burdens are falling most heavily on those least able to carry them,” Powell said.But he also tried to offer some reassurance, saying the US economic rebound could be “robust.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-world-should-brace-for-worst-economic-fallout-since-great-depression-says-imf-chief/story-CPHJGo77xt0u1ARI6h66iP.html
10-04-2020||World||Coronavirus update: New York reports record 824 Covid-19 deaths in 24 hours despite flattening curve||New York City reported a record 824 deaths from the coronavirus in 24 hours, a grim reminder that despite flattening infection curves and lower hospital admissions, the health crisis in the largest US city is far from over.Statewide, the fatality rate has worsened by the day. New York reported 799 new deaths on Thursday, on top of about 1,500 in the prior two days. Total coronavirus deaths in the state now exceed 7,000.The city and state take snapshots of the virus’s effects at different times of day, which may partly account for why the city reported more deaths than the state did. A spokesman for the governor, Rich Azzopardi, said the city and state were working to come up with a unified reporting system to eliminate their discrepancies.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The latest spike in deaths, which lag as an indicator of the virus’s spread, comes as the rate of hospitalizations in the city and state is dropping sharply.At his daily virus briefing on Thursday, Governor Andrew Cuomo said there had been only 200 net new hospitalizations over 24 hours, the lowest number since the crisis broke out. That number had been as high as 1,400 just a week ago. Likewise, the rate of new intensive-care admissions and intubations -- when patients are put on a ventilator -- also plummeted.But New York State also reported more than 10,600 new positive cases on Wednesday, a second day above 10,000 after multiple days when the number was trending downward. At more than 159,000 infections, New York’s cases have now eclipsed those of Spain and Italy. It’s unknown how many people have been infected but never tested.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayAbout 18,000 people in the state are hospitalized for the virus. If New York is indeed reaching a plateau, the statistics suggest that the state will need far less hospital capacity than it raced to build at the onset of the crisis.After early models predicted a wave as big as 135,000 coronavirus patients, New York nearly doubled its hospital capacity to about 90,000 beds, with hospitals filling hallways, lobbies and conference rooms with them. If the spread continues to slow, the question may become what to do with the excess capacity the state no longer needs.That wasn’t a question Cuomo was prepared to answer on Thursday, saying it was too early to begin making such assessments.“I don’t want to get into a retrospective when we’re in the middle of the game,” Cuomo said. But he added: “The expert models were all off.”He urged New Yorkers to continue practicing social distancing, noting that the curve could begin trending up again if people become complacent and that the state needed to prepare for potential additional waves of the virus.“We’re in a battle right, but this is about a war,” Cuomo said.Also read: India gears up to begin plasma therapy trialsMayor Bill de Blasio said Thursday that the apparent flattening of the infection curve might mean that the city could reach a second phase as early as June that would relax restrictions on movement outside the home. That would require much wider testing and continued adherence to some level of social distancing, he said.The mayor gave no estimates for when, or under what conditions, businesses, schools, courts, restaurants or theaters could reopen.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “If we do things right and get testing we can make steady progress,” de Blasio said. “If we don’t do things right or get thrown a curve ball we may have to tighten restrictions further.”The city death toll reached 4,426 on Thursday morning, up from more than 3,600 the previous day. Confirmed cases totaled roughly 84,000, up about 6,400 from 24 hours earlier.As the caseloads stabilize and then decrease, city officials plan to isolate mildly symptomatic patients in hotel rooms while they fight off the virus to prevent them from infecting others in their households, de Blasio said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-new-york-reports-record-824-covid-19-deaths-in-24-hours-despite-flattening-curve/story-wg4z4Bq2Y45amnLIzZ5lBI.html
10-04-2020||World||US threatens to block China Telecom from serving American market||The top departments of the US government have endorsed cutting off Beijing-controlled China Telecom from serving the US market because of legal and security risks, the Justice Department announced Thursday.The departments, including Defense, State, and Homeland Security, said after a broad review that the Federal Communications Commission should “revoke and terminate” all authorizations for the Chinese giant’s US subsidiary, China Telecom (Americas), to provide international telecommunications services to and from the United States.“The Executive Branch agencies identified substantial and unacceptable national security and law enforcement risks associated with China Telecom’s operations, which render the FCC authorizations inconsistent with the public interest,” the Justice Department said in a statement.The agencies -- which also included the Justice Department, the Commerce Department, the US Trade Representative and US counter-intelligence -- said China Telecom is vulnerable to “exploitation, influence and control” by the Chinese government. They said it has inaccurately reported to US authorities where it stores its US records and how it manages cybersecurity.The agencies also made the recommendation based on “the nature of China Telecom’s US operations,” which they said allow Chinese government actors “to engage in malicious cyber activity enabling economic espionage and disruption and misrouting of US communications.” The recommendation has to be decided upon by the FCC, but will almost certainly involve the White House, where it could be weighed amid ongoing trade negotiations with Beijing. It came just five days after President Donald Trump’s administration formed an interdepartmental body to formally review national security concerns related to foreign telecommunications companies involved in the United States.In September 2019 two senators, Democrat Chuck Schumer and Republican Tom Cotton, asked the FCC to consider banning China Telecom and another company, China Unicom, from the US market over national security concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-threatens-to-block-china-telecom-from-serving-american-market/story-sVfqsB65TNvXRiUJMeqt6I.html
10-04-2020||World||‘You’re a third-rate reporter’: Trump’s Covid-19 press briefings appal citizens||“Nasty,” Donald Trump calls one reporter, “third-rate,” he brands another. The US president seems to loathe journalists but at his tempestuous coronavirus press conferences he just keeps coming back for more.Every day for weeks now, Trump has spent up to two hours of primetime television delivering his unique blend of insults, jokes and cheerful boasts.The briefings began as a way to inform an anxious nation on the COVID-19 emergency, turning health officials, like infectious diseases specialist Anthony Fauci, into household names. The usually bland vice president Mike Pence has won respect for his calm but unvarnished updates on the numbers of the sick and dead.Sooner or later, though, the events were bound to become all about this most limelight-loving of presidents. And it was sooner.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicTrump made himself lead actor, director and producer in the latest version of a reality TV show he has been playing much of his life -- the omnipotent, irascible chief executive.In some ways it seems to have worked. Ratings have been as high, Trump likes to quote from a newspaper report, as the finale to “The Bachelor” reality show.However, many of those viewers must have included Americans simply hoping for information on the pandemic -- a captive audience.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakBy Thursday, even the pro-Republican editorial board of The Wall Street Journal had had enough, urging Trump to leave the briefings to experts and to keep himself mostly away.“A friend of ours who voted for President Trump sent us a note recently saying that she had stopped watching,” the editorialists wrote in a drily devastating review.“Why? Because they have become less about defeating the virus and more about the many feuds of Donald J. Trump.” “Fake News!” Trump tweeted furiously back at the The Wall Street Journal.But coincidentally or not, on Thursday evening he for the first time left his briefing after around only 20 minutes. The sober experts stayed to give the bulk of the presentation -- just as the Journal had recommended.‘Thank you Mr President’At least until Thursday’s curtailed episode, the briefings follow a careful choreography, all designed to magnify Trump.When officials do get to the microphone, the first thing they do is give praise. This is just a recent smattering:“As the president said so well,...”“I just want to begin by thanking President Trump.”“Another example of the bold leadership of President Trump.”“Great to see countries of the world rally behind President Trump.”Things aren’t quite so ardent between Trump and the journalists.Trump’s media bashing is nothing new. But in a room with only a handful of reporters allowed due to social distancing measures, the presidential aggression gets very personal.“You’re a third-rate reporter and what you just said is a disgrace, OK?” Trump told ABC News correspondent Jonathan Karl.Trump called other reporters “nasty” and “terrible.” He cautioned yet another to “be nice. Don’t be threatening.”Trump even lashed out at the Fox News correspondent for asking a tough question, apparently wondering why the reporter was not throwing softballs, as the network’s overtly pro-Trump hosts do.“I thought you were with Fox,” he said.It gets weirderWhether Trump truly loathes journalists is a matter of speculation.As a veteran self-publicist, he revels above all in maximum exposure. He speaks to reporters far more often than typical predecessors in the Oval Office.Trump can also count on a friendly question or two from fringe right-wing cable outlets like OANN, which have an increasingly strong presence in the briefing room.“They treat me very nicely,” Trump recently told the OANN’s reporter, before she even began her question.At another briefing, the new correspondent for a rival conservative network, Newsmax, turned out to be none other than Sean Spicer -- a former Trump spokesman.But there are softball questions and then there are the plain bizarre, leaving both reporters and Trump’s staff, waiting near the podium, in disbelief.At a briefing this Wednesday, it was time for the latter: a New York Post reporter wanting to know if Trump would pardon the convicted murderer/zoo keeper star of Netflix hit “Tiger King.”Forgotten was the raging pandemic. Forgotten were the millions of newly unemployed Americans. Forgotten were arguments over whether Trump dealt well or badly with an unprecedented crisis.It was time to banter about “Joe Exotic” and Trump joking -- presumably -- that he’d “look into” the pardon idea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/you-re-a-third-rate-reporter-trump-s-covid-19-press-briefings-appal-citizens/story-Izzg6wDFyBlKH0PVMu9pHK.html
10-04-2020||World||Covid-19: US criticizes WHO for ignoring Taiwan’s virus warnings||The United States on Thursday accused the World Health Organization of putting politics first by ignoring early coronavirus warnings by Taiwan, which voiced outrage over criticism from the UN body’s chief. President Donald Trump has gone on an offensive with threats to withhold funding for the WHO, which is at the forefront of fighting the pandemic that has infected more than 1.5 million people worldwide since emerging in Wuhan, China late last year.Critics say that Trump’s sudden threats against the WHO amount to a political ploy to find a foreign scapegoat as he comes under fire for not doing more to prepare for and control COVID-19, which has killed about 15,000 people in the United States.Trump himself said in January that the United States had the coronavirus “totally under control” and predicted it may go away in April as temperatures rise.Elaborating on Trump’s case against the WHO, the State Department said the WHO was too late in sounding the alarm over COVID-19 and overly deferential to China. It questioned why the Geneva-based body did not pursue a lead from Taiwan.The United States is “deeply disturbed that Taiwan’s information was withheld from the global health community, as reflected in the WHO’s January 14, 2020 statement that there was no indication of human-to-human transmission,” a State Department spokesperson said.“The WHO once again chose politics over public health,” she said, criticizing the WHO for denying Taiwan even observer status since 2016.The WHO’s actions have “cost time and lives,” the spokesperson said.Taiwan, which has succeeded in limiting the virus to just five deaths despite the island’s proximity and ties with China, warned the WHO on December 31 of human-to-human transmission, Vice President Chen Chien-Jen has said.Chen, an epidemiologist, told the Financial Times that Taiwanese doctors had learned that colleagues in Wuhan were falling ill but that the WHO did not work to confirm the finding.China considers Taiwan -- a self-ruling democracy where the mainland’s defeated nationalists fled in 1949 -- to be a province awaiting reunification and has sought to exclude it from all international organizations.Taiwan decries ‘slander’ WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, in an appeal Wednesday for unity, said that he had been subjected to insults including racial slights since the public health crisis began.The Ethiopian doctor turned diplomat did not mention the United States -- the largest donor to the WHO at more than $400 million last year -- but singled out non-member Taiwan.“Three months ago, this attack came from Taiwan,” Tedros told reporters in Geneva, referring to online criticism and insults.“Taiwan, the foreign ministry also, they know the campaign. They didn’t disassociate themselves. They even started criticizing me in the middle of all that insult and slur, but I didn’t care,” Tedros said.The comments sparked anger in Taiwan, which described Tedros’ comments as “baseless” and said it was seeking an apology for “slander.”“Our country has never encouraged the public to launch personal attacks against him or made any racially discriminatory comments,” foreign ministry spokeswoman Joanne Ou told reporters on Thursday.In a Facebook post, President Tsai Ing-wen invited Tedros to visit Taiwan and learn from its handling of the epidemic, challenging him to “resist pressure from China.” “We have been blocked from international organizations for many long years and we know what it feels like to be discriminated against and isolated more than anyone else,” she said.Beijing responded that Tsai’s Democratic Progressive Party, which emphasizes Taiwan’s separate identity, has engaged in “political manipulation” over the WHO.“Its true aim is to seek independence through the pandemic. We are firmly opposed to this, and their scheme will never succeed,” a foreign ministry spokesman said in Beijing.Critics of Tedros have accused the WHO under his leadership of being too close to Beijing and complimentary of China’s response to the coronavirus.But some public health experts say that the WHO had little choice but to cooperate with China to preserve access in Wuhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-us-criticizes-who-for-ignoring-taiwan-s-virus-warnings/story-Ure39apWRsQ4osPjQN3oYO.html
10-04-2020||World||At UNSC meet, UN chief Guterres warns of bio-terrorism, social unrest||Secretary-General Antonio Guterres warned the UN Security Council on Thursday that the coronavirus pandemic is threatening international peace and security — “potentially leading to an increase in social unrest and violence that would greatly undermine our ability to fight the disease.”The UN’s most powerful body, which has been silent on Covid-19 since it started circling the globe sickening and killing tens of thousands, issued its first brief press statement after the closed meeting. It expressed “support for all efforts of the secretary-general concerning the potential impact of the Covid-19 pandemic to conflict-affected countries and recalled the need for unity and solidarity with all those affected.”Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicGuterres, who called for a cease-fire for all global conflicts on March 23, said the crisis has “hindered international, regional and national conflict resolution efforts, exactly when they are needed most.”He cited other pressing risks to global security from the pandemic: terrorists seeing an opportunity to strike, groups seeing how a biological terrorist attack might unfold, the erosion of trust in public institutions, economic instability, political tensions from postponing elections or referenda, uncertainty sparking further division and turmoil in some countries, and Covid-19 “triggering or exacerbating various human rights challenges.”Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThe secretary-general reiterated that the United Nations faces “its gravest test” since the organization was founded 75 years ago from the pandemic and concluded saying: “This is the fight of a generation — and the raison d’être of (the reason for) the United Nations itself.”Guterres spoke by video conference at a closed council meeting on Covid-19’s impact on the council’s mandate, which is the preservation of international peace and security. It was the first discussion by its 15 ambassadors on the pandemic. While the meeting was closed, the UN spokesman released Guterres’ briefing and a number of ambassadors released their remarks to the media.The UN chief said the engagement of the Security Council will be “critical to mitigate the peace and security implications of the Covid-19 pandemic.” He added that “a signal of unity and resolve from the Council would count for a lot at this anxious time.”Diplomats said the Security Council was initially blocked from issuing a statement or adopting a resolution by U.S. insistence that the origin of the virus in China or Wuhan be included, which China objected to, but Belgium’s UN Ambassador Marc Pecsteen de Buytswerve, an elected council member, said that was not mentioned on Thursday. He and the nine other elected council members had been pressing for a meeting and succeeded in getting the secretary-general to brief on Thursday.According to diplomats, French President Emmanuel Macron and US President Donald Trump agreed to organize a video conference of leaders of the five permanent council members, also including China, Russia and Britain, and France wanted that before a council meeting, but it couldn’t be arranged. Meanwhile, the 10 elected members had been pressing for a council meeting and briefing from Guterres — and they had the nine votes needed for it to happen on Thursday.Pecsteen de Buytswerve said even though the press statement from the council was “very minimal” it is an expression of support for the secretary-general and his call for peace and a cease-fire “and that’s the most important thing at this stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-chief-warns-covid-19-threatens-global-peace-and-security/story-uJZNckaWUflliEHw0lh0mK.html
10-04-2020||World||Netanyahu thanks PM Modi for delivering hydroxychloroquine to Israel||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Thursday thanked his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi for rushing a five-tonne cargo of medicines, including anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, seen as a possible cure for COVID-19.“Thank you, my dear friend @narendramodi, Prime Minister of India, for sending Chloroquine to Israel. All the citizens of Israel thank you!”, Netanyahu said in a tweet Thursday evening.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Israeli’s PM’s thanked India two days after a plane carrying materials used to make medicines for treating coronavirus patients arrived in Israel from India on Tuesday. The five tonne shipment included ingredients for drugs chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, being seen worldwide as the best possible cure as of now for treating COVID-19 patients.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak The dreaded coronavirus has infected nearly 10,000 people in Israel and claimed 86 lives. As many as 121 others are on ventilators in serious condition. The Indian consignment reached Israel within days after Netanyahu spoke to Modi on April 3, requesting supply of hydroxychloroquine, with India being the world’s largest producer and exporter of the drug. India, however, had to restrict its export to meet domestic contingencies. Netanyahu had been in touch with Modi ever since the coronavirus crisis erupted. He had made a special request on March 13 asking the Indian prime minister to approve and allow export of masks and pharmaceuticals to Israel.“I also spoke to the prime minister of India, my friend Narendra Modi. We are dependent on supply lines from various countries. We are looking into it all the time,” Netanyahu had then said addressing a press conference.The Israeli leader spoke to Modi a second time on April 3 to discuss various steps to deal with the coronavirus crisis. Several countries have been experimenting with hydroxychloroquine to treat coronavirus symptoms. US President Donald Trump recently touted its potential in treating COVID-19 positive patients, requesting India to help his country with supplies. Experts, however, have urged caution until bigger trials validate hydroxychloroquine’s efficacy. Chloroquine can have potentially serious side effects, especially in high doses or when administered with other medications. Netanyahu’s thanks to India followed soon after US President Donald Trump described Modi as “terrific” for allowing the export of hydroxychloroquine to the US, seen as a possible cure for COVID-19, saying India’s help in the extraordinary times “will not be forgotten”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/netanyahu-thanks-pm-modi-for-delivering-hydroxychloroquine-to-israel/story-oS9cgCFlz0DyefbmWbBSIN.html
10-04-2020||World||Covid-19: UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson out of intensive care unit||Prime Minister Boris Johnson left intensive care on Thursday evening as he continues to recover from COVID-19, but he remains under close observation in hospital, his office said on Thursday. Johnson, 55, was admitted to St Thomas’ Hospital on Sunday evening with a persistent high temperature and cough, and was rushed to intensive care on Monday where he spent three nights receiving treatment.“The prime minister has been moved this evening from intensive care back to the ward, where he will receive close monitoring during the early phase of his recovery,” a spokesman from his office said in an emailed statement.“He is in extremely good spirits.”Johnson was the first world leader to be hospitalised with the coronavirus, forcing him to hand control of the world’s fifth-largest economy to foreign minister Dominic Raab just as Britain’s outbreak approaches its most deadly peak.Raab tweeted that the improvement in Johnson’s condition was “the news we all wanted to hear”. U.S. President Donald Trump described it as “great news”.Johnson’s ongoing recovery prompted a small rise in the value of sterling against the dollar.However, the government statement did not give any details on when Johnson may be able to resume leadership, and Raab - speaking before the latest announcement - had stressed the importance of allowing the prime minister to focus on recovery.No further updates on Johnson’s health were expected on Thursday.Raab is deputising for Johnson during the most stringent shutdown in Britain’s peacetime history. Earlier he told a news conference it was too early to end the lockdown because Britain had not reached the peak of the outbreak yet.The UK death toll in hospitals from coronavirus now stands at 7,978, a rise of 881 on the day but a smaller increase than the 938 seen in Wednesday’s data. GOVERNMENT SPENDINGWith Johnson absent and the death toll still mounting, the British government is wrestling with two major issues - how to finance a vast increase in state spending to support the shuttered economy, and when to start easing lockdown measures.With the economy facing potentially the worst hit since World War Two, the government said it had expanded its overdraft facility with the Bank of England.The central bank has agreed temporarily to finance government borrowing in response to COVID-19 if funds cannot immediately be raised from debt markets, reviving a measure last widely used during the 2008 financial crisis.The BoE said it was a short-term measure and both it and government said any borrowing from the Ways and Means facility - effectively the government’s overdraft with the Bank - would be repaid by the end of the year.The government has made pledges costing tens of billions of pounds to support businesses and workers hit by the virus. On Thursday, the government said an additional 1.2 million claims for welfare payments had been filed since March 16. Raab said the peak of the virus outbreak had yet to be reached and that the government would not be able to say more about the duration of the lockdown until late next week, once experts have had chance to analyse data on how well it is working. It was introduced last month.“The measures will have to stay in place until we’ve got the evidence that clearly shows we’ve moved beyond the peak,” he said.While Johnson’s condition was improving, the likely length of his recovery remained unknown, with some political commentators saying there was a power vacuum in his absence.Raab said on Thursday he had the power to make “necessary decisions” in the prime minister’s absence and that government will continue to follow the strategy set out by Johnson. He said cabinet could take decisions collectively.The United Kingdom is entering what scientists say is the deadliest phase of the outbreak, with deaths expected to continue to rise over the Easter weekend.But in a sign the shutdown measures were working, health officials have said the number of coronavirus infections and hospital admissions had begun to show signs of flattening.Police said they would be taking tougher action to do just that before the four-day Easter holiday weekend because many people were continuing to ignore the ban on social gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-uk-prime-minister-boris-johnson-out-of-intensive-care-unit/story-uSEQS9t1ZZO3tsLU0bo7ZM.html
10-04-2020||India||After remarks against CM Biren Singh, deputy Manipur CM stripped of portfolios||Manipur’s Deputy chief minister Yumnam Joykumar Singh has been stripped off the portfolios he held after he reportedly criticized Chief Minister N. Biren Singh following an issue regarding rice allocation during the lockdown.State Chief Secretary Dr J Suresh Babu issued a notification of reallocation of the portfolios held by Deputy chief minister to the Chief Minister on Thursday evening.As per the notification, the Municipal Administration, Housing & Urban Development (MAHUD), forest and environment and climate change, science & technology, economics and statistics departments, held by Joykumar, was reallocated to Chief Minister who is presently holding the charge of Home, finance, transport, tourism, sericulture, minor irrigation, minority affairs OBC & SC, Personnel, Planning, GAD and other departments not allocated to others.The new development comes hours after BJP MLA Sorokhaibam Rajen Singh of Lamsang assembly constituency, strongly reacted to the statement of Joykumar, a minister of ally National People’s Party (NPP).Joykumar reportedly termed the CM’s assurance of food security during the lockdown as words of an unreasonable person, saying rice allocation for his Uripok constituency was not enough to distribute to needy people.“They should have resigned boldly instead of criticizing the leader of the coalition government,” Rajen who is also the Deputy Chairman of the State Planning Board said. “We never expected such an irresponsible statement from a responsible leader.”Stating that the rice quota for the constituency could be managed as done by other MLAs, Rajen said that the MLAs should take up relief measures under the guidance of the Chief Minister. Rajen also reacted to a similar statement made by another NPP minister L Jayentakumar recently.. There are four NPP Ministers in the coalition ministry.Interestingly, the portfolios of MAHUD, forest and environment and climate change, science & technology, economics and statistics departments was allocated to Deputy Chief Minister Joykumar on April 4 as former minister Th Shyamkumar was disqualified by the Speaker’s tribunal of the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-remarks-against-cm-biren-singh-deputy-manipur-cm-stripped-of-portfolios/story-KwyhzcFI4AfsFusXPd8dcL.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Guwahati mosque sealed due to link with Nizamuddin Markaz||A mosque in Guwahati has been sealed and declared a containment zone after three of the 29 Covid-19 positive patients in Assam were found to have taken part in a gathering there last month.Nearly 100 people, including at least 8 who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month, were part of an event held on March 12 inside the mosque.According to official figures, 617 people from the state who had been to the Nizamuddin Markaz last month had returned to Assam. Twenty-eight of the total 29 positive cases in the state had links to the Delhi congregation.Assam recorded its first Covid-19 fatality on Friday when a 65-year-old with travel history to Saudi Arabia and the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi died at the Silchar Medical College Hospital (SCMH).“We have come to know now that there was a congregation at Athgaon Kabarstan Masjid on March 12 where around 100 people including at least 8 people who had come from Nizamuddin Markaz were present,” said Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.“Out of these 8, two have already tested positive and on Thursday another one from Dhubri who had attended the Guwahati gathering has been found positive. Because we have got 3 positive cases from the same venue, we have decided to convert that mosque into a self-containment zone,” he added.Sarma said like the Nizamuddin Markaz gathering, the mosque in Guwahati has also turned into a “hotbed’ for Covid-19 as three positive people in the state have links to it. The mosque will remain sealed for the next 14 days.“We have not been able put all the 100 who attended the gathering in quarantine as the authorities of the mosque have not been able to give us the entire list of attendees,” he said.Health authorities have got details of 58 of the 100 people who attended the Guwahati gathering.The Assam government has decided to help patients from the state suffering from cancer, kidney ailments and cardiac problems who had gone outside Assam for treatment and are now stranded due to the lockdown. They have been asked to call 0361-2558955 and give details about their problems.Sarma informed that the state government will procure 1 lakh rapid test kits for the state. He added that a FIR would be filed against one patient from Dhubri district for hiding his travel history. Authorities in Hailakandi district informed that the last rites of the first Covid-19 deceased was performed a few kilometers away from Hailakandi town in a secluded place following strict decontamination rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-guwahati-mosque-sealed-due-to-link-with-nizamuddin-markaz/story-a1KCB8u0M05JBhkDHa7FSL.html
10-04-2020||India||India asks US to extend H-1B, other visas of citizens stranded over Covid-19||The Indian government has asked the US to extend the validity of visas, including H-1B and other types of visas, held by Indian nationals who have been hit by the Covid-19-related economic slump, people familiar with developments said on Friday.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla took up the matter during his telephone conversation with US deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun on Wednesday, when the two sides also discussed ways to enhance cooperation to counter the pandemic and ensure the availability of essential medicines and equipment.“We have been in touch with the US government, requesting them to extend the validity of visas of Indian nationals – H-1B and other types of visas – who are stranded in the US due to the pandemic,” said one of the people cited above, speaking on condition of anonymity. “We are closely monitoring related developments,” the person added, without giving details.Following the sharp economic downturn and suspension of business operations triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, a lot of US firms employing H-1B visa holders have laid off numerous employees.If an employer terminates the contract of H-1B visa holders, the employees need to find new employment within 60 days to retain the H-1B status or face the prospect of being deported to their home countries. This existing rule has exacerbated the problems of H-1B visa holders who have been laid off.Several reports in the US media have cited Indian H-1B visa holders as expressing concerns that it will be virtually impossible for them to find new jobs if they are laid off, given the rapidly slowing economy.A petition on the White House website is requesting the US administration to extend the 60-day period to 180 days to protect H-1B workers in these difficult times. The petition further states: “Most H-1B workers are from India and cannot travel home with children who are US citizens as many nations [have] announced an entry ban, including India.”It adds: “The Covid-19 situation is getting worse with massive lay-offs expected. The economic conditions may have a significant impact on H-1B workers.”The petition has nearly 49,000 signatures but will get a response from the White House only if it reaches 100,000 signatures by April 18.The Indian side is hopeful the US administration will step in to help H-1B visa holders.The H-1B programme is a non-immigrant work visa that allows American employers to hire foreign workers for specialist jobs, and Indians are the largest beneficiary of the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-asks-us-to-extend-h-1b-other-visas-of-citizens-stranded-over-covid-19/story-CuMJmzQGC0thLQEerM0slM.html
10-04-2020||India||Punjab Police registers case against banned US-based Sikhs for Justice outfit||The Punjab Police on Friday booked Gurpatwant Singh Pannun and his banned Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) for seditious automated calls meant to instigate people, particularly young men, against the state government during the lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Cases have been registered against Pannun and the US-based SFJ under Section 124 (A) of IPC, and Sections 10 (A) and 13 (1) of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, at the State Special Operations Cell in Mohali, Director General of Punjab Police Dinkar Gupta tweeted.According to officials at the State Special Operations Cell (SSOC), Mohali, a preliminary probe has revealed that Pannun was involved in seditious acts through automated calls as well as pre-recorded audio messages to various residents in March and April 2020. Soon after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, Pannun and his associates have been spreading seditious content on social media to further instigate the already distressed people of Punjab.Disclosing the modus operandi, a Punjab Police official said that in one such recorded audio message, sent from an international number of North America, Pannun instigated the listeners by alleging that the Central government and the Punjab government were torturing the youth in the name of enforcing the ongoing lockdown in the state.The pre-recorded interactive voice response messages through telephone calls as well as audio messages to the people of Punjab from New York are being made for pushing the agenda of this self-styled organization Sikhs for Justice, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-police-registers-case-against-banned-us-based-sikhs-forjustice-outfit/story-uUFYuR73SuSv7FaIla3iqO.html
10-04-2020||India||Using lockdown time to fine tune future projects: Faisal Malik||Besides basking in the glory of his recent success, actor-producer Faisal Malik is utilising his life in lockdown in ideation and fine-tuning projects in the pipeline.“All my projects, both as actor and producer, are on hold. But we are utilising the time in fine-tuning and planning the creative aspects of the upcoming projects,” says the actor, who is seen playing a prominent role in a recently-released web series ‘Panchayat’.“The shooting for second season of my web series ‘Smoke’ was scheduled to begin next month in Goa. Groundwork for my next web series as an executive producer, ‘Love Commando’, has also been done and we were in the process of finalising actors when coronavirus outbreak happened. Had everything been on track, we would have started the shoot of the film in Delhi, Rajasthan and UP,” says the Allahabad (now Prayagraj) boy over phone.Unfazed with lockdown, Malik is dedicating his time in enhancing his projects. “Since everything is on hold, this is best time to give everything a second look and improve it on the script level. I do the ideation part while the writers do their part but we have got a chance to polish it further together,” he says.Having done his schooling from Sangam City and graduation from Shia College in Lucknow, Faisal shifted to Mumbai to pursue his career in the film industry years back.Rising the ranks in the industry, from assisting in production, line-production and graduating to producer. he has been executive producer of films like ‘Revolver Rani’, ‘Main Aur Charles’ and ‘Saat Uchakkey’. His acting career started with the role of inspector in ‘Gangs of Wasseypur’ followed by ‘Fraud Saiyna’ besides others. “After 17 years in industry, ‘Panchayat’ has been the best acting roles I have done so far. Saying a simple story in a light matter is very tough and the way audience has lapped it is phenomenal,” he says.As actor he was shooting ‘Bob Biswas’ with Abhishek Bachchan and Chitrangada Singh was being shot in Kolkata. “The shoot stopped on March 17 and we returned back to Mumbai. 70% of the film is complete and I am doing a key role in it,” he tells before signing off with ‘Stay home, stay safe’ advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/using-lockdown-time-to-fine-tune-future-projects-faisal-malik/story-w59BVzc3ucUu8jAiNyb0qK.html
10-04-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan seeks suggestions from Kamal Nath, Digvijaya Singh in times of coronavirus crisis||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan revealed on Wednesday that he held discussions with his political rivals in the opposition including former chief ministers Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh over the state’s strategy to deal with the coronavirus outbreak.Chouhan said that all the leaders came forward with suggestions following his initiative.“I have discussed with former CMs Uma Bharti, Kamal Nath, Digvijaya Singh and sought their suggestion regarding our strategy to contain #CoronavirusPandemic. All of them have given their suggestions,” ANI quoted the MP chief minister as saying.Chouhan had personally met Kamal Nath after the latter was forced to resign as the chief minister of the state following the rebellion of around two dozen Congress MLAs.As on Friday, Madhya Pradesh has 259 cases of coronavirus and 16 casualties have been reported due to the deadly disease, which has led to increased cooperation between political leaders across the political spectrum in their efforts to contain its spread.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had only yesterday highlighted that the crisis had led to a commendable display of the spirit of federal cooperation, he singled out the cooperation among states to provide food, shelter and medical care to migrant workers from different states to back his point.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, highlighted the good work done by the states and their chief ministers in combination with the Centre to contain the spread of the global pandemic that has cost close to a 100,000 lives globally.PM Modi has himself chaired several meetings with the chief ministers of states and Union Territories for an effective implementation of containment measures.Leaders of all political parties have also been consulted for ideas to combat the disease and provide relief to several sections of the society that have suffered due to the impact of the pandemic.On April 11, the prime minister will hold another video conference with the chief ministers of all states, where a decision on a possible extension of the lockdown is likely to be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-seeks-suggestions-from-kamal-nath-digvijaya-singh-in-times-of-coronavirus-crisis/story-wBUKOWM3vVl1QzIV18GdPM.html
10-04-2020||India||‘Hold on to hope’: AIIMS experts give tips to beat depression and anxiety in Covid-19 lockdown||The health ministry has released expert advice to fight depression and anxiety as the country passes through the 17th day of the 21-day-long national lockdown amid indications that it may be extended further.Top doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences have identified exercises including Yoga and forced distractions among the ways to keep one physically and mentally fit during these testing times.The medical experts say that with the television showing us an increasing number of coronavirus cases, combined with the compulsion to stay indoors for a long period of time, instill us with the fear that something could happen to us and this can naturally lead to stress and anxiety.To deal with this situation, they advise that one breaks the daily routine by watching “other entertainment” and or by playing games and reading books.Here are is the complete list of tips given by Dr Randeep Guleria, director AIIMS and Dr Kaushik Sinha Deb, associate professor of psychiatry, AIIMS.1. Identify the symptoms of stress- The bodily symptoms include either restlessness or increased sweating, dry mouth, difficulty in breathing or palpitation.2. The mental symptoms of stress include excessive worry, inability to concentrate, inability to focus on one thing.3. We need to train our minds to do other things so that we can manage better and it includes things that are of “positive coping”.4. If you are watching TV, then watch other entertainment, talk to your near and dear ones, play games, read books.5. Home exercises will help greatly in dealing with stress, even meditative exercise in the form of Yoga.6. It is essential to maintain sleep hygiene because most of the days are spent at home.7. Identify depression- Depression is different from anxiety, it is characterized by the sadness of mood and a feeling of worthlessness.8. Hold on to hope that comes from looking at your near and dear ones and by doing certain basic things, for example, exercising, forcibly doing household chores, forcibly talking to others, forcibly distracting yourself through available means.9. In depression and in anxiety when things are severe, don’t go for substance use as a method of coping and don’t self-medicate.10. Finally, in emergency seek proper medical advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hold-on-to-hope-aiims-experts-give-tips-to-beat-depression-and-anxiety-in-covid-19-lockdown/story-cbCUSpwwhY1MCTvHGgLWIN.html
10-04-2020||India||Punjab CM cites ‘PGIMER study’ on coronavirus, institute says not aware||Hours after Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh claimed that 58 per cent of the country’s population is likely to get infected with coronavirus while quoting a PGIMER study, the premier medical institute on Friday evening said it was unaware of any such study by its department.During a video conference the media, hosted by the AICC from New Delhi, the chief minister quoted a study of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and said the virus was likely to touch its peak by mid-September and may likely to affect 58 per cent of India’s population and 87 per cent of Punjab’s and other states’ population.“COVID19 epidemic in India is estimated to reach its peak in mid-September 2020 at a point where 58 per cent of population has been infected,” he said, quoting the projections made by the Department of Community Medicine in PGIMER.Quoting another figure from the “projections by the institute”, he said the virus can infect up to 87 per cent of the population of Punjab and other states.Later, the institute issued a press note and clarified, “The PGI, Chandigarh is not aware that any expert/faculty member from the Department of Community Medicine & School of Public Health of the Institute has carried out any study/estimate that the COVID-19 may peak by mid September and can infect 58% of country’s population.” This fact has also been confirmed by the head of Department of Community Medicine & School of Public Health of the institute, according to an official release issued by the Public Relations Office of PGIMER Chandigarh.Thereafter, the chief minister’s media advisor Raveen Thukral said the report cited by Amarinder Singh was an assessment of an additional professor of health economics of PGIMER.“Please note the report cited by @capt_amarinder is assessment of Dr. Shankar Prinja, Addl Professor of Health Economics, Dept of Community Medicine & School of Public Health PGIMER Chandigarh & his team, using standard mathematical models with Punjab data provided to him,” Thukral tweeted.In another tweet, he said, “State Committee on Health Sector Response & Procurement headed by @mahajan_vini (additional chief secretary) with ex PGI director Dr KK Takwar as professional advisor had sought an urgent assessment of Punjab’s #COVID-19 scenario from Dr Prinja to plan its preparedness.” The Punjab government on Friday decided to extend curfew restrictions till May 1 in view of the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-cites-pgimer-study-on-coronavirus-institute-says-not-aware/story-cZeH95xS61xbnv0LUzD5HM.html
10-04-2020||India||Blood donors asked for health status, but not tested for Covid-19||Blood donors are now asked for their health status, including symptoms of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), but are not being tested for it even as the number of cases nationwide crossed 6,700 on Friday.Despite the lockdown, there is no shortage of blood and its components as requirement for trauma cases and elective surgeries has substantially reduced.“We have started thorough screening of all donors. They have to fill up a detailed form about their health status and also [provide] details such as their Covid-19 status, or if anyone they know has tested positive or someone in their neighbourhood has any Covid-19-like symptoms,” said RK Jain, secretary general of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS).“We are doing our own risk profiling before allowing [them] to donate,” he said.The number of blood donation camps organised every month has gone down from 35 to zero in Delhi since social distancing was mandated to contain the Covid-19 outbreak, and IRCS is reaching out to individuals to motivate them to donate.IRCS recently tied up with resident welfare associations and plans to send mobile collection vans to residential colonies from Monday. Since the government declared blood as an essential supply on April 9, blood collection vans can move without restriction.“We reached out to our voluntary donors individually, arranged pick and drop for them, and even forwarded short videos of children who need regular blood transfusions to motivate these people to come out and donate blood,” said Vanshree Singh, director (blood bank) at IRCS.“I have been issuing passes to ensure their movement isn’t hampered in any way. In areas where there were multiple donors, we even send our mobile van.”IRCS secretary general RK Jain said: “Since elective surgeries are not happening, and trauma cases have gone down, what we are getting these days is requests for blood from people who undergo regular transfusions, such as people suffering from thalassemia and other blood disorders, chemotherapy patients, and anaemic pregnant women. By and large, we managed to stay afloat due to demand from a particular set of people going down, and that compensated for the reduced blood donations.”The Centre has declared blood services as essential services.The Union health ministry’s recommendations to states, issued on April 9, said that “addressing concerns of those running blood centres and blood transfusion services, especially regarding concerns with managing safety and adequacy of blood during this period of restrained gatherings and social distancing… it is essential that the supplies of safe blood continue to be maintained at licenced blood centres in the country”.It added, “Activities for blood collection and voluntary blood donation therefore are required to be continued judiciously during this period to meet the blood requirements.” Blood banks across the world are dependent on voluntary donations from healthy individuals to meet demand for blood and its components. Singh said: “We are tying up with resident welfare associations to park our blood collection vans near residential localities so that people don’t have to travel long distances to donate blood. And at the time, we will follow all infection control and social distancing measures, such as two couches instead of the earlier practice of four to draw blood.“There will be a gap of at least three metres between the two couches and at one time, there will be no more than three people allowed into the camp. The vans will be disinfected on a regular basis.”Apart from the camps, the IRCS will run a fleet of cars to pick and drop donors from their residences to the donation centres.The news of donation camps being held will put a lot of harried minds at ease. Shobha Tuli, founder of Thalassemics India, said: “The challenge is that thalassemia patients need fresh blood, which should ideally not be more than five to seven days old. The guidelines say less than two weeks old, because if the blood is older, the haemoglobin doesn’t rise enough in these patients. So holding camps will help as donors otherwise have to go to a hospital and donate. We alerted patients that they should try to arrange for donors should such a problem arise.”RN Makroo, president of the Indian Society of Transfusion Medicine, said many blood banks have started pooling resources. “We are sharing the supply because this is an extraordinary situation. We tell regulars to try and inform the centre in advance of their arrival, preference and requirement, so that the centre is prepared to make adequate arrangements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blood-donors-asked-for-health-status-but-not-tested-for-covid-19/story-mbklsElhLkZDMnjcRiYReI.html
10-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Dozens arrested in J&K’s Sopore for attending funeral of slain JeM commander & all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Dozens arrested in J&K’s Sopore for attending funeral of slain JeM commanderPolice have arrested more than a dozen people for joining the funeral of a Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) commander in Sopore area of north Kashmir in violation of government advisories against public gatherings during the Covid-19 outbreak. Read moreRajasthan reports 57 new coronavirus cases, maximum on a single dayThe state’s Covid-19 cases have been doubling rapidly. They first doubled from 100 to 200 cases in three days between April 1 and April 4. Later, they doubled again from 200 to 400 cases between April 4 and April 9. Read moreDelhi Police book 137 for not wearing masksThe Delhi Police on Friday said that they had so far booked at least 137 people for violating a government order that made wearing of masks in public places mandatory. Read moreWHO denies ignoring Taiwan early coronavirus warningThe World Health Organisation on Friday denied having brushed off a Taiwanese warning on human-to-human transmission of the new coronavirus soon after its outbreak in China late last year. Read more‘Class reverse swing at 90 mph’: Ricky Ponting reveals ‘the best over’ he ever facedFormer Australia skipper Ricky Ponting has said that Andrew Flintoff’s fiery and magical over during the 2005 Ashes Test against England at Edgbaston was the “best over” he ever faced in his playing days. Read moreCoronavirus lockdown: Manish Malhotra urges to remain positive, indulge in creative activitiesBollywood’s favourite fashion designer and ace couturier Manish Malhotra advised people to remain positive and indulge in creative habits, amid the 21-day government-imposed lockdown prompted by coronavirus outbreak. Read moreThis floating bin is sending Twitter into frenzy. Do you think it’s in the air too?The Internet is the savior for a lot of people staying inside their homes, keeping them from feeling too bored or too cut off from the rest of world. But every now and then, the Internet throws netizens a curve ball that’s not so easy to tackle. Read moreShould Google pay news publishers? French watchdog’s latest ruling revives the debateGoogle Search and Google News have increasingly become the gateway for users to consume news from different sources. As Google products gain more dominance, publishers are getting more and more reliant on Google for discovery and subsequently for traffic and also advertisements. Read moreWatch: ‘Didn’t go home for 7 days’: Bhilwara collector on ruthless Covid-19 battle||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-dozens-arrested-in-j-k-s-sopore-for-attending-funeral-of-slain-jem-commander-all-the-latest-news/story-007sKTwFusJhZdq3pmTcqL.html
10-04-2020||India||Assam, Bengal tea industry stares at losses due to Covid-19 lockdown||The tea industry in Assam and neighbouring West Bengal has been hit hard by the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak and any extension beyond April 14 could further cripple the beleaguered 180-year-old sector, said industry captains.Tea is among the biggest and most labour-intensive industries in both West Bengal and Assam. Assam, which accounts for more than half of the country’s tea output, employs about one million people in the plantation sector and has about 800 gardens.In West Bengal, 283 gardens, which are spread across the Darjeeling hills, the Terai and the Dooars, employ about 350,000 workers and another 100,000 work for 40,000 small tea growers in north Bengal.Though the Centre has allowed operations at tea gardens with 50% of their regular workforce, the governments in Assam and West Bengal have so far only allowed the plantations to irrigate and spray pesticides. In contrast, tea gardens in south India have started full-fledged operations in line with the Centre’s instructions.In Assam, the industry has been reeling under the impact of increased production and stagnant prices for long. The gardens in the Darjeeling hills and in the Terai have been relatively better off than the ones in the Dooars, where many are periodically closed over persistent disputes between the management and labour unions. The lockdown couldn’t have come at a worst time for an industry that has seen better days.Factories in tea garden across Assam and West Bengal are closed because of the lockdown and the plucking of leaves is suspended. The first flush --- the first plucking of the harvest season, which occurs between March-April and accounts for the best quality tea and fetches high prices in international markets --- has already taken a massive hit.“Labour unions are demanding that we pay full wages to our workers for the lockdown. If the lockdown continues and the industry is not given any benefits, the industry will be further crippled,” Bezboruah, a planter himself, said.In Assam, a decision to allow the gardens to continue plucking and operating factories from April 1 onwards while maintaining social distancing measures has been put on hold reportedly because of pressure from some groups.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on April 6 that she would not risk allowing the gardens to operate because the area, where the gardens are located, shares international borders with Nepal and Bhutan and state borders with Sikkim and Assam. “I’ve spoken with the people involved in the industry and they’re all of the opinion that the lockdown should continue. Also, the workers are scared of the viral outbreak and unwilling to join work,” Banerjee said. Tea bushes in many gardens in Bengal are overgrowing because of the lockdown and suspension of plucking and planters have been urging the government to allow skiffing -- the removal of overgrown leaves. On Thursday, the Bengal government allowed skiffing with only 15% of the workforce on condition that social distancing norms would be strictly followed.Banerjee also hinted that she would gradually allow more workers to join work. “Let them start with 15%. We can add 15% more in phases if the situation allows,” she said. “We welcome the Bengal government’s decision. It has come at a very good time. We can continue with skiffing and wait for plucking for a while,” said Arijit Raha, secretary-general of the Kolkata-headquartered Indian Tea Association. However, a Darjeeling-based planter, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “To a great extent, the first flush is already lost. However, we can still recover if we continue skiffing for the next few days and start plucking by the third week of April.”Assam industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said that deputy commissioners in districts would implement the Centre’s directives on the functioning of some industries during the lockdown, provided they fulfil the social distancing norms. “The rule is applicable to all sectors and not just the tea industry. The state government hasn’t issued any separate directives on this matter,” Patowary said.PK Bezboruah, chairman of Tea Board India, said: “While the Assam government is trying to address the issue, not a single measure has been announced by Centre to support the industry.”In March, Bezboruah had written to the Centre seeking a package worth Rs 1,500 crore, but the government’s response is still pending. The Centre has not been coming to the industry’s aid, despite the problems it has faced over the past two years, the planters alleged.“The production in north India (Assam and West Bengal) would come down by around 150 million kilograms during the 21-day lockdown. The industry will suffer a loss of around Rs 1,700 crore,” Bezboruah said.If the lockdown gets extended till mid-May and tea gardens are not allowed to operate or get a relief package, the loss of production and revenue could double to around Rs 3,000 crore and there would be a loss of production of 1,150 million kilograms -- nearly 25% of the annual output, industry watchers said.The Assam Tea Tribes Students Association has also expressed resentment over the “reluctance of the tea garden management to release full wages and rations to tea garden workers for the lockdown period”. However, no such demand has been launched in Bengal to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-bengal-tea-industry-stares-at-losses-due-to-covid-19-lockdown/story-2zKoaEWK63nDgNg1xPWz1I.html
10-04-2020||India||Army retaliates to Pak shelling, aims at terror launch pads across LoC||The Indian army has carried out precision targeting of gun areas and terror launch pads across the Line of Control from its posts in the Keran sector of Kupwara, people familiar with the development said.The action, which came in response to unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistan, was designed to destroy terror launch pads close to the border. There have been multiple intelligence reports about terrorists waiting across the Line of Control to infiltrate into India.Officials said the army targeted the Kel launching pads in Neelum Valley. According to information reaching Srinagar, officials said Pakistan’s firing ended up hitting a squad of Hizbul Mujahideen terroristsA top counter-terror operative said India was forced to retaliate in this sector because the terrain is such that if the terrorists would have crossed into the Indian side, it would have been difficult to capture or neutralise them without taking casualties.Last week’s operation that ended on Sunday with the killing of five terrorists trying to infiltrate had also cost India lives of 5 Special Forces commandos.The retaliatory strike at the terror launch pads comes amid a spike in ceasefire violations by Pakistan and a plan to send across over 200 terrorists.As reported by Hindustan Times, 160 terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) are ready to infiltrate into the Valley.In the Jammu sector, along the border, around 70 armed and trained terrorists are planning to sneak into the Indian territory through unfenced nullahs, the inputs added. Counter-terror operatives said Jaish terrorists were camping at Samani-Bhimber and Dudhnial launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. LeT has been sending its terrorists to the Leepa and Kel launching pads in Leepa Valley and Neelum Valley, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-hits-pak-terrorist-launch-pads-across-loc-releases-videos-of-shelling/story-sX1Vp9agqDDrmYITTxzX2H.html
10-04-2020||India||Health Ministry tips on alcohol-deaddiction during lockdown||The Union ministry of health and family welfare has issued a short video clip on ‘How to Safely Stop Drinking due to Lockdown’ for alcoholics who cannot get their daily dose of alcohol because of the lockdown.“In this lockdown period if anyone is used to taking large amounts of alcohol daily, or is hooked on to alcohol, then this can be trying time for these individuals,” says Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, in the beginning of the video that runs for 1.53 minutes.Then comes the expert in de-addiction, additional professor in the department of psychiatry, Dr Ravindra Rao.“Some of us, who are using alcohol on a regular basis, say daily or almost daily, may experience some discomfort, either physical or psychological. Psychological discomfort will manifest in the form of anxiety, restlessness, and the physical discomfort could manifest in terms of palpitation, breathing difficulty, tremors of hand, not being able to sleep at night,” he says.Then the video goes on to visually narrate ways to cope with both physical and psychological discomfort.Ways to cope with psychological discomfort“Try to make yourself busy by watching movies, by watching television, by spending time with your family members, your children; indulge in some activities like gardening, or exercising. Remember to drink lots of water during this time. Have a fitful sleep for eight to nine hours, which will make you feel better,” says Rao.Ways to cope with physical discomfortHowever, if you have physical discomfort then Rao advises not to take it lightly as it could escalate to problematic symptoms such as seizures or delirium.“You need to take the help of a doctor during such time, and the doctor will prescribe you medication which you have to take under the directions advised to you,” says Rao.The video ends by a public service message from the AIIMS director, who advises people to use this opportunity to quit drinking.“I would also say that this is a good time to see how you can give up your addiction to alcohol for the simple reason that it will cause more harm than good in the long run,” says Dr Guleria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-tips-on-alcohol-deaddiction-during-lockdown/story-08pfvW035zR6XtNt8xAOXJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Lockdown should have been followed up with wider testing for Covid-19: Sitaram Yechury||CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury on Friday said a lockdown can help arrest the spread of the coronavirus only if the government backs it up with wider testing to identify and isolate the hotspots.Speaking to the press via a social media platform, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary said extending the ongoing 21-day lockdown and increasing the economic mess could have been acceptable only if right steps were taken to fight the pandemic.“Merely extending the lockdown and thereby, increasing the economic misery and chances of people losing their livelihood and nutrition, which is most important to fight this pandemic, cannot be allowed,” he said.Highlighting the three-layered recommendations made by an expert committee set up by the Kerala government as an exit plan from the lockdown, Yechury said it has to be a staggered withdrawal by opening up the clusters that do not have COVID-19 patients.Even though it has been 17 days since the nationwide lockdown was imposed, the government has failed to increase the number of coronavirus tests, which should have been the primary objective of the lockdown, the Left leader said.“The lockdown should have been utilised to identify areas to isolate and seal, otherwise we will have an economic crisis along with a health disaster,” he said.Yechury said in India, only 102 people out of every 10 lakh individuals are being tested for COVID-19, a rate that is lower than Pakistan, which is testing 197 people for every 10 lakh individuals.He said the government should ensure that there are no “starvation deaths” in the country during the lockdown.“According to reports, 117 people have died due to lack of food or shelter or sheer exhaustion. This situation has to be corrected,” the CPI(M) leader said, while pointing out that the Left government in Kerala has successfully provided food, shelter and medical attention to the migrant workers stranded in the southern state by active state intervention. PTI ASG RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-should-have-been-followed-up-with-wider-testing-for-covid-19-sitaram-yechury/story-MszjZdDqLp9pCSbX9W6wsK.html
10-04-2020||India||Modi govt should talk to US to prevent job losses of Indians holding H-1B visa: Cong||The Congress on Friday urged the Modi government to talk to the Trump administration to prevent job losses of Indians holding H-1B visa due to the coronavirus pandemic.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said after compromising the “India First” policy in the HCQ drug climb-down, the government is again failing to secure the safety and livelihood of Indians in the US.“Time for the prime minister to ensure that our soft power of ‘Namaste Trump’ converts into fair treatment of H-1B visa holders in the US,” Surjewala said, noting that the US has put Americans on a temporary paid leave or allowed them to work for reduced hours in the wake of the pandemic.But “the sword of H-1B visa job terminations” looms large over an estimated 75,000 Indians, with the United States giving them only a 60-day period to find a new job in case of a lay off, he said.“Time for the prime minister to rise to the occasion. We demand that the Modi government ensure the extension of post-job loss limit of H-1B Visa holder Indians to 180 days,” Surjewala said. He said this will give them sufficient time to find another job when the situation improves.“Modi government should also ensure that H-1B visa holders, who lost their jobs, are covered for COVID-19 and other health insurance free of cost, including extending support to their families,” he said in a statement. The Congress leader said the party also demands that the Modi government deliberate with Indian industry confederations like NASSCOM, CII, and FICCI to prevent further H-1B job losses. He said there are 309,986 Indians working on H-1B visa in the US, and given the COVID-19 lockdown in the two countries, it is logistically impossible for them to return to India. He said nearly 60,000 H-1B visas are generally granted to Indians each year which have already been on a steady decline for a few years whereas the rejection rate has gone up to as high as 53 pc for some top IT companies, who contribute 8 per cent to the GDP.The economic slowdown is becoming “more and more extreme” during lockdown, he said.Surjewala alleged that most organisations are even considering to terminate the contract unless the Modi government and the Trump administration find a solution. This, he said, has to be taken-up on war footing as post-termination they would have 60 days to find a job, which seems bleak in these challenging times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-should-talk-to-us-to-prevent-job-losses-of-indians-holding-h-1b-visa-cong/story-QOp25H4GCOO4XQnrEv9saO.html
10-04-2020||India||Few new Covid-19 cases and more recoveries in Kerala, experts see light at the end of the tunnel||Kerala reported seven fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the total number of Covid-19 infected in the state to 364, said state health minister K K Shailaja. In a positive development, 19 people were discharged from hospitals in the state, taking the total number of persons cured of the disease to 124. Maximum people were discharged from north Kerala’s Kasaragod, a hotspot in the state.Among the seven fresh cases, two are Nizamuddin-returned Tablighi Jamaat members, both from Malappuram. 17 of the 212 Jamaat members found to have attended the Delhi event have tested positive. A total of 1,29,751 people are under observation in the state including 1,29,021 in their homes and 730 in different hospitals. Kerala was the first state to report a case of Sars-Cov 2 virus in the country on Jan 30 when a China-returned medical student was diagnosed positive for the disease.The state has the twin distinctions of highest recovery and lowest mortality rate in the country so far. A total of 124 people have recovered from the disease while only two deaths have been reported till now from the 364 positive cases, a mortality rate of less than one per cent.A 93-year-old man from Pathanamthitta and his 84-year-old wife are among those who recovered and their recovery has been cited as a medical success story.Health experts claim that the state’s early exposure, lessons from the nipah outbreak of 2018 (considered to be a more dangerous virus with 80 per cent mortality rate), robust health system and its preparedness has helped it to contain the mortality rate.“It seems our vigil and surveillance started paying some dividends. For the last few days, the number of positive cases came down drastically. If things go like this we can flatten the curve soon,” said the minister. As on Friday evening, the national tally of positive coronavirus cases stood at 6761 including 206 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/few-new-covid-19-cases-and-more-recoveries-in-kerala-experts-see-light-at-the-end-of-the-tunnel/story-8RFyRVtd68x1GzabMGSjyN.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19 Update: Top 10 coronavirus news of the day as India’s count touches 6,761||India on Friday reported 6,761 Covid-19 cases with the death toll climbing to 206 in the country. In the last 24 hours, 37 deaths have been reported and 896 new infections, the largest ever increase in single day cases. This is not only the largest ever single-day jump in the number of Covid-19 patients, it is also the highest number of deaths reported in 24 hours.Earlier in the day, Punjab became the second state in the country after Odisha, to extend the nationwide lockdown imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March. The lockdown was scheduled to be lifted on April 14 midnight but will now continue in place, in Punjab and Odisha at least, till April 30.Here are the top 10 Covid-19 related news of the day:1. There is no community transmission of the deadly pathogen Covid-19 in the country till date, but citizens need to remain alert and follow all possible healthcare guidelines, the Union health ministry has said.2. At least 146 government laboratories are testing samples for Covid-19 and 67 private laboratories have been given approval to conduct tests to diagnose the infection, according to health ministry data.3. India is in the final stages of framing a protocol for conducting clinical trials for convalescent plasma therapy, which uses antibodies from the blood of cured patients, to treat severely-ill Covid-19 patients, a senior ICMR official said on Friday.4. Twelve more people have tested positive for Covid-19 in West Bengal on Friday. The total number of active coronavirus cases in the state currently stands at 89, West Bengal Chief Secretary Rajiv Sinha has said.5. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope has sought the Union government’s permission to start coronavirus testing laboratories in Nanded, Jalna, Aurangabad, Latur and Amravati districts in the state. He made the demand during a meeting with Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan through video conferencing. Tope said the rise in the number of coronavirus patients in Maharashtra was a cause for concern, and had demanded that the Centre provide more PPE kits and N-95 masks. Maharashtra, so far, has reported the highest number of coronavirus positive cases.6. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the Centre to inform it within two weeks of the arrangements that are being made for mentally ill people roaming on the streets during the nationwide lockdown. In a statement, the NHRC said, it has taken cognisance of a complaint on the alleged violation of human rights of mentally afflicted people and asked the Union Home Ministry to respond within two weeks.7. United States lawmakers have urged China to shut down all “wet markets” amid the global coronavirus pandemic.8. Tamil Nadu has reported one more coronavirus death taking the toll reaches 9 in the state. According to news agency PTI, Tamil Nadu reported one more death due to coronavirus, taking the total to nine. Total Covid-19 cases in the state are 77 positive cases.9. Rajasthan reported 57 new Covid-19 positive cases on Friday – the maximum on a single day – as the overall count in the desert state rose to 520. The state’s Covid-19 cases have been doubling rapidly. They first phase doubled from 100 to 200 cases in three days between April 1 and April 4. Later, it doubled again from 200 to 400 cases between April 4 and April 9. Ramganj, a neighborhood in Jaipur, has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in the state with 15 cases over the past two weeks.10. The Punjab government has said that the total number of coronavirus cases in the state climbed to 151 with 21 more people contracting the infection. A Jalandhar resident, who tested positive for coronavirus, died on Thursday, taking the total number of Covid-19 related deaths in the state to 11, an official said. Among the 21 fresh cases, 11 were reported in Mohali district, of which 10 were from Jawaharpur village alone. Eight cases were reported in Pathankot and one each in Sangrur and Jalandhar, according to a medical bulletin of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-top-10-coronavirus-news-of-the-day-as-india-s-count-touches-6-761/story-6HHOyDfs6aOJfaflAJLMMK.html
10-04-2020||India||ED seizes luxury vehicles of Wadhawans used for Mahabaleshwar trip during lockdown||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday issued seizure orders for five luxury vehicles used by DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel to their farmhouse in Maharashtra’s Mahabaleshwar during the coronavirus lockdown, officials said.They said the federal agency has sent an official order, issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), to the Satara Superintendent of Police for execution.The vehicles are owned by the Wadhawan brothers, the notice said.The Wadhawan brothers and 21 others, including their family members, were travelling in two Range Rover and three Toyota Fortuner cars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-seizes-luxury-vehicles-of-wadhawans-used-for-mahabaleshwar-trip-during-lockdown/story-cqODDYu0vQgCXyOFOwMJxI.html
10-04-2020||India||3 more Delhi areas under Covid-19 hard lockdown over Tablighi Jamaat cases||The government on Friday expanded the containment zones in national capital Delhi, bringing three more localities of central and north Delhi under the hard lockdown. A top Delhi home department official told Hindustan Times that the three fresh localities in central Delhi were brought under the strict lockdown procedure in view of cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat in these areas,The three localities that have been added to the list are B Block Jahangirpuri, Nabi Karim and Chandni Mahal.Containment zones are localised (up to a kilometer in radium) and are aimed to prevent the spread of Covid-19 from a locality or a village to nearby areas. Health ministry officials have described it as a barrier erected around the focus of infection. Complete list of 26 Delhi containment zonesEntire street affected near Gandhi Park, Malviya NagarEntire street affected of Gali No 6, L 1 Sangam Vihar, New Delhi.Shahajahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka.Dinpur VillageMarkaz Masjid and Nizamuddin BastiNizamuddin West (G and D block) areas.B Block Jhangirpuri.H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri DelhiMansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave, Delhi3 Galis of Khichirpur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichirpur DelhiGali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 110092.Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension, DelhiMayurdhwaj Appartments, I P Extension, Patparganj, DelhiGali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108(towards Anarwali Masjid Chowk), Krishan Kunj Extension, DelhiGali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension Delhi.Gali No. 5, A Block (From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar Delhi 110092.J&K, L and H pockets, Dilshad GardenG, H, J Blocks, Old SeemapuriF -70 to 90 block, Dilshad ColonyPratap Khand, Jhilmil ColonyShastri Market including JJ cluster of South Moti BaghBengali Market/BabaR Road adjoining area of Todarmal, Babar Lane and School LaneSadar Bazar Central DistrictContainment zone in District North: B Block JahangirpuriNabi KarimChandni MahalOfficials said the decision to expand the number of containment zones in central Delhi areas was a fallout of concerns about the possible spread of Covid-19 cases due to contacts of Tablighi Jamaat workers.Also read: India reports 37 Covid-19 deaths, 896 cases in 24 hours; biggest jump in a dayIn containment zones, residents are not allowed to step out to buy vegetables, grocery items, medicines and other essentials. There could be multiple screening by health officials, police and civic bodies. People living in containment zones are put under surveillance to track if any person has developed the symptoms of Covid-19 (fever, sore throat, etc).A majority of Covid-19 cases reported in Delhi are linked to the congregation at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters last month, turning the Markaz into the epicentre of the disease in Delhi and across the country.In the national capital, Tablighi Jamaat-linked cases have also been a cause of key concern. For one, officials concede, because they cannot say with any amount of confidence that the authorities including the police have been able to trace all the people who joined the congregation at the Nizamuddin headquarters or identify all the Covid-19 clusters linked to the Jamaat.But Delhi Police has been trying, scanning phone signals that were in and around the Tablighi headquarters, the Markaz. A senior city government official said Nabi Karim and Chandni Mahal were added to the containment zone list after the police carried out field verification about some of these people, before the health services moved in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-more-delhi-areas-under-hard-lockdown-over-tablighi-jamaat-cases/story-EjLuYDcwhVdhkOB1zCFHON.html
10-04-2020||India||Dozens arrested in J&K’s Sopore for attending funeral of slain JeM commander||Srinagar: Police have arrested more than a dozen people for joining the funeral of a Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) commander in Sopore area of north Kashmir in violation of government advisories against public gatherings during the Covid-19 outbreak.The arrests were made after Jammu and Kashmir Police registered a case against those who assembled for the funeral of the JeM commander at Saidpora locality. Sopore’s superintendent of police Javed Iqbal said more than 12 people were arrested for violating social distancing norms at the funeral. “More people will be arrested,” he said.The JeM commander, Sajjad Nawab Dar, 23, was killed in a gun battle with security forces in Gulabad area of Sopore on Tuesday.Soon after his body was handed over to his family, more than 1,000 people, including women, from his village and adjoining areas joined a large funeral procession. Pictures of the gathering went viral on social media and many people questioned why social distancing norms were ignored at the funeral.A police spokesperson said on Thursday a first information report (FIR) was registered against the people who gathered for the funeral and violated Covid-19-related protocols and government advisories on social distancing.“The legal heirs had stated in writing they would adhere to social distancing norms when the body was handed over to them after completing medico-legal formalities. The matter is under investigation and defaulters will be dealt with strictly as per the law,” the spokesperson said.People familiar with developments said police teams conducted raids at several villages last night and arrested some people who participated in the funeral. Police are trying to identify more people who were in the gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dozens-arrested-in-j-k-s-sopore-for-attending-funeral-of-slain-jem-commander/story-wbSRkZHEHC81RCBC3G1SRJ.html
10-04-2020||India||India reports 37 Covid-19 deaths, 896 cases in 24 hours; biggest jump in a day||India on Friday reported 6,761 Covid-19 cases with the death toll climbing to 206 in the country. In the last 24 hours, 37 deaths have been reported and 896 new infections, the largest ever increase in single day cases.This is not only the largest ever single-day spike in the number of Covid-19 patients, it is also the highest number of deaths reported in 24 hours.Out of the total 6,761 Covid-19 cases, 6039 are active cases and 516 have been either cured, discharged from hospitals or have migrated, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said.ALSO READ | Covid-19: Centre says no community transmission, Punjab CM says may have begunEarlier in the day, Punjab became the second state in the country after Odisha, to extend the nationwide lockdown imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month. The lockdown was scheduled to be lifted on April 14 but will now continue, in Punjab and Odisha at least, till April 30.Amid apprehensions that India was inching towards community transmission of the coronavirus, that the country had already entered Stage 3 of the infectious disease, the World Health Organisation (WHO) clarified an error in its daily report and said that may not be the case yet. The global health watchdog said that India has reported cluster of cases in specific areas and not community transmission.On Friday, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) asked the Centre to inform it within two weeks the arrangements that are being made for mentally ill people roaming on the streets during the nationwide lockdown.In a statement, the NHRC said, it has taken cognisance of a complaint on the alleged violation of human rights of mentally afflicted people and asked the Union Home Ministry to respond within two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-37-deaths-896-new-cases-in-24-hours-total-count-touches-6-761/story-sPvmSfx7RLbUA3G1IaT7vN.html
10-04-2020||India||Extend lockdown, don’t fritter away gains made in Covid-19 fight: Top army doc||India must extend its strict confinement measures to combat the coronavirus disease and the benefits of the lockdown should not be frittered away for short-term economic considerations, said one of the military’s topmost doctors, a three-star general who was at the forefront of the country’s fight against Covid-19 until 10 days ago.Lieutenant General Rajan Grewal, who retired as the head of the army’s medical services on April 1, told Hindustan Times on Friday that relaxing the lockdown would allow transmission rates to skyrocket across cities and communities, with horrific consequences of unmanageable disease burden and resultant mortality.The current 21-day lockdown was enforced on March 25 to break the chain of infection and control the spread of the coronavirus, and the government is expected to take a final call on extending it beyond April 14 soon.Grewal recommended a longer and calibrated lockdown that would give India an extended window of opportunity to blunt the Covid-19 curve.He said a prolonged lockdown might be perceived as an extreme step with its economic, vocational and food scarcity-related apprehensions, but it was the most reliable mechanism and perhaps the only means to minimise transmission through effective community containment.“Different studies reveal that even with 50% efficacy of the lockdown, there should be a considerable blunting of the curve. The question therefore is whether to consider a calibrated extension of the lockdown for a few more weeks or not. Despite its deleterious consequences for the economy and livelihoods of the weaker sections of our populace, can the nation afford to surrender these (lockdown) gains,” Grewal said.He stressed that the positive impact of the lockdown in dealing with the calamitous ramifications of the Covid-19 pandemic should not be underplayed.Grewal, however, flagged concerns about the variable implementation of the lockdown across states, pointing to a recent “avoidable congregation” in New Delhi and its widespread ramifications. As of April 3, a third of the country’s coronavirus positive cases were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month.He said if Prime Minister Narendra Modi had not ordered the lockdown, the Covid-19 pandemic could have triggered an unmanageable healthcare crisis in the country in the coming months.“As a result of the lockdown, the disease burden will be considerably less and delayed compared with the previous alarming estimates. The spread has been partially checked by the commendable measures planned and executed by the government,” he pointed out.Grewal said steps taken by the government to slow the spread of the disease were yielding results.“But this ought not to lead to complacence and laxity which may have catastrophic consequences. If the lockdown is totally lifted, the sheer magnitude of a VUCA (volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous) environment would trigger chaos and devastation,” he said.He said the lockdown, preceded by the mass quarantine of evacuees from hotspots abroad and also those potentially exposed, has slowed down the progress of transmission.“If benefit accrual (from the lockdown) is surrendered, the control of the pandemic may become more challenging, complex and uncertain with each passing day. Things could spin out of control,” he said.Grewal said enhanced testing and contact tracing in and around Covid-19 hotspots across the country where the population was vulnerable to the disease was vital. “This may prevent us from basking in the comfort zone that we are doing better than most of the world,” he said.Preventing the spread of infection in pockets with high population densities, including slums and suburbs, was critical in the fight against Covid-19, he said. “Lockdown may not have the same success in these settings if it is not augmented by active screening, aggressive testing, rigorously enforced quarantine, zoning cordons and intense medical surveillance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extend-lockdown-don-t-fritter-away-gains-made-in-covid-19-fight-top-army-doc/story-YBvhDHCn5atRy9YRPkVbGJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19: States asked not to allow religious gatherings during lockdown||The Union home ministry has directed all states and Union territories not to allow any religious or social gathering in view of the upcoming festivals, a government order said on Friday, appealing to citizens to strictly follow the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).States/UTs have been asked to inform district authorities and field agencies on prohibitions of the lockdown and take all measures for the maintenance of law and order, peace and public tranquillity, according to the government order. The Centre has also asked authorities to keep tabs on social media and act against objectionable content.“Clause 9 & 10 of the Consolidated Guidelines (on the lockdown) state that no religious congregation will be permitted without any exception and all social/cultural/religious functions/gatherings shall be barred,” the order said.For the attention of the public authorities, social/religious organisations and citizens, guidelines of the lockdown should be widely circulated. People violating the guidelines will face penal action under relevant provisions of the law, the order said.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“There are several festivals in the coming week. In this regard, several community leaders have come forward & are convincing their respective communities to assist the government in strictly implementing lockdown,” a spokesperson of the home ministry tweeted.While Shab-e-Barat was on Thursday, Good Friday was observed on April 10. Festivals such as Baisakhi, Rongali Bihu, Vishu, Poila Boishakh, Puthandu, Maha Vishuba Sankranti too fall in April.The 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was set to end on April 14. Even though the government is yet to take a decision, there are indications that the restrictions could be extended. Some states have already done that.A senior Indian Police Service officer from Uttar Pradesh, who didn’t wish to be named, said the state was deploying adequate number of personnel at places of worship ahead of the festivals, and drones were being used to the monitor movement of people in such areas. “Anybody violating the lockdown will face strict action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-states-asked-not-to-allow-religious-gatherings-during-lockdown/story-iUNir6cvZ2TXwgHSj1gM4K.html
10-04-2020||India||Amid the scramble to contain coronavirus, a thought spared for mentally-ill wandering on streets||Taking cognisance of a complaint alleging violation of human rights of the mentally ill people roaming on the streets across the country amid the lockdown to contain Covid-19, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the ministry of home affairs to take the necessary steps to ensure their well being.NHRC has asked the Ministry of Home Affairs to issue directions to the states and Union Territories to ensure that persons suffering from any kind of mental ailments under their jurisdiction are provided with proper counselling towards necessary precautions for their personal care and protection from the virus and that they are not deprived of basic amenities like food, shelter and medical care, etc.The Commission has observed that it is aware of the efforts being made by the central and the state governments to fight the spread of the Covid-19 virus and to ensure the right to food and health care for the citizens, but some sections of the society such as persons suffering from mental illness require specific attention as even in normal circumstances, they are dependent on others and always need support.“Therefore, in this time of crisis, it becomes the duty of the state to ensure food, shelter and social security for the people belonging to such vulnerable classes. This becomes more necessary because not only the people suffering from mental illness maybe deprived of basic amenities but also become an easy carrier of the deadly virus posing life threat to many,” NHRC said in a statement.According to a complaint filed in NHRC, a large number of persons suffering from various mental illnesses are loitering on the streets and are dependent for food, shelter and other kinds of help on temples, gurudwaras and other charity organisations.“But the administration has not issued any specific guidelines for these people and no arrangements for their survival during this period of the crisis have been made,” NHRC said.The central government and the states have made provisions for food, shelter and medical care of hundreds of thousands of destitute, mostly migrant labourers and other daily wagers while the economic activity has been scaled down to minimum during the ongoing three-week long lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-the-scramble-to-contain-coronavirus-a-thought-spared-for-mentally-ill-wandering-on-streets/story-o5OqVlaopeBkmCovkiuCvN.html
10-04-2020||India||Punjab becomes 2nd state to extend lockdown till April 30. Odisha was first||The Punjab cabinet on Friday unanimously decided to extend the covid-19 lockdown in the state till April 30. Punjab becomes the second state after Odisha to prolong the lockdown. On March 23, Prime Minister Modi had announced the national lockdown till April 14 to stem the spread of Covid-19 disease.Earlier today, chief minister Amarinder Singh, addressing a news conference through video-conferencing, said he felt the lockdown and curfew should continue in view of the increased number of positive Covid-19 cases.“The number of positive Covid-19 cases will increase as is happening across the world and even in India. How can Punjab be isolated from it? We have contained the pandemic to some level as compared to other states. But this will spread. We have kept our contingency plan ready and lockdown is one of the methods to cut social contacts,” he said.Punjab, which was one of the first states to impose a state-wide lockdown and stop public transport, has reported 132 Covid-19 patients.Several states, including Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka, have called for lockdown enforcement beyond April 14, saying that the threat of Covid-19 would be easier to handle if it is kept in place for a longer period of time.On April 8, PM Modi , in his interaction with opposition leaders, said life will not be the same again after the coronavirus pandemic. He added there would be “pre-corona and post-corona” for times to come.“I am regularly talking to CMs, districts and experts. Nobody is telling me to lift the lockdown. We need strict rules to maintain social distancing. We have to take many unexpected steps too,” PM Modi told the leaders.The nationwide lockdown, at the same time, has worried experts and commentators that it would hurt the already slowing economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-after-odisha-becomes-2nd-state-to-extend-lockdown-till-april-30/story-41MuCBNK79z4FiLifsSgOI.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Centre says no community transmission, Punjab CM says may have begun||The government on Friday said that community transmissions of coronavirus have not begun yet in the country and that there was no need to panic. The central government officials made the comment while citing results of all samples tested on Thursday which included a minuscule 0.2% positive results for Covid-19.“Yesterday, we conducted 16002 tests. Only 0.2% cases tested positive. On the basis of the samples collected, the infection rate is not high,” said Lav Agrawal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health.Government’s assurance that the deadly contagion had not progressed to the community transmissions phase- considered dangerous as positive cases start rising exponentially making tracing of the contacts nearly impossible—comes within hours of the Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh expressing concerns to the contrary.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageSingh has expressed fear that there could be cases of community transmissions in his state that has reported a total of 113 positive cases so far including 8 deaths as per the data provided by the union health ministry. Singh said 27 positive cases in the state had been reported from secondary sources to back his claim.He also added that continuance of the 21-day nationwide lockdown and curfew was the only way to contain the spread of Covid-19. His sentiment on preventive measures was echoed by the Union health ministry official in Delhi. “Today, the challenge is not local or community transmission, but if we are taking all the precautionary and containment measures,” Agrawal said.India has registered a total of 6412 coronavirus positive cases so far including 199 deaths, says the data available on the health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard. The health ministry official added that positive cases in the last 24 hours had risen by 678 including 33 deaths.Home ministry said that in view of the approaching festivals in the current month, all states and Union territories have been asked for strict compliance of the restrictions in place to prevent any mass events. The government also added that the country had no shortage of anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine which is also being used for the treatment of selective coronavirus cases on medical prescription.The government added that the production of personal protective equipment (PPE) in the country was being ramped up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rules-out-coronavirus-community-transmissions-punjab-fears-it-may-have-begun/story-cZpyDH0ZbY4HOq9UT6bNEJ.html
10-04-2020||India||In Odisha, no fuel for people if they don’t wear masks at petrol pumps||In an attempt to support the Odisha government’s move to make masks compulsory, all petrol pumps across major cities in Odisha have decided not to dispense fuel to anyone who is not wearing a mask.From Thursday morning, Odisha made masks mandatory for anyone stepping outside and decided to impose fines on violators. The fine would be Rs 200 for the first 3 times and then Rs 500 for every subsequent violation.General Secretary of the Utkal Petroleum Dealers Association, Sanjay Lath said, the employees of fuel stations are also putting their lives at risk for the sake of their jobs and hence are at risk of infection. “The government’s decision is for the benefit of the public and we completely support it. Accordingly, keeping the customers’ and employees’ well-being in mind, we have taken this decision,” he said.Odisha is the first state in the country to make masks mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-no-fuel-for-people-if-they-don-t-wear-masks-at-petrol-pumps/story-qUI9A74V3MNTR5Nj9IsjNI.html
10-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Ensure lockdown is followed, health minister requests states and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ensure Covid-19 lockdown is followed, health minister Harsh Vardhan requests statesUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan urged all the states to ensure that the lockdown measures imposed in the wake of coronavirus disease Covid-19 are fully followed. If this is not done, said the health minister, then it will be very difficult for India to win against the coronavirus disease. Read moreTripura becomes second state to invoke ESMA to manage Covid-19 outbreakServices related to public conservancy, banking, communication and transport, sanitation, water supply, hospitals, or defence related are considered essential and come under the purview of the Act. Read moreCovid-19: Amarinder Singh hints at lockdown extension, fears community spreadPunjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday backed extending restrictions on movement of people in the state to curb spread of Covid-19 cases, asserting that community transmission appeared to have started in the state. Read more2 nurses test Covid-19 +ve in Mumbai, hospital stops taking new patientsTwo nurses, aged 27 years and 42 years of Dadar’s Shushrusha Hospital have tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday following which authorities have directed the hospital to stop taking in any new patients. Read moreUS job losses surge as world leaders urge Easter distancingA staggering 16.8 million Americans lost their jobs in just three weeks, a measure of how fast the coronavirus has brought world economies to their knees. Read more Apple has a 30-day plan to keep your kids entertained during the lockdownThe Covid-19 outbreak has forced everyone to stay indoors. While employees are working from home, school kids too are completing their classes virtually. Read moreCan your phone spread coronavirus?Mobile phones are essential devices in our daily lives now. However, has it ever dawned on you that the phone can also get contaminated and spread Covid-19? Cell phones are used throughout the day and they accumulate maximum dirt in the process. Read more‘It was tough’: Cricketer-turned-cop Joginder Sharma recalls time he was ‘scared’ during COVID-19 dutyIndia’s 2007 T20I World Cup hero Joginder Sharma, who is currently serving as a deputy superintendent of police in Hisar district of Haryana, on Friday, gave a glimpse of his role as a cop amid nationwide lockdown in the country due to coronavirus pandemic. Read moreNEET UG 2020: NTA allows applicants to change exam city till April 14In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, National Testing Agency (NTA) on Friday further expanded the scope of making corrections in the online application forms for NEET UG 2020. Read moreWatch| ‘720 COVID-19 cases in Delhi; no shortage of PPE kits’: Satyendar Jain||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ensure-lockdown-is-followed-health-minister-requests-states-and-all-the-latest-news/story-C33pDKfnJZOr3FfBLKCfSP.html
10-04-2020||India||Woman dies of Covid-19 in Rajasthan; 57 fresh cases reported||Another person died due to Covid-19 and 57 fresh cases were reported in Rajasthan on Friday, pushing the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 520, officials said.The fresh cases include eight people evacuated from Iran.Defence sources said all the 1,036 Indians evacuated from Iran had tested negative for the virus in that country but 50 of them have tested positive now. They were kept in Army quarantine facilities.On Friday, the maximum 15 cases were reported from Jaipur, a hotspot, taking the total number of cases in the state capital to 183. The samples of those who tested positive were collected during a house-to-house survey, officials said.Banswara reported 12 cases, Jaisalmer and Jodhpur eight each, Jhalawar three, and Alwar, Bharatpur and Kota one each.On Thursday evening, a 65-year-old woman died in Jaipur, taking the death toll in the state due to Covid-19 to eight. “The woman from Ramganj in Jaipur was admitted to SMS Hospital on Wednesday with complaint of respiratory distress pneumonia and co-morbidity hypertension. She tested positive for Covid-19 and was on ventilator,” an official said.This was the first death of a coronavirus patient in Ramganj and second in Jaipur.On Sunday, a man from Ghat Gate in the capital died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-rajasthan-57-fresh-cases-reported/story-Akke0SJ1ujNIWREJLI84ZK.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19, hydroxychloroquine and Acharya Prafulla Chandra Ray||Hydroxychloroquine or HCQ, the anti-malarial drug touted by some as a potential weapon against Covid-19, has put the spotlight on a company founded by Prafulla Chandra Ray, considered to be the father of Indian chemistry.The Kolkata-based Bengal Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Limited, the only public sector unit that manufactures anti-malarial drug in India, said it will apply for a licence to produce HCQ soon. Bengal Chemicals had started HCQ’s production but was stopped decades ago.Here is more about Prafulla Chandra Ray:* Born on August 2 in 1861, Ray set up Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals as an individual initiative in a laboratory in 1892 to foster a spirit of entrepreneurship among the youth of Bengal.* After getting a DSc degree from Edinburgh University in 1887, Ray started teaching chemistry at Presidency College. By 1892, with a capital of about Rs 700, he had started Bengal Chemical Works, and presented its herbal products before the Indian Medical Congress’ 1893 session held in Kolkata.* Ray transformed his initiative into Bengal Chemicals and Pharmaceutical Works Pvt Ltd, with a capital of Rs 2 lakh, by 1901.* He never took any salary from the company.* By 1908, it had made its mark in Bengal’s industrial sphere and John Cumming wrote in the ‘Review of the Industrial Position and Prospects in Bengal’ that the ‘enterprise shows signs of resourcefulness and business capacity, which should be an object lesson to capitalists of this province’.* Under his stewardship, Bengal Chemicals grew fast. From having its first and second factories in Kolkata’s Maniktala in 1905 and the northern suburbs of Panihati in 1920, it set up a third factory in Mumbai in 1938.* Prafulla Chandra Ray authored, among other books, the ‘History of Hindu Chemistry – From the Earliest Times to the Middle of the Sixteenth Century AD’, a book that documented India’s indigenous chemical practices starting from the Vedic era.* He published a paper in 1896 on the preparation of a new stable chemical compound: mercurous nitrite. It made way for a large number of investigative papers on nitrites and hyponitrites of different metals, and on nitrites of ammonia and organic amines. * Ray retired in 1936 aged 75 and died on June 16, 1944, at the age of 82.* The Royal Society of Chemistry dedicated its coveted Chemical Landmark plaque to Ray, the first non-European to be conferred the honour, in 2011 on his 150th birth anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-hydroxychloroquine-and-acharya-prafulla-chandra-ray/story-SWyel4KoS02hVGItmMWoPK.html
10-04-2020||India||Cong leader with Covid-19 booked for hiding travel history, village declared containment zone||A Congress leader, who tested positive for coronavirus, was booked for hiding his travel history after allegedly attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Markaz last month and his village, Deenpur, in Najafgarh was declared a containment zone, police said on Friday.After the issue of religious congregation at Nizamuddin came to light, district police were tracing people who attended the event. It was then found that five people from the area had attended the gathering following which several people, including the man, were asked to home quarantine, they said.Initially, the police had also asked the man, a former councillor of Nangli Sakrawati, if he was part of the event, but he denied it. His wife is the current councillor of Nangli Sakrawati, a village in Najafgarh, they said.During physical verification of the people quarantined at their homes in the area, the man was not found by health authorities at his residence. On subsequent questioning, he again hid facts about his past travel and movements, they said.Even during repeated medical and police enquiry, he withheld this fact and did not disclose it to the authorities, a senior police official said.Later, he fell ill and when he was tested he was found positive for coronavirus. His wife and child also tested positive for the infection, following which all three of them were hospitalised, the official said.After analysing his call records and upon physical enquiry, it was found that he had visited Jamaat at Nizamuddin, the official said, adding that he had jeopardised the health of the local community and his family members.As a result, a containment zone was declared in Deenpur village and legal action was initiated against him, the police said. A case under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) Of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act, has been registered against him at Chhawla police station, they said. Comprehensive surveillance and information gathering through rigorous physical verification and technical monitoring is being ensured to enforce the lockdown and home quarantine norms to contain the spread of coronavirus in Dwarka district, the police said.The Tabligh-e-Jamaat’s Markaz in Nizamuddin West, which is among the major COVID-19 hotspots in the country, was cleared after the evacuation of 2,361 people in the a 36-hour operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-leader-with-covid-19-booked-for-hiding-travel-history-village-declared-containment-zone/story-ICZaIqhtdam4jlK8YgLyGO.html
10-04-2020||India||Not Zoom, Vidyo is govt’s app of choice during Covid-19 lockdown||A host of privacy concerns related to virtual meetings of top government officials during the Covid-19 pandemic has made them turn to Vidyo, a video conferencing application vetted by the National Informatics Centre (NIC). The app developed by a US-based firm was first used by NIC in 1995 to host studio-based video conferencing. In 2009, the app was used for desktop-based video conferencing. It is the same secure channel that has been extended to officials at home to communicate. NIC data shows that from March 20, four days before the 21-day lockdown began, to April 9, a total of 79,405 calls lasting more than 37,909 hours have been made using the app. Privacy concerns about government meetings came to the fore on April 1, when defence minister Rajnath Singh posted pictures on Twitter of his video conference with Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat using Zoom. Also read: Zoom CEO Eric Yuan addresses privacy, security issues in first webinarZoom’s popularity in the government and private sectors surged during lockdowns in many countries. However, numerous security concerns related to the app have emerged. Authorities in Singapore, the US Senate and the German foreign ministry have barred the use of Zoom.From “zoombombing” or hackers entering private chat rooms to selling of user data, the app has faced criticism. On April 8, Google asked its employees to stop using Zoom. Talking about Vidyo, NIC director Neeta Verma said: “All the videos are stored on a secure government server and cannot be accessed by anyone else...The app is hosted on our own data centre and is end-to-end encrypted ensuring complete security.” She added that most ministries and departments were using the Vidyo app for official purposes, although officers may have been using others for their personal calls.  “Although the software is external, all the videos are stored on our own server and cannot be accessed by anyone else. The app is hosted on our own data centre.” Most ministries, she said, are using Vidyo for official purposes, though officers may have been using other apps for personal calls. Experts say Zoom could potentially expose the country to security risks. “The main challenge is if parts of the government, like the military and the home ministry, are using the software, it exposes the country to the risk of sensitive information being routed through foreign infrastructure,” said Sunil Abraham, former executive director of the Centre for Internet and Society. Abraham said Zoom’s lack of end-to-end encryption is the reason for this exposure. “The call is only encrypted between the user and Zoom, unlike end-to-end encryption. The company still has access to the information,” he said. Also read: Zoom’s latest update hides meeting ID numbers from the title bar“Keeping in view security concerns, the ministry of defence has since refrained from using the app for video conference,” a person familiar with developments told Hindustan Times. The department of personnel and training (DoPT) has been using Vidyo since virtual communications began. “There were security concerns around Zoom that we too read in media reports,” an DoPT official said. “We were sent a link by the NIC on WhatsApp for Vidyo and have been using that. They must have vetted it to ensure it stays confidential.”On Tuesday, the official said, DoPT secretary C Chandramouli held a meeting with senior officials on Vidyo to “review the present situation and formulate an action plan for the coming week”. According to a second DoPT official, meetings with the minister of personnel, grievances and pensions, Jitendra Singh, are exclusively held on Vidyo. “Work has been carrying forth as usual, but security has been our only concern,” the second official said. “Vidyo is the only app used for high-level meetings.” According to Abraham, however, even Vidyo is not completely secure. Also read: Google bans Zoom from employee laptops“The government has eliminated 50% of the risk by hosting it,” he said. “But at the same time, you don’t have complete control over the software. You don’t know what the software is doing exactly. It will have to be very closely monitored. It’s okay for low-level ministries but not the top level ones. If you use open source software Jitsi, you can avoid that risk too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-zoom-vidyo-is-govt-s-app-of-choice-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-8195JqwxqD5rQ7oORoxSuN.html
10-04-2020||India||Ensure Covid-19 lockdown is followed, health minister Harsh Vardhan requests states||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan urged all the states to ensure that the lockdown measures imposed in the wake of coronavirus disease Covid-19 are fully followed. If this is not done, said the health minister, then it will be very difficult for India to win against the coronavirus disease.“I request health ministers of all states to ensure that lockdown is followed 100 per cent in your respective states. If we lag behind in this, it will be difficult for us to win this fight against Covid-19,” Vardhan said on Friday.He also chaired a meeting today with state health ministers via video conferencing to review actions on Covid-19 management.On Thursday, Harsh Vardhan had addressed the global online conference on Covid-19 and said that India is thoroughly equipped and is putting its best foot forward. “We have planned everything possible and are in constant touch with the World Health Organisation (WHO),” he had said.With a rise of 547 new Covid-19 cases over the latest 12 hours, India’s total number of coronavirus positive cases rose to 6,412 on Friday. Out of the total cases, 5,709 are active cases and 503 of them have been cured or discharged, as per the health ministry.Thirty more people died of the disease in the last 12 hours, taking the toll up to 199.According to government, Maharashtra leads among the states with 1,360 Covid-19 positive cases. Tamil Nadu comes next with 834 cases. The complete number of cases reported in Delhi so far is 720.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-lockdown-is-followed-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-requests-states/story-clkHrSOyGzUuhFqFNHMFSO.html
10-04-2020||India||Mumbai: Juhu school sets example by distributing food to 700 people every day||A school in Mumbai’s Juhu has become a beacon of hope amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, as it is organising around 700 cooked meals daily for the city’s poor and needy such as old-age homes, street urchins, orphanages and transgender community members. The Jamnabai Narsee School, which is managed by the Narsee Monjee Education Trust, authorities have been rustling up the daily meals since March 31 in collaboration with the institution’s Parent Teacher Association (PTA). Around 6,000 meals have been distributed to date.Also Read: IIT Kanpur community kitchen feeding 800 street kids“We’re using our school’s kitchen to cook meals for the poor and needy. Our in-house cooks are preparing the meals and parents are helping with distribution. We want to put our existing resources to good use amid the crisis,” Jairaj, trustee, Jamnabai Narsee School, said.Also Read: Delhi govt scales up its free food distribution, ties up with eateries to feed the needyManan Doshi, vice-chairperson of the school’s PTA, explained how they hit upon the initiative. “The cooks, who work in the school, come from various parts of the country. They couldn’t go back home because of the ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown that started on March 25 to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak. We decided to utilise their services, as many places such as old-age homes are facing staff crunch because their cooks have gone back to their native places. We want to reach out to people in need,” Doshi said.Parents are also trying to distribute masks, cookies, and other essential items depending on the need and availability of resources. The school has also redesigned its logo for the interim. The sides of the hexagon have been separated to reinforce the message of social distancing amid the viral outbreak. “We want to spread awareness about social distancing. The redesigned logo drives home the point,” said Jairaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-juhu-school-sets-example-by-distributing-food-to-700-people-every-day/story-kRS4haru4XuJ1QVSuZzb6K.html
10-04-2020||India||‘Parallel governance’: Shiv Sena objects to Maharashtra guv’s Covid-19 meeting||The Shiv Sena on Friday objected to a meeting held by Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari with administrative officials on how to curb the spread of Covid-19, and called it unnecessary “parallel governance”. The Sena also said such meetings will only create confusion among state administrative staff.In an editorial in Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, the ruling party said in the prevailing “war-like situation”, there should be a single centre of command to give directives to the administration.“The Prime Minister at the Centre and the Chief Minister at the state level (should have that authority). Even at the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, the Shiv Sena and NCP chief Sharad Pawar told the PM that the entire country was united under his leadership to fight Covid-19,” the editorial read.ALSO READ | Uddhav Thackeray calls for all hands on the deck against Covid-19Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Pawar had been part of that video conference from Mumbai.Praising the leadership of the CM for his handling of the coronavirus health crisis, Pawar had told PM Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah about the Governor’s role (in holding the meeting with officials), the editorial said.“There was no bitterness. If someone runs a parallel government, it will lead to confusion. If a senior leader like Sharad Pawar feels this way, then the matter should be taken seriously,” the editorial said.The editorial also slammed the opposition BJP for frequently going to the Raj Bhavan to criticize the Sena-NCP- Congress government.ALSO READ | Maharashtra to start ‘fever clinics’ for Covid-19 patients: Chief Minister Uddhav ThackerayEarlier this week, Governor Koshyari held a meeting through video conferencing with district collectors and divisional commissioners.The meeting discussed availability of medical facilities and food items for migrant workers and homeless and needy people, who have been badly hit by the coronavirus outbreak as well as the lockdown.The meeting was attended by divisional commissioners, the additional commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and collectors of ten districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parallel-governance-shiv-sena-objects-to-maharashtra-guv-s-covid-19-meeting/story-GYbt6hMS3IuvaV8sc3cIzN.html
10-04-2020||India||2 nurses test Covid-19 +ve in Mumbai, hospital stops taking new patients||Two nurses, aged 27 years and 42 years of Dadar’s Shushrusha Hospital have tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday following which authorities have directed the hospital to stop taking in any new patients. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked the hospital to quarantine nearly 28 nurses who are employed in the hospital.The civic body has given a time period of 48 hours to the hospital to discharge all existing patients after proper screening. Kiran Dighavkar, Assistant Municipal Commissioner of G North ward (Dadar) said, “We have advised the hospital to conduct tests of all nurses at their own cost and then we will take a call.”In another incident, an 83-year-old man has tested positive at NC Kelkar Road in Dadar on Friday. Travel history, if any is being investigated and high risk contacts of the patient are being traced and will undergo tests immediately. There are so far six cases of Covid-19, which have been reported from Dadar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-nurses-test-covid-19-positive-in-mumbai-s-dadar-hospital-stops-taking-in-new-patients/story-GgxqcBOQg2tpZNJ0cEMP1N.html
10-04-2020||India||Kerala waits for drug controller nod for plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients||With Kerala getting the nod from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to explore plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients, medical experts in the state are upbeat and are waiting for the permission of the Drug Controller of India that is expected on Friday. Kerala will be the first state to carry out the test called convalescent plasma therapy against the coronavirus disease in the country.The test involves transfusion of specific components from the blood of people recovered from Covid 19—at least 14 days after their complete recovery—into those who have contracted the disease virus or are in the high-risk category. The recovered person’s plasma, which is rich in antibodies, is expected to help the patient, said experts adding they are getting encouraging reports from South Korea and the United States in this regard.“We have to get blood transfusion norms relaxed. Normally a healthy person is allowed to give blood for transfusion and other tests but here a person who recently recovered will have to bleed,” Dr Asha Kishore, director of Sree Chithira Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), the nodal agency to conduct the test, said.The donor has to be a patient who has fully recovered and shown no symptoms of the infection after 14 days isolation after getting discharged from the hospital, she said adding the blood group of both will have to be compatible. Also read: We must look at mass antibody testing for a calibrated exit from lockdown, says T Jacob JohnThis can also be tried in people who are at high risk of contracting the virus. She said her institute and four medical college hospitals in the state were fully equipped to conduct the plasma therapy.Dr Anoop Kumar, a member of the Kerala Medical Taskforce and also the head of the critical care unit of a leading private hospital in Kozhikode, explained that as a patient grapples with the virus, the body produces antibodies to attack it. These antibodies, proteins that are secreted by immune cells called B lymphocytes, are found in plasma or liquid part of the blood that helps in clotting when needed and supports immunity, Dr Kumar said.Also read: ‘In my blood, there may be answers’, says a Covid-19 survivor in New York“Even after recovery, these anti-bodies will remain in their blood waiting to guard any recurrence of infection. When these antibodies are injected into another person with the disease they recognise the enemy virus and kills them,” he said.He along with his friend Dr G Arun Kumar of the Manipal Institute of Virology was first to detect nipah virus in north Kerala two years ago.“Usually one person’s donation of plasma can produce two doses of blood component needed for transfusions. A patient needs one transfusion to get enough antibodies to fight the virus. This is not like blood donation. Only plasma is collected. A healthy person can donate 800 ml of plasma that can be treated at least four,” he said.Meanwhile, 12 fresh cases were reported in Kerala taking the total number of infected to 357. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said it was a proud moment for the state as 13 people, including eight foreigners, were discharged on Thursday which also marked the 100 days since the virus was first detected in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-waits-for-drug-controller-nod-for-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-patients/story-g9jxHuJZDu2JXYSEipJPJP.html
10-04-2020||India||185 people test negative for Covid-19 in Arunachal Pradesh||While Assam reported its first Covid-19 death, 185 people have tested negative for the virus in Arunachal Pradesh.The patient from Hailakandi, who succumbed to the coronavirus, died at Assam’s Silchar Medical College and Hospital on Thursday, said the Union Health Ministry in a statement on Friday.In Assam, odd-even policy for a private vehicle with emergency permits has been implemented and it will continue till April 12. However, on-duty government vehicles are exempted from this.A total of 207 samples were collected in Arunachal Pradesh till Thursday. 185 have tested negative, 1 was positive and results of 20 are awaited. One repeat test for Covid-19 positive patient was also done.An FIR was lodged against some Indian Reserve Battalion personnel for assaulting a health worker in Nirjuli area of Itanagar and an investigation is underway.In Manipur, the State government has decided to create an Adhoc Food Bank of essential items in which any citizen can donate dry rations and hygiene-related items for needy. Direct distribution of essential items to needy persons is being organised with the help of NGOs, NSS Volunteers and Indian Red Cross Society.Further, Meghalaya Police is now also using drones in its bid to maintain social distancing when shops are allowed to open and hundreds of people come out to buy essentials in the city. The East Khasi Hills District Magistrate, M War, has extended curfew from April 10 to 6 am of April 14 in the city and on the outskirts of the district.People who were stranded in different parts of Mizoram have started to return to their destinations within the state. Meanwhile, members of the Mizoram Journalists Association contributed Rs 50,000 to the Chief Minister Relief Fund for Covid-19.Nagaland has no Covid-19 case so far. 65 samples out of 69 have tested negative and the result of 4 is awaited. 23 persons are in quarantine facilities and 658 are under home quarantine. In the state, a total of 109 undertrial prisoners were released on parole. The decision was taken as per the directive of the Supreme Court in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak and also to decongest prisons.Sikkim Chief Minister P S Tamang has informed that his government is taking all necessary steps and is well prepared to face any challenge and threat posed by the global pandemic. He has urged the people to practice social distancing, quarantine or isolation measures in an effort to slow down the spread of disease.In Tripura, in order to better manage Covid-19 outbreak in the interest of citizens, the state government has implemented the Essential Services Management Act (ESMA).No new Covid-19 positive case reported in Tripura apart from the one positive case. The first positive patient is improving and is in stable condition. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/185-people-test-negative-for-covid-19-in-arunachal-pradesh/story-gGPjoHlNwi7NC401FJv2mL.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu; Assam reports first coronavirus death||More than 30 states and union territories in the country are now hit by the coronavirus disease as Maharastra, the worst-hit region, recorded 1586 cases of Covid-19 and 97 deaths on Friday.There are 6412 cases of the coronavirus disease and 199 people have died in India till date, the Union home ministry said on Friday morning. There are 5709 active cases and 503 people have been cured or discharged, the Union health ministry data showed at 8am.Also read: India gears up to begin plasma therapy trialsHere’s a look at the state data on the active Covid-19 cases, deaths and the number of patients who have cured or discharged:MaharashtraMaharashtra, the worst-affected state in the country, has seen 1364 coronavirus cases and 125 patients have recovered. State health minister Rajesh Tope indicated that the nationwide lockdown in place from March 25 could continue after April 14.“We are monitoring how the number of cases is increasing in districts. We are also looking at the advisories of the Centre. Based on that, we can decide to relax the lockdown in areas where there are no cases,” Tope said on Thursday.Senior officials said the government could decide after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with chief ministers on Saturday. Tamil NaduTamil Nadu has reported 863 Covid-19 cases, the second second-highest number in the country, 21 recoveries and eight Covid-19 deaths. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Thursday that the decision on extending the lockdown will be taken after consulting experts after holding a meeting with the panels set up to contain the disease’s spread. Also read: Woman, 50, rides 1,400 km on scooty to bring back son stranded in Andhra“We are now in stage two, and there is a chance for progression into stage three. The government is taking all the steps to confine the infection to stage two,” the chief minister said.DelhiDelhi with 757 Covid-19 patients the third-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The Union health ministry data shows there are 720 active cases of Covid-19, 25 people have recovered and nine have died from the infection till date.RajasthanThe desert state, which is being recommended for its Bhilwara model of containment, has 487 Covid-19 patients, out of which 21 have been cured and three have died.TelanganaThis southern state follows Rajasthan closely with 484 coronavirus disease patients till date. Telangana, which has seen 35 people recover and seven died because of Covid-19, was among one of the first states to pitch for the extension of lockdown.KeralaKerala is the fifth most affected state in the country with 455 patients of coronavirus disease. There are 83 people in the state who have been cured and two have died of Covid-19. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state will make a decision on extending the three-week lockdown after the video conference with the Prime Minister on Saturday. The Indian Medical Association’s Kerala chapter and many health experts have called for the lockdown to be prolonged.Uttar PradeshIndia’s most populous state has seen 410 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state, 31 recoveries and four have died of the infection. Uttar Pradesh’s additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi has said lifting the lockdown may not be possible.The state government had on Wednesday sealed 105 areas in 15 Uttar Pradesh districts until April 15 to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease.Andhra PradeshIn Andhra Pradesh, there are 348 Covid-19 patients, six cases of recovery, four fatalities. The southern state has not taken any decision on lockdown extension.Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh, which has hinted that the lockdown will be extended, has 259 cases of coronavirus disease and according to central data. 16 people have died from Covid-19.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has ordered the closure of the borders of three major cities of Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain and made it mandatory for people to wear masks.The state has around 200 containment zones, where people will need to mandatorily keep indoors. No movement is allowed in these zones, of which there are 74 in Indore, 70 in Bhopal and six in Ujjain.KarnatakaThe state, which has 12 of its 30 districts free of the virus, has recorded 181 coronavirus disease cases, 28 people recoveries and discharges and five deaths due to Covid-19. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa said an expert panel of doctors has unanimously recommended that the lockdown be extended for another fortnight. A final decision on the matter will be taken only after consulting PM Modi and experts on what to do, he added. GujaratGujarat has registered 241 Covid-19 patients and 25 people have recovered so far. There have been 17 fatalities from the infection in the state. The Prime Minister’s home state has also hinted towards extending the 21-day lockdown beyond April 14.Jammu and KashmirThere are 166 cases of the coronavirus disease till date in the Union territory. Out of which, eight people have been cured and eight others have died.HaryanaThe northern state has 201 Covid-19 cases, 29 people have recovered and three have died. Haryana is likely to go along with the Centre’s decision. Indications that the state is expecting an extended lockdown became apparent on Wednesday when chief minister ML Khattar held a video conference with opposition as well as religious denominations’ leaders, seeking help in persuading people to abide by stay-at-home orders.PunjabPunjab, which has not decided on the extension of the lockdown, has recorded 113 cases of the respiratory illness till date. Eight patients of Covid-19 have died and four have been sent home in this northern state.West BengalWest Bengal has seen 137 people infected with coronavirus so far. There have been five deaths and 16 recoveries in the eastern state. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee held a meeting with various chambers of commerce and representatives of micro, small and medium enterprises on Thursday to chalk out future plans on the lockdown. “I will put across my views if the Prime Minister consults the states before announcing anything. If the Centre takes a decision we will abide by it,” Banerjee said.OdishaThis state has 44 Covid-19 patients and out of which two have been sent home from hospitals and one has been died so far.Odisha on Thursday extended the 21-day lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic until the end of the month as chief minister Naveen Patnaik said human life is more important than the economic losses.AssamThe northeastern state reported its first Covid-19 related death on Friday as 65-year-old patient passed away at Silchar Medical College Hospital (SMCH). Assam has 29 positive cases till date and 28 of them have links to the Nizamuddin Markaz. Manipur (2), Mizoram (1), Tripura (1) and Arunachal Pradesh (1) are other states in the region to have recorded positive cases, while Nagaland and Meghalaya don’t have any case yet.Uttarakhand has 40 Covid-19 patients and five people have recovered from the infection. Bihar has reported 39 cases of Covid-19 and one person has died.Himachal Pradesh has 21 cases of the coronavirus disease, two patients have recovered and one has died. Chhattisgarh has recorded 10 cases of coronavirus and nine people have been cured. Also read: Focus on 1.1k containment zones in Covid action planJharkhand has 13 Covid-19 cases and Goa has reported seven coronavirus disease patients. In Chandigarh, 18 people have contracted Covid-19 and seven have recovered. Ladakh has 25 cases and out of which 10 have recovered. Andaman and Nicobar has recorded 11 Covid-19 cases and Puducherry has reported five cases and one person has recovered. Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland have not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: These figures are from data released by the Union ministry of health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise-in-maharashtra-tamil-nadu-assam-reports-first-coronavirus-death/story-cbrXaNlx2l5oSW2JyCoGxJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Tripura becomes second state to invoke ESMA to manage Covid-19 outbreak||Tripura has implemented the Essential Services Management Act ( ESMA) in public interest amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Services related to public conservancy, banking, communication and transport, sanitation, water supply, hospitals, or defence related are considered essential and come under the purview of the Act.Tripura became the second state after Madhya Pradesh to implement ESMA that came into effect from Thursday midnight.“In order to better manage #Covid-19 outbreak in the interest of citizens, from today (Thursday) the government has implemented the Essential Services Management Act (ESMA) with immediate effect in Tripura,” state chief minister Bipab Kumar Deb wrote on his Facebook page.Deb also announced that only secretary and above ranking officials are allowed to speak to media to avoid any misinformation regarding Covid-19.“We’ve decided that henceforth in all government department officials of secretary level and above are allowed to speak to media in a bid to avoid any misinformation,” Deb wrote in another Facebook post.The ESMA was invoked after some nurses complained of a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) units such as masks. Deb warned that strict action would be taken against them.Later, Dr Debasish Basu, secretary, health department, Tripura, said that 18 nurses were served with show-cause notices for making the complaint.Tripura, which has reported only one Covid-19 positive case so far, has put 985 people under quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-becomes-second-state-to-invoke-esma-to-manage-covid-19-outbreak/story-CQS4noUhrUmXErUh38E1cL.html
10-04-2020||India||Six new cases take Odisha’s Covid-19 tally to 48||Odisha reported six new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Friday, taking the total tally in the state to 48.Subroto Bagchi, Odisha government’s chief spokesperson on Covid-19, said the state is committed to providing the correct information at the right time, while also pointing out that it’s not always possible to provide every detail immediately in such circumstances.“Covid-19 is not an IPL match, where a ball-by-ball account is given. In an IPL game, we see action replay of batting and slow-motion movement of a ball. But as far as Covid-19 is concerned, all case details and analysis cannot be given on a real-time basis. We’ve to be careful. Time is not ripe to park an OB (outdoor broadcast) van in front of a hospital treating Covid-19 patients or a laboratory and do a live broadcast,” he said.His remarks came a day after the state government released a spatial distribution map of Covid-19 cases in Bhubaneswar that showed new areas where positive cases were found, but in the official tally of 44 as of Thursday, there was no mention of these neighbourhoods.The number of active cases in Odisha stand at 45 and one person has died due to the infection. Two have recovered and have been discharged from hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-new-cases-take-odisha-s-covid-19-tally-to-48/story-aK8Tb0YunuBTs4wjaBLTwJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Amarinder Singh hints at lockdown extension, fears community spread||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday backed extending restrictions on movement of people in the state to curb spread of Covid-19 cases, asserting that community transmission appeared to have started in the state.Addressing a news conference through video-conferencing, Singh said he felt the lockdown and curfew should continue in view of the increased number of positive Covid-19 cases. “The number of positive Covid-19 cases will increase as is happening across the world and even in India. How can Punjab be isolated from it? We have contained the pandemic to some level as compared to other states. But this will spread. We have kept our contingency plan ready and lockdown is one of the methods to cut social contacts,” he said.Punjab, which was one of the first states to impose a state-wide lockdown and stop public transport, has reported 132 Covid-19 patients.Also read: Officials spot a silver lining in India’s Covid-19 battle; prep for dark clouds“We had around 140,000 NRIs and foreign returnees, including from those countries where the virus had spread. They were the primary ones. Now, with 27 positive cases of secondary transmission we have entered the stage of community transmission. That is a serious cause of worry. That is why we have to seriously consider extending the lockdown,” added Singh.The chief minister said 651 people have come to the state from the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregations in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, which emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hotspots in the country. Of them, 636 have been traced and 15 remain untraced.Community transmission is the third of the four stages of the spread of an infectious disease. The first is travel history, the second is local transmission, the third is community transmission, and the fourth is epidemic. The Union Health Ministry has been consistently denying that India had reached the community transmission stage, insisting that it was still at the local transmission stage.A new study by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), however, found that 1 in 50 people admitted to hospitals with acute respiratory infections such as pneumonia suffer from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said: “One may not like to call it community transmission but this is in fact community transmission”.Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, disagreed, underlining that the case history of the patients had probably not been analysed properly yet.Also read| Covid-19 latest updates: The extent of spread in India and Stage 3 concernsPunjab, Maharashtra, Delhi and Rajasthan have mandated that people should wear face masks in public places.Several states in the country have approached the Centre to extend the 21-day lockdown, which is supposed to be in place till April 14, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to take a call Saturday after a meeting with chief ministers. “Currently, only one patient is on ventilator support and two are on a pre-ventilator stage where they only require oxygen. We have 76 operational ventilators in government hospitals and 358 in private hospitals,” Capt Amarinder Singh added.He also said 11 people have died due to Covid-19 in the state till date. The number of samples which have been collected stand at 2,877, which he said, is not much for a state which has 28 million people.The chief minister said 651 people have come to the state from the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregations in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area, which emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hotspots in the country. “We have traced 636 of them. Fifteen are still untraceable and we are looking for them,” Singh said.Quoting studies that have projected a spike in Covid-19 cases later in the year, the The chief minister also cited studies including one by Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research that project Covid-19 cases could spike by mid-September when 58% of its population would be infected. In Punjab, he said, it had been projected that 87% of the population would be infected by the disease.“These figures are frightening. Predictions by health experts about the spread of the pandemic are horrendous. So, we have to do what we can and lockdown is one of such measures,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/community-transmission-started-in-punjab-says-cm-hints-lockdown-extension/story-MlSsrCMGr1Wsydj6ykYXiP.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Govt answers FAQs on use of hydroxychloroquine to treat Covid-19||The National Task Force for Covid-19 constituted by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine for those at high risk of contracting the coronavirus infection.The Union health ministry issued an advisory on the anti-malarial hydroxychloroquine or HCQ, which is being cited by many a drug that can treat Covid-19.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Here are answers to the frequently answered questions:What is HCQ?It stands for hydroxychloroquine, a medication used to prevent and treat malaria.Is it effective against Covid-19?As of now, there is no specific anti-viral medication against Covid-19. Only in preclinical laboratory studies, HCQ was found effective against coronavirus. Only under exceptional circumstances, and only for the protection of high-risk individuals.Do we have enough stocks in the country for high-risk individuals?Yes. There is sufficient availability of HCQ in India at present and will continue to be so in the future too. Who is it recommended for?1. Asymptomatic health care workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed Covid-192. Asymptomatic household contacts of confirmed casesWho is it not recommended for?1. The drug is not recommended to children below the age of 15. 2. It is contradicted in persons with a known case of retinopathy and known hypersensitivity to hydroxychloroquine or 4-aminoquinoline compounds3. It is not advised for patients with cardiac irregularities or those suffering from a cardiac disease which can be harmful.What is the dosage?1. Asymptomatic although care workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed Covid-19: 400 mg twice a day on Day 1, followed by 400 mg once weekly for the next 7 weeks; to be taken with meals.2. Asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases: 400 mg twice a day on Day 1, followed by 400 mg once weekly for the next 3 weeks; to be taken with meals.Also read: Govt lists who should not use hydroxychloroquine for Covid-19What are the key considerations?1. The placing of healthcare workers under chemoprophylaxis should not instil false sense security. They should follow prescribed public health measures such as frequent washing of hands, respiratory etiquettes, keeping a minimum 1m distance and use of personal protective equipment or PPE (wherever applicable).2. They should self monitor their health and report to health authorities immediately in the event of them becoming symptomatic.3. The high-risk contacts of a positive case placed under chemoprophylaxis should remain in home quarantine while on prophylactic therapy.4. As recommended by the said task force the drug should only be given on a prescription of a registered medical practitioner. The contradiction mentioned in the recommendation should be strictly followed.5. Apart from the symptoms of Covid-19 (fever, cough, breathing difficulty), if the person on chemoprophylaxis develops any other symptoms, he should immediately seek medical treatment of the medical practitioner who has prescribed it.6. Advised to consult with a physician for any adverse event or potential drug interaction before initiation of medication.7. The prophylactic use of hydroxychloroquine to be coupled with pharmacovigilance or adverse drug reaction through self-reporting using the Pharmacovigilance Programme of India helpline or app.8. If anyone becomes symptomatic while on prophylactic he-she should immediately contact the health facility, get tested as per national guidelines and follow the standard treatment protocol.9. All asymptomatic contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases should remain in home quarantine as per the national guidelines, even if they are on prophylactic therapy.10. Simultaneously, proof of concept and pharmacokinetics studies be taken up expeditiously. Findings from these studies and other new evidence will guide any change in the recommendation.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-govt-answers-faqs-on-use-of-hydroxychloroquine-to-treat-covid-19/story-0THe0rSYaPokrodrj2zocJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 10 countries worst affected by Covid-19||The number of people who have contracted the coronavirus disease went beyond 1.6 million across the world on Friday with new cases of Covid-19, which emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan in late December, being reported every day around the world.More than 95,700 people have died from Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, while 1,605,372 infections have been confirmed in at least 184 countries and territories. More than 356,000 people have recovered to date.Here is a list of the top ten countries affected by Covid-19:USThe United States had 468,895 coronavirus cases, 329 new ones, and 16,697 deaths as of Friday, according to Worldometers. The first coronavirus case in the US was confirmed on January 20. The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in the US increased significantly in the third week of March and overtook China’s tally on March 26 making the US the world’s most affected country by coronavirus in terms of the number of cases.Officials have warned Americans to expect alarming numbers of coronavirus deaths this week, even as there was evidence that the number of new infections was flattening in New York, the epicentre of the outbreak in the US.Medical and state officials said on Thursday that Americans must continue to practice social distancing now that signs of progress have emerged in the battle against the coronavirus pandemic. ItalyItaly reported more deaths than the US with 18,279 fatalities but the number of infected is at 143,626.New infections in the European country have picked up in the past few days after a reduction from previous numbers, dousing hopes that the illness was in clear retreat.Italy has been the most affected in Europe as well as outside Asia. The number of Covid-19 cases was once confined to northern Italy but soon spread to the entire country, prompting authorities to a clamp a nation-wide lockdown.SpainSpain is currently the second most-affected European country with 153,222 infected with coronavirus. However, the number of fatalities here is less than that of Italy at 15,447.The confirmation of the first coronavirus case in Spain came on February 1. A minister has contracted the Covid-10 disease and Princess Maria Teresa has been killed, making her the first royal to die of coronavirus infection.Spain overtook China in the number of coronavirus cases at the end of March and saw a sharp rise to more than 112,000 April 2. A nation-wide lockdown has been announced here as well.GermanyGermany has 118,235 active coronavirus cases and recorded 2607 deaths to date.It has also banned public events involving huge crowds in order to break the chain of coronavirus infections. German finance minister Thomas Schafer committed suicide, allegedly because of worries over the state of the country’s economic situation due to Covid-19.FranceFrance is the fourth most-affected European country by the coronavirus and has 117,749 cases of Covid-19. It has witnessed 12,210 fatalities due to Covid-19.Paris had on Tuesday banned daytime jogging to keep people from bending anti-coronavirus lockdown rules. The mayor of Marcq-en-Baroeul, in the north of France, has made spitting in public, coughing or sneezing without covering one’s face, and throwing used masks and gloves in the street punishable by a fine of 68 euros.And the Atlantic coastal resort city of Biarritz on Tuesday overturned a two-minute limit it had set for people to spend on public benches after widespread criticism.Paris and other cities have already closed public parks and gardens as part of the nationwide lockdown that requires people to carry a document justifying any excursion from the home.Those caught without the document risk a fine starting at 135 euros ($147).Senior government officials have warned it was too early to think of lifting the nationwide lockdown which entered into force on March 17 and is set to run until April 15, for now.ChinaChina is currently the sixth-worst affected country by Covid-19 and has 81,907 cases as of Friday. Mainland China reported on Friday 42 new coronavirus cases, including 38 cases involving travellers from overseas. Officials have China will allocate more resources to prevent the spread of the virus from its land borders. They said the country still faces risks of a comeback after new clusters are identified in some regions.Hubei has been the most-affected province within China, and Wuhan, the capital city of Hubei, is the worst-hit city by the coronavirus infection. Hubei has witnessed more than 67,000 coronavirus-positive cases and continues to report deaths, although at a slower rate than before.The number of Covid-18 cases in China came down starting March because of the rapid control measures and response by the Chinese government.IranIran, the worst-hit country in Asia, currently has 66,220 confirmed cases and has reported more than 4,110 deaths due to Covid-19. Many Iranian government officials and politicians, including members of parliament, have contracted Covid-19 and some of them have died as well.UKThe coronavirus cases in the United Kingdom is at 65,077 as on Friday and there have been 7,978 Covid-19 related deaths.The numbers of cases surged significantly in the third and fourth weeks of March making it one of the top ten countries hit by coronavirus.UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson tested positive for coronavirus on March 27. Boris Johnson was admitted to London’s St Thomas Hospital last Sunday night and had been undergoing tests after suffering persistent coronavirus symptoms, including a high temperature, for more than 10 days.TurkeyTurkey, which reported the first confirmed coronavirus infection on March 10, has 42,282 cases of Covid-19. There have been 908 deaths due to the respiratory illness in the Asian country till Friday.The mortality rate in Turkey is currently lower than that in some of the other European countries such as Italy, Spain, France, and the UK.BelgiumThere are 24,983 Covid-19 patients in the European country and 2523 people have died because of the coronavirus disease so far.Belgium’s National Security Council, which decided on the measures to contain the new coronavirus (Covid-19) as well as their extension until April 19, will meet again next Wednesday.The Council is likely to discuss the possible extension of the lockdown measures beyond April 19 until May 3, according to the Belga press agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-10-countries-worst-affected-by-covid-19/story-AfwDT2PuRiUOYSOQ7i8eOP.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: UK announces 12 additional charter flights for thousands stranded in India||The UK announced on Friday it will operate a second wave of 12 charter flights during April 13-20 to evacuate more than 3,000 British travellers stranded in India.The British government said last week it plans to operate charter flights for some 20,000 Britons stranded in different Indian states. Bookings for the flights to be operated from April 13 began on Friday, the British high commission said.The first wave of seven charter flights will carry Britons from Goa, Mumbai and New Delhi during April 8-12. The total number of people to be brought back on these 19 flights is around 5,000.The first charter flight from India arrived at London Stanstead airport on Thursday morning with 317 British nationals from Goa.The 12 additional flights will depart from Amritsar on April 13, 17 and 19, from Ahmedabad on April 13 and 15, from Goa on April 14 and 16, from Goa via Mumbai on April 18, from Thiruvananthapuram via Kochi on April 15, from Hyderabad via Ahmedabad on April 17, from Kolkata via Delhi on April 19 and from Chennai via Bengaluru on April 20.The UK minister of state for South Asia and the Commonwealth, Tariq Ahmad, said: “We are doing all we can to get thousands of British travellers in India home. This is a huge and complex operation which also involves working with the Indian government to enable people to move within India to get on these flights.“Over 300 people arrived from Goa on Thursday morning, 1,400 more will arrive over the Easter weekend and these 12 flights next week will bring back thousands more.”Jan Thompson, the acting high commissioner to India, said: “We are extremely grateful for the support we are receiving from the government of India on this. Getting people home as quickly as possible remains our absolute priority.”The British high commission said India is a priority country for the Foreign Office to arrange charter flights from, “with a large number of Britons seeking to return and a lack of commercial options – made more challenging by the size of the country and the restrictions on movement that are in place”.The British government is working with the airline industry and host governments around the world to bring back British travellers as part of a plan announced by foreign secretary Dominic Raab on March 30, with up to £75 million available for special charter flights to priority countries that are focused on helping the most vulnerable travellers.So far, flights have brought back British travellers from the Philippines, Ecuador, Bolivia, Nepal, Ghana, Tunisia, Algeria and Peru. The charter flights are only for British travellers who normally reside in the UK and their direct dependants. A number of seats will be reserved for those deemed vulnerable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-announces-12-additional-charter-flights-for-thousands-stranded-in-india/story-chNWH4EWVK1MCS1l82xlRJ.html
10-04-2020||India||In advisory, govt lists who should not use hydroxychloroquine for Covid-19||The Press Information Bureau (PIB) on Friday posted an advisory on Twitter released earlier by the health ministry on the use of hydroxychloroquine as treatment for patients suffering from coronavirus disease Covid-19.The advisory is based on recommendation of the taskforce constituted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The advisory recommends not administering the drug to children below the age of 15. It also says that people with known case of retinopathy and known hypersensitivity to hydroxychloroquine or 4-aminoquinoline compounds should also not take the medicine.Hydroxychloroquine is being widely touted as the medicine which can treat Covid-19, but ICMR has said that it is not recommending its commercial use unless it gets satisfactory test results.“It is important to understand that this (hydroxychloroquine) medicine is not mandatory. Whether it will reduce the infection, will be known only after tests. The doctors are still testing it on symptomatic patients. ntil we get satisfactory results, we won’t recommend this to anyone,” senior ICMR scientist R Ganga Ketkar told news agency ANI on Thursday.Hydroxychloroquine has emerged as the most sought-after medicine after preliminary trials in China suggested it boosted recovery and lowered the severity of the coronavirus disease.According to ICMR, hydroxychloroquine is recommended only to those asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19 and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases.The advisory released by the health ministry has also listed things to be considered before administering/taking hydroxychloroquine. The most important consideration is to take the drug only after it is recommended by a registered medical practitioner, and to check with a physician about any adverse event before starting the medication.“If anyone becomes symptomatic while on prophylaxis, he/she should immediately contact the health facility, get tested as per national guidelines and follow the standard treatment protocol,” the health ministry guideline says.The government has ensured that there is no shortage of hydroxychloroquine in the country at present as well as in the future, Union Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Aggarwal said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-new-advisory-govt-lists-who-should-not-use-hydroxychloroquine-for-covid-19/story-KCX1EPr64LPvIw0VOu8zHP.html
10-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: The extent of Covid-19 spread in India and Stage 3 concerns and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The extent of Covid-19 spread in India and Stage 3 concernsA study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to identify the spread and extent of transmission of coronavirus disease has revealed that just two per cent of the patients have tested positive for Covid-19. Read more Officials spot a silver lining in India’s Covid-19 battle; prep for dark cloudsIndia appears to have been able to control the spread of the coronavirus cases to a large extent but is still preparing for the worst case scenario should it unfold, a top central government official said on Friday as states executed a hard lockdown in 1,200 containment zones. Read more IndiGo to discontinue on-board meal service post lockdown, says CEOIndiGo, India’s largest airlines, has said it will discontinue onboard meal services and run coaches at a maximum load of 50% capacity when services resume after the lockdown put in place to contain the spread of Covid-19 is lifted. Read more ‘Took it head-on’: IAS officer Tina Dabi on how Bhilwara model for Covid-19 workedFrom becoming the coronavirus hotspot, Bhilwara, about 250km south of state capital Jaipur, is now being talked about its ‘ruthless containment’ model as administrations elsewhere are following the steps taken by the district’s authorities. Read more ‘Hardest batsman to get out’: Michael Clarke names India legend who ‘didn’t have a weakness’Michael Clarke, who played 115 Tests and 245 ODIs for Australia, picked India legend Sachin Tendulkar as the hardest batsmen to get out in world cricket. Read more Sushant Singh Rajput spots Jupiter, Saturn, Mars ‘hugging each other’ in clear night sky, shares picSushant Singh Rajput, who has been stargazing through the lockdown period, shared a picture of planets Jupiter, Saturn and Mars together. Here’s what social media users think of it. Read more Facebook adds Quiet Mode to help you take a break from the appFacebook’s quiet mode settings can be found within a separate section in the app that will not only allow you to manage your screen time but also get insights about your usage. Read more Delhi University postpones all examinations amid Covid-19 outbreakAmidst the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak all examinations of the Delhi University have been postponed till further order, the varsity administration has said. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-the-extent-of-covid-19-spread-in-india-and-stage-3-concerns-and-all-the-latest-news/story-4LSqO9TVK14QTPHkKQ38QJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis: States asked to fill 227 vacancies for epidemiologists||There are 227 vacancies for epidemiologists, who track disease outbreaks, across all states and union territories as the country battles the Covid-19 pandemic.Ten states – Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Haryana, Mizoram, Tripura, West Bengal, Himachal Pradesh and Telangana – and Delhi don’t even have a state-level epidemiologist.The Centre has now written to the states to fill these vacancies to ensure the availability of “qualified human resources” during the Covid-19 pandemic. A letter issued by the Union health ministry on April 7 directed states to fill a total of 382 vacancies under the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). Of these vacancies, the maximum are for epidemiologists, who study patterns of frequency and causes and effects of diseases. The other vacant posts are those of data managers, veterinarians, financial consultants and microbiologists. The need to fill these vacancies was raised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a virtual meeting with chief ministers on April 3, according to the letter issued by the health ministry and accessed by Hindustan Times. The vacancies for epidemiologists and others should be filled to ensure “surveillance activities of Covid-19”, the letter states. An epidemiology professor, who didn’t want to be named, said that ideally, every district under the IDSP should have at least one epidemiologist and there should be one state-level epidemiologist. According to data from census 2011, there are 640 districts. The letter states the highest number of vacancies are in Telangana (26), Bihar and Chhattisgarh (21 each), Madhya Pradesh (20) and Delhi, Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir (11 each). “As we know, the entire health team in all the States/UTs is putting all their efforts in the effective containment and management of COVID-19. Availability of Qualified Human Resources at required places is a critical element in the effective management of pandemics like COVID-19,” the letter said. “In the wake of the present COVID situation, it is essential to fill up the IDSP (lntegrated Disease Surveillance Programme) positions especially the Epidemiologist in all the District and State Units of IDSP in your States,” it added. IDSP was launched in 2004 to train state and district surveillance officers, rapid response teams and other medical and paramedical staff on principles of disease surveillance.The mission, according to IDSP’s website, is to strengthen disease surveillance by establishing a decentralised state-based surveillance system for epidemic prone diseases and to detect early warning signals, so that timely and effective actions can be initiated to respond to health challenges at the district, state and national levels.Currently, there are teams working on vector-borne diseases and HIV, the professor cited above said. The letter further states that any epidemiologists trained by the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), working in other divisions of health departments, should be immediately deployed for Covid-19 surveillance.The Central government has asked state governments to offer a salary on “war footing” and use agencies empanelled under the National Health Mission to fill the vacancies. States can also redeploy existing “human resources working in other programmes and departments”.“This is an extremely important step,” said Jagat Ram, the director of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.“Even if we eliminate coronavirus from clusters and the country, there is still a possibility of isolated cases coming up. We need people to consistently track any possible contact cases that may spring up, not just for the present, but the future.”Ram said the 100% elimination of the Coronavirus will be very difficult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-crisis-states-asked-to-fill-227-vacancies-for-epidemiologists/story-2Ggqep9XeGEezpXQgK2tsL.html
10-04-2020||India||Officials spot a silver lining in India’s Covid-19 battle; prep for dark clouds||India appears to have been able to control the spread of the coronavirus cases to a large extent but is still preparing for the worst case scenario should it unfold, a top central government official said on Friday as states executed a hard lockdown in 1,200 containment zones in 8 states, and counting.But the optimistic assessment has not stopped the government from taking steps, the official who spoke on conditions of anonymity said, to ensure that state governments have more than enough quantities of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin (an antibiotic), the two drugs that could be used to treat coronavirus disease.Also read: India has enough Hydroxychloroquine says govt and specifies who can use itThe official, part of the empowered committee led by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba that tracks acquisition of drugs, Covid-19 testing kits, masks and ventilators at a granular level, told HT that drug consignment were sent as gifts to SAARC, Mauritius and Seychelles only after securing supplies for the country.In some studies, hydroxychloroquine when paired with azithromycin has been shown to clear patients of the virus at a much faster rate than seen usually. These studies had boosted global demand for the drugs. This week, India cleared their export from special economic zones to several countries such as the US, Brazil and Israel. “We are simply clearing the contracts based on the availability of any surplus stock,” explained a second government official familiar with development.The efficacy of the two tablets, hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, against Covid-19 is still not proven in rigorous tests usually carried out but the two drugs have held out hope in the world, and India.The two drugs are only prescribed as a prophylactic for medical staffers in India.According to the status report on the supply of the two drugs, the Centre has received 100 percent of Azithromycin 500 mg tablets and allocated 80 percent of the total supply to states and union territories. The remaining 20 percent has been kept for central institutions and agencies.Also read: Netanyahu thanks PM Modi for delivering hydroxychloroquine to IsraelIn case of hydroxychloroquine 200 mg, the government has more than ample supplies to meet its projected requirements till April 15, the official said.But the Centre is making sure that the states never run out of them. “We have ordered 11 times the requirement that was projected to be prepared for just about any eventuality,” the official said.Of this, the government has already received 20 percent of the supplies and sent a majority of this consignment to the states.India has, according to the Union Health Ministry, over 6,400 Covid-19 cases. By this morning, the ministry confirmed 199 deaths. Experts have argued that one reason for India’s low Covid-19 positive numbers could be the smaller number of people who have been tested in comparison to other countries.Also read: Hydroxychloroquine use may lead to irregular heartbeats, low blood sugarThe number of Covid-19 testing centres - there was just one; Pune’s National Institute of Virology - when the disease reached India two months ago. Since then, India has been able to create more than 180 testing facilities including 65 in the private sector. More than 1.30 lakh people have been tested for coronavirus over the last two months. This week, the government updated its testing guidelines to cover “asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case” between days 5 and day 14 of coming in contact with a coronavirus patient.The empowered committee has also placed orders for rapid testing kits from China even though this test is not the last word on confirmation. Besides, the European experience of these Chinese kits has neither been good or fool-proof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officials-spot-a-silver-lining-in-india-s-covid-19-battle-prep-for-dark-clouds/story-0GsgsIa1adMTAF582W27aL.html
10-04-2020||India||Govt asks former IAS officer to return citing Covid-19, but he says no||Former Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Kannan Gopinathan, who quit last year citing “growing intolerance”, has said he rejected the government’s directive to resume duties immediately because of the Covid-19 crisis.Gopinathan resigned from the IAS eight months ago to protest what he said was “growing intolerance and curtailment of freedom of speech”. He tweeted that he had no plans to re-join government service. “Received a letter from the Govt, asking me to rejoin my duty. While I extend all my services in health, wealth and mind to the Govt in this fight against Covid-19 pandemic, it will be as a free and responsible citizen and not anymore as an IAS officer,” he said in the tweet on Thursday.There was no immediate reaction from the government on his remarks.Talking to Hindustan Times from Maharashtra, where he is now settled, the former member of the 2012 batch of IAS said he had received a letter from the Union personnel ministry about resuming duties. He said he would formally respond to the latter in a couple of days.Gopinathan said he is ready to serve the government and society, but not as an IAS officer.“I am engaged in some service right now. I would like to continue this. If the government wants, I can go to Dadra and Nagar Haveli and any other part of the country, but only as a volunteer. Quitting the IAS was a well thought out decision and I stick to it,” the 33-year-old said.The government is yet to accept his resignation, and Gopinathan said he has no idea why the letter was sent to him at this juncture. He said he believes the authorities may take some action against him under the Disaster Management Act.“I really suspect [that] asking me to return is not with a good intent. I am not worried at all. Now I am working with some NGOs in Maharashtra. I don’t need the IAS tag to do some work. I am happy with my present freedom,” he said. After quitting the IAS, Gopinathan was active in some protests and got arrested in December while travelling to the Aligarh Muslim University in Uttar Pradesh.During the 2018 floods, he came to Kerala to hand over a cheque from the Dadra and Nagar Haveli administration and left the place quietly. On leave, he discreetly worked for eight days in several relief camps, loading relief materials.He left immediately after his batch-mate, then Ernakulam district collector YS Safarulla, recognised him. His service went viral on social media after he left Kerala. But he shunned all publicity and said he was only doing his job when his state was in distress. Gopinathan hails from Eramalloor in Alappuzha district. As a union territory cadre officer, he was posted in Dadra and Nagar Haveli when he quit the IAS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-former-ias-officer-to-return-citing-covid-19-but-he-says-no/story-0NnDrwgPGQm2oBoo8pW2MK.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19 latest updates: The extent of spread in India and Stage 3 concerns||A study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to identify the spread and extent of transmission of coronavirus disease has revealed that just two per cent of the patients have tested positive for Covid-19.The study was conducted on 5,911 patients of SARI or Severe Acute Respiratory Infection, caused by the Sars-CoV-2 virus, in 52 districts in 20 states and union territories between February 15 and April 2.The study showed that only 104 people (1.8 per cent) tested positive for Covid-19. Out of this group, 40 per cent cases did not have any international travel history or contact with laboratory tested confirmed Covid-19 positive case.This study by ICMR has been published in the latest issue of the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR). SARI surveillance was initiated in the early phase of the Covid-19 outbreak in India.Among the 965 SARI samples tested between February 15 and March 19, only two (0.2%) were positive for Covid-19. But when the testing strategy was expanded to include all SARI patients, out of 4,946 samples, 102 (2.1%) were positive for Sars-CoV-2.Some experts say that these studies suggested the disease has entered the “community transmission” phase (Stage 3) in the country. “One may not like to call it community transmission but this is in fact community transmission of Covid-19,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore.Community transmission is the third of the four stages of the spread of an infectious disease. The first is travel history, the second is local transmission, the third is community transmission, and the fourth is epidemic.India has maintained that the disease is in the second stage, or between stage two and stage three with “limited community transmission” in some clusters.R Ganga Ketkar, senior scientist at ICMR, reiterated that the country has still not reached Stage 3 of the disease spread.A few days ago, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria had said that the threat of community transmission is serious given the number of cases. “It becomes even more serious if people don’t understand their responsibility of social distancing, home quarantine and avoiding crowded areas,” Guleria told Hindustan Times. “Data from US and Europe is pretty frightening and worrying. We have to take all steps that we don’t move in that direction,” he added.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 positive cases reached 6412 on Friday morning, the health ministry said. India reported 30 Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the number of fatalities to 199 across the country, it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-latest-updates-the-extent-of-spread-and-stage-3-concerns/story-GkvydhV5ulONwF2zuILFfP.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: IndiGo to discontinue on-board meal service post lockdown, says CEO||IndiGo, India’s largest airlines, has said it will discontinue onboard meal services and run coaches at a maximum load of 50% capacity when services resume after the lockdown put in place to contain the spread of Covid-19 is lifted.The government had imposed a 21-day lockdown starting March 25 in one of the most drastic measures to break the chain of coronavirus infection. The Centre is now planning to lift the lockdown in a phased manner, which in turn will affect the routes open to airlines and how they will operate.The airline’s chief executive officer Ronojoy Dutta in a letter to its employees talked about the company’s current focus and ‘tentative plans for the immediate future’.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here These will, Dutta said, include focus on cash flow and ‘examining all our fixed costs and looking for ways to minimize them’.“The new set of procedures have not been finalized yet. But we will deep clean our aircraft more frequently, will discontinue meal services for a brief period and run our coaches at a maximum load of 50 per cent. We will come out with the new set of protocols very soon,” Dutta also said in the mail.Aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is also preparing a standard operating procedure (SOP) to ensure social distancing among passengers and reducing contact with staff on board. This includes measures like leaving the middle seats empty.Also read: Respiratory illness study hints at community spread, says expertsFrom requesting flyers to keep a distance of minimum one metre at check-in counters, waiting areas and during security checks, the regulatory body also asked authorities to provide sanitisers for staff and passengers at the aircraft gates. One of the guidelines was for cabin crew to maintain adequate distance while serving the passengers. “Our focus is to look after all our stakeholders, our customers, our employees, our investors and the community we serve. We are making sure that we are taking decisive actions with each set of stakeholders in mind,” Dutta said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-indigo-to-discontinue-on-board-meal-service-post-lockdown-says-ceo/story-ukZE7cOn9wdcHjXNBAs1oN.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Continued lockdown could cripple Assam’s tea industry||Assam’s tea industry has been hit hard by the 21-day lockdown across the country to contain spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. And if it continues further, it could cripple the 180-year-old industry.The sector which employs around one million people (both in big tea gardens and small ones) was already facing problems due to increased production and stagnant prices.“While the Assam government is trying to address the issue, not a single measure has been announced by Centre to support the tea industry at this time,” said PK Bezboruah, chairman of Tea Board India.Factories in tea garden across Assam are closed because of the lockdown and plucking of leaves suspended. The first flush, which falls between March-April, and accounts for the best quality tea, is already affected.“We are expected to pay wages to our workers through the lockdown and unions and pressure groups are insisting that we don’t operate but pay full wages. If the lockdown continues and tea industry is not given benefits, the industry will get severely affected,” Bezboruah, a tea planter himself, added.While tea gardens in South India have started operating after instructions from Centre, it still hasn’t happened in Assam which has close to 800 gardens and accounts for over half of the country’s tea output.Assam government has allowed gardens to irrigate and spray pesticides, but a decision on allowing them to continue plucking and operate factories from April 1 while following social distancing measures, has been put in hold reportedly due pressure from some groups.The Assam Tea Tribes Students Association has expressed resentment against tea gardens for “reluctance of tea garden management to release the full wage and the due ration to tea garden workers for the lockdown period.”“The Centre’s directions to the state government on functioning of some industries during the lockdown will be implemented by deputy commissioners in districts provided they fulfill the norms of social distancing,” said industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary.“This is for all sectors and not just the tea industry. Assam government will not issue any separate directions on this matter,” he added.Last month, Bezboruah in his capacity as Tea Board chairman had written to the Centre seeking a package worth around Rs 1500 crore, but there was no response. Planters say Centre has not been coming to the industry’s aid despite problems facing it in past two years.In 2019, Assam’s tea production had reached an all time high of 715 million kg, which is 51.5% of all India production, but the industry didn’t benefit as prices have remained stagnant for several years.“The production in north India would come down by around 150 million kg during the 21-day lockdown. The economic loss to the industry would be around Rs 1,600-Rs 1,700 crores,” Bezboruah said.If lockdown gets extended till mid-May and tea gardens are not allowed to operate or given a relief package, the loss of production and revenue could double—around Rs 3,000 crore and 1150 million kg loss of production (nearly 25% of annual output)In Assam, the government assured supply of rice for tea garden workers through PDS as subsidized rate of Rs 22/kg in view of the lockdown, but only a few districts have implemented it till now.Due to lockdown and suspension of plucking tea bushes in many tea gardens are overgrowing and planters are asking the government to allow skiffing-removal of the overgrown leaves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-continued-lockdown-could-cripple-assam-s-tea-industry/story-4axc9nzC7yTa88qfym3WsO.html
10-04-2020||India||Amid Opposition attack, Maharashtra acts tough against official who gave lockdown passes to Wadhawans||Following controversy late on Thursday night that state home department had facilitated travel of 23 members of Deewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) scam accused Wadhawan family to Mahabaleshwar amid national lockdown, the state government sent senior home department official Amitabh Gupta on compulsory leave.The Wadhawan family travelled to Mahabaleshwar, bypassing sealed district borders aided by a letter given by Gupta on his letterhead as the principal secretary (special), Home department.Home minister Anil Deshmukh, who had announced a probe in this case on Friday tweeted: “As per discussion with Hon CM, Mr Amitabh Gupta, Principal Secretary (special), has been sent on compulsory leave with immediate effect, till the pending inquiry, which will be initiated against him.”He had earlier said, “The letter was given by Mr Gupta but I don’t know reasons behind it or any details. It was uncalled for and inappropriate. Such a letter is only given in emergencies. We will take stringent action following a probe.”The letter issued by Gupta stated, “This is to just inform you that following are known to me as they are my family friends and travelling from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar for family emergency. Particulars of the cars are as given below.” The letter signed by Gupta concluded, “Hence you are here by informed through this letter to cooperate with them to reach their destination.” The letter also bears the number of five vehicles and 23 names from the family and friends.Police have detained 23 people, including DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhwan, for violating prohibitory orders of the nationwide lockdown. Kapil and Dheeraj are accused in DHFL scam and had been issued non-bailable warrants by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The family, along with other outsiders, had travelled from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar on Wednesday evening in their cars even when the borders of Satara and Pune districts are sealed amid the lockdown.The family was detained from Diwan farm house by civic authorities after locals raised strong objection of them staying their amid the outbreak of Covid-19. The 23 people are believed to have been under Section 188 of IPC.The controversy is said to have damaged the image of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government led by Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. The state government has taken the issue very seriously and additional chief secretary (home) is expected to conduct an inquiry.Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has criticised the government over the issue. “No lockdown for mighty & rich in Maharashtra? Once can spend holidays in Mahabaleshwar with official permission from police. It is not possible that a senior IPS officer would do such gross mistake knowing the consequences on his own. With whose order or blessing was this done? Mr CM & HM you owe us an explanation,” he tweeted late on Thursday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-opposition-attack-maharashtra-acts-tough-against-official-who-gave-lockdown-passes-to-wadhawans/story-uUjPYqqR2j63P2v7vvrM8H.html
10-04-2020||India||‘Can gauge seriousness’: India’s stinging comeback to Pak over Covid-19 Fund||Each Saarc member state can decide on the timing, manner and implementation of their Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund commitments, India said on Friday in response to Pakistan’s pledge of $ 3 million for the fund proposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Islamabad’s confirmation about its pledge, however, was accompanied with a rider that the fund should be administered by the Saarc secretariat and be utilised in consultation with member states.“It is for each SAARC Member State to decide on the timing, manner and implementation of their Saarc COVID-19 Emergency Response Fund commitments. Where India is concerned, the commitment made by the Prime Minister is today in an advanced stage of implementation,” Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs, said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Assistance in material and services has been extended to Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka. These Saarc countries have also made early commitments to the Fund. The degree of seriousness of each nation can be gauged by their behaviour,” Srivastava said.Pakistan was the last of Saarc’s eight members to contribute to the fund, which was created with an initial corpus of $10 million provided by India following a video conference of leaders of the grouping on March 15.“While communicating Pakistan’s decision to the Saarc Secretariat, it has been conveyed that all proceeds of the Fund should be administered by the Saarc Secretariat and that the modalities for the Fund’s utilisation should be finalised through consultations with the Member States as per the Saarc Charter,” a statement from Pakistan’s Foreign Office had said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Pakistan’s perspective in this regard was also conveyed during a telephone conversation between Foreign Secretary Sohail Mahmood and Secretary General Saarc Esala Ruwan Weerakoon, today,” it had added.Pakistan had on Wednesday skipped a video conference of senior trade officials of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc), saying it chose not to participate since the Saarc secretariat wasn’t involved in organising it.Also read: To block Indian Covid-19 initiatives, Pak seeks to bring issues under SAARC secretariat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-gauge-seriousness-india-stinging-comeback-to-pak-over-covid-19-fund/story-qfbI2HfOplY3iWrCefWbvK.html
10-04-2020||India||India responds to Pak offer for Saarc Covid-19 fund||India on Friday responded to Pakistan’s conditional decision to pledge $3 million to the Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund by saying each member of the grouping is free to decide the manner and implementation of its commitment.Pakistan had on Thursday made a contribution to the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation’s (Saarc) Covid-19 Emergency Fund on the condition that the facility be administered by the Saarc secretariat.It was the last of Saarc’s eight members to contribute to the fund, which was created with an initial corpus of $10 million from India following a video conference of leaders of the grouping on March 15. Pakistan also proposed that the contribution be used in accordance with the Saarc Charter.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicResponding to Pakistan’s position, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “It is for each Saarc member state to decide on the timing, manner and implementation of their Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund commitments.”He added, “Where India is concerned, the commitment made by the prime minister is today in an advanced stage of implementation. Assistance in material and services has been extended to Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka.”The other members of Saarc have also “made early commitments to the Fund” and the “degree of seriousness of each nation can be gauged by their behaviour”, Srivastava said.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakAccording to New Delhi, India’s engagements with Saarc members on Covid-19 related matters are stand-alone events, whereas Pakistan has sought to bring all issues under the Saarc secretariat in a bid to block Indian initiatives.On Wednesday, Pakistan skipped a video conference of senior trade officials of the Saarc, saying it chose not to participate since the Saarc secretariat wasn’t involved in organising it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-responds-to-pak-offer-for-saarc-covid-19-fund/story-QznBtqKkiCvb9bV9R44bsL.html
10-04-2020||India||Always ready to help friends, PM Modi tells Netanyahu, Bolsonaro over Covid-19 drug export||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Friday that India is ready to help its friends.The Prime Minister tweeted this message in response to the leaders’ thank you note for clearing the export of hydroxychloroquine, a drug widely used in treatment of coronavirus disease Covid-19.“Thank you, my dear friend @narendramodi, Prime Minister of India, for sending Chloroquine to Israel. All the citizens of Israel thank you!” Netanyahu said on Twitter on Thursday. In response, PM tweeted, “We have to jointly fight this pandemic. India is ready to do whatever is possible to help our friends. Praying for the well-being and good health of the people of Israel.” We have to jointly fight this pandemic. India is ready to do whatever is possible to help our friends. Praying for the well-being and good health of the people of Israel. @netanyahu https://t.co/jChdGbMnfHBrazil’s President Bolsonaro also thanked India with a tweet, “Our thanks to the Prime Minister of India @narendramodi, who, after our telephone conversation, authorized the sending to Brazil of a shipment of inputs for the production of hydroxychloroquine.”Responding to it, PM Modi said, “Thank you President @jairbolsonaro. The India-Brazil partnership is stronger than ever in these challenging times. India is committed to contribute to humanity’s fight against this pandemic.” Thank you President @jairbolsonaro. The India-Brazil partnership is stronger than ever in these challenging times. India is committed to contribute to humanity's fight against this pandemic. https://t.co/uIKmvXPUo7Several countries have been experimenting with hydroxychloroquine to treat coronavirus symptoms. US President Donald Trump recently touted its potential in treating Covid-19 positive patients, requesting India to help his country with supplies.Experts, however, have urged caution until bigger trials validate hydroxychloroquine’s efficacy. Chloroquine can have potentially serious side effects, especially in high doses or when administered with other medications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/always-ready-to-help-our-friends-pm-modi-tells-netanyahu-bolsonaro-over-hydroxychloroquine/story-KeTE8rmqwFeraOnrkF4F4I.html
10-04-2020||India||47 in Covid-19 quarantine locked inside their houses in MP||Forty-seven people under quarantine have been locked inside their homes with their families by authorities in Madhya Pradesh to prevent them from moving out during the isolation period of 14 days, according to officials.This is the first time such a step has been resorted to by authorities in the state in the fight against Covid-19. This was done in Khajuraho and Rajnagar towns of Chhatarpur district, about 350 km northeast of Bhopal, on Thursday evening.Both towns have been under curfew since March 25, after it was found a tourist infected by the Coronavirus had visited the places. Arrangements have been made for delivery of essential goods to the people locked within their homes.The sub-divisional magistrate of the area, Swamnil Wankhede, said he took the decision to lock the houses as the families were not cooperating with the administration in observing home isolation norms.“The step was taken for only those persons who went out of the district after March 30 and returned after getting themselves treated in hospitals in Gwalior, Bhopal, Kanpur, Allahabad, Delhi and other places. We had not put any lock earlier but we observed that in the past two days, many of them violated the home quarantine norms and moved out,” he said.“Since they came from areas which are in a danger zone as far as Covid-19 is concerned and they were not willing to follow the home quarantine norms strictly, such a step was taken by the administration.”The families of these 47 people had to be quarantined too as they were in touch with them, Wankhede said.He said arrangements were made for delivering goods to meet the needs of the people locked within their houses. “We have given them phone numbers for home delivery of essential items. We have also provided emergency phone numbers to them in case they need it,” he said.The ‘patwari’ of the area and nagar parishad employees will visit these houses every morning and evening, he added.Though outsiders aren’t being allowed to enter the area, Wankhede said similar steps will be taken for anyone who comes to the district from outside and doesn’t cooperate with the administration in observing home isolation.Chhatarpur’s Congress MLA, Alok Chaturvedi, criticised the administration’s action, describing it as “autocratic and inhuman”.“The administration has unleashed a reign of terror instead of creating awareness among people. The public representatives were not taken into confidence before taking such a harsh measure,” he said.However, Chhatarpur’s district collector Sheelendra Singh said, “The step is just to ensure they strictly follow the home quarantine norms to ensure their own safety and that of others in society. The decision was taken only when it was observed that they left their houses during the night. If they are willing to cooperate with the administration and stay in their houses during the [quarantine] period, we will remove the locks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/47-in-covid-19-quarantine-locked-inside-their-houses-in-mp/story-MPM6aLV5GllC4wbbPm1FkL.html
10-04-2020||India||‘Took it head-on’: IAS officer Tina Dabi on how Bhilwara model for Covid-19 worked||Rajasthan’s Bhilwara was one of the first Covid-19 clusters to emerge in the country and was put under complete lockdown by the state and district authorities to contain the spread of coronavirus. From becoming the coronavirus hotspot, Bhilwara, about 250 km south of state capital Jaipur, is now being talked about its ‘ruthless containment’ model as administrations elsewhere are following the steps taken by the district’s authorities. Tina Dabi, the 26-year-old Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer and a part of the team that handled the situation, spoke to Hindustan Times’ national political editor Sunetra Choudhury about how things turned around.Dabi said one of the first things the team did was to isolate the district and make sure people were taken into confidence.Also watch| ‘Decided on curfew within 1 hr’: IAS Tina Dabi on stemming Covid in Bhilwara“Even we were taken aback that we would be compared with Italy and described as the coronavirus hotspot. Preparations were in place like any other place in the country and basic measures were in place,” Dabi, who has been Bhilwara’s sub-divisional magistrate from October 2018, said.Also read: Will containment zones work?“On March 19, we got our first positive case and it was on March 20 we connected the dot and we found out that it was one whole private hospital that could be the epicentre of the whole crisis,” she said.The young IAS officer was talking about the Brijesh Banger Memorial Hospital (BBMH) whose doctors and staff were the first ones to test positive in the area. The district administration decided right away for a complete shutdown and Bhilwara was sealed off, much before the nationwide lockdown on March 25.“Within a matter of two hours, the collector of the district Rajendra Bhatt took the very stern and firm decision that we need to go for a curfew and we need to go for a complete shutdown,” she said.Dabi said as soon as the order was passed and she went around the whole city, “shutting everything down, convincing people, even scolding a few people, requesting and persuading them telling them not to panic”. “And, within a day or two we had to work out all the system to ensure that people are not inconvenienced,” she said.The 2016 batch IAS office said it wasn’t smooth sailing for the team looking to wage a war against the coronavirus disease.“For the first three-four days, we were receiving panic calls from everywhere in the city and district…We had to tackle so many things but we always took it as a matter of pride that we are doing national service and it is a time of public health emergency and no matter how hard it gets we have to take it head on,” she said.“We had just one mission in mind and we had just one target that we just need to stop it … We were sitting on a ticking time bomb where it could reach any number. There was actually a possibility of massive community spreading,” she added.The administration had to ensure door to door supply so that people understood the danger at hand and they managed.“It took a week... People won’t cooperate if you don’t take care of the essential services and working that out was a nightmare for my district collector and the entire team but we worked really well under his leadership.”One of the most challenging things during the implementation of the containment, Dabi said was to handle cases where people were very emotional. She said students stuck in the city and their worried parents were among such people.“When people are emotional it’s very difficult to make them understand that these are tough times and they really need to understand that,” she said.The IAS officer is all about extending the nationwide lockdown put in place from March 25 to April 14. “I am saying this because we really don’t know the current status of the virus and how it’s going to pan out. We must accept that we are slightly clueless about it. But what we are really sure is that social distancing is what can really, really avert the crisis. And for social distancing, the thing which can only be done administratively is going for lockdown and shutdown,” she said.The Bhilwara model was successful because they ensured it was implemented ‘very well’ despite the many problems on the ground level.“Everybody was scared about Bhilwara and now everybody is appreciating it… We convinced the public though it took a short while of three to five days now they are cooperating,” she said.“They finally understood that it was for their own good.”For that to happen, the administration had to make sure that the essential supplies and services were kept running.“Without this in place, people would never cooperate, your lockdown measures will fail within a day or two. And then it will be of no use,” she said.Dabi also had a word of caution. “You have to also ensure that if there is an emergency…you have to consider those cases on a case by case basis. Of course, there might be some exigencies you can’t avert your eyes from that. You have to keep yourself open to that possibility.”Handling the situation in Bhilwara, Dabi said, will be one of the challenging assignments and a lifetime opportunity.“We never get this opportunity to serve so many people to handle a crisis of this magnitude. I think the Iearning experience that is going to come from it is going to be very rewarding for me though out my career and I am looking at it as a matter of pride.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-took-it-head-on-ias-officer-tina-dabi-on-how-bhilwara-model-worked/story-0EJjKmKt9LX5KmvhZS6WoK.html
10-04-2020||India||Drastic fall in TV viewership during ‘9pm 9min’ call given by PM Modi: Report||When India united to light lamps and candles on appeal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “challenge the darkness of coronavirus”, it led to a steep fall in television viewership.PM Modi had asked people to switch off lights and light up torches, candles, lamps and cellphone torches at 9 pm for 9 minutes on April 5 as a mark of solidarity in fight against coronavirus disease Covid-19.According to a report by Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), Prime Minister’s appeal led to the lowest ever viewing in that time segment since 2015, showing how the initiative brought the nation together. The TV viewership dropped by 60 per cent during these nine minutes as compared to previous weeks. The decline started by 08:53 pm and came back to current trends only after 09:30 pm, the BARC report said.The report was released on Thursday jointly by BARC and Nielsen Media. It showed how India follows the global trend in showing continued increase in TV (43 per cent) and smartphone consumption (13 per cent) this week vis-a-vis the period before Covid-19.The growth in TV consumption this week was driven by the movie genre (77 per cent growth).Interestingly, despite the absence of any new sporting event, the viewership for sports channels grew 21 per cent as they beamed India’s cricket wins from the past and also old wrestling matches, it said.PM Modi had earlier called on people to go on a self-imposed Janta Curfew and stay inside their homes and avoid going outside between 7 am to 9 pm on March 22. He had also asked people to come to their doorways, balconies and windows to clap or ring bells at 5 pm to thank those working toward essential services.Hundreds of thousands across the country had responded to the Prime Minister’s appeal to cheer doctors, nurses, police officials and others who are working to fight the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drastic-fall-in-tv-viewership-during-9pm-9min-call-give-by-pm-modi-report/story-O2K6kpHqAW7T4SEboGuK1L.html
10-04-2020||India||Odisha extends curbs, India readies for plasma therapy: Covid-19 news from the country||Odisha has extended the lockdown to contain the coronavirus disease till the end of this month as more states identify new risk areas and impose stringent restrictions. India is also preparing to start clinical trials to treat Covid-19 patients with convalescent plasma therapy that involves drawing antibody-rich blood from survivors to treat the sick.Here are the top stories on Covid-19 pandemic from India today.816 cases jolt India amid harder curbsThe Centre on Thursday approved an emergency response package worth ~15,000 crore to control the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and was considering dividing the Indian Railways into three zones for a staggered exit from the nationwide lockdown, even as it opened a new front in the battle to halt the outbreak by creating over 1,100 containment zones. Read more. ₹10 lakh crore stimulus need of the hour, experts estimateEconomists and business leaders are pitching for a massive Rs 10 lakh crore stimulus package to support people who have lost their livelihoods and businesses on the verge of collapse because of the coronavirus crisis.Former chief economic adviser in the finance ministry, Arvind Subramanian, has said the government will have to spend Rs 10 lakh crore, an amount equivalent to 5% of India’s gross domestic product, to deal with the disruption caused by the pandemic. Read more. Covid-19: What you need to know todayOn Wednesday and Thursday, more states adopted the containment zones approach, enforcing hard lockdowns selectively — the size of the zone ranges from a single apartment block to an entire city — highlighting the strategy that India will use over the next few weeks to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more. India gears up to begin plasma therapy trialsIndia is preparing to start clinical trials to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients with convalescent plasma therapy that involves drawing antibody-rich blood of Covid19 survivors to treat the sick.The therapy has shown promise in treating Covid-19 patients, the American journal, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS), reported on Tuesday. Read more. After Supreme Court orders free tests, labs urge govt to reimburse costsPrivate laboratories on Thursday urged the government to intervene after the Supreme Court asked all Covid-19 tests to be free of charge, even as experts said the judgment could impact the effective expansion of testing, which is key to the containment of the infection. Read more. West Bengal Covid death data under scannerWith five deaths till Thursday, and 107 infections, West Bengal seems to have Covid-19 under control. But, according to state government data, it tested only 1889 till April 9, and its protocol for reporting Covid-19 fatalities has come under question.Read more. Odisha to remain locked down, states weigh options on curbsOdisha took the lead on Thursday by extending the lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic by a fortnight until the end of the month, shrugging aside its economic impact, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi indicated that his government isn’t inclined to lift the emergency protocol in its entirety when it lapses on April 14. Read more. Food prices surge 3 times as supply chain takes a hitThe prices of key staples, barring cereals, have surged nearly three times from a month ago because of a noticeable supply shock amid the three-week nationwide lockdown to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, according to official and market data reviewed by Hindustan Times. Read more. Mapping covid relief schemes in statesRespiratory illness study hints at community spread: ExpertsAbout one in 50 people hospitalised with acute respiratory infections such as pneumonia are suffering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to a new study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) — findings that some experts said suggested the disease has entered the “community transmission” phase in the country. Read more. Coronavirus hangs over future like a spectre, says Reserve Bank of IndiaThe outlook for the Indian economy has been drastically altered by the coronavirus outbreak, the central bank said in its bi-annual monetary policy report, without specifying how fast it expects the country to grow, but added that its forecast would depend on the intensity, duration and spread of the pandemic.Read more. Rural women in India bear the brunt of the lockdownOn Wednesday, 62-year-old Vandini Devi walked five kilometres from her village in Bokaro, Jharkhand to the bank in order to check if money had been credited to her Jan Dhan account. She was disappointed to learn that it hadn’t. A resident of Chargi village, Devi said that she had not received her widow pension since February, either. Read more. Coronavirus may not go away in warmer weather, says US reportIn a finding that has huge significance for India, where summer is just breaking, a prestigious scientific panel in the US said that high temperature is unlikely to significantly stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) without major public health interventions, such as personal protection and social distancing.Read more. In the line of duty, till the last patient is curedAt 8am on Monday, March 16, a group of 47 health care workers reported for duty at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Delhi’s Tahirpur, aware that they would not see their families for at least the foreseeable future. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-extends-curbs-india-readies-for-plasma-therapy-covid-19-news-from-the-country/story-o5Wc6IUa3qsOKAAiaLjOcJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Maharashtra official who gave free pass to DHFL scam accused Wadhawans during lockdown sent on compulsory leave||Maharashtra government on Friday sent a senior IPS officer on compulsory leave for allowing DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel despite the ongoing lockdown, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said.“As per discussion with Hon. CM, Mr Amitabh Gupta, Principal Secretary (special), has been sent on compulsory leave with immediate effect, till the pending of enquiry, which will be initiated against him,” Deshmukh said on Twitter. The Wadhawan family is caught in the multi-crore rupee Deewan Housing Finance (DHFL) scam. As per discussion with Hon. CM, Mr Amitabh Gupta, Principal Secretary (special), has been sent on compulsory leave with immediate effect, till the pending of enquiry, which will be initiated against him.#LawSameForEveryoneThe bureaucrat had issued a letter exempting the Wadhawans from the lockdown norms citing a family emergency.“This is to just inform you that following are my family friends and travelling from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar for family emergency,” the letter signed by Gupta stated. Wadhawans had travelled with 21 members of their family and friends in five cars.The letter gave details of the five cars, their registration numbers and names of people travelling in every car. The Wadhawans were allowed to travel from Pune district to Satara district bypassing the state norms that district borders be sealed.The issue came to light when residents protested after the Wadhawans and their friends reached Dewan bungalow in Mahabaleshwar. News agency PTI reported that they were detained in Mahabaleshwar.A senior official in the state secretariat said that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was furious because the incident has embarrassed his administration which has been strictly enforcing the lockdown.The home department is empowered to give such leeway or travel pass only to those who have family emergencies including hospitalisation or death of a family member.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had recently issued summons to Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan over money laundering charges in Yes Bank case and asked them to appear on March 17.The duo reportedly cited the pandemic and skipped the appearance, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-official-who-gave-free-pass-to-dhfl-scam-accused-wadhawans-during-lockdown-sent-on-compulsory-leave/story-g9vxmXlDosUgCYjWHzFf7H.html
10-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: States protest against Centre’s directive on PPE procurement and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.States protest against Centre’s directive on PPE procurementA directive by the Centre, asking states to not procure personal protective equipment (PPE) for Covid-19 on their own, has led to protests from states. Read more Respiratory illness study hints at community spread of Covid-19: ExpertsThe study, published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR) on Thursday, found that Covid-19 positivity among severe acute respiratory infections (Sari) patients is 1.8% out of 5,911 samples tested between February 15 and April 2. Read more What made Kasaragod a Covid-19 hotspot and how life is in this Kerala townIn Kerala’s hotspot Kasaragod district in north Kerala which reported 156 of the state’s 345 Sars-CoV-2 virus cases, people are living under a curfew. Initially it was difficult for the people to follow stricter norms, but they were forced to fall in line after police started implementing them ruthlessly. Read more Covid-19: India gears up to begin plasma therapy trialsIndia is preparing to start clinical trials to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients with convalescent plasma therapy that involves drawing antibody-rich blood of Covid1-9 survivors to treat the sick. Read more ‘Wanting Pak cricket back at top?’ - Shoaib Malik, Ramiz Raja engage in war of words over ‘retirement’Shoaib Malik, in a sarcastic tweet, hit out at Ramiz Raja after the former, in a recent interview, said that the veteran allrounder should announce retirement. Read more Kareena Kapoor says she wasn’t insecure of Alia Bhatt’s ‘epic’ role in Udta PunjabCatfights are so passé! Kareena Kapoor Khan believes in “sisterhood” and said that she was not even a little bit hesitant to sign Udta Punjab even though Alia Bhatt’s role in the film was “so powerful”. Read more Good Friday 2020: History, significance and important factsGood Friday is also known as Great Friday, Black Friday, Easter Friday or Holy Friday and this year it falls on April 10. It is a significant day for the Christian community since it commemorates the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. Read more Heat may not bring relief, Brit tourists refuse to leave Goa | Top 5 stories from HTHindustan Times’ National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury brings you the top 5 stories you need to know. Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-states-protest-against-centre-s-directive-on-ppe-procurement-and-all-the-latest-news/story-6bDJzrDQ45NjFC04idLfEL.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19: States protest against Centre’s directive on PPE procurement||A directive by the Centre, asking states to not procure personal protective equipment (PPE) for Covid-19 on their own, has led to protests from states.In a notification sent to principal secretaries of the health departments of states on April 2, the Union ministry of health and family welfare asked them to not procure crucial medical equipment such as PPEs, N-95 masks and ventilators on their own, as they will be procured by the Centre and then distributed to the states. The decision was taken at the third meeting of the empowered group formed to look at procurement of medical equipment that took place on April 1, the note said. By way of rationale, the notification said that states were found to be hoarding these materials as field functionaries, such as care working as essential service providers, continued to work without them. In some areas, inventories which can do with some repair work, were lying, the Centre noted. A senior government official, involved in the process, said that the move was prompted by reports coming in from states that in states where domestic producers of PPEs are situated, state officials have insisted that the produce be sent to states instead. India has just started domestic production of PPEs. The textile ministry has readied over 45 producers to manufacture PPEs such as masks and coveralls - that require non-woven fabric - as well as manufacturers of such fabric. N-95 masks are being made by two domestic producers with the help of DRDE, while ventilators are manufactured by two other producers domestically. In addition to that, Indian auto manufacturers are also preparing to step up manufacturing of ventilators.The official said there were reports that some of the states were individually procuring PPEs which were untested by authorised agencies. To ease shortage, the Centre has announced the lifting of basic customs duty and health cess till September 30 on crucial medical equipment such as ventilators, face and surgical masks, PPEs, Covid-19 test kits, and on any item that goes into the making of these items. A notification was issued by the finance ministry’s department of revenue on April 9.The move has led to protests from states. Former Lok Sabha MP from Kerala, MB Rajesh said that the Centre is trying to wash its hands off its failure to act in time and because of this move, states will suffer. “The first case was detected on January 30 and the lockdown was announced on March 24; the government had 54 days to act, but it wasted time. One cannot eradicate Covid-19 by lockdown, so every state has to prepare,” he said. He added that since health is a state subject, states should be allowed to do their own procuring. DMK MP from Tamil Nadu’s Dharmapuri, Dr Senthilkumar S, took to Twitter to voice his protest. He said that he strongly condemns the move to make health care centralised, and that Tamil Nadu and Kerala will be affected the most. “This is (an) infringement on state’s federalism,” he tweeted. The move could well be revised soon, said a senior textiles ministry official. Nihar Ranjan Dash, joint secretary at the textiles ministry, said that the health ministry’s move might have been prompted by a need to “rationalise” procurement and inventories. He said that the domestic manufacturers whose samples were tested and approved by the textile ministry have started producing 15,000 units of PPEs such as masks and ventilators per day. “By April 20, we will be producing 30,000 units per day easing the shortage,” said Dash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-states-protest-against-centre-s-directive-on-ppe-procurement/story-C2HLEkLKvPL9gMYGA494LP.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus cases in India mount to 6,412, death toll touches 199||India reported 30 Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours taking the number of fatalities to 199 across the country and 6412 cases of the coronavirus disease, the Union health ministry said on Friday morning.There are 5709 active cases and 503 people have been cured or discharged, the Union health ministry data showed at 8am.Out of the 199 deaths, Maharashtra has 97 fatalities and continued to be the worst-hit state in the country. The Union health ministry said there are 1364 Covid-19 patients in the state and 125 people have been discharged.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayTamil Nadu was next with 863 Covid-19 cases and eight deaths followed by Delhi. The national capital reported 720 cases out of which 25 people who have been cured and 12 deaths till date.The government has further ramped up its efforts to fight the coronavirus disease by expanding the number of containment zones. People can’t step out, shops and banks have to remain closed, and entry and exit from the clusters have been sealed in these containment zones.Teams of sanitary workers will spray disinfectants, every hour and health care and local officials will conduct door-to-door surveys in these apartment blocks to entire neighbourhoods, even parts of an entire district. Also read: Food prices surge 3 times as supply chain takes a hitThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has also revised its testing strategy, saying everyone with symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat and runny nose in Covid-19 hot spots or cluster areas will now be tested.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-in-india-mount-to-6-412-death-toll-touches-199/story-SZoFkgpQtiV6yaRXQ5raBM.html
10-04-2020||India||‘Lord Christ devoted his life to serving others’: PM Modi in Good Friday message||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished Good Friday by remembering Jesus Christ in his wish on Twitter.“Lord Christ devoted his life to serving others. His courage and righteousness stand out and so does his sense of justice. On Good Friday, we remember Lord Christ and his commitment to truth, service and justice,” he tweeted today. Lord Christ devoted his life to serving others. His courage and righteousness stand out and so does his sense of justice. On Good Friday, we remember Lord Christ and his commitment to truth, service and justice.Good Friday is also known as Great Friday, Black Friday, Easter Friday or Holy Friday, and this year it falls on April 10.It is a significant day for the Christian community since it commemorates the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. Judas betrayed Jesus, and Christians believed that Jesus came back three days after being crucified, on the day known as Easter.The word ‘good’ in Good Friday means pious or holy. The death of Jesus signifies forgiveness for all of the sins of mankind, with Jesus sacrificing himself for the good of humankind.But this year, the day is being marked in a subdued manner.There was no gathering at churches in Kerala due to lockdown declared by the government to prevent spread of novel coronavirus.Several important rituals including washing of feet were skipped during the ceremonies held at the churches, attended by priests in limited numbers.The torch-lit Way of the Cross procession at Rome’s Colosseum on Good Friday is a traditional highlight that normally draws large crowds of pilgrims, tourists and Romans. But this year, like all public religious gatherings in locked-down Italy, it has been cancelled due to the coronavirus outbreak.Instead of presiding over the procession at the ancient arena, Pope Francis will lead the Good Friday ritual this year in a night-time ceremony closed to the public in St. Peter’s Square.Good Friday is a day of mourning, and people keep fasts and pray to the Lord. It is a day to remind oneself of Jesus Christ’s sacrifices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-christ-devoted-his-life-to-serving-other-pm-modi-in-good-friday-message/story-i2TTb2YrfAIvicHZAUjaAK.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: 65-year-old becomes Northeast’s first Covid-19 casualty, had attended Tablighi Jamaat event||The Northeast recorded its first death due to coronavirus disease Covid-19 early on Friday when a 65-year-old patient passed away at Silchar Medical College Hospital (SMCH).“With utmost grief and sorrow, I would like to inform that Faijul Haque Barbhuyan, 65, Hailakandi district has expired few minutes back in SMCH due to complication of Covid-19,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarmw tweeted at 2:00 am.Earlier on Thursday, Sarma had mentioned that the condition of Barbhuyan, the 28th Covid-19 positive case in Assam, was alarming due to decrease in oxygen saturation and he has been shifted to intensive care unit at SMCH for better monitoring.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The patient, who had travelled to Saudi Arabia recently, had also attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area last month and returned to Hailakandi on March 18.He was admitted to SMCH on Monday after he developed complications and his test results for Covid-19 came positive a day later. Local reports quoting the hospital say the patient died due to pneumonia.Assam has a total of 29 Covid-19 positive cases till date and 28 of them have links to the Nizamuddin markaz (centre). Manipur (2), Mizoram (1), Tripura (1) and Arunachal Pradesh (1) are other states in the region to have recorded positive cases, while Nagaland and Meghalaya don’t have any case yet.Also read: India sets up 1,200 Covid-19 containment zones; Maharashtra tops this listAccording to reports, five members of the Barbhuyan’s family have been shifted to a quarantine facility and their samples taken for tests. The village he belonged to has been declared a containment zone and sanitised.Nearly three dozen people who came in contact with him have also been identified and are being monitored.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-65-year-old-becomes-northeast-s-first-covid-19-casualty-had-attended-tablighi-jamaat-event/story-4WlfVpb0LJUQHMxKi6oTMM.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: What made Kasaragod a Covid-19 hotspot and how life is in this Kerala town||A police vehicle screeches to a halt in a deserted locality in Kasaragod town, which was earlier a busy intersection, and makes a public announcement that those who need essentials can dial the number given to every household and these things will be distributed in the evening. Fire department personnel are busy spraying disinfectants at the bus stand and other areas.In Kerala’s hotspot Kasaragod district in north Kerala which reported 156 of the state’s 345 Sars-CoV-2 virus cases, people are living under a curfew.Initially it was difficult for the people to follow stricter norms, but they were forced to fall in line after police started implementing them ruthlessly. Strict action forced many to remain indoors. “We have made the turnaround. We did it ruthlessly and told people it is life and death situation. Results are there to see,” said Vijay Sakhare, Inspector General of Police (Kochi range) who was specially assigned in north Kerala when situation turned alarming.“First we cut off all villages and all roads were blocked and started observing people on home quarantine strictly. Those who jumped home quarantine were shifted to government quarantine, which have minimum facilities, immediately. Every day a sub-inspector and his team visits people on quarantine and monitor their health condition and shows a video on social distancing and other measures,” he said.Kasaragod is one of the early 10 Covid-19 hotspots declared by the Union Health Ministry. When Pathanamthitta in central Kerala came out of the list, Kasaragod struggled with cases. High number of expatriates, poor surveillance in initial days and lack of proper medical infrastructure pushed the costal district neighbouring Karnataka to infamy. Senior IAS officer Alkesh Kumar Sharma and Inspector General of Police Vijay Sakhre were rushed to the district when Kasargod reported at least half of the total cases.“It is worse than a curfew. Though we faced many difficulties we realised it is for our good. Mobile and socialising lot, we never spent so many days behind doors like this. But we are happy that these restrictions helped contain the virus otherwise Kasaragod would have been another Dharavi,” said Usman Koya, a native of Kananhad, who returned from Bahrain last year.Earlier, the district had reported many glaring cases of apathy, including that of an alleged smuggler jumping quarantine and transmitting the disease to many. After his case came to light, customs officials found that he had made 14 trips to the Middle East in last three months. Later, the district collector had impounded his passport and registered a case against him.“Things are under control now. Among 156 cases, 101 are those who returned from the Middle East. Rest are their immediate contacts. There is no community spread in the district but we are keeping a strict vigil,” said district collector D Sajith Babu.According to the district administration, at least 5,000 people came from the Gulf since February 15 in the district and they were put on home quarantine but many later slipped out aggravating the situation. At least 60 per cent of the returned from Dubai are from Naif, a crowded commercial and residential area in Dubai, one of the hotspots in the Middle East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-what-made-kasargod-a-covid-19-hotspot-and-how-life-is-in-this-kerala-town/story-Ctixt9iDqCJF4rCftLzbcO.html
10-04-2020||India||Officials in MP town lock families inside houses, say not cooperating during Covid-19 lockdown||In perhaps first of its kind measure in the country, as many as 47 persons were locked inside their houses with their families by district administration in a bid to prevent them from moving out during home quarantine period of 14 days to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19, as per administrative authorities.The steps were taken at Khajuraho and Rajnagar, two towns in Chhatarpur district, 344 kilometres north east of capital Bhopal, on Thursday evening.Both the towns are under curfew restrictions since March 25 after it was found that a Covid-19 positive tourist had visited the places earlier.Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of the area, Swamnil Wankhede, took the decision in view of as he said the families not cooperating with the administration in observing home isolation norm.He said, “The step was taken for only those persons who went out of the district after March 30 and returned to the place after getting themselves treated in hospitals in Gwalior, Bhopal, Kanpur, Allahabad, Delhi and other places. We had not put any lock earlier but we observed that in the past two days many of them violated home quarantine norms and moved out. Since, they came from such areas which are in a danger zone as far as Covid-19 is concerned and they were not willing to follow the home quarantine norm strictly such a step was taken by the administration.”“Members of these people’s families had to be quarantined too as they are in touch with them,” Wankhede added.The official said that the administration has taken care of their needs while taking the stringent measure. “We have given them phone numbers for home delivery of essential items. We have also provided ‘emergency phone numbers’ to them in case they need it. The Patwari concerned and employees of nagar parishad would visit these houses in the morning and evening every day invariably.”He said such a step would be taken for others also who come from outside and are not willing to cooperate with the administration in observing home isolation. However, outsiders were not being allowed to enter the area.Chhatarpur’s Congress MLA Alok Chaturvedi said, “The decision of the administration is autocratic and inhuman. The administration has unleashed a reign of terror instead of creating awareness among people. The public representatives were not taken into confidence before taking such a harsh measure.”However, district collector of Chhatarpur Sheelendra Singh said, “The step taken is just to ensure they follow the home quarantine norm strictly to ensure their own safety and that of others in society too. The decision was taken only when it was observed that they left their houses during night hours. If they are willing to cooperate with the administration and stay in their houses during the period we will remove the locks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officials-in-mp-town-lock-families-inside-houses-say-not-cooperating-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-kPUdIhUJSaxIZyIplXuw6K.html
10-04-2020||India||‘Jammu and Kashmir has been, is, shall continue to be an integral part’: India slams China over remarks to UN||India on Thursday strongly rejected remarks on Jammu and Kashmir by a spokesperson of China’s permanent mission to the United Nations, asserting that the union territory “has been, is and shall continue” to be its integral part.Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said India expects China to refrain from commenting on the country’s internal affairs and respect its sovereignty and territorial integrity.He said India also expects China to recognise and condemn the scourge of cross-border terrorism that affects the lives of the people of India, including in Jammu and Kashmir.The spokesperson of China’s permanent mission in the UN said the Kashmir issue remained high on the UN Security Council’s agenda and China is very closely monitoring the current situation in Kashmir. At present, China is holding presidency of the UNSC.Also read: Pakistan pledges $3 mn to Saarc Covid-19 Fund proposed by PM Modi. Then, a riderThe official also reportedly said that the Kashmir issue is a dispute left from history and should be properly and peacefully resolved.“We reject the reference to Jammu and Kashmir in a statement made by the spokesperson of the Permanent Mission of the People’s Republic of China to the United Nations,” Srivastava said.He was responding to a query on the remarks by the Chinese spokesperson.“China is well aware of India’s consistent position on this issue. The Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir has been, is and shall continue to be an integral part of India. Issues related to J and K are internal matter to India,” he said.“It is, therefore, our expectation that other countries, including China, would refrain from commenting on matters that are internal affairs of India and respect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” he said.China has been critical of India’s reorganisation of J-K, and has particularly criticised New Delhi for making Ladakh a union territory. China lays claim over several parts of Ladakh.China has unsuccessfully attempted to raise the issue in the UN after India announced its decision in August last year to withdraw Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and bifurcate the state into two union territories.In August, China pushed for a UNSC meeting on Kashmir after India’s decision. However, the attempt was foiled by other member-states of the powerful body.India’s decisions on Kashmir had also cast a shadow over Chinese President Xi Jinping’s visit to India in October last year for the second informal summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.However, notwithstanding the acrimony over the issue between the two countries, Modi and Xi held “successful” talks in Mamallapuram in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-has-been-is-shall-continue-to-be-an-integral-part-india-slams-china-over-remarks-to-un/story-q9C4EBpRisKYleqmUJSoAN.html
10-04-2020||India||Calls to scrap Central Vista project grow||Pressure is mounting on the Narendra Modi government to put on hold the central vista redevelopment project in New Delhi and the construction of a new Parliament building as the nation battles the deadly coronavirus disease outbreak, which has claimed 166 lives and infected 5,095 people as of Thursday. Almost all opposition parties have urged Modi to shelve the project and spend the money instead on advancing the fight against Covid-19.Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote a letter to the PM on Tuesday in which she listed five austerity tips that included suspending the Rs 20,000 crore allocated to the project. “At a time like this, such an outlay seems self-indulgent to say the least. I am certain that Parliament can function comfortably within the existing historical buildings. There is no urgent or pressing requirement that cannot be postponed until this crisis is contained,” she wrote.“This sum could instead be allocated towards constructing new hospital infrastructure and diagnostics along with equipping our frontline workers with better facilities,” added Gandhi.NCP chief Sharad Pawar urged Modi to consider postponing the move after examining the country’s current priorities.His views were echoed by DMKleader TR Baalu who told the PM the need of the hour is to abandon the move. “It is not required at this moment. The government should instead divert the Rs 25,000 crore earmarked for the project to step up efforts to fight Covid-19,” he said. CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury too questioned the timing of issuing the land use change notification. “When all resources must be mopped up to meet this Covid-19 challenge, a gazette notification is issued for the Rs 20,000 crore central vista project. Shame,” he tweeted.TMC leader Mahua Moitra also slammed the move. “The government is suspending MPLADS funds for two years for generate resources to fight Covid-19 but wants to spend Rs 20,000 crore on the central vista project,” she said.“The project was scheduled to be tendered in April but given the current situation all resources have been diverted to fight Covid-19. There will be delays for now, but we are on track and will make up for the time lost,” a senior official said, requesting anonymity. The BJP refused to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calls-to-scrap-central-vista-project-grow/story-yaWBo0NqXKcfu5032GsBoL.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Rural women in India bear the brunt of the lockdown||On Wednesday, 62-year-old Vandini Devi walked five kilometres from her village in Bokaro, Jharkhand to the bank in order to check if money had been credited to her Jan Dhan account. She was disappointed to learn that it hadn’t. A resident of Chargi village, Devi said she had not received her widow pension since February, either. “We were promised two months’ free food grain, but I was given 5 kilograms of ration for only one month. My younger son works as a daily wager and has had no work due to lockdown. I am in big distress,” Devi said.India’s rural population has been central to most relief measures announced since the 21-day lockdown began. On March 26, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced ~ 500 will be credited into Jan Dhan accounts held by women for three months, starting April. There are more than 203.9 million such accounts. Separately, many states have also allocated funds to keep the Public Distribution System (PDS) flush with supplies, even as daily wage, manual and agricultural work dries up. At the other end of this are the nearly 40 million rural women who are the purported recipients of these benefits. With no money in the bank account, and government assistance awaited, 55-year-old Shahjahan in Lucknow’s Asti village has only 15kg wheat and 10kg rice left for her family of five. On March 30, UP chief minister Adityanath announced relief worth ~611 crore to all Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme beneficiaries, following which Shahjahan visited her bank. She said she waited for over an hour but found no cash in her account. In many parts of the country, work under MNREGS has come to a halt. Crop harvesting too has been affected leading to a break in supply chains, as farmers are unable to send their produce to ‘mandis’. In Maharashtra, for instance, the lockdown is being implemented rigorously, with police patrol cars preventing farmers from farming activities. Sulekha Naba, a 40-year-old tribal woman in Badipalli village of western Odisha district of Bargarh queued up like other villagers to get the ~1,000 assistance that chief minister Naveen Patnaik had announced for cardholders under the national food security act. Naba, a landless daily labourer, has been without work since the lockdown. While she did receive three months ration, she worried that the cash assistance would hardly be enough to sustain her family. Odisha has 7.4 million households under Jan Dhan yojana — that’s 99.85% of the total number of households in the state. Long queues of women to withdraw ~500 from their Jan Dhan bank accounts have been witnessed in almost all rural areas in Maharashtra. Yogesh Warkhede, a ‘bank friend’ appointed by Bank of Baroda at Nampur village in Nashik district of Maharashtra said almost 200 people have visited his home to enquire about the deposits.To an extent, the southern states of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Tamil Nadu have been able to manage such crowds through an innovative token system: Each family is given a token with a specific date and time to pick up their rations at the Fair Price shops. Telangana and Andhra Pradesh completed the first phase of distribution of rice and other essential commodities, as well as cash assistance in the first week of April itself. In Kerala, ration holders are classified on the basis of their economic vulnerability. The state did away with biometric identification on April 1 to aid the process of distribution. It has now started supplying the ration based on SMSes in order to control the rush. Not all states have been able to use technology seamlessly, however. In Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh, Guddi Bai Lodhi, 58, went to the branch of Gramin Bank to collect her ~500. “When my turn came, the bank clerk said the ‘link’ was not working.”She managed to get cash and purchase a few grocery items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-rural-women-in-india-bear-the-brunt-of-the-lockdown/story-gpWttWeBmJlUPwCZg43dHJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown: Over 80% people in the metros tune in to radio||Radio has emerged as one of the most credible sources of information for millions of people in India, who are unable to venture outside because of a nationwide lockdown, according to a recent survey.As many as 82% of the population in metros is turning to radio, according to the survey conducted by market consulting firm AZ Research Partners Pvt. Ltd in Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Pune and Hyderabad among the 18 years and above age group.Radio has a credibility score of 6.27, second only to the internet, at 6.44, with television at 5.74, the survey found. The radio industry has witnessed a listenership of 51 million people, close to television’s reach of 56 million and social media’s reach of 57 million.Radio’s at-home listenership has jumped from 64% to 86%. The time people spend listening to radio has soared 23% to 2.36 hours every day during the lockdown, second only to television.“As the covid-19 pandemic takes over the world, the role of entertainment mediums becomes all the more crucial. Radio, which is a critical medium, has the dual responsibility of not only entertaining listeners, but also ensuring that correct and genuine information reaches the country’s citizens. At a time like this, the power and effectiveness of our medium increases manifold,” said Harshad Jain, chief executive of radio and entertainment at HT Media Ltd and Next Mediaworks Ltd.“People are now tuning in to the radio sets more than ever for their daily entertainment needs and also to stay updated with credible information. With the entire country under lockdown, the listenership has shifted to in-home listening. The entire radio industry stands together in these tough times to win the fight against coronavirus,” said Jain.It is encouraging to note that radio is evolving as one of the most preferred sources of infotainment, said Anurradha Prasad, president of the Association of Radio Operators for India.HT Media Ltd, publisher of HT, operates radio channels under the Fever 104 FM and Radio Nasha brands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-over-80-people-in-the-metros-tune-in-to-radio/story-O0WOutLDO6jmD5Hg21EWlL.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: States asked to fill 227 vacancies of epidemiologists||The Central government has directed states to fill up 382 vacancies of medical and other staff across the country to ensure the availability of “qualified human resources” during the coronavirus pandemic. A letter, issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on April 7, directs the states to fill these vacancies under the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). Of the vacancies, the maximum – 227 – are for epidemiologists. As many as 11 states do not have a state-level epidemiologist. Epidemiologists study patterns of frequency and the causes and effects of diseases in human populations. The other vacancies include that of data managers, veterinarians, financial consultants and microbiologists. The issue of the vacancies was highlighted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a virtual meeting with the chief ministers on April 3, the health ministry letter said. HT has seen a copy of the letter. The decision to fill the vacancies of epidemiologists and other required posts is to ensure “surveillance activities of Covid-19”, the letter states. An epidemiology professor who did not wish to be named said that ideally every district under the lDSP should have at least one epidemiologist along with one state epidemiologist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-states-asked-to-fill-227-vacancies-of-epidemiologists/story-yOGWX7kCCLopX6p5HaVrIO.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Wednesday and Thursday, more states adopted the containment zones approach, enforcing hard lockdowns selectively — the size of the zone ranges from a single apartment block to an entire city — highlighting the strategy that India will use over the next few weeks to fight the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) .The HT newsroom has written extensively on such zones, and what the approach involves — door-to-door screening, aggressive testing, and enforced containment and social distancing. Given that Covid-19 tends to manifest itself in clusters (even on a larger scale as evident from what’s happening in New York City), and that India will never be able to test as aggressively as, say, Germany or South Korea, this is a sound approach. It identifies and sequesters the hot spots — and then tests anyone with even the mildest symptoms.With 6,701 infections (and 231 dead) on Thursday, India, this writer would like to think, has been ahead of the curve when it comes to defining containment zones — just as it has been behind the curve on testing proactively. It was also ahead of the curve on enforcing a lockdown at a time when the number of cases in India were still low. Indeed, a study by the University of Oxford’s Blavatnik School of Government, says India was quicker than almost every other country in imposing a lockdown on March 25. Did the lockdown work? Did it flatten the curve? Or is the virus raging undiscovered through India? The last seems unlikely. If that were the case, there would have been be a spike in unexplained fatalities across the country — the kind of thing that is almost impossible to hide in a country with as high a number of mobile phones as India (nothing seems to happen without at least a few people capturing it on their phones).That could mean one of two things: the curve is flattening; or the strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus infecting people in India has mutated into a milder version (which means it may be infecting lots of people without really affecting their health significantly). After all, only around 50 of the 3,375 active cases in India on April 6 were on ventilator support. Still, all these are questions and theories that require more scientific study.As is the question of whether the Sars-CoV-2 virus is affected by temperature and humidity. Not enough to cause a sharp reduction in infections, the US National Academy of Sciences said in a report that summarised existing research, although it said more research was warranted. The number of infections, fatalities, and cured recoveries (581 according to the latest data) in India have now reached a level where researchers in the country can start doing primary research to answer such questions and, indeed, others — such as the immune response in India; the strain of the Sars-CoV-2 virus in later infections; and the treatment that seems to be the most effective. Social distancing can help prevent the spread of the infection, but ultimately, only research can find a cure for it.Meanwhile, health care workers at the frontlines continue to fight it with all they have. Theirs are the stories that need to be told and celebrated, of real heroes going above and beyond the call of duty (but still behaving as if it’s just business as usual). At Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, for instance, doctors, nurses, technicians, even security staff have been doing 14-day shifts, and then 14-day furloughs at a hotel or a hostel (without going home so as to not infect anyone) since March 16 (see page 1). When it really matters, India’s health care workers have stepped up to be counted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today-april-10-2020/story-UP2cakzLJXqyC66TEtNCpK.html
10-04-2020||India||4 medical staff in Andhra’s Anantapur test Covid-19 positive, doctors protest||Several junior doctors at the Government General Hospital in Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur district boycotted their duties on Thursday in protest against the quality of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits given to them so that they could deal with Covid-19 patients.The doctors’ protest comes in the wake of four medical professionals of the same hospital – two doctors and two nurses – testing positive for coronavirus on Wednesday evening.The Anantapur district medical and health officer confirmed that the four hospital staff, including two senior doctors tested positive for Covid-19 and said they might have contracted the virus due to some lapses in dealing with a 64-year-old patient who died of coronavirus on April 4.Additional Chief Secretary, Health, P V Ramesh, also confirmed the incident in his post on Twitter. Describing the incident as “unfortunate,” he said the government would take measures to see that such incidents did not recur.Anantapur has reported 13 positive cases till now, seven of which were recorded on Wednesday alone, including that of four medical professionals.District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, who visited the hospital on Thursday morning, told reporters that the doctors and nurses had treated the patient suffering from Covid-19 without taking any precautions.“After it was confirmed that the patient had died of Covid-19, the four hospital staff members who treated him were isolated and tested for the virus. On Wednesday evening, it was proved that they had contracted coronavirus,” he said.Apart from the four, as many as 20 other staff members of the hospital, who were suspected to have come in contact with the doctors and nurses, were also isolated.The protesting doctors told the Collector that they would not be able to perform their duties at the hospital if they were not given adequate PPE kits. Chandrudu said he had instructed the medical and health department to ensure that all doctors were provided with protective gear.Lack of sufficient number of PPE kits has become an issue in some other hospitals in the state too. On Wednesday, the state government suspended Dr K Sudhakar, an anaesthesian at the government hospital at Narsipatnam in Visakhapatnam district, for alleging that the government was not providing adequate PPE kits to the doctors.Sudhakar had, on Monday, protested before the media regarding N-95 masks and other protective equipment meant for doctors that were being provided to politicians and the police. “We are asked to use the same mask for 15 days before asking for a fresh mask. How can we treat patients risking our lives?” he asked.As the video of his comments went viral on social media, the state government ordered a probe into his allegations and suspended Sudhakar on disciplinary grounds. The local police also booked a case against the doctor on charges of abusing the government.Narsipatnam MLA P Uma Shankar Ganesh alleged that the doctor had made baseless allegations at the behest of TDP leader and former minister Ch Ayyanna Patrudu.Sudhakar told reporters that he stood by his allegations. “We are working round-the-clock risking our lives. I only spoke the truth and did not make any derogatory comments against the government,” he said.Telugu Desam Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday wrote a letter to the chief minister requesting that the suspension of Sudhakar be revoked, as he was only highlighting the lack of sufficient protective equipment for doctors.He pointed out that four medical professionals in Anantapur had tested positive for coronavirus while discharging their duties to treat the patients. “When the doctors are risking their lives in the battle against Covid-19, the government is demotivating them instead of giving greater encouragement. The government should give N95 masks, gloves, full-sleeve gowns and eye-shield goggles to doctors at least now,” Naidu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-medical-staff-in-andhra-s-anantapur-test-covid-19-positive-doctors-protest/story-aGsqYZVxZbpC7sAjAji0CO.html
10-04-2020||India||Balancing health concerns and economic activity a challenge for us: Conrad Sangma||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to have a video conference with chief ministers on Saturday to discuss the next course of action after the three-week lockdown to halt the coronavirus pandemic ends on April 14. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma spoke to Sunetra Choudhury about the meeting, what the way forward should be at the national level and in his state, which has so far remained untouched by the pandemic. Edited excerpts:Your Odisha counterpart, Naveen Patnaik, has announced an extension of the lockdown till April end. Are you likely to follow suit?I think the lockdown definition is the crucial part. What does one really mean by that? One thing is for sure, the inter-state and the movement at a national level is something that states want not to happen at this point. Does that mean that a state as a whole also locks down? That is a call that we have to take in every state. In Meghalaya, we want a lockdown in terms of the inter-state movement. But [the curbs on] small activities like farming or MGNREGS [Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme], which involve local people or even small constructions , daily wage people, could be relaxed. It really depends on the definition of the lockdown.Are you saying this because your state has not reported any coronavirus cases yet?I am speaking from both perspectives. From the national perspective, it is advisable that we continue with the lockdown in terms of movement. When it comes to my state, the challenge that we are facing is the balance between health concerns and the livelihood and economic activity of the poor. As a government, we are looking at striking a balance, which is not always the easiest thing to do. We felt that in our state, we would see that in a small, controlled manner, we could have economic activity without risking any health hazard.Is the Centre open to this?If you remember even in the beginning, the Centre allowed certain concessions and some activities. The general consensus is that there should not be movement of people inter-district and there should not be any kind of gatherings. At the end of the day, essential commodities need to move, people need to buy daily products and food items. So there has been flexibility for that from the beginning. I think farming activity, small time construction should be considered now because it is also the time for sowing. What has been the impact of the lockdown on mental health given two labourers in Meghalaya have committed suicide?It is unfortunately that those incidents took place and people were pushed to that level. We pray that it does not happen again but these are testing times. There is no doubt about it. In situations like this, it is not as easy for us to always go to the micro level although we would like to. But we are forced to look at the overall picture and see what is in the national interest. This [lockdown] was a tough decision and I understand people are facing a lot of problems. I can only urge people to see that this is not being done to make their lives difficult but to guard everybody’s interest and health. It is the bigger picture we are looking at. We will do all we can to help the people who are poor and needy and those from the backward sections.Did Modi’s announcement for the national lockdown take you by surprise or you knew about it?Of course, there was a hint in our different discussions... but not on the number of days and the extent [of the lockdown]. Even now, we do have an idea about where we are heading to but we will have to wait and see day after tomorrow [Saturday] what is going to be there. The prime minister has been proactive in consulting chief ministers... it has been a team work on everyone’s part--bureaucrats, political leadership and health workers.What kind of economic impact do you see for your state?I think there is no doubt about the huge impact... The smaller and weaker sections, the daily wage labourers are the people we need to look at. Overall, we are going to see a lot of impact on service sectors like tourism. A large chunk of our population depends on hotels, restaurants, taxis. We have a certain level of manufacturing too. I just hope it [impact] is minimised and the Centre and the state can work together for that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/balancing-health-concerns-and-economic-activity-a-challenge-for-us-conrad-sangma/story-EFTbM5FVKcr1PoWa8K7xvK.html
10-04-2020||India||When govt made 21.9 million e-transactions in a day||On March 30, six days after the prime minister announced a 21-day lockdown in India, the government set a new record : officials across departments carried out 21.9 million financial transactions online, the highest in a single day. The financial year was coming to a close and many to vendors and beneficiaries of welfare schemes had to be sent out in the last week of March and the first two weeks of April (CHECK) . For a team of 16 from the National Informatics Centre (NIC), the brief was clear-- prepare for an avalanche of online transactions on the Public Financial Management System or PFMS. A senior official at NIC said on condition of anonymity that between March 24 and 31, there were 72 million transactions hosted on the system, more than double of the 34.4 million transactions during the same period that the PFMS hosted in 2019. While there is no clarity on the amount of money transacted during that period, an indication is that on April 9 alone Rs 2004 crore was sent across the network. Many of the the transactions were towards PM Kisan, the cash payout scheme for farmers. “Of the 21.9 million transactions on March 30, 19.7 million were direct benefit transfers for PM Kisan,” said the official. The payouts for PM Kisan, a scheme under which farmers get Rs 2000 every four months, have always mostly happened online. The scheme was launched last year in February. The challenge for NIC this time, however, was to ensure that payments are validated and sent out to the 80 million beneficiaries of the scheme by officers from their homes. And that, in doing so, the officers do not face technical problems at their end. All of these transactions were hosted on a management information system (MIS), developed by the NIC sometime in 2013. Known as the Public Financial Management System (PFMS) and accessible online, the software application in its earlier avatar was known as the Central Plan Scheme Monitoring System (CPSMS). It was aimed to bring in transparency to government programs. The application is available on work computers in all government offices through a virtual private network (VPN). The first challenge, the official added, was to ensure that all designated officers had access to it from their homes. In every ministry, only certain officials can greenlight payments and funds transfers. And before the lockdown, most of the permissions were given out on paper, hand-delivered by a network of clerks. However, for times like these when physical signatures cannot be accessed, the system has the option of digital signatures, which designated officials can issue from the system online. To access them, a designated officer needs to enrol at the PFMS portal through a Digital Signature Certificate enrolment module and validate credentials. Nagesh Shastri, deputy director general of the NIC said that apart from direct benefits transfer, other payments made trough the system include funds sent to states and implementing agencies. “The system is integrated with core banking and 400 banks, including the postal bank network, is linked to the system,” said Shastri. Shastri said that the most common problem faced by officials had to do with authorisations of digital certificates. They were all worked out, he added. “To keep it secure, NIC used only its own infrastructure; the central database of the PFMS is in Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-govt-made-21-9mn-e-transactions-in-a-day/story-O6ebyIknRQ93MmM35mB8OL.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19 in India: Food prices surge 3 times as supply chain takes a hit||The prices of key staples, barring cereals, have surged nearly three times from a month ago because of a noticeable supply shock amid the three-week nationwide lockdown to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, according to official and market data reviewed by Hindustan Times. Three main factors are driving food prices higher, according to data from the consumer affairs ministry, as well as a dozen agricultural produce market committees (APMCs), which are state-regulated wholesale points. One, arrivals of farm commodities in APMC markets have plunged sharply, down almost 60% in some markets from a month ago, that is, in the first week of March. Two, land transportation costs have risen sharply, as truckers struggle to cross interstate boundaries, despite exemptions from the lockdown. Three, restrictions and quarantine measures have resulted in serious labour shortages, affecting the loading, unloading and sorting of commodities.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic A 10% rise in food prices proportionately hits household budgets in developing nations, according to the UN’s Food and Agricultural Organisation. On April 8, the Geneva-based International Labour Organisation, in a report, said the coronavirus shutdown in India could shatter incomes of potentially 400 million poor Indians.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakCurrently, supply-side factors, such as restrictions and regulations in movement, have caused a spike in food prices. Soon, things could run the opposite way, economists warned, meaning supply shocks could turn into demand shocks.“Loss of income will lead to a drop in demand for food in the coming months. A possible decline in food consumption could result in malnutrition too,” said Himanshu (one name), an economist with the Delhi-based Jawaharlal Nehru University On an aggregate basis, price of cereals, such as wheat and rice, are steady, mainly because these are being adequately supplied from state-run granaries.Also Read: Coronavirus cases in India mount to 6,412, death toll touches 199“Restrictions have impeded farmers’ access to markets, denying outlets of sale for farm produce,” said R Mani, an economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. What is clear is that there has been no noticeable fall in winter crop production. Rather, state and federal officials have failed to coordinate supplies and ensure deliveries at the right time and at fair prices.The Centre has issued advisories on four occasions to freely allow agriculture and linked activities that form the farm-to-fork supply chain, on March 25, March 26, April 2 and April 8.Yet, broken chains of command are testing the limits of ensuring that the essential needs of 1.3 billion people are met during the lockdown, which was imposed from March 25. States are regulating supplies with permits and only selected agents are being given passes to deliver commodities at farm markets, to reduce crowding and maintain social distancing norms. This permit-driven supplies are a throwback to the Socialist licence raj era predating the 1991 economic reforms. APMC markets are the nerve centres of the country’s food supply chain, which see a web of daily interactions between producers and food aggregators, large suppliers, auctioneers, transporters and packagers, who collectively act as price setters.India’s official retail food inflation data for March is due for release on April 13 and will likely reflect this upswing. However, since retail prices are collected by field agents, an activity that has been disrupted by the lockdown, the National Statistics Office has, in a directive, asked its statisticians to adopt novel ways, including telephonic enquiries. Two commonly consumed vegetables – tomato and onion – offer a representative idea of the supply crunch.Between April1-6, for instance, Andhra Pradesh’s Mulakalacheruvu APMC market, a tomato hub, received just 60 tonnes of tomato that went for a modal price of Rs 550 a quintal (100 kg each) or Rs 5.5 a kg, according to official data. Modal price, a type of average, is simply the price point occurring the most number of times during auctions. The retail rate of tomatoes in towns supplied by Mulakalacheruvu ruled between Rs 30-40 kg, a huge mark-up, according G. Sasidhar, an official of the APMC. In Nashik’s Lasalgaon, Asia’s biggest onion market, arrivals are down by over 80% from a month ago, data from the state-run National Horticulture Research and Development Foundation showed. In the first week of April, the market saw arrivals of nearly 11,878 quintals of onion, trading at a modal price of Rs 775 a quintal. In contrast, in the first week of March, onion arrivals in Lasalgoan were 73,955 quintals. This is an 83% drop. The average retail price of onions in Chandigarh and Guwahati were Rs 40 and Rs 50 respectively, double their usual rates.On April 8, the Union home ministry, which coordinate with the states, asked all state governments to invoke provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, which includes capping prices of any edible item. No state has so far put a price cap on food staples. Unable to source buyers, farmers are dumping farm produce. “My neighbour had to dump one tonne of chillies and two tonnes of chickpeas because there were no buyers at the mandi,” Amra Ram, a leader of the All India Kisan Sabha, said over the phone from Rajasthan’s Sikar APMC. Bottlenecks in transportation have weighed heavily on farmers. Federal instructions and orders issued by state administrations are not in tandem, as first-hand reports suggest. India is one economy but many individual markets. Steering all of them in one direction, all of sudden, has been a key challenge, ground reports suggest. “The home ministry’s orders have not percolated to the ground level even though operators want their vehicles to move. Trucks are still being stopped at various state borders,” Kultaran Singh Atwal, president of the lobby group, All-India Motor Transport Congress, said.Atwal said once trucks dump their consignments, they are then stuck as state authorities don’t allow them to ply back empty. This problem of one-way traffic needs immediate resolution and has pushed up road transport costs by at least 15%, he said.“We got 42 kg of rice, five kg of dal [lentil] and two litres of cooking oil from the government. But my three children are eating much less than before because there are no vegetables and fish on their plates,” said Atifa Begum, a resident of North Lakhimpur in the northeastern state of Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-prices-surge-3-times-as-supply-chain-takes-a-hit/story-QRqfvQpEnlJOdbwWzsCl4N.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Odisha to remain locked down, states weigh options on curbs||Odisha took the lead on Thursday by extending the lockdown for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic by a fortnight until the end of the month, shrugging aside its economic impact, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi indicated that his government isn’t inclined to lift the emergency protocol in its entirety when it lapses on April 14.Human life is more important than the economy, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik remarked after presiding over a meeting.Patnaik requested the Centre to not to order a resumption of commercial flights and train services to Odisha until after the extended lockdown ends. Schools and colleges in the state of 46 million people will remain shut until June 17, he said.“Coronavirus is the biggest threat that the human race has faced in more than a century. In a powerful nation like the US, corona cases have jumped from 3,000 to 400,000. More people have died of coronavirus in the US than all those killed in the 9/11 attack and subsequent wars.Yet, a lockdown could not be implemented entirely there,” said the Odisha CM.Patnaik’s announcement, without waiting for the Centre to take a final call, could set an example for other states that favour a prolonged lockdown to follow. To be sure, most state governments said they were waiting for the Centre to set the direction.  Covid-19 has claimed 230 lives in India since a 76-year-old man from Karnataka’s Kalaburgi on March 10 became the first person in India to die of the infection after returning from a visit to Saudi Arabia. The number of coronavirus infections as of 11p.m. on Thursday had reached 6,701. Odisha’s toll is 44 infections and one death.Prime Minister Modi on March 24 announced a nationwide lockdown with effect from the following day,calling it an effective curfew. All offices and factories, schools and colleges have been shut, and flights,train services and public road transport suspended as part of the lockdown.Modi is due to discuss extending the lockdown with state chief ministers on Saturday via a video conference. On Wednesday, in a video conference with floor leaders of political parties in Parliament, he indicated that he was averse to lifting the lockdown abruptly.“Nobody is saying that lockdown should be lifted. I will talk again to CMs. But as of now the mood is that the entire lockdown lifting is not possible. For us, lockdown is the only way to save our people,” Modi said. Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Karnataka have informed New Delhi that the threat of Covid-19 would be easier to handle if the lockdown is prolonged, HT reported on Wednesday, citing an official who requested anonymity. Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, too, have favoured an extended lockdown.Here is a snapshot of some states’ stands on the extension. AssamAs of now, the Assam government has decided not to pass any separate Odisha-style directive and to follow the Centre’s guidelines on the lockdown. The state cabinet will meet on April 12 after receiving guidelines from Centre on the lockdown.The Assam government has suggested to the Centre a conditional relaxation of the lockdown in some areas and strict enforcement in other, more vulnerable regions, beyond April 14, state finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.JharkhandJharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren told reporters after meeting experts that the state government would take a timely call on the lockdown, and listed out the factors to consider . “We know the impact of this pandemic if it spreads further. We lack health care facilities. We have sought the Centre’s help. We have made adequate arrangements for providing social security, especially providing food and rations to the needy. But we also need to factor in the impact lakhs of migrants who are stuck in other states would have once they return when we lift the lockdown...”KeralaKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state will take a decision on extending the three-week lockdown after the video conference with the Prime Minister on Saturday. The Indian Medical Association’s Kerala chapter and many health experts have called for the lockdown to be prolonged.An expert committee constituted by the state government has suggested that the government lift the lockdown in three phases. It said the time was not ripe for a complete withdrawal after April 14.HaryanaThe Haryana government is likely to go along with the central government’s decision on the lockdown. Indications that the state government is expecting an extended lockdown became apparent on Wednesday when chief minister ML Khattar held a video conference with leaders of opposition parties as well as religious denominations, seeking the latter’s help in persuading people to practice social distancing and abide by stay-at-home orders.Officials said that they were also working on an exit plan in case the lockdown is relaxed after April 14. At the least, the four worst affected districts , Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal and Nuh, which account for 114 of the 134 active Covid-19 cases in Haryana, are certain to face an extended lockdown.MaharashtraSenior officials said the government could decide after Modi’s meeting with chief ministers on Saturday. State health minister Rajesh Tope indicated that the lockdown could continue and that people should not expect things to go back to normal after April 14. The state has seen a sharp spike in cases in urban areas, many of which are densely populated, and the administration might decide to continue the lockdown in these areas, the officials added.Madhya PradeshChief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has dropped hints that the lockdown will be extended. Covid-19 positive cases in Madhya Pradesh are increasing by the day and 13 districts are in the grip of the virus. “Whether or not lockdown period has to be extended will depend on the circumstances in the next one week. The situation in Indore and Bhopal is a matter of grave concern. If need be, the lockdown period can be extended but a decision on the same will depend on the circumstances. Life of people is more important to me. The economy can be revived, but t if we lose a life it can’t come back.”KarnatakaIn Karnataka, chief minister B S Yediyurappa said an expert panel of doctors has unanimously recommended that the lockdown be extended for another fortnight to contain the spread of Covid-19.A final decision on the matter will be taken only after consulting PM Modi and experts on what to do he added– whether to extend the lockdown across the state or to selectively de-escalate it in districts where no Covid-19 cases have been reported as yet . Twelve of Karnataka’s 30 districts are free of the virus. BiharSenior health professionals last week advised Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar against lifting the lockdown fully, cautioning that it would defeat the purpose of containing the fast-spreading contagion. Additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani said it was up to thecentral government. “We will abide by the direction of the Centre,” he said.PunjabPunjab has not taken any decision on the extension or relaxation of the lockdown so far. Chief minister Amarinder Singh’s media adviser Raveen Thukral said a decision would be taken after a cabinet meeting on Friday, April 10. Punjab was the first state to impose a curfew on March 23 because of the Coronavirus pandemic.Uttar PradeshChief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday that the state the government will begin lifting the lockdown from April 15, but in a staggered manner. The next afternoon, in the backdrop of a rise in Covid-19 cases, additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi said lifting the lockdown may not be possible when it ends.On Wednesday, Adityanath said: “The state government--in consultation with the Union government--will decide, -may be on April 11-12, on the lockdown.” On Wednesday,the state government sealed 105 areas in 15 UP districts until April 15 to stem the spread of the coronavirus disease.West BengalChief minister Mamata Banerjee held a meeting with various chambers of commerce and representatives of micro, small and medium enterprises on Thursday to chalk out future plans on the lockdown.The state has already relaxed restrictions on sweet shops, flower traders, the beedi industry and betel leaf traders.“I will put across my views if the Prime Minister consults the states before announcing anything. If the Centre takes a decision we will abide by it,” Banerjee said on Wednesday. Banerjee has also advised people to maintain social distancing for at least 49 days.UttarakhandThe Uttarakhand cabinet, which met on Wednesday, decided that state government will recommend to the Central government to extend the lockdown , given a sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Madan Kaushik, a cabinet minister and government spokesperson, said that until about a week ago, Uttarakhand had only seven cases of Covid-19 and the situation was under control. “But after several jamaatis (those who attended the March meting of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi) tested positive, the total number of cases has surged to 35. Hence, we have decided to suggest that the Centre increase the lockdown period”Telangana, Andhra PradeshTelangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has already pitched for an extension of the lockdown period for at least for two weeks and has instructed state officials to prepare for it.The Andhra Pradesh government has not yet taken a decision on extending or exiting the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-remain-locked-down-states-weigh-options-on-curbs/story-UFx0UzD4k5KLPMwL6UwM3I.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: In the line of duty, till the last patient is cured||At 8am on Monday, March 16, a group of 47 health care workers reported for duty at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Delhi’s Tahirpur, aware that they would not see their families for at least the foreseeable future.In the second week of March, the hospital’s administrators knew that it was only a matter of time before the hospital was asked to handle Covid-19 cases. They started discussing work plans with the doctors and other health care workers.On March 16, just around the time everyone was waking up to the crisis, they implemented this plan, which involved everyone in the hospital working 14 days at a stretch, and then spending the next 14 days at government allotted accommodation — on campus, or at the nearby Hotel Leela — in a sort of quarantine to ensure they did not carry the infections back to their families and neighbourhoods.Two 14-day cycles are almost over; the second cycle will end over the weekend. And the first batch of workers — nurses, doctors, technicians, housekeeping and security staff — that worked between March 16 and 30 will be back again.“We came here mentally prepared. We knew that we would not be able to see our families for months. Now we will go home only when we have no Covid-19 patients left in our ward,” said Dr Ajeet Jain, who has been coordinating with authorities from across agencies – officials from the integrated disease surveillance programme, the testing centres, the district magistrates, and ambulance operators who bring in patients.He has also been on call with agencies providing food, arranging transport for those who are discharged, and with the anxious families of the patients admitted to the hospital.“My phone does not stop ringing. I get at least two or three calls every minute,” said Dr Jain, a cardiac surgeon by training and the nodal officer for Covid-19 efforts at the hospital. Between all the calls, he manages a two-hour nap, usually between 3 and 5 am.His wife is a doctor in a mohalla (neighbourhood) clinic in the city, and he has been sharing tips with her on staying safe after reports of mohalla clinic doctors being infected started coming in.“I learnt about all infection control measures and told her everything over video call. At least at her clinic, the staff uses N-95 masks, and all the patients follow social distancing to ensure that no one gets the infection,” said Dr Jain.With at least 172 suspected and confirmed cases of Covid-19, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital houses the second highest number of patients after the Lok Nayak Hospital near Delhi Gate. It is located right in the middle of one of the 23 hot spots for the infection that have emerged in the city.All patients coming to the hospital are referred by state health department or district officials who call in ahead. An ambulance is sent to get them.“A separate corridor and lift have been kept for patients coming in. The hospital staff come in from a separate entry,” said Dr BL Sherwal, director, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, which also serves as a screening and sample collection centre.A sample collection kiosk has been created away from the main building, where people can walk in, get screened and, if needed, give swab samples for the test. The hospital is also in the process of upgrading its microbiology laboratory to start doing the RT-PCR {Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction} test for Covid-19. Currently, it sends the samples to four testing centres in the city.The hospital has 200 operational beds, with 45 in the intensive care unit.On Wednesday, there were five patients in the ICU. In the unit, doctors and nurses work in a 6-hour shift without a break.“They all hydrate and visit the washroom before donning Personal Protective Equipment, and usually stay inside for the entire duration of the shift. It can be very taxing,” said Dr Jain.Here’s what is involved: In the donning area, doctors change into hospital scrubs and slippers. They remove all accessories and wash their hands thoroughly. They then put on the shoe covers, the first set of gloves and the full body suit. Then, the N-95 masks are put on, followed by the goggles or face shield. Then comes the head cover and a second pair of gloves.To keep lines of communication open, the doctors and nurses are allowed to carry their cell-phones inside but it has to be without any case and in a plastic bag.“The nurses or junior residents on duty can communicate with senior doctors outside, so they are allowed to carry the phones inside. However, when they step out they have to sanitise the plastic bag, and then the cell phone before taking off their PPE,” said Dr Jain.For those working in the general wards, the shift lasts for 12 hours with only two breaks – one for lunch or dinner and another for tea.At the end of the day, all health care workers at the hospital have to change out of their duty clothes and take a bath before heading home. Which is actually not home. Even at the accommodation, they are asked to stay inside their rooms.“They cannot go out. The food is delivered outside their door. All they have are their phones to communicate with their families and may be watch something. The next morning, they again wake up by 6 and after breakfast report to duty at 8am,” Dr Jain said.Like Dr Jain, Dr Sherwal is on his phone constantly.“There is always some or the other problem that comes up. Yesterday, we received the test report for a patient at midnight; (it was negative) she was with her two children (their tests too were negative). I decided to discharge her immediately. So, I had to coordinate with my team on arranging a vehicle for her,” he said.After she left for home with her children, he complimented his team on the WhatsApp group before going to bed at 1am.He is one of the few who gets to go home in Dwarka, 20km from the hospital. “When I reach home, I ask my wife to open the door and head straight to the shower,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-the-line-of-duty-till-the-last-patient-is-cured/story-Mz9i3TQW6AUxsp71KarQDI.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: 816 cases jolt India amid harder curbs||The Centre on Thursday approved an emergency response package worth ~15,000 crore to control the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and was considering dividing the Indian Railways into three zones for a staggered exit from the nationwide lockdown, even as it opened a new front in the battle to halt the outbreak by creating over 1,100 containment zones.On Thursday, India reported a sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, adding 816 infections to take the total case count up to 6,701, according to a compilation of the official data released by states. Fifty-three fresh deaths were also reported on a day the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) revised its testing strategy. All people with symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat and runny nose in Covid-19 hot spots or cluster areas will now be tested. Over the past three days, the focus has shifted to the containment zones that are being put under hard lockdown – people can’t step out, shops and banks have to remain closed, and entry and exit from the clusters are sealed. Ranging in size from apartment blocks to entire neighbourhoods, even parts of an entire district, these are the front lines of the Covid-19 war. Teams of sanitary workers make hourly passes, spraying disinfectants, and health care and local officials conduct door-to-door surveys. In Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal termed his government’s containment efforts “Operation SHIELD” – sealing, home quarantine, isolation, essentials, local sanitisation and door-to-door health checks. “I appeal to all living in the containment areas to cooperate with the Delhi government’s Operation SHIELD. These are strict measures but are necessary to protect you and others,” he said.  Kejriwal said the operation was running in 21 localities of Delhi to contain the disease.On Thursday, the government detailed the approval of Rs 15,000 crore for what it called the Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package. Of the total amount, ₹7,774 crore will be utilised immediately and the remaining will be used for medium-term support (one to four years).“The key objectives of the package include mounting emergency response to slow and limit Covid-19 in India through the development of diagnostics and Covid-19 dedicated treatment facilities, centralised procurement of essential medical equipment and drugs required for treatment of infected patients, strengthen and build resilient national and state health systems to support prevention and preparedness for future disease outbreaks…,” the Union health ministry said.The project will be implemented in three phases during the period from January 2020 to March 2024. Phase 1 from January to June 2020, phase 2 from July to March 2021 and phase 3 from April 2021 to March 2024. The scheme, previously announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will be centrally funded.Modi is scheduled to hold a video conference with chief ministers on Saturday, his third such meeting with the heads of state governments since India declared the 21-day national lockdown starting on March 25.Several chief ministers have called for at least a partial extension of the lockdown; and the group of ministers headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh that is leading India’s response to the pandemic has also recommended that even if the lockdown is eased, the ban on interstate travel and public transport must remain.Officials said on Thursday that once the lockdown ends, the government may only resume Indian Railways passenger services by dividing the country into three zones according to the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases – a red zone, where no transport will be resumed, a yellow zone with restricted services and a green zone, where transportation will be allowed.“All probable scenarios are being discussed for resumption of services when the lockdown is lifted. We will have to ensure strict social distancing in trains, there has been discussion on no allotment of middle berth in sleeper coaches. No linen or food should be served on trains till situation gets better. Thermal screening should be done at all stations. For the initial days, only special trains should be run in areas with low risk as has been recommended by the empowered groups as well,” a senior government official said on condition of anonymity. Measures such as tracking the health of passengers and not allowing passengers above 60 years of age to travel were also being considered, the official added.Under its containment strategy against Covid-19, a highly infectious disease that has killed at least 90,000 across the world, the authorities have identified more than 1,100 zones, mostly in states that have reported more than 100 Covid-19 cases. States such as Odisha, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu released maps on social media notifying the boundary and the buffer of the containment zones.Containment zones are more localised (up to a kilometre in radius) than the hot spots (spreading to several kilometres) and are aimed to prevent the spread of Covid-19 from a locality or a village to nearby areas. “In simple terms, it is a barrier erected around the focus of infection,” said a health ministry document on containment zones.In Delhi, no one is being allowed within two kilometres of containment zones. The police have put up barricades and special local control rooms have been set up to monitor the movement of people in these areas through CCTV cameras.Mumbai, which has the highest number of Covid-19 patients for a city, has 381 containment zones – they have more than doubled in the past two days. A locality with even a single Covid-19 patient is being declared a containment zone. “Health of every person in the zone is monitored around the clock,” said a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official.Over the past few days, on directions of the Union health ministry, state governments have declared a large number of containment zones. Maharashtra alone has 401 containment zones, with Mumbai having 381 and Pune 20. Uttar Pradesh has 105 containment zones, Rajasthan 38, Madhya Pradesh 180, Tamil Nadu 220, Delhi 23, Telangana 125, including 36 in Hyderabad, and 121 in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/816-cases-jolt-india-amid-harder-curbs/story-mCeG5z7h7lgQn2gNle90NJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Post lockdown, Indian Railways may colour-code zones||When the coronavirus lockdown eventually ends, the Centre will likely resume railway transport services by dividing the country into three zones based on the number of Covid-19 cases each has reported.The plan is to divide the country into a red zone in which no transport will immediately be allowed, a yellow zone where restricted services will resume and a green zone where transport will be allowed free movement. According to officials aware of the development, these are all probable scenarios that have been discussed by the Centre for resumption of passenger transport after the lockdown, which is due to be lifted on April 14, but may be prolonged . Following a Railway Board review meeting, divisional railway managers (DRMs) across the state-run network have been asked to provide suggestions on how train services can resume in the post-lockdown phase Hindustan Times had reported on Wednesday that the national transporter plans to implement social distancing rules for passengers inside coaches. “All probable scenarios are being discussed for resumption of services when the lockdown is lifted. We will have to ensure strict social distancing in trains, there has been discussion on no allotment of middle berth in sleeper coaches,” a senior government official, said requesting anonymity.No linen will be provided and food served on passenger trains until the situation stabilizes, the official said. Measures such as tracking the health status of passengers and not allowing people above 60 to travel on trains are also being considered. Thermal screening at all stations is being mulled and wearing a face mask will be mandatory. All passenger transport has been suspended for the three-week duration of the lockdown that began on March 25. The national transporter may continue with the restrictions on scheduled passenger trains and run only special trains in the immediate post-lockdown phase, the official cited above said. “There have been suggestions to not allow unreserved travel also as it increases the risk of monitoring travellers who might have symptoms. Trains should avoid and not stop at hotspots that fall in the red zones. In those zones it is advisable to not begin services till the situation improves. One way is to run those trains only from originating stations and terminating stations,” the official added. The national carrier will also seek inputs from states also on resumption of services. Even at airports and on planes the government is seeking to implement strict social distancing norms.The aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), is also preparing a standard operating procedure (SOP) to ensure social distancing among passengers and reducing contact with staff on board. This includes measures like leaving the middle seats empty. The ministry of railways on Wednesday also issued a clarification saying railways has not issued any protocol regarding passenger travel for the post lockdown period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-may-colour-code-zones/story-CkpwpjidopgfOJftdgPACJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: India sets up 1,200 Covid-19 containment zones; Maharashtra tops this list||As India intensifies its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the focus has shifted to about 1,200 containment zones, mostly in states which have reported more than 100 Covid-19 cases. These zones are now under a more strict form of lockdown, with a complete prohibition in the movement of residents, with states adopting specific measures to implement restrictions. The zones — varied in size and scale, ranging from apartment blocks to entire neighbourhoods, even parts of an entire district — are the frontlines of the battle against the pandemic now, where no one, other than except authorised government officials and health workers, are allowed to enter or exit.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The declaration of these zones has happened a little over two weeks into a national lockdown. In the past few days, on directions of the health ministry, state governments have declared a large number of containment zones. Maharashtra alone has 401 containment zones, with Mumbai having 381 and Pune 20. Uttar Pradesh has 105 containment zones, Rajasthan 38, Madhya Pradesh 180, Tamil Nadu 220, Delhi 23, Telangana 125, including 36 in Hyderabad, and 121 in Andhra Pradesh.Containment zones are more localised (up to a kilometer in radium) than the hotspots (spreading to several kilometers) and are aimed to prevent spread of Covid-19 from a locality or a village to nearby areas. “In simple terms, it is a barrier erected around the focus of infection,” said a health ministry document on containment zones.  The logic is that the authorities can focus on containing the infections to a limited cluster, screening residents so that those with symptoms can be identified, testing necessary and eligible cases, and ensuring that those infected and those with a contact history of those infected have no interface with the outside world. Expert quote here on efficacy of the model. Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayIn these zones, the police, including special response team of armed commandoes, maintain a round-the-clock watch, assisted with CCTV cameras and drones. Essentials are being delivered by Covid volunteers.Teams of sanitary workers spray disinfectants at regular intervals; health care and local officials do door-to-door surveys; no outlet is allowed to remain open; and people are not being allowed even in the common areas of their localities. Aggressive contact tracing of Covid-19 patients is being done and movement of people, including non-Covid positive persons, is being monitored through mobile apps.State governments, across the country, have adopted different strategies to manage these zones. States such as Odisha, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have released maps on social media notifying the boundary and the buffer of the containment zones.Chennai has two-layered containtment zones. Within nine large zones, there are 70 smaller containment clusters, in the immediate vicinity of those who have tested positive for Covid-19. Each containment zone has a protective radius of five kilometers where movement of people is restricted and disinfectant spraying carried out regularly.Mumbai, which has the highest number of Covid-19 patients for a city, has more than doubled the number of containment zones in the city in the past two days to 381 zones. A locality having even a single Covid-19 patient is being declared a containment zone. “The health of every person in the zone is monitored around the clock,” said a BMC official.Also read: Coronavirus may not go away in warmer weather, says US reportIn Delhi, no one is being allowed within two kilometers of containment zone. The police have put barricades and special local control rooms have been set up to monitor movement of people there through CCTV cameras, officials said. Officials in Jaipur said that every home in the 20 containment areas were being sanitised twice a day.On Thursday, most of the containment zones bore a deserted look as police pushed people back into their homes and municipal workers started massive sanitisation drives, spraying disinfections, cleaning door of individual homes, followed by health workers screening all individuals.In Lucknow’s Sadar’s Kasaibada locality, where Tablighi Jamaat attendees were staying in 12 mosques, Yogendra Kumar, a resident, said, “I peeped out of my window at around 11 am and found cops using a baton to push back three people who had come out in the street despite the strict orders to remain indoors. In the morning, every nook and corner of the locality was cleaned.”In Bhopal, around 3,00,000 people are confined in 70 containment zones. “Health status of every person is with authorities,” said a Bhopal district administration official. In Indore, about half-a-million people are confined in their homes in the around 90 containment zones. “A constant health survey is being done,” said Dr RR Patel, joint director in the directorate of information at Indore.Also read: ₹10 lakh crore stimulus need of the hour, experts estimateIn Punjab’s Mohali, where 15 people tested positive in a Jawaharpur village, 24*7 police barricades have been put up. “Any area, where positive cases are reported, is ‘contained’ by us. We have allowed essential supplies to the village. Entry and exit in these villagers is banned,” said Mohali deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said, adding quick response teams comprising of Punjab police commandoes have been deployed in these places.Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has announced a “containment zone”, of 1.5 km length and 800 metre width containment zone around a housing complex, the epicenter of the local outbreak with 18 Coronavirus cases. On Twitter, the BMC released a map showing a black dotted line along the busy Cuttack-Puri road indicating the contours of the zone saying “no one can enter or exit” as long as the containment orders were on.However, locals, including some who went out to buy medicines, said that despite a helpline to order essentials, the supply has been erratic. Similar complaints were also reported from Ghaziabad, Noida and Jaipur.Also read: Food prices surge 3 times as supply chain takes a hitMore than shortage of supplies, there is palpable fear of catching the deadly virus. Suketh Chinchela, who lives in Bhubaneshwar’s Surya Nagar area with his family, said there is a certain eerie feeling of living in a containment zone. “But the fear is more that the dreaded disease has come to our doors. Surya Nagar is an area full of retired bureaucrats and old people, thereby heightening the fear,” said Chinchela.“The place looks like a graveyard even in the daytime,” said Samar Khadas, a resident of containment zone in Mumbai’s Worli. “Many residents urgently need physiological counseling as they are feeling depressed,” he said. A resident of Rambanj in Jaipur, Uday Narayan Singh, whose area is under curfew for the past 15 days, said that patience and cooperating with the authorities is the only way to come out of it. “I have seen even most people getting disturbed. We need more reassurance from the government that we are safe,” he said.Kasaragod in Kerala, has been a model in fighting Covid-19 through a containment zone. The small district in northern Kerala, from where 156 of the state’s 345 coronavirus cases were reported, was the first to be declared a containment zone in the country and had been so since March 24.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Initially, it was difficult for the people to go by stricter norms but the police implemented them ruthlessly. Strict action forced many to remain indoors. “We have made the turnaround. We did it ruthlessly and told people it is life and death situation. Results are there to see,” said Vijay Sakhare, Inspector General of Police (Kochi range) who was specially assigned in north Kerala when situation turned alarming.Usman Koya, a native of Kananhad, said it was “worse” than a curfew. “Though we faced many difficulties we realised it is for our good. But I am happy these restrictions helped contain the virus otherwise Kasaragod would have been another Dharavi,” she said.Declaring Kasaragod a containment zone prevented community spread. “Among 156 cases, 101 are people returned from the West Asian countries. The rest are their immediate contacts. There is no community spread in the district but we are keeping a strict vigil,” said district collector D Sajith Babu.The model was also replicated in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara, where the health workers in a private hospital first got infected. The state adopted a model of “ruthless containment”, which succeeded in stopping infections and its spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-1-1k-containment-zones-in-covid-action-plan/story-8DwxozZvTMPD3m66O0IMzH.html
10-04-2020||India||Forest ranger comes to aid of tea workers||In April 2017, forest ranger Sanjay Dutta was made in charge of a special task force that aimed to protect eight districts of north Bengal, where the wildlife was particularly vulnerable to poachers. Already well known in the environmentalists’ circles — he received the prestigious Clark R Bavin Wildlife Law Enforcement Award handed out by the Animal Welfare Institute in Johannesburg, in 2016 — Dutta’s brief, as before, was to stop rampant smuggling of rare wildlife like pangolins, and animal products like ivory, in the Belacoba range in Jalpaiguri district.The 42-year-old had, by then, already made scores of arrests and seized smuggled goods. The locals even had a nickname for him: “Forest Singham” (lion of the forest).In the past two weeks, however, Dutta has been busy with something else. With the state government turning down the Centre’s request to allow tea gardens to resume operations, the nearly 283 tea gardens in north Bengal remain under lockdown; most of the 350,000 permanent and casual workers are staring at an impending shortage of food and supplies, and money.Familiar with the area, Dutta has already identified the out of reach spots where tea garden workers have settled, and where local non governmental organisations involved in helping the underprivileged during this lockdown, have not been able to reach. Together with members of his forest department team, he has distributed dry ration and cooked food for thousands of residents in villages and colonies of tea estate workers. Till Tuesday, they had distributed dry rations — 10 kg rice, 500 gram dal, two kg potato and 250 grams soybean — to around 1700 people, and cooked food for more than 3600 people, Dutta said. He also added that he has budgeted Rs 4 lakh of his money for these expenses.Even joint forest management committees — agencies formed by a cluster of villages living close to a reserved forest and registered with the territorial divisional forest office — have come forward with funds. The money raised by at least 20 such committees, made up of villagers and tribal families, was used to distribute 15 to 25 kg rice each among 3000 families living in villages located in remote forest areas, Dutta said. “With Dutta around, we now know that not only forests but even the people who live there are safe,” said Tula Mohammed, president of Hiramari joint forest management committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-ranger-comes-to-aid-of-tea-workers/story-6wyfbGh1UmQzT70NEGkf4L.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Some British tourists stay back in Goa||For Andrew Taylor, it was an easy choice. Retired from the oil rigs and travelling alone, he made a quick decision that he would be staying put in Goa despite the option to go back home to London in the repatriation flights that the UK government is organizing for British citizens stranded across the globe. “I look back at the situation in London where there are thousands of cases a day and I think it is safer here,” Taylor, who is staying at Agonda in south Goa, said. There are around 20,000 British nationals across the country that are stranded in India of which a few thousand are in Goa. The British government has arranged three flights from Goa from this week and four others from Mumbai and Delhi but the repatriation is expected to be a long drawn process with wait lists already running into thousands.Some tourists have chosen to stay put and wait it out in Goa. “I’ve been thinking the same but I’m leaning towards staying here in Goa. I’ve got a place to stay, with plenty of food and water now. Lots of restaurants reopened for home deliveries. Also, the locals have been very caring and friendly to me. I also don’t have my own place in the UK and would have to stay with my parents. I don’t want to put them at risk in case I pick up the virus on the journey,” Josh Baxter, another traveller to Goa staying at Calangute, said.“My only worry is if things get worse in India. And if we did contract the virus, the healthcare would not be as good as the UK. We’ve got another week of lockdown at least. Maybe wait until then and make a decision next week,” he added. Travellers to India usually visit other locations of India as well. Yet, Goa is yet to report its first case of a foreigner contracting the coronavirus (Covid-19). “I’m in Arambol (north Goa) with three of my friends I met. I came here with a girl I met in the hostel I was staying at in Udaipur and then the other two came from Jaipur and we met those at the airport coming here and shared a taxi and ended up staying together,” Charlotte Collins said. “We are having such a nice time and in the same boat as to whether or not to go home. I’m from northeast England, my friend is from Oxford, my other friends are from Mexico and Germany. We all think we want to stay here but due to it being so unpredictable, we are unsure what to do. Plus flights are pretty expensive right now.” A factor on the minds of Britishers in Goa is the price of the repatriation flights which are upward of 600 GBP and the situation in the UK once they land, especially since they will be quarantined upon landing. While initially with the lockdown being near total and a lot of tourists afraid of police brutality as well as hostility from locals, the Goa government has moved to reassure tourists that they will be taken care of and asking hotels and guesthouses to charge tourists only half the rack rates while also providing provisions to some who were caught unawares. “The tourists who are staying in Goa have come much before and are not carriers of the virus so no one should target them,” Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said. The Goa airport has handled 19 relief flights taking around 3,300 tourists back to their respective countries, including Russia, France, Germany, Sweden, Ireland, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, and Kazakhstan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-tourists-refuse-to-leave-goa/story-W8UORkiLJ8vANJuM9vz4tI.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 60-year-old donates all her savings worth ₹10 lakh to PM-CARES fund||A 60-year-old woman from Uttaakhand’s Chamoli district has donated her entire life savings of Rs 10 lakh to the newly launched Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM- CARES) Fund.to advance the government’s fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Devaki Bhandari, a resident of Gauchar in Chamoli, who is also a social worker, told reporters that she doesn’t have children and lives a simple life so she wanted her savings go towards providing relief to people hurt by the pandemic.“I had saved up around Rs 10 lakhs as fixed deposits and pension. I live in a small rented apartment and do not have many expenses, the money would be better used to fight the coronavirus pandemic,” said Bhandari.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat praised Bhandari’s gesture.“In this land of India, we had only read the stories of great kings and their charity, but today we have seen it in person. Despite being alone, Mrs. Bhandari has selflessly sacrificed everything, donating all her savings to India, which she considers as family and presented an example before us,” said Rawat.Uttarakhand so far has reported 35 Covid-19 positive cases with the maximum being reported from Dehradun (18). Out of the 35 cases, 26 are followers of the Tablighi Jamaat who attended the Islamic missionary group’s mid-March congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Basti, which has since emerged as the biggest Covid-19 hot spot in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-yr-old-donates-all-her-savings-worth-10-lakh-to-pm-cares-fund/story-ozJf4v1z02nht93fAZJYCL.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19 in India: Top govt schools turned into quarantine facilities||Over 90 Centre-run Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) and Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs) have been turned into quarantine centres across India as part efforts to create additional heathcare infrastructure to deal with any major spike in the number of the coronavirus (Covid-19) cases, according to officials aware of the matter. India plans to ramp up Covid-19 testing to deal with the pandemic better and it is likely to lead to an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. According to official data, as many as 60 KVs and 33 JNVs have been converted into quarantine facilities in places like Balasore in Odisha, Karnataka’s Bidar, Tinsukia (Assam) and Joshimath in Uttarakhand.One of the officials cited above said of the 645 JNVs across the country, 400 such schools have been offered for the creation of facilities to isolate 2.5 lakh people. There are over 1,100 KVs.Union human resource development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank had directed an assessment of how the premier central schools could offer support in the fight to against the pandemic.The 60 KVs are spread across 26 regions and state and defence ministry authorities have taken them over for creating quarantine facilities.In the Agra region alone, four KVs in Sarsawa, Chandinagar, Surajpur and Hindon have been taken over by authorities combating the virus. Similarly, four schools in Baroda, Ahmedabad and Jamnagar (Gujarat) have been turned into isolation centres. Two schools have been taken over by authorities in the Bengaluru region.Buildings of 10 KVs have been converted into quarantine centres in the Chandigarh region and seven in the Jammu region.B K Singh, the commissioner of Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti that runs JNVs, said his organisation has been contributing in the mitigation of the impact of Covid 19 by offering around 400 Schools, with a capacity of isolating around 2.5 lakh persons, spread over 400 districts. “Already in 33 schools, it [quarantine centres] is functioning,” Singh said.Singh said they had advanced the internal exams and concluded them by March 18. “So, the academic session was completed and by March 21, summer vacation was announced ahead of the scheduled up to May 25.”He said due to the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic, around 20-25 students have been unable to return to their homes. “In view of this unforeseen situation, the students staying on different campus continue to access to mess halls, libraries, smart classes, games, TV etc. However, these campuses have been locked down.”An official said the students have been offered facilitated like video calling, text messaging and calling free of cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-govt-schools-turned-into-quarantine-facilities/story-QaxpYasw2UJQMhw1yZIXwN.html
10-04-2020||India||Respiratory illness study hints at community spread: Experts||About one in 50 people hospitalised with acute respiratory infections such as pneumonia are suffering from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to a new study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) — findings that some experts said suggested the disease has entered the “community transmission” phase in the country.Close to 40% of these patients did not have recent travel history or known contact with a Covid-19 case.The study, published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR) on Thursday, found that Covid-19 positivity among severe acute respiratory infections (Sari) patients is 1.8% out of 5,911 samples tested between February 15 and April 2.Among the 965 Sari samples tested between February 15 and March 19, only two (0.2%) were positive for Covid-19. But when the testing strategy was expanded to include all Sari patients, out of 4,946 samples, 102 (2.1%) were positive for Sars-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19).According to the survey, of the 102 Covid-19-positive Sari patients, one reported a recent history of international travel, two reported contacts with a confirmed case, and 40 (39.2%) did not report any history of international travel or contact with a Covid-positive person. The data on exposure history was not available for 59 cases.“One may not like to call it community transmission but this is in fact community transmission of Covid-19,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore.“Sari in the absence of Covid-19 is essentially due to influenza A (H1N1 or H3N2) or influenza B (the Victoria strain or Yamagata). These four are essentially the only reasons for Sari. Sometimes Sari patients are also affected by Adenoviruses. The results of the ICMR study indicates that Covid-19 is entering this scene. So now we have about two Sari patients in 100 who are testing positive for the new virus. It’s becoming a much commoner problem than what we had expected earlier. Waiting for this evidence for intervention is not needed,” Dr John added.Community transmission is the third of the four stages of the spread of an infectious disease. The first is travel history, the second is local transmission, the third is community transmission, and the fourth is epidemic. India has maintained that the disease is in the second stage, or between stage two and stage three with “limited community transmission” in some clusters.The median age of Covid-19 positive Sari patients in the study was 54. It found that Covid-19 positivity was higher among men (85 of the 102 Covid-19 positive patients).Most of the Sari patients tested were from Gujarat (792), followed by Tamil Nadu (577), Maharashtra (553) and Kerala (502). Covid-19 cases among these were detected from 52 districts in 20 states.“Covid-19 containment activities need to be targeted in districts reporting Covid-19 cases among Sari patients. Intensifying sentinel surveillance for Covid-19 among Sari patients may be an efficient tool to effectively use resources towards containment and mitigation efforts,” the study said.Another expert said that it was still too early to say this was “community transmission”. “We can’t just jump to the conclusion that there is community transmission from these findings. These are from the laboratory and we haven’t started testing in the community yet. I think their case history hasn’t been analysed properly yet,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respiratory-illness-study-hints-at-community-spread-experts/story-wBEKwnl7NEPtNyCEdV1wtK.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Centre removes customs duty, health cess on ventilators, kits||The government on Thursday exempted crucial medical equipment required to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from basic customs duty and health cess for six months, the revenue department said in a statement.The decision will make import of ventilators, face masks, surgical masks, personal protection equipment (PPE), Covid-19 test kits and inputs required for manufacturing of these items cheaper by 11% to 22%, a government official said on condition of anonymity.“In the context of Covid-19 situation, considering the immediate requirement of ventilators and other items, the central government has granted exemption from basic customs duty and health cess, on their import, with immediate effect,” the official said.The exemption from the basic customs duty and the health cess, wherever applicable, shall be available up to the September 30, 2020, the official said.Currently, there is a 10% duty on ventilators and test kits, and 7.5% on face and surgical masks. It ranges from 7.5% to 10% on PPE. Health cess is flat 5% on all these goods.India has restricted exports of diagnostic kits to discourage outbound shipments. The government has also banned exports of all kinds of ventilators, sanitisers, and textile raw materials for masks and coveralls. These all moves are aimed at maintaining the availability of these goods in India.Reacting to the move, Abhishek Jain, Tax Partner, EY told PTI: “This was a much anticipated and a welcome exemption given the dire need of these goods to fight COVID 19 in India.”The move came even as some political leaders protested the Centre’s notification that said states can’t procure their own PPE.In a notification sent to principal secretaries of the health departments of states on April 2, the Union ministry of health and family welfare asked them not to procure crucial medical equipment such as PPE, N95 masks and ventilators on their own, as they will be procured by the Centre and then distributed to the states. The decision was taken at the third meeting of the Empowered Group formed to look at procurement of medical equipment that took place on April 1, the note said.DMK MP from Tamil Nadu’s Dharmapuri Senthilkumar S condemned the move to make health care centralised. Former Lok Sabha MP from Kerala MB Rajesh said: “The first case was detected on January 30 and the lockdown was announced on March 24; the government had 54 days to act, but it wasted time. One cannot eradicate COVID-19 by lockdown, so every state has to prepare.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-removes-customs-duty-health-cess-on-ventilators-kits/story-Q1uG8NOOtk8aumU3oFBbxM.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19: After Supreme Court orders free tests, labs urge govt to reimburse costs||Private laboratories on Thursday urged the government to intervene after the Supreme Court asked all Covid-19 tests to be free of charge, even as experts said the judgment could impact the effective expansion of testing, which is key to the containment of the infection. While the labs said they would obey the order, some firms were considering a legal challenge saying it would be difficult for the laboratories to continue testing for free. Experts said the order, while aimed at making testing easily available, may force many private firms to scale down operations at a time when the infection has reached almost every state and intensive testing is urgently required. “Humanitarian in intent but impractical to implement - I fear testing will plummet,” said Biocon chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw on Twitter. “A judgment that will severely affect testing. Private labs simply cannot be expected to run their businesses on credit,” she added. Responding to a public interest litigation, the top court on Wednesday made Covid-19 tests in government and private laboratories free, and asked the government to pass the necessary orders to make this possible. The tests are already free in the 139 authorised government laboratories. Private laboratories used to charge Rs 4,500 previously.“We may not file a petition in the Supreme Court yet, as we have been talking to the government, and it seems inclined towards working out a solution to help us. However, until that happens we will be offering the test for free,” said Dr Arvind Lal, chairman and managing director, Dr Lal PathLabs, one of the 67 private sector players permitted to test by the government. Some experts -- such as Girdhar Gyani, director general of the Association of Healthcare Providers -- said the government could reimburse the cost of testing to private labs. During the hearing on Wednesday, the court had also asked the government to reimburse laboratories but didn’t pass an order to this effect. “There is a lot of confusion at the moment whether to charge or not; until the confusion clears out, I have given standing instructions to my staff not to charge anyone for Covid-19 testing,” said Navin Dang, founder of Dr Dangs Lab.Corporate hospitals also decided to conduct the tests for free, but indicated that they were speaking with the government “Since we have not heard anything from the government yet, we are not charging anything for Covid-19 testing,” said a spokesperson for Apollo hospital. A spokesperson for the Max Hospital said, “Based on the latest order of the SC, Max Healthcare has stopped charging for the Covid test. We are awaiting further directive from the government.”But many private labs said they would find it tough to sustain testing at a time when India needed to dramatically scale up testing. “We need test more, much more, as what we are doing right now is nowhere close to what we should be doing. We would need at least one lakh tests in a day. The next 10 days window is critical, so the government will have to think of a way such as creating a corpus or subsiding testing so that it’s feasible for private players to do the tests. For small standalone labs it will be nearly impossible to sustain free testing,” said Sanjeev Bagai, chairman and managing director, Nephron Clinic. Indian Council of Medical Research director general Balram Bhargava did not respond to calls and text messages despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sc-orders-free-tests-labs-urge-govt-to-reimburse-costs/story-gPYvr6v5DgCJfsaZoKba1H.html
10-04-2020||India||Covid-19: MSMEs hope for govt aid to revive sector||A fund similar to the PM-Kisan scheme, re-opening industries where work from home is possible, and complete waiver of bank charges on all types of loans are among the slew of suggestions made to the union government to revitalize micro, medium and small enterprises (MSMEs).Facing staggering losses on account of the ongoing lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19, the MSME sector is looking for help from the union government, which is expected to announce an economic stimulus package soon.Estimated to employ 110 million people, over 63.3 ,million MSMEs in the country contribute nearly close to half of the country’s total exports and almost a third of India’s GDP, according to government data.Sudarshan Sareen, president of the All India Manufacturers’ Association said MSMEs should be offered help on the lines of relief packages announced for farmers in times of distress. “The way the government has come up with a PM-Kisan scheme that gives farmers Rs 2,000 in their bank accounts, there should be some aid for the manufacturers whose production has stalled. Small factories cannot run unless the government offers help during this time of a national emergency.” AIMO has already issued a statement citing the difficulties being faced by member MSMSEs to pay wages and not cut jobs as instructed by the government.“If banks don’t offer short term loans that will need to be repaid only after a year at maximum 4% interest, it will become untenable for many manufacturers to keep business going,” Sareen added.The need for setting up a COVID fund with a corpus at least Rs one lakh crore to roll out relief measures immediately was also flagged by former union minister and Congress leader Jairam Ramesh in a letter to MSME minister Nitin Gadkari.On Thursday, HT reported that the government is considering just such a fund with a corpus of Rs 50,000-75,000 crore“To ensure liquidity for business continuity, the government must direct all its agencies and public sector units, to pay their bills immediately, similar to the initiative taken under NHAI. Financial institutions should reschedule or restructure loans, as well as offer 6-month payment moratoriums to MSMEs. Extend soft loans with approximately 50% government guarantee for affected sectors through SIDBI, along with an adhoc enhanced working capital limit of 25% on request,” Jairam suggested.Laghu Udyog Bharati, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) that works with the MSME sector wrote to union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday, seeking a complete waiver of bank charges and fees on all types of loans and advances to all micro and small industries from all banks and financial institutions with effect from March 1, including interest of this period until the restart of production, considering the lockdown period as “force majeure.”While MSME ministry officials could not be reached for a comment, Gadkari on Thursday, held a meeting with officials through video-conferencing to review the existing schemes and draw up a future plan.In a tweet about the meeting, Gadkari said, its main purpose was to get the ministry and MSME ready for the future. “Reviewed the status of the existing schemes and discussed the future course of action. We are taking steps to make our industry COVID ready and both ministry and field organizations are taking necessary steps to support them in that direction. Thrust is to get industry feedback and take action in the short term. #IndiaFightsCorona.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/msmes-hope-for-govt-aid-to-revive-sector/story-YXDnFghK9N07zo73rggoBJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: India gears up to begin plasma therapy trials||India is preparing to start clinical trials to treat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients with convalescent plasma therapy that involves drawing antibody-rich blood of Covid1-9 survivors to treat the sick.The therapy has shown promise in treating Covid-19 patients, the American journal, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS), reported on Tuesday.The country’s apex biomedical research organisation, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is working on the guidelines to conduct the trial, and, once ready, the draft will be taken to the apex drugs regulator, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), for approvals to conduct the trials.“The draft should be ready in the next couple of days. Since it is a new drug, it has to be given on a clinical trial mode, for which the approval of the drugs controller is a must. Once the draft is ready, then ICMR, as per protocol, will approach the DCGI, for approval to conduct a clinical trial in the country,” said Dr Manoj V Murhekar, director, National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai.The therapy, the most distinct among the handful of options doctors around the world have for Covid-19 at present, had consistent and safe effects on a small group of 10 patients in China who were critically ill but began to show significant improvements after a single dose, PNAS reported.“In other countries, it has been found to be useful in limited patients who were on ventilator support. It is not meant for everyone but to begin with we will be selecting patients who would be given this medicine on a study mode. The process will be expedited as during pandemics you don’t have to recruit a large number of patients for such trials. A small number is good enough, and the DCGI is quick to give approvals for anything Covid-19 related these days, so we are expecting to start soon,” said Dr Murhekar.“Unless the DCGI approves, the clinical trial cannot begin anywhere in the country,” he added.The basis for convalescent plasma therapy is simple: plasma – a component of the blood – from a recovered patient carries the specific antibodies that can neutralise the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19. This is transfused in a patient fighting the infection, acting as reinforcement for the immune system.The ICMR’s technical committee that reviews testing criteria also revised the guidelines on Thursday, and directed states to focus on hot spots and clusters to conduct rRT-PCR (Real-Time Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction) testing of all influenza like illnesses if the symptom (fever, cough, sore throat, runny nose) has developed within seven days.Those who came down with symptoms more than a week ago should be made to undergo antibody based rapid blood test. “If negative then has to be confirmed by performing an RT-PCR,” says the revised guideline. Also, to understand the evolution of the virus better, the Centre has involved two Centre for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) labs, the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad, and the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) in New Delhi that have started working together on the whole genome sequencing of Sars-Cov-2.“These two labs have already started work on the virus, and hopefully we should be able to know the virus better,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-gears-up-to-begin-plasma-therapy-trials/story-cfIGMEP9u24UlEuCXgf3IJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Coronavirus may not go away in warmer weather, says US report||In a finding that has huge significance for India, where summer is just breaking, a prestigious scientific panel in the US said that high temperature is unlikely to significantly stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) without major public health interventions, such as personal protection and social distancing.The report is from the US National Academies of Sciences (NAS), which, on April 4, said Covid-19 can be spread just by talking or breathing, resulting in many countries, including India, to revise guidelines on masks. Also read: Coronavirus cases in India mount to 6,412, death toll touches 199With countries currently experiencing warmer temperatures than China and Europe, such as Australia and Iran, experiencing rapid virus spread, a decrease in cases with increase in humidity and temperature should not be assumed said the report, which examined virus survival in relation to temperature and humidity, and potential for seasonal reduction and resurgence of cases to provide scientific evidence for decision-making.Thus, while noting that “experimental studies show a relationship between higher temperatures and humidity levels, and reduced survival of Sars-CoV-2 in the laboratory, there are many other factors besides environmental temperature, humidity, and survival of the virus outside the host, that influence and determine transmission,” the report said in its summary. Also read: Covid-19: What you need to know today The report also calls for more research into the theme, including on various Sars-CoV-2 strains. The new report, which was submitted to the White House on Tuesday, said that on current evidence and given the lack of host immunity globally, any reduction in transmission because of higher temperature and humidity may not lead to a significant decrease in disease spread without major interventions, such as personal protection and social distancing.“We cannot rely on summer to rescue us from coronavirus disease as temperature is just one of the many factors that affect transmission. Very hot climate may reduce cases by a small number in high population density areas as heat will destroy the virus faster. I’m hopeful it may do so to some extent in Dharavi, but since hot spots are typically in hospitals, malls and offices, which are often air-conditioned even in India, transmission is unlikely to end in summer without strong public health interventions,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director of the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi.Other coronaviruses that cause potentially serious human illness, including both Sars-CoV and Mers-CoV that have caused outbreaks of severe acute respiratory syndrome and middle-east respiratory syndrome in the past, have not demonstrated seasonality either. Indeed, a reading of the history of such illnesses shows that those that first emerged in winter, saw a second wave in summer - and vice versa. Some of the compounding factors that affect virus transmission are geography, population density, per capita income, access to testing, quality health care systems and human behavioural patterns, including mobility and migration.“There are many other factors that may influence virus spread and it is still too early to draw definitive conclusions without data on this novel virus in the real world. In the Indian context, the factors would include population density, difficulty of maintaining physical distancing in households where space is limited, inability and unfamiliarity with cough/sneeze etiquette, migrant labour returning home with the virus, and mingling of people even during the current lockdown,” said Dr V. Ramana Dhara, director, Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad.Also read: India sets up 1,200 Covid-19 containment zones; Maharashtra tops this listWith little evidence on how this new virus will behave, virologists are falling back on the behaviour of coronaviruses, particularly Sars-CoV, with which Sars-CoV-2 shares the most similarity. Pandemic influenza strains have not exhibited the typical seasonal pattern of endemic and epidemic strains, the report said. “There have been 10 influenza pandemics in the past 250-plus years – two started in the northern hemisphere winter, three in the spring, two in the summer and three in the fall. All had a peak second wave approximately six months after the emergence of the virus in the human population, regardless of when the initial introduction occurred,” said the NAS report.“The second wave of the Spanish flu in 1918 was devastating for India, and even if temperature and humidity have some affect on transmission, it may not be as apparent because most people have no immunity to Sars-CoV-2, unlike pre-existing respiratory viruses against which is there is some degree of immunity,” said Dr Dhara.“In such a scenario, I would suggest a staggered exit to the lockdown where some people can return to work to restart economic activity because a hungry and malnourished population would be more susceptible to infections, including Covid-19,” added Dr Dhara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-may-not-go-away-in-warmer-weather-says-us-report/story-Mr2STpD3B6bjDx7jnCTBKJ.html
10-04-2020||India||Maharashtra govt left red-faced after official gives free pass to Wadhawans during lockdown||The Maharashtra government late Thursday ordered a probe into the home department giving a free pass to the Wadhawan family caught in the multi-crore rupee Deewan Housing Finance scam to travel from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar on Wednesday in violation of the lockdown in Maharashtra to check the spread of coronavirus.The letter said to have been signed by principal secretary, home department Amitabh Gupta had left the government red-faced.The safe passage was given to the Deewan Housing Finance Limited promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan along with 21 other members of their family, friends in five cars.“This is to just inform you that following are my family friends and travelling from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar for family emergency. Particulars of the cars are given below,” the letter stated. Home minister Anil Deshmukh late on Thursday announced a probe in the issue as the letter by Gupta was released to media “We will probe how permission was granted to allow 23 members of Wadhawan family to travel from Khandala to Satara,” Deshmukh tweeted. “I had no idea about this letter. This was given by Gupta, that’s true but I don’t know the details over why this letter was given. So, we will conduct a probe and tomorrow a strict decision will be taken. This was not appropriate, I completely accept this,’’ said Deshmukh.The letter gave details of the five cars, their registration numbers and names of the persons travelling in every car. The Wadhawans were allowed to travel from Pune district to Satara district bypassing the state norms that district borders be sealed.The issue came to light when residents protested after the Wadhawans and their friends reached Dewan bungalow in Mahabaleshwar.A senior official in the state secretariat said that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was furious because the incident has embarrassed his administration which has been strictly enforcing the lockdown. The home department is empowered to give such leeway or travel pass only to those who have family emergencies including hospitalisation or death of a family member. “Wadhwan brothers, who are accused in Yes Bank/DHFL fraud, CBI had issued non-bailable warrants against them. Instead of handing them over to the police, Maharashtra government gives them a VVIP treatment. Home minister Anil Deshmukh owes the country an explanation,’’ said former BJP MP Kirit Somaiaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-left-red-faced-after-official-gives-free-pass-to-wadhwans-during-lockdown/story-E5hHJVoiQmYEvi8SrYBWuO.html
10-04-2020||India||Pakistan wants Covid-19 Emergency fund be placed under Saarc secretary general||Pakistan, the only Saarc member state that hasn’t contributed to the Covid-19 Emergency Fund, has called for finalising modalities for using the fund and for placing it under the secretary general of the South Asian grouping.The functioning of the emergency fund figured in a telephone conversation on Tuesday between Bangladesh foreign minister AK Abdul Momen and his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi, who said the facility should be placed under the secretary general of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc).The fund was created with an initial contribution of $10 million from India following a video conference of Saarc leaders on the Covid-19 pandemic that was called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 15. The fund has so far garnered commitments worth a total of $18.8 million.Pakistan’s position on the fund was outlined in a Foreign Office readout of the conversation between Qureshi and his Bangladeshi counterpart, which said: “Discussing the need to share resources, it was underlined that SAARC Covid-19 emergency fund should be placed under the Secretary General of SAARC and the modalities for its utilization should be finalized through consultations at the earliest.”The current secretary general of Saarc is veteran Sri Lankan diplomat Esala Ruwan Weerakoon, who recently succeeded Pakistan’s Amjad Hussain Sial.There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to Pakistan’s demand. Over the past few days, the external affairs ministry has accused Pakistan of politicising a humanitarian initiative such as the video conference of Saarc leaders on Covid-19.Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan was the only Saarc head of government who opted out of the video conference and the country was represented by its de facto health minister, who angered the external affairs ministry by raising the issue of Kashmir during the meeting.During his phone conversation with the Bangladesh foreign minister, Qureshi “underscored that Pakistan considered SAARC an important platform for regional cooperation”. Qureshi also reaffirmed Pakistan’s commitment to the Saarc process and said Pakistan is ready to host a conference of health ministers of the member states to enhance cooperation on Covid-19.Qureshi proposed a video conference could be organised first and Momen “conveyed Bangladesh’s readiness to participate in the video conference”, according to the Pakistani readout.Qureshi also suggested Saarc should evaluate and coordinate on the economic and social disruption caused by Covid-19 and experts from member states should commence work in this regard immediately.The Indian prime minister had already mooted such an initiative during the March 15 video conference. Modi had suggested brainstorming by experts on the long-term economic consequences of Covid-19 and ways to insulate internal trade and local value chains from its impact.The external affairs ministry has also announced that a video conference of senior health professionals of Saarc states will be held on March 26.A person familiar with developments, who declined to be named, said: “Pakistan hasn’t done anything to contribute to the fund and is only taking steps that are coming in the way of meaningful cooperation within the Saarc framework. This isn’t new and it isn’t surprising.”The Dawn newspaper quoted an unnamed Pakistani diplomat as saying that the country is “expected to make a pledge” to the Covid-19 Emergency Fund “but after clarity about the fund was achieved”.In recent days, Qureshi has held phone conversations with his counterparts from Nepal, Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Bangladesh. Though he had said he would be speaking to foreign ministers of all Saarc states, he is yet to call his Indian and Afghan counterparts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-wants-covid-19-emergency-fund-be-placed-under-saarc-secretary-general/story-67qXuCBWg9NGWkp1eeHfEO.html
10-04-2020||Editorials||An unfair, unworkable testing model | HT Editorial||In a significant move, the Supreme Court, earlier this week, ordered that all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tests be made free. This applies to both government facilities — which were testing for free — and private laboratories, which, as per a guideline set by the government, were charging Rs 4500. The court’s order, far from making testing accessible to all, could actually curtail the scale of India’s testing and limit it by making it unviable for private labs to test. It is important to go back to first principles here. Private enterprises, including labs, are not charities. They invest capital in setting up infrastructure; they have working capital requirements to pay their staff, pay rent, and run operations; they charge patients and then hope to recover the cost — and make profits. It is true these are exceptional times. And that is why, to their credit, private labs agreed to test Covid-19 patients at cost price — as determined by the Indian Council of Medical Research. What the court order has done is remove even this layer by not allowing private labs to charge any amount. How, then, is it possible for these labs to have the testing infrastructure, retain their employees, and run operations? In fact, the likely outcome of the court order is that at a time when India is desperately trying to augment testing capacity, private labs will scale down their operations and minimise, or even stop, testing. This will not just hurt public health objectives, but also weaken the already fragile economy further, especially if private labs decide to close operations.The same logic applies to vaccine research; billions of dollars are spent on it; imagine if overzealous courts around the world decided that a vaccine should be made available for free. Who will then defray the research cost? Which is where the state comes in. In this case, the government must step in to compensate and reimburse the private labs, on an efficient basis, so that they can ramp up testing without needing to worry about business viability issues. It is important for courts as well as governments to realise that the primary onus of dealing with the public health challenge rests with the State, not private facilities, which can, at best, play a supportive and supplementary role. The order is also a reminder that what may appear noble at first glance can end up being counterproductive, even go against national objectives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/an-unfair-unworkable-testing-model/story-410eo5zKJhc3gDv7B9UOuM.html
