13-04-2020||News||Covid-19: Private sector has a key role in the battle||Countries across the development spectrum are grappling with an unprecedented situation in which a seemingly innocuous viral illness, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has spiralled into a global pandemic in less than 90 days. It has infected more than 1.7 million people in more than 200 countries, claimed over 100,000 lives, and brought most of the world to a standstill.In India, the authorities have responded decisively with a strong whole-of-government approach. However, given the enormity of the challenge, we also need a whole-of-society response. According to the World Health Organization, a critical lesson from the 2014-16 West African Ebola crisis is that both the public and private sectors need to work in tandem in responding to large-scale epidemics. In the Covid-19 response, the private sector in the country — for-profit and not-for-profit segments — has to play an even more important role, as it is the dominant provider of health services. The National Sample Survey Office’s 71st round data shows that private hospitals, clinics and nursing homes provide over 70% of health care. Data on the nearly 10 million treatments received under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY) corroborate this finding.At present, most of the Covid-19 testing and treatment are being done in public facilities. As the epidemic progresses, both these services will need to be expanded several-fold, and the private sector will need to step in as a major partner and stakeholder. First, the creation of a large and accessible testing infrastructure is a key weapon to battle the virus. Countries such as South Korea, Singapore, Germany and Japan have been successful in controlling its spread and reducing mortality through early detection and quick containment. This has been possible only through widespread testing. India has opened testing up to private labs and payment for testing is covered under the ABPM-JAY as well. We need to substantially expand our testing capacity, something not possible without the active participation of the private sector.Second, as the government deepens its containment efforts, the numbers of quarantine units, isolation wards and intensive care unit (ICU) beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals have to be rapidly increased. It will also need to ensure increased and continued supply of essential medical products, from testing kits, masks and other personal protective equipment (PPE) items to oxygen and ventilators. According to a recent Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study, around 5% of those infected will need intensive care and half of those in ICUs will need mechanical ventilation. The study was based on available global epidemiological parameters from the initial phase of the outbreak and comparison with other countries with similar transmission dynamics. These projections translate into large numbers that considerably exceed the capacity of the government’s health care system.During the current crisis, the activities of the private health sector should be the core part of national health efforts. Private hospitals with adequate infrastructure will need to be converted into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. This process will, of course, have to be steered by the government through a clear policy framework of designated hospitals, reporting and referral systems, and an appropriate payment system. The experience of purchasing health care services through the ABPM-JAY can be the template. Some private hospitals can help in managing the treatment of non-Covid-19 patients. With many government facilities being converted into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, a large number of non-Covid-19 patients will need facilities and providers to take care of their health care needs. The ABPM-JAY has started a process to bring on board more hospitals to respond to such needs. It is assisting state governments in temporarily empanelling additional health facilities to provide emergency care and treatment for other serious illnesses to all citizens, particularly the poor and vulnerable. Third, as more private providers join this fight, a major concern that is bound to arise is keeping health care workers from getting infected. Ensuring the protection of doctors, nurses, paramedics, lab technicians and other health care facility staff from infection is of paramount importance. Companies manufacturing essential medical products such as ventilators, masks, face shields, clinical gloves, hand-sanitisers, and sterilisation equipment will need to crank up their production lines. Direct support from banks may be needed for this. Fourth, the private sector will need to vigorously support the large ecosystem that drives the health system, as the lockdown and ongoing epidemic restrict movement and normal economic activities. The production of essential drugs and medical products, logistics to maintain smooth supply, transportation of health workers, and delivery of food and other essential items must continue and also accelerate. Support for community activities such as night shelters and community kitchens must be strengthened.Finally, an adequate stage-wise response to the pandemic and its economic, social and political aftermath will require filling many knowledge gaps. Government, private and not-for-profit research institutions need to collaborate to understand the nature of transmission of the virus, the factors that helps to slow down its spread, the most at-risk communities, or the optimal quarantine period.The fight against Covid-19 involves the continuous management of an evolving public health crisis that threatens to create economic and social disruptions. This is an appeal to all private and charitable health care institutions to join this effort for our people and humanity. It is the time to embrace reality and play our individual and collective roles in the fight. Indu Bhushan is CEO, Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY and National Health Authority. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-private-sector-has-a-key-role-in-the-battle/story-UBAvajhkYvYox82KbUB1lK.html
13-04-2020||News||Time for Parliament to meet, virtually||With the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) upon us, it is inevitable that there will be changes in how we engage to get things done. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is holding Cabinet meetings and interacting with political leaders through video conferences. Last month, 82 Congress leaders discussed the party’s response to Covid-19 on a video call. The Supreme Court is using video conferencing to hear cases. Government conferences are moving online.Parliament has been disrupted and the Budget session was cut short by eight days, delaying the debate on key bills. Many state legislatures such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala curtailed their sessions. Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh issued ordinances to enable them to spend money in the new financial year. It is here that technology-centric solutions can ensure work continuity in law-making institutions. Parliament has been agile in its adoption of technology through its history in three key areas. First, to empower members of Parliament (MPs) to work more efficiently, as early as 1954, a teleprinter was installed in the lobby of the Lok Sabha to enable MPs to keep up to speed with important developments. Now MPs can access wireless Internet on their phones and tablets inside the Houses. Gone are the days when MPs or their staff had to visit the Parliament House to submit notices for their interventions. Now, there is a dedicated portal where they can electronically file their questions, zero-hour submissions and other notices for participating in debates. Second, there has been rapid technology adoption in the two parliamentary secretariats. They started using computers for their work in the mid-1980s. An example of their digital prowess is the daily uncorrected debate: A transcript of proceedings in the Houses is uploaded online on the same day the debate takes place. Making Parliament an open and transparent institution is the third area where the institution has leveraged technology. The proceedings of the Houses are broadcast on dedicated TV channels and also streamed online. The parliamentary websites maintain records of all its work, and the two secretariats have also digitised parliamentary debate since 1858, and made them freely available to the public. The pandemic challenges the ability of the institution to physically assemble and debate matters of national importance. There are two occasions when MPs have to assemble in person. One, when they meet as a whole to constitute a sitting of the House. This situation will arise in July when MPs assemble for the monsoon session of Parliament. Parliaments around the world are gearing up to ensure that some parts of their proceedings can be conducted online. For example, the Scottish parliament recently conducted its question hour virtually for the first time. Meanwhile, in London, 100 MPs signed a letter calling for the creation of a virtual parliament. In response, the Speaker of the House of Commons has urged the government to ensure that some part of parliamentary proceedings can be done virtually before the house resumes next week. The second occasion when MPs meet in person is during meetings of parliamentary committees. These committees are smaller sub-groups of MPs which meet outside the House to deliberate on issues. The committees play a critical role as they are tasked with the in-depth examination of government bills. Currently, there are six bills being examined by different committees. There are international examples that our Parliament could examine to restart the functioning of committees. For example, the House of Commons has successfully completed a trial in conducting the proceedings of their committees digitally. Its treasury committee recently heard witnesses on a video conference on the subject of the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic. In New Zealand, the Epidemic Response Committee, led by the leader of opposition, has been operating via video conferencing to evaluate the government’s response to Covid-19. The proceedings of the committee are streamed on social media and on the Parliament website. The Australian Parliament also has a provision in its rules of procedure to allow for audio and video links to be used for committee proceedings. The workings of legislatures in India and around the world are marked by ceremony and rigid rules of functioning. But they also have an advantage. They can regulate their functioning, allowing them to effect institutional changes quickly. Working remotely is the new normal, and for Parliament to adapt to it is a necessity. This disruption by the pandemic is an opportunity for our Parliament. It should evaluate which aspects of its functioning are amenable to being done online. The virtual working of parliament in other countries underlines one key principle. Parliament is an institution of public trust and needs to continue its role of scrutiny of government’s actions, especially in times of crisis. Chakshu Roy is head of legislative and civic engagement, PRS Legislative, Abhijit Banare is a Chevening scholar at Cambridge University The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/time-for-parliament-to-meet-virtually/story-tRsTqUFKCl0LcvbbuHsn7J.html
13-04-2020||Lucknow||Medical stores to maintain data of people buying medicine for flu, fever||The Kanpur administration has asked the medical store owners to maintain data of people buying paracetamol and other drugs usually taken for flu-like symptoms. The move is aimed at tracking possible coronavirus suspects. ​Patients of coronavirus too show similar symptoms though doctors confirm that all those who have fever or cold aren’t necessarily infected with corona. ​Doctors, particularly general physicians running private clinics, too have been asked to maintain data of patients showing corona-related symptoms and report such cases to health authorities.​Kanpur district magistrate Brahmdev Ram Tiwari has ordered all medical stores to note down the name and details of buyers of medicines given for fever, cold and flu and provide it to officials of food and drug authority. ​Kanpur drug inspector Sandesh Kumar said all medical stores in the district had been intimated about the DM’s circular on WhatsApp. There are 6000 wholesale and drug retailers in Kanpur.“The data of buyers maintained at the medical stores would be shared with the chief medical officer (CMO) and then all such people would be tested for coronavirus infection and quarantined for a period of 14 days,” said a health department official requesting anonymity. ​Senior functionary of the Kanpur Drug Wholeseller Association Sanjay Mehrotra confirmed the circular had been received and retailers had been informed about the new directives in Kanpur. While the commissioner Kanpur Division, SM Bobde has extended this exercise to all the six districts of Kanpur division where stores would maintain data though he couldn’t be contacted despite many attempts.​Officials said that the decision to keep details of those buying drugs for fever, cough and cold was taken at the DM’s meeting with health officials two days ago in which great emphasis was laid on tracing and testing of corona suspects. ​Four testing labs for Covid-19 cases would become functional shortly in Kanpur at LLR hospital, Kanshiram Trauma Centre, Ursula Horseman hospital and Infectious Diseases hospital. ​Of the four testing facilities the first one at LLR hospital was inaugurated on Monday. The lab could test 100 samples in a day, said principal of GSVM medical college Aarti Lalchandani.​So far the samples were being sent to King George Medical University (KGMU) and Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute (SGPGI) in Lucknow. ​A senior doctor who is part of the CMO’s team said once all the four centres are operational 400 samples would be tested locally. ​“We were lagging in tests just because of our dependence on Lucknow,” the doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/medical-stores-to-maintain-data-of-people-buying-medicine-for-flu-fever/story-6BGb6pX0QVDYs7rIQJosPL.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||After 45 in a week, tricity reports no new Covid-19 case||After a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, from 35 to 80 in the one week since April 5, the tricity reported no fresh case on Monday.Of the 80 cases so far, 54 are in Mohali, 21 in Chandigarh and five in Panchkula. Of these, 14 patients have recovered (seven in Chandigarh, five in Mohali and two in Panchkula).It was on April 5 last when no positive case was reported in the tricity, when the tally was 35 – Chandigarh with 18 cases, Mohali 15 and Panchkula two. Since then, 37 positive patients were discovered at Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur village, making it the biggest cluster in Punjab. The village has since been declared a containment zone, completely prohibiting movement of people. Three other villages in its vicinity remain sealed. There was no new case from the village either.The wife of the Panjab University assistant professor, who had tested positive on Friday, was given the all-clear on Monday. Their infant daughter, born on March 20, was also found negative earlier. However, the woman’s 55-year-old mother and eight-year-old daughter were found positive on Sunday. MC’s contact tracing team has traced 115 contacts of the teacher, a resident of Sector 37. Besides his four family contacts, the remaining 111 are community contacts. Four people sampled among them have tested negative.Results of two more primary contacts are awaited.A total of 296 people have been tested in Chandigarh, of which 21 have tested positive, 255 negative, seven have been discharged from city hospitals and results of 13 patients are awaited. Over 1,000 people have completed home quarantine period, while 622 remain under isolation.DISINFECTION AT JAWAHARPUR VILLAGEAfter Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi was declared a containment zone due to the sudden climb in cases, the district administration is paying special attention to extensive contact tracing and sanitisation at regular intervals. On the orders of Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa, the third round of sanitisation was undertaken in the village on Sunday night, and every spot of the village was sprayed with sodium hypochlorite, a strong disinfectant, using a fire tender. Sanitisation is the most important aspect of the containment plan to check the spread of coronavirus. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said they collected 14 samples from across the district on Monday and reports will be out on Tuesday. “All patients admitted in various hospitals are responding well to treatment,” he said.107 REPORTS NEGATIVE IN PANCHKULAPanchkula reported no case for the fourth day in a row. The last positive cases, three Tablighi Jamaat men, aged 80, 37 and 18, came to fore on April 9.District Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajiv Narwal said on Monday, reports of 107 samples were negative. Reports of five members of a family, who were tested on Sunday, were awaited.A man, an employee of the Haryana irrigation department and resident of Pinjore, had visited the hospital on Sunday claiming that their milkman is a relative of a Tablighi Jamaat man, who tested positive recently, and the milkman could have passed on the infection to his family. Officials said four persons of another family, from Garhi Kotaha village in Raipur Rani, were also tested on Sunday. The reports are pending. They had reportedly attended a marriage function at Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, over three weeks ago.Out of the total samples taken till now, 391 have returned negative results, while reports of 52 people are awaited. Among the people quarantined, 236 are under home quarantine and 412 are isolated at 12 temporary shelter homes. These include people who attended Tablighi Jamaat events in various states. Besides, 49 people are admitted in the isolation ward of the civil hospital in Sector 6 and two at the Command Hospital in Chandimandir. Officials said 248 people had completed 28 days of quarantine so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/after-45-in-a-week-tricity-reports-no-new-covid-19-case/story-ypcN5ySYw4SVlGB4VsLVDL.html
13-04-2020||Delhi||AIIMS shuts sanitisation unit after complaints of skin irritation||A sanitisation unit at the emergency department of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi was shut four days after it was installed, due to reports of skin irritation. The unit was installed, on a trial basis, to disinfect staff dealing with coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“The unit is still very much here. But its use has been stopped, for the time being, keeping in mind the scientific evidence. A study of the literature shows that the sodium hypochlorite solution used in the sprays is not very effective for disinfection of personnel and can, sometimes, cause dermatitis (itching), if open skin is exposed,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of the hospital.What is effective, he says, is following hand and cough hygiene while taking care of general patients and using personal protective gear properly while screening or taking care of Covid-19 patients.The disinfection chamber was developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and was being “evaluated for utility” at the hospital.Each unit is in the form of a small chamber that can be used for disinfection of personnel at the areas of controlled entry and exit in hospitals, malls, office buildings and other critical installations.The decontamination is started by using a foot pedal at the entry. On entering the chamber, an electrically operated pump creates a disinfectant mist of hypo sodium chloride for disinfecting through a set of at least 20 nozzles. The mist spray is calibrated to operate for 25 seconds and stops automatically, indicating completion of the process. People undergoing disinfection need to keep their eyes shut inside the chamber.The dimensions of the enclosure are approximately 8 feet (length) x 4 feet (width) x 8 feet (height), with a drainage mechanism, a mounted roof and tanks, with a total capacity of 700 litres, at the bottom.Approximately 650 persons can pass through the chamber for disinfection until a refill is required, and about 80-100 persons can undergo the process every hour. The price of a unit is about ₹1.48 lakh.“A single unit that has been given to us by DRDO was installed at AIIMS, for the time being, to see whether it works well. It is meant for all hospital staff members who are dealing with Covid-19 management. It is a part of the hospital’s infection control practice that the staff will be disinfected before entering and exiting the hospital premises,” said Dr Sharma.If the trials proved successful, the institute had also proposed to install such units in other areas of the hospital, especially the trauma centre, which has been turned into a dedicated ward to treat Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-shuts-sanitisation-unit-after-complaints-of-skin-irritation/story-V37uk5ryvjuKa1uvsWDCZI.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Allow us to collect fees or you pay staff salaries: Pvt schools to Chandigarh education dept||With private schools at their wits’ end over the directive to delay collection of school fees, the Independent Schools Association (ISA) of Chandigarh on Monday wrote to the UT administrator to cite the problems arising out of the education department’s order.The ISA wrote that while private schools were prohibited from reminding parents to pay monthly fees, there was a continuous barrage from all departments to pay full and timely wages to all their employees.It demanded that the education department either withdraw the directive on delayed fees payment or pay salaries of all private school employees of Chandigarh as well as Punjab.ISA has 75 member schools of which 15 are in Punjab.“ISA demands that all monies held by the government in the form of Reserve Fund should be refunded. The bus contractors and other such staff be also allowed to collect at least 50% of their fees or else pay salaries of all the private school employees,” the letter read.The association wrote that all schools were “not for profit” organisations that had no means of income other than the students’ fees. It clarified that schools won’t be able to meet their financial obligations, such as salaries, repayment of loans, agreements for teaching aids, etc., even for April, which were to be cleared in May.Meanwhile, multiple city schools have started sending reminders to parents to pay the school fee, while offering 5% concession if the fee is paid in April. HT has copies of these reminders.Questioning these reminders, Nitin Goyal, who heads the Chandigarh Parents’ Association, said, “Schools are required by law to upload their balance sheets on their websites, but they have never complied with the law. Also, the schools must be directed to submit their monthly salary bills, excluding the profits.”ISA president HS Mamik said, “We share the balance sheets with CBSE. If we collect fees after two months, how will we pay salaries to the staff? The administration owes private schools nearly Rs 8 crore in EWS reimbursements. This is the right time to pay the dues or they should pay the staff themselves.” On his part, UT education secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said the fee collection had only been deferred. “If any parent wants to pay, there is no bar on it. But schools are expected not to insist on payment of fee. Adjoining states are doing the same, why should Chandigarh schools be any different?” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/allow-us-to-collect-fees-or-you-pay-staff-salaries-pvt-schools-to-chandigarh-education-dept/story-o8CC7LGT4pr5rm95y6ngWK.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||CR uninstalls disinfection tunnel in Jalgaon, cites safety hazards; confusion over usage prevails among state bodies||Less than a week after the Central Railways (CR) set up a disinfection chamber at a loco shed in Bhusaval in Jalgaon, it has decided to uninstall the tunnel on Monday and has also directed its staff not to install such chambers at other junctions. The decision to uninstall the chamber was taken after health experts raised questions on the safety of the tunnel, which was set up on April 7 within two days at a cost of ₹10,000. The move has left a number of state bodies confused about the effectiveness and safety of the technique, with such chambers having been installed at hospitals, police vans and other places. “We were informed that this particular disinfection process might be harmful for those passing through the tunnel. The tunnel has been shut down, and an internal advisory has been issued that no such tunnels will be developed again,” said Sunil Udasi, chief public relations officer, CR. The enclosures of the tunnel have nozzles that spray mist which is a mixture of disinfectants, including sodium hypochlorite solution, diluted in water for three-five seconds from head to toe to kill viruses. The mist is sprayed in quick intervals to ensure a person remains dry. The technique is also used to clean large vehicles or products, and these chambers can also be setup at the back of large vans.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) insecticide department said it will not be installing disinfection tunnels in any of the containment zones in Mumbai.“These tunnels or chambers are not advisable. Spraying disinfectants on body needs a minimum contact time of 10 minutes and it is not good for the clothes or skin. So the BMC has not opted for any such tunnel within its jurisdiction,” said Rajan Naringrekar, insecticide officer, BMC.The practice has been stopped in Tamil Nadu, too, after the director of public health, Chennai, banned the use of such techniques in the state on Saturday.“Disinfection tunnels will create a false sense of security and people may be diverted from washing their hands. In addition, spraying of alcohol, chlorine, lysol on human beings is not only harmful but also ineffective,” read a circular by Chennai’s public health services.However, Worli’s Poddar Hospital, which is one of the quarantine centres in the city, has installed a disinfection chamber, raising questions on the unanimity among the governing bodies towards the usage of the method. “Everything is being managed by the BMC. This was the first disinfection chamber located at any hospital in the city using 2% sodium hypochlorite solution. We do not know how effective this is,” said Narsu Patil, manager, Poddar Hospital.Mumbai Police also has five disinfection vans at each of the city’s administrative regions.“Based on the concentration of disinfectants and health impact, we will soon take a decision on whether to discontinue the practice or not,” said Pranay Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations).Similar chambers has also been setup at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Vashi and Vashi police station.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government is planning to install such tunnels across market places, government buildings and railways stations with the help of the Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai.“Tunnels that have sprung up at various locations have been designed without any scientific basis. Techniques used previously for pesticide spraying are being modified to spray on humans during the outbreak. This will not work,” said Professor Aniruddha Pandit, vice-chancellor, ICT. “There are World Health Organization guidelines that mandate permissible exposure and intake of such tunnels, and it is perfectly acceptable,” added Pandit.ICT plans to inaugurate its prototype tunnel on its campus at Matunga on Tuesday. “Based on its success, we will consider placing the technology at other locations. We have a capacity to make one tunnel every three to four days,” said Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cr-uninstalls-disinfection-tunnel-in-jalgaon-cites-safety-hazards-confusion-over-usage-prevails-among-state-bodies/story-E8pbiify23oNs7I9D3zqjO.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court extends work restrictions till May 1||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday announced extension of restrictions in functioning of courts in both the states and Chandigarh till May 1.The HC administrative committee took the decision in view of the prevailing conditions due to coronavirus outbreak. It had started imposing work restrictions from March 16, when the UT was yet to report its first case.In HC, the cases are being listed for hearing after a mentioning of the same through email. The cases are listed only after approval and the hearings are conducted through video-conferencing. The high court also said that hearing in all the cases already listed during this period would be adjourned post May 1. All HC officers have been told to work from home. However, they can’t leave the station and would have to come to office as and when asked.In case of trial courts, district and sessions judges have been asked to make arrangements so that one or two judicial officers conduct hearings in urgent cases. No judicial officer can leave his or her station. The cases listed during this period would also be adjourned for dates beyond May 1, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-extends-work-restrictions-till-may-1/story-fwhOf0qaGpr3ZuZMqUPOcK.html
13-04-2020||Lucknow||Kashi flat rented to Chinese woman, police not informed, owner may be booked||A 31-year-old Chinese woman was found staying in a Varanasi flat without the flat owner having given intimation to the police about renting out the premises to the foreign national amid the Covid-19 global pandemic, the police said.Regional tourism officer Kirtiman Srivastava said the woman would be tested for the coronavirus as a precautionary measure.Srivastava said a notice will be issued to the owners of PG (paying guest) accommodations to inform the police as soon as any guest shifts to their flat, house or any other accommodation. An officer of the Local Intelligence Unit, who did not wish to be named, said a case would be registered against the flat owner because he didn’t inform police and LIU about renting his premises to the Chinese woman. As per rule, he should have informed LIU and police, the officer said.Zhou Juhua, resident of Hunan province in China, arrived in New Delhi on January 29, a senior officer of the LIU said. Her visa is valid till September.After having spent about three weeks in the national capital, she reached Varanasi on February 26, the LIU official added.Initially staying in a hotel in the Dashashwamedh Ghat area of Varanasi till March 21, she shifted to the flat in Saket Nagar Colony under the Lanka police station limits on March 22, the official said.She had to take the flat on rent as she was unable to return to Delhi due to suspension of flights and train services amid the Covid-19 lockdown, a police officer said.Through her tourist guide, the woman contacted a flat owner who agreed to give the premises on rent to her. Later, the Local Intelligence Unit received information about the Chinese woman staying in the flat.Bharat Bhushan Tiwari, station officer of Lanka police station, said information about the woman was received from the LIU on Monday.An inspection confirmed the Chinese woman was living in the flat. Flat owner Sambhav Chaturvedi, a resident of Varanasi, said that he was stuck in Patna due to the lockdown and therefore could not inform the police. He said he agreed to give the flat to her on rent when he was informed by the tourist guide that the Chinese woman was stranded in Varanasi due to the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kashi-flat-rented-to-chinese-woman-police-not-informed-owner-may-be-booked/story-aV8RwzXmhhLN4TFndJQpZM.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Govt employees term salary cut, disbursal delay double blow||The Haryana government’s decision to delay the disbursal of salaries and pensions due to fiscal severity has dismayed a large section of employees, including officers.As per an April 6 finance department schedule announced for the release of salaries, pensions and social security pensions, the group D employees, contractual and daily wagers would get their salaries on April 7, group C on April 10 and group A and B would get it on April 20.Social security pensions, which include old age allowance, widow and destitute women pension, pension for the disabled, would be disbursed from April 13. Retired employees will get pensions from April 16.Finance department officials said that salaries to all government employees, including contractual employees, pension including family pension to government pensioners and social security pension, involve an expenditure of Rs 2,350 crore every month.“Given the present scenario and Covid-19 crisis, it has been proposed to disburse salaries and pensions this month in a staggered manner,” said a finance department note by finance secretary-cum-adviser Sunil Saran.Reacting to the development, an employee said, “On one hand, the state government is insisting on 10% contributions from group A, B and C employees and 20% from all India service officers towards the Covid-19 relief fund. Delaying the disbursal and a salary cut is a double blow to everyone.”The state government is facing a severe financial crunch due to the nationwide lockdown. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said there was a sizable decline in tax collections and the government fell short of about ₹2,300 crore in revenue collections during March and the shortfall would be around ₹4,000 crore in April.The finance department, however, said that salary bills of all employees will be accepted and cleared in a prompt manner as per the usual procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/govt-employees-term-salary-cut-disbursal-delay-double-blow/story-k8DmL247o6mzuwDuk8draM.html
13-04-2020||City||3 dead, 2 injured in Palghar soap unit blast||Three workers died and two were injured in a large explosion at Galaxy Surfactants soap unit, located in Plot M3 of Tarapur chemical zone on Monday. The three deceased workers, Vijay Sawant, 44, Sameer Khoja, 48, and Runal Raut, 35, along with the injured Akhil Raut, 30, and Pranit Raut, 32, were working at the surfactant unit, which manufactures raw materials for sanitizers, soap, detergent, and other products, at the time of the blast. Akhil and Pranit were admitted to a Boisar hospital, said Pradip Kasbe, inspector, Boisar MIDC police station. The blast occurred at around 11.30am in the reactor where the surfactants were being manufactured. The unit has a total man force of 250 workers and the management had sought permission from the Palghar Collector to allow 105 workers and staff to work during the lockdown. At the time of the mishap, 67 workers were present in the unit, said Kasbe. Two fire tenders from the MIDC fire brigade arrived at the scene and controlled the resultant fire due to the blast.The Collector had permitted manufacturers of medical products, masks, handwash, sanitisers, and other personal care and hygiene items essential for use during the Covid-19 outbreak, to function during the lockdown. Galaxy Surfactants was one such unit that had started operations on Monday. “The sound of the blast could be heard 5km away from the unit in Nandgaon and Murbhe villages,” said Kasbe. “We have registered an accidental death report and the post mortem report is awaited. We will file a first information report (FIR) only after we receive a report from the Director of Industrial Safety and Health(DISH), Vasai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-dead-2-injured-in-palghar-soap-unit-blast/story-asZSA3ZSKii7FgXCi8xIHK.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Over 77% Tablighi contacts test negative||Health authorities in Haryana have heaved a sigh of relief with 77% of the samples taken from the contacts of Tablighi Jamaat missionaries turning out to be coronavirus negative. The lab test results of these high-risk individuals assume significance in view of the fact that Tablighi missionaries and their contacts account for 121 coronavirus positive cases, about 67% of the 182 positive cases in Haryana. Data accessed by HT showed that out of 662 contacts of Tabilghi missionaries tested, only 13 turned out to be positive. The number of jamaatis found infected are 108. “Though the reports of 61 Tablighis and their 135 contacts are still awaited, I can now say that we have been able to contain the community spread of coronavirus due to relentless screening, intensive testing and isolation of habitations,” additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said.He said they we would, however, not let their guard down. “The habitations will continue to remain isolated for 14 days. I also expect a slight increase in the number of positive cases. But, the possibility of a substantial increase in the number of positive cases is very less,” he added.As per the statistics, 1,461 Tablighis and 662 of their contacts were tested by the health authorities from across the state. The bulk of such individuals came from the Nuh district of Mewat region, where 353 jamaatis and 12 of their contacts were tested for coronavirus. The lab findings threw up 38 positive jamaatis in Nuh district, the highest in the state, but not single contact of theirs. Also, the remaining 315 samples of jamaatis in Nuh have turned out to be negative. Officials said that Nuh district seems by and large contained now. “We had six new disclosures on Sunday whose samples have been taken. The police, however, are investigating whether they would qualify as Tablighis or their contacts,” Nuh civil surgeon Virender Yadav said.“More than 2.33 lakh households in 501 villages of Nuh district were screened door to door after isolating the habitations. The number of persons screened in this hotspot is about 14.45 lakh,” said a health official indicating the intensity of the containment operation. In Palwal district, 65 out 89 Tablighis tested and 22 out of 39 contacts tested turned out to be negative. Officials said that results of 13 samples of contacts in Palwal district are awaited. In Yamunanagar, where three Tablighis were tested positive on Sunday, 132 samples out of 160 of missionaries have tested negative. The result of 25 samples of missionaries and 37 samples of their contacts are awaited, statistics show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/over-77-tablighi-contacts-test-negative/story-qn9zcCs75dKr7AHfNMavbN.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||With vegetable, fruit supplies hit, Vishu festivities in Mumbai to remain low-key||The irregular supply of fruits and vegetables in and around Mumbai has dampened the festivities of the Malayalee New Year Vishu, which falls on Tuesday. On the festival of Vishu, which is also celebrated by some Tamilians, families place a variety of fruits, vegetables, rice, ornaments, money and laburnum flowers before a mirror and idols of Gods at their homes, which signify the hope of prosperity for the coming year. This year however, citizens said they are unable to source vegetables such as snake gourd, yellow cucumber, jackfruit and laburnum flowers, which form the crux of the festivities. Shyamala Venkataraman, a resident of Brindavan, Thane, said, “Since the past two days, shops selling vegetables in the area have been shut down. We also have to place fruits such as bananas and mangoes before the deity, but nothing is available.” The Asthika Samaj in Matunga, where thousands of members of the Malayalee community gather for cultural events on Vishu each year, is also gearing up for a low-key affair this time. “There is a shortage of even betel leaves and laburnum flowers,” said Sunder Ramakrishnan, secretary of the Samaj. “We have to make do with whatever is available,” he said. The wholesale Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) market in Vashi, from where the city sources vegetables, has been shut, while retail markets have been shifted and vegetable vendors have been asked to shut shops in containment zones, owing to which the supply has been irregular in many areas and has resulted in the higher prices. Priyanka Muthuswamy, a resident of Mulund, said, “Celebrations apart, vendors are charging a lot for fruits and vegetables. Even a small-sized watermelon costs ₹100.”The festival also marks preparation of a ‘sadhya’ or an elaborate feast served on banana leaves. However, many households have decided to abstain from the celebrations considering the present scenario. Prabha Sreenivasan, a Vashi resident, said, “At a time, when lakhs of daily-wage workers are struggling to get two square meals, we can’t be preparing a feast.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/with-vegetable-fruit-supplies-hit-vishu-festivities-in-mumbai-to-remain-low-key/story-6sj9D2cmZqYu0nqvy1kFjJ.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||2,400 students stuck at LPU want to go home||Over 2,400 students of Lovely Professional University (LPU), Phagwara, and CT Group of Institutions, are in a state of panic and want to go home. On Saturday, an LPU student had tested positive for covid-19. Classes have been suspended at both the institutes till May 1 and students are stranded at hostels, paying guest accommodations and private rented flats. Over 300 of these are international students; CT Group of Institutions has 100-odd international students in Ludhiana and Jalandhar combined.A health department official, involved in screening of students since Saturday, said students were panicking and were jittery in coming forward for the screening process. Incidentally, the patient is stable, and is being treated at the isolation ward of the Kapurthala civil hospital. At the LPU, stranded students remain from Mumbai, Chhattisgarh, Telangana and some other cities of South India. Internationally, most students still on campus or the city are Afghanistan, Nepal, Nigeria, Ghana and Zambia. LPU additional director Aman Mittal said, “The university has approached these countries, requesting for evacuation of their citizens.” A student Sulaiman Ahmad from Afghanistan said, “I am worried and have requested my own government and Indian authorities to send me home.” Suresh Kumar from Telangana, who stays in a rented accommodation, with others from his state, said, “We feel trapped. Our families are also worried.”259 LPU BHUTANESE STUDENTS GO BACK IN TWO CHARTED FLIGHTSSince March 28, LPU had coordinated with the Bhutan government and Bhutanese Embassy in India to fly 259 of its students, in addition to some dependents, in two special chartered flights. A batch of 138 Bhutanese students and 2 dependents were sent from Chandigarh Airport on March 28, after necessary health screening. On Monday, 121 LPU Bhutanese students and three dependents too the plane from Amritsar airport on Monday. During the complete process, social distancing was maintained, said LPU’s Mittal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-400-students-stuck-at-lpu-want-to-go-home/story-iYHD4seLiBeOx68coKtkgO.html
13-04-2020||City||PPE suits order of the day for Ludhiana textile industry||Ludhiana At Shiva Tex Fab’s manufacturing facility, there is ceasless activity as 1,000 workers are on the job to produce the most important and critical order for the company in recent times, Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs). The company is among eight in the state to have got an order to manufacture it; seven of these are from in and around Ludhiana. Owner Akhil Malhotra of Shiva Tex Fab says his company received government nod to manufacture PPE kits on April 6 and N-95 masks on April 10. He adds that the approval to the kits is granted only after samples clear stringent quality control of SITRA (South India Textile Research Association), an autonomous body in Coimbatore under the Union textile ministry. In the case of N-95 and N-99 masks, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) grants approval. “We started with making a few hundred PPE kits a day and within a week, we are now making 2,000 a day. I have 1,000 workers on the job and hope to increase production to 10,000 a day,” Malhotra says, adding that Hindustan Latex Limited (HLL), the centralised disbursing authority, has given the company an order of 1 lakh PPE suits. “From curfew passes to procuring raw material to hiring labour and even in ensuring that social distancing norms are met, the administration is supporting us. Officials are available around the clock,” Malhotra adds. Shinghora Textiles, Evershine, Shiva Tex, Swamy Tex, Versatile Ludhiana have received SITRA approval to make PPE suits, Guru Kirpa Tex and Navyug Laminates are making the fabric for the PPEs.Shinghora Textiles is making 1 lakh suits to be supplied to police and hospitals. “This is the time for industry to help the country and we are doing the best we can,” said Mridula Jain, owner of Shinghora Textiles.JCT Mills in Phagwara has emerged as the largest supplier in the country with an order of 10 lakh PPEs. “Only yesterday, we have supplied 2,000 suits to Kerala as ordered by the HLL,” said Kamal Bhasin, business head, JCT Fabrics in Phagwara. The company had received SITRA nod on March 29. Shiva Tex and Payas Corporation in Ludhiana are making N-95 masks; Oxyclear Ludhiana has been ordered to make N-99 masks. A Hoshiarpur firm is also making N-95 masks. 25 Ludhiana firms send sample for inspection; duplicates a concernLudhiana district industries centre general manager Mahesh Khanna said, “I have received 25 fresh samples of PPEs from companies wanting approval. These have been forwarded to SITRA in Coimbatore for approval.” He added some firms resend samples, after modification, if their first version was rejected. Conscious of this, Punjab industries director Sibin C said that the government procured only SITRA-approved kits. “If any manufacturer tries to sell PPE kits to private players without SITRA approval, it becomes the buyer’s responsibility to check for the nod,” Sibin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ppe-suits-order-of-the-day-for-ludhiana-textile-industry/story-nQxDTbBaoABkDMN8675aMN.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra forms 9-member task force of doctors to tackle coronavirus deaths||As the coronavirus mortality rate of the state is double than that of the rest of the country, the Maharashtra government on Monday formed a nine-member task force of specialist doctors from government and private hospitals to suggest measures to minimise the death rate and for the clinical management of the Covid-19 patients who are critically ill. The task force has been asked to submit its recommendations on urgent basis to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Through a hotline, these doctors will also provide their inputs to the other doctors treating Covid-19 patients across the state. The task force is headed by Dr Sanjay Oak, while Dr Praveen Bangar from KEM Hospital has been appointed as the task force’s convenor. The task force has been formed following directives issued by the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Thackeray also spoke to these doctors through video conferencing on Monday.“It has been noticed that a large number of people have been detected in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation area and that the death rate of patients in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region is higher than the state and national average. Hence, it has been decided to constitute a task force of specialist doctors to suggest measures to minimise death rate and clinical management of Covid-19 patients that are critically ill,” an order issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta stated.The order states measures such as recommending suitable drug protocol to maintain uniformity in treating critically-ill Covid-19 patients, establishing patients’ management protocol for serious and critically ill Covid-19 patients, recommending the requirement of specialist doctors and health care support staff in the hospitals dedicated for the epidemic treatment, recommending criteria and logistics requirement to transfer critical patients from different hospitals in Mumbai to the intensive care units of short-listed hospitals. “The head of the task force can decide about giving other important recommendations,” the order read.The death toll of the state reached 160 after 11 deaths recorded on Monday. Maximum deaths are recorded in Mumbai 110.Until Sunday, the state’s mortality rate was 7.41%, with 149 deaths and 1,982 positive cases as against the 3.35% of the rest of the country (307 deaths). Currently, Jharkhand has the highest mortality rate (10.53%), with two deaths among the total 19 case. The other members of the task force are Dr Zahir Udwadia from PD Hinduja Hospital; Dr Santoshi Nagvekar from Lilavati Hospital; Dr Kedar Toraskar from Wockhardt Hospital; Dr Rahul Pandit from Fortis Hospital; Dr Nitin Karnik from Lokmanya Tilak Hospital; Dr Zahir Virani from Prince Aly Khan Hospital and Dr Om Srivastava from Kasturba and Jaslok Hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-forms-9-member-task-force-of-doctors-to-tackle-coronavirus-deaths/story-KV0HUSRqGOnje51d9qnQgN.html
13-04-2020||City||Not seen family in weeks, cops say duty comes first||Besides doctors and medical staff, police personnel in Sonepat district are also combating coronavirus on the frontlines.Though they get little or no time to spend with their families, they are putting their duty first.Sonepat DSP (headquarters) Jitender Khatkar said that his department is fully prepared to keep the law and order situation of the district intact and make the lockdown a success in containing coronavirus.“We have been asking people to visit hospitals if they feel unnecessarily fatigued and sick. Our teams are distributing sanitisers, masks and food to the needy. The work keeps me so busy that I haven’t been able to spend time with my daughter and wife. Though I stay in the same house, I keep confined myself to another room to keep my family safe,” he added.Sonepat has reported 5 positive cases of coronavirus so far. A sub-inspector posted here had also died of the infection in Delhi on April 4.Crime investigation agency inspector Viveik Malik said that he couldn’t be with his wife on her birthday for the first time since their marriage.“I wished my wife on her birthday on video call. She got a bit emotional due to my absence, but I told her for a cop, duty comes before anything else. My family members have been missing me as I have not been able to visit my village since March 27,”Malik added.In an appeal to the citizens, Malik said that people should co-operate with the cops as they were working hard for everyone’s safety.Sonepat city DSP Ravinder Singh said he has been working continuously and hasn’t been home for the past 20 days. “As my duty, I have been urging people to stay indoors. At the beginning of the lockdown, there was less cooperation from the people, but now they have come around and understood the significance of taking precaution in these times,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/not-seen-family-in-weeks-cops-say-duty-comes-first/story-mFNBZZafmayvwFqpvIDHdI.html
13-04-2020||City||Special water train starts between Kalka-Shimla rly station||A special water train has been started between Kalka-Shimla railway station amid the lockdown, the authorities of Northern Railway said on Monday.According to a notification, due to closure of trains in the wake of lockdown, the maintenance of the railway track, water supply, station building, staff quarters and water supply installation, etc are suffering.The train will operate to and fro on alternative days until normal train services are restored. The train will stop at 8 locations- Level crossing C2, Gang Hut No-3 at TSL, Gang Hut No-8 at DMP, Gang Hut No-9, Gang Hut No-13, SLR railway station, Gang Hut No-15 and KANO railway station.A spokesperson of Northern Railway said that the water consumption has been increased throughout the section for precautionary steps such as handwashing regularly, bathing regularly, cleanliness/sanitization of plants, tools, staff quarters and services buildings.All train passing staff shall be available at respective stations to allow the train to pass and the stations will close after passing the train. No sale of tickets to any passenger shall be done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-water-train-starts-between-kalka-shimla-rly-station/story-EJdkzgP7CI4m4BWAZfNg7L.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown, shut hospitals leave dialysis patients in Mumbai in a lurch||With hospitals and ambulance services that provide dialysis to those with kidney failure being impacted by the Covid-19 outbreak, many are faced with potentially life-threatening situations.For those with kidney failure, dialysis is essential as it removes toxins from their blood. “If a patient misses on his/her weekly dialysis, the toxins and fluid in the body get mixed with blood, which can even prove fatal,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital.Jitendra Tandel, 62, has been going to Shushrusha Hospital in Dadar for dialysis thrice a week, for the past 15 yearss. However, after two hospital staffers were diagnosed as Covid-positive, the hospital closed down its dialysis centre for disinfection on April 8. Guidelines issued by the health department require dialysis centres to become operational 24 hours after fumigation, but Shushrusha Hospital is yet to restart operations.Tandel missed his scheduled appointment for dialysis on Thursday and is struggling to find a new centre. “I am surviving on one glass of water for the last four days. Though the hospital said they will start the dialysis centre in two days, it has been four days now,” he said. When HT contacted Dr Shilpa Deshmukh, dean of Shushrusha Hospital, she said, “We had a meeting today about it and will soon start functioning.” The hospital has informed their registered dialysis patients that they must test for Covid-19 as a precautionary measure. On Monday, six new Covid-19 cases, including two doctors, were confirmed from the hospital. Tandel, who submitted an application to be tested for Covid-19 on April 10 and is yet to hear back from the hospital, is among those concerned that the hospital may not reopen soon enough.The lockdown has also made it difficult for patients to reach dialysis centres. Mulund resident Vitaldas Bhatt, 75, said the ambulance service on the telephone number 108 refused to ferry his 65-year-old wife, who is handicapped, to the dialysis centre. Ultimately, a neighbour helped the Bhatt couple.Vasai resident Kamlesh Anuja, 40, said he was harassed by the police when he was going to the dialysis centre about five kilometres from his home. “On Friday, police stopped me and despite showing my dialysis cards and documents, they started harassing me. They told me that I looked healthy and made fake documents to travel,” said Anuja. The police let him go after he showed them the channel for dialysis in his hand.A number of groups are trying to help patients make alternative arrangements and have reported shortage of necessary equipment, like dialyzers (an artificial kidney which filters the blood in dialysis centers) which are usually imported from other countries. “Due to this, dialysis centres are forced to use the same dialyzers 10-12 times which earlier, patients reused for five to six times. Other than this, there is also a shortage of blood thinner,” said Sejal Jobanputra, a coordinator with the group Kidney Warriors Foundation.Additionally, patients with damaged kidneys, known as uremic patients, are particularly vulnerable to infection. “Family members living with dialysis patients must follow the precautions and regulations given to patients to prevent person-to-person transmission of Covid-19 within the family,” said epidemiologist Dr Om Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-shut-hospitals-leave-dialysis-patients-in-mumbai-in-a-lurch/story-ozdscBLINy04Hl4MDy8obO.html
13-04-2020||City||2 drug peddlers drag cop on car in Rohtak, held||Two drug peddlers were arrested from the outskirts of Rohtak city on Monday for allegedly dragging a constable on the backside of they were signalled to stop for checking on Delhi-Rohtak road. The cops have also recovered 41kg ganja from their possession.The arrested youth were identified as Sunny, a resident of Jhajjar along with his accomplice Dheeraj, a native of Shamli in Uttar Pradesh who is residing in Jind.In his complaint to the police, crime investigation agency ASI Rajesh Kumar said that he along with other cops were checking vehicles on Monday afternoon when a Skoda car coming from the Delhi side rammed the vehicle into barricades. “Instead of stopping the vehicle, the accused accelerated the vehicle and dragged constable Harpal to about 500 meters,” he said.The cops then intercepted their car and arrested them after recovering 41kg ganja from them during checking, he added.Sampla DSP Narender Kadyan said that they have arrested two drug peddlers and registered a case under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in the discharge of his functions),188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 307 (attempt to murder),332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC and Section 20 of the NDPC Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-drug-peddlers-drag-cop-on-car-in-rohtak-held/story-ehXGxV9kQX76u1rEfeqSAN.html
13-04-2020||Lucknow||Three-month-old child related to UP’s first Covid victim tests positive||A three-month-old child from Basti tested positive for the coronavirus on Monday, an official said.The child is related to a 25-year-old man from Basti who was the first person in the state to die of Covid-19, an official said. With this, the total number of coronavirus positive cases in Basti district went up to 14.District magistrate Ashutosh Niranjan told the media, “According to test reports obtained from BRD Medical College(ICMR lab), a three-month-old baby has tested positive . The test reports of his parents are still awaited. They all have been quarantined as per rules.” The infant is resident of Millat Nagar, one of the two hotspot areas of the district. Four fresh cases linked with the grocer, who died on March 31, had surfaced in Basti on Sunday. He had no travel history. However, he was immuno compromised due to renal and lung disorders for which he was under treatment for three months before being admitted to BRD Medical College in a serious condition. The samples of the four fresh cases samples tested positive at BRD Medical College’s ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) lab in Gorakhpur, said additional chief medical officer(ACMO) Dr Fakhriar Hussain, who is the nodal officer for Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/three-month-old-child-related-to-up-s-first-covid-victim-tests-positive/story-srAsG1GfbgikRUnB3yPiEJ.html
13-04-2020||City||Nihangs’ attack on cops: Police ask ED, I-T dept to probe dera head’s ‘unaccounted cash’||A day after the arrest of 11 nihangs for attacking cops in Patiala, the Punjab Police on Monday asked the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the income tax (I-T) department to initiate probe against their dera head Nihang Balwinder Singh for allegedly possessing unaccounted cash. Balwinder is also accused of landgrabbing. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Sidhu said the accused didn’t give a satisfactory reply as from where he got Rs 39 lakh that was recovered during a search of the gurdwara premises. “He said he sold land but didn’t tell as to whom he sold it and where,” he added.The dera head allegedly used to take money to get possession of disputed land, it is learnt. He even tried to take possession of Gurdwara Karhali Sahib nearly 20 years ago, but at that time the then MLA Harmel Singh Tohra had scuttled his plan by using police force. “We will quiz him on his alleged landgrabbing activities during remand,” said the SSP. It emerged that the vehicle belongs to a Congress leader from Sanaur, Puran Singh, whose son Gurwinder Singh is a block samiti member from Balbera. Puran and his son are close to Congress halqa incharge Harinderpal Harry Mann. Puran said his elder son, who is living in Australia, gifted the vehicle to Balwinder. He produced an undated affidavit of vehicle transfer though it did not have Balwinder’s signatures. Also, the police registered a drug case against Balwinder as 3,000 intoxicant tablets were found in his possession. The accused were produced in court that granted 11-day police remand.Capt speaks to ASI, assures full support Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday spoke to ASI Harjeet Singh, whose hand was chopped off in the attack, to enquire about his well-being. The CM assured his government’s full support to the cop.He expressed happiness at the successful plastic surgery conducted on Harjeet by doctors at PGI, Chandigarh. Amarinder also promised the ASI of the strictest action against those involved in the brutal attack on him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nihangs-attack-on-cops-police-ask-ed-i-t-dept-to-probe-dera-head-s-unaccounted-cash/story-7oGAwuY9bjIveo1cnZv85K.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Long queues outside Golden Temple sanctum sanctorum on Baisakhi||Long queues were seen outside the sanctum sanctorum on Baisakhi on Monday, even as curfew is in place to check covid-19. The number of devotees was larger than that seen at the holy place over the past few days. At some points in the queue, SGPC staff found it difficult to ensure social distancing. People had lined up outside the Darshan Deori as well. Two sanitisation tunnels set upTo sanitise devotees, tunnels were set up on the two entrances (the main one and the one from the serais) on Monday. SGPC-run Guru Ram Das Medical College, Amritsar, and Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla have funded the tunnels, a SGPC spokesperson said. At the inauguration, SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta said after screening for temperature and washing of hands, devotees would have to pass through the tunnels. Talwandi Sabo wears deserted look Bathinda Talwandi Sabo town on Monday wore a deserted look as devotees with devotees staying away from the Takht Damdama Sahib. Markets remained closed. Religious programmes were held inside the Takht to mark the day symbolically with social distancing implemented strictly. Former Takht Damdama Sahib jathedar Balwant Singh Nandgarh, 78, said, “This is the first Baisakhi when it is so deserted. People came to the at Takht even during times of militancy and in 1984. It is good that devotees understand the gravity of the situation,” he said. CM prays, thanks peopleIn Chandigarh, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh thanked the people of the state for responding to his appeal for ardas from their homes itself on Baisakhi. He also lauded the spirit of cooperation of people of the state.Humanity should fight pandemic collectively: Akal Takht JathedarIn his address, Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said humanity should unite against the pandemic. He also called for strict punishment to perpetrators of the attack on cops in Patiala. “It is wrong to target the whole community for a particular incident. Culprits of attack on Punjab police cops in Patiala should be punished, but attempts are being made to target the whole Sikh community. Similarly, it is wrong to target Muslims, if some attendees of the Nizammudin congregation were found positive,” he said, adding that there should be uniformity in proving relief amid the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/long-queues-outside-golden-temple-sanctum-sanctorum-on-baisakhi/story-h5Dtve6b7xj1gIfi1OdkPO.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Injured ASI in high spirits, recovery may take 6 months||Despite his injured hand being kept in a splint, completely immobilised so that repaired structure is not disturbed, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harjit Singh is in high spirits, said doctors at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. He will have to remain hospitalised for two weeks, they added.50-year-old Harjit was injured in Patiala when a group of ‘nihangs’ chopped off his wrist and left two other Punjab Police personnel injured. This was after the cops stopped them from entering a vegetable market amid curfew to curb coronavirus.Dr RK Sharma, head of plastic surgery department at PGI, said, “The good news is that blood circulation in the ASI’s hand was fine in the past 24 hours. We hope it remains the same in the next four days, which are crucial. The arteries and veins will take 2-3 weeks to heal following which, he will be discharged. We are expecting 90% recovery,” he said.“The cop’s positive attitude is helpful as such patients tend to recover fast,” he said.“While being brought to PGI from Patiala in an ambulance, he was worried about the treatment expenses. In the ambulance, he said I do not have much cash in my pocket,” said Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu.Dr Sunil Gaba, who led the team in surgery, said, “During the operation, we got connected with Harjit at the personal level. The real challenge was reattaching the arteries and veins attached eight hours so that the hand survives. One team looked after the chopped hand while the other took care of the wrist.”The operation involved reattaching around 50 structures which was done under microscopic vision and is a tiring task. Full recovery of the hand may take up to six months.Dr Jerry R John, an associate professor who was part of surgery team, said that such injuries are common but sharp cut, which was the case here, is an advantage.“Mostly, in such cases, the body part is crushed which makes it difficult to perform surgery. But here the cut was sharp, which made it easier to make assessment and perform the surgery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/injured-asi-in-high-spirits-recovery-may-take-6-months/story-rs4kBXq1I1WxcYlFv4HdWI.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Only one fresh case detected in Haryana, tally now 182||In what is being seen as a respite for Haryana, only one new coronavirus case was reported on Monday, taking the total number of such cases to 182. Haryana saw a spate of cases in recent days, especially on Sunday when as many as 16 new cases were reported in a day, 24 cases on April 8, 33 on April 7 and 20 on April 6. Most of these infected persons were linked to Tablighi Jamaat. They had either attended the event at Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month or were in contact with the attendees, senior doctors of the health department said. The Monday’s case was reported from Sirsa wherein a 33-year-old woman, who worked as a cook at a Rori village mosque, was found to be infected. Doctors say the woman could have contracted the disease from someone with Tablighi Jamaat connection. With her, there are four positive cases in Sirsa. Health officials of Sirsa said the woman, along with her four children and husband, have been admitted to the isolation ward of the local civil hospital. Samples of 13 more people, who were in contact with the woman, have been taken and they were asked to be in home quarantine. The village has been sealed and its 3km radius has been declared as the buffer zone.7 TREATED, DISCHARGEDThe health department bulletin said seven patients were discharged on Monday, including three each from Faridabad and Karnal and one from Ambala, taking the tally of cured people to 37.While 15,081 people are still under surveillance, 4,489 samples have so far been sent for testing of which, 2,961 have been found to be negative and 1,346 reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/only-one-fresh-case-detected-in-haryana-tally-now-182/story-qJ0MHqYWMBu8Y1qeGfTrsI.html
13-04-2020||Lucknow||BJP uses ‘sui-dhagaa’ to stitch dalit connect on Ambedkar Jayanti||Amid ongoing lockdown to contain spread of Sars-Cov-2, Darshana Singh, chief of BJP’s women wing in Uttar Pradesh, was busy stitching masks using cotton cloth, thread and needle was on the eve of Ambedkar Jayanti on Monday. “I don’t have a sewing machine so I am stitching these triple layered cloth masks by hand. There are various other women who are also stitching these masks which we will provide to women from poor and weaker sections on Ambedkar Jayanti. These would be distributed at booth level while maintaining social distancing,” she said from her home in Chakhania village in Chandauli district. In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the Yogi government has made wearing masks compulsory in the state.“BJP women wing alone has stitched more than a lakh masks and various NGOs and other party wings too were involved in preparing them,” Darshana said. Mask preparation and distribution along with feeding at least two poor families in slum areas are part of the BJP’s latest method to connect with the state’s 21 per cent dalits. The BJP and its allies had won 73 of the 80 Lok Sabha seats in 2014 and the party followed it up by an equally stunning performance in 2017 UP assembly polls when it won 75 out of 85 reserved seats in the state. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP again dominated in the reserved seats winning 15 of the 17 in the state. This is the reason why the party has over the last couple of years used Ambedkar Jayanti to aggressively woo dalits. Till last year, the party hosted social harmony feasts (‘samarasta bhoj’) on Ambedkar Jayanti in which upper caste leaders dined with dalits to support the RSS’s campaign of caste-free society.This year, though the novel coronavirus has impacted celebrations and party’s outreach campaign among the community, BJP’s upper caste MP in Kushinagar Vijay Dubey quickly seized an opportunity to connect with the community at Bhujauli Khurd village in Kushinagar dominated by Muslims and Jatavs, the dalit sub-caste to which BSP chief Mayawati belongs. On April 5, Dubey had rushed to Bhujali Khurd village in Kushinagar to dine with the people on hearing that some of them had refused to have food that the dalit gram pradhan had prepared for five who were quarantined in village.“They had come from outside and as part of the protocol were quarantined for 14 days. When the two chefs in village refused to make and serve food due to fear that they may get infected if the visitors were suffering from the disease, my wife Leelawati Devi, who is also the village head, made food for them. But one of them refused to have it saying having food from a dalit was not acceptable to him,” said village head’s husband Subhash Gautam, a Jatav.“When the BJP MP, an upper caste Brahmin, got to know about it, he arrived in the village and announced that he would have food prepared by my wife. Seeing BJP MP having it, others too started having it,” Gautam said. There were reports that social distancing protocol wasn’t followed as the BJP MP dined with the villagers though party leaders naturally scoff at such reports. “All in our party are following social distancing,” said BJP’s media cell in-charge Manish Dixit.The Ambedkar Mahasabha chief in Lucknow Lalji Nirmal said that unlike regular occasions when VIPs and community would assemble at Mahasabha office where urns of Ambedkar are kept, this time he had appealed to all to celebrate Ambedkar Jayanti by remaining in their homes.“We have urged people to light a lamp and upload videos of how they celebrated the occasion at their homes while maintaining social distancing,” said Nirmal. He also said since this year Ambedkar Jayanti wasn’t being celebrated as before due to the corona pandemic, the money thus saved would be used to feed the poorest of the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-uses-sui-dhagaa-to-stitch-dalit-connect-on-ambedkar-jayanti/story-QsAIiZuiT0UifS2NLGpQ8N.html
13-04-2020||Lucknow||UP: Ministerial panels begin work on roadmap for future||A day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announces a decision on the lockdown, 11 committees of ministers began working on modalities that would be needed to restart economic activities and begin online classes in all the education institutions of Uttar Pradesh.“We will completely follow the union government’s decision on the lockdown. The state government is ready with a work plan. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has constituted 11 committees led by ministers to take necessary steps and suggest measures for the future,” chief secretary RK Tiwari said.Adityanath constituted the committees after holding a closed-door interaction with his cabinet colleagues at his residence here on Sunday.“We discussed conditions during and post lockdown period and, if needed, more such meetings may be held in the coming days,” said Yogi Adityanath after the meeting.Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who heads the committee constituted to restart construction work on major projects while observing social distancing, held a meeting with senior officers. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, who chairs the committee constituted to work out courses for online classes in various institutions, also had a detailed interaction with officers and experts.Finance minister Suresh Khanna, who has been asked to suggest measures for unhindered flow of cash, held meetings with ministers and officers. This committee will also recommend measures to be taken for the industrial sector and begin work in micro, small and medium enterprises.Another committee headed by agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi will look into problems of farmers and provided necessary facilities to them for harvesting.Minister for medical and health Jai Pratap Singh heads the committee working on measures to protect doctors and paramedical staff from Covid-19 and begin emergency services for patients having cardiac or other ailments. Minister for Jal Shakti Mahendra Singh has been appointed chairman of the committee constituted to monitor availability of drinking water in all the areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-ministerial-panels-begin-work-on-roadmap-for-future/story-Pmgm51H7oN0V0xsqDi02VP.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||Kandivli society sets up disinfectant shower||At Ibis tower at Kandivli, residents used the set-up in their premises, which was used for rain dance during events, and turned it into a disinfectant shower. The set-up is on the lines of sanitisation chambers installed at several public places across the city such as police stations and hospitals.At this 84-apartment housing society with around 200 residents, sanitisers were being kept at gates and near elevator. But the residents then thought they needed a full-body sanitisation machine because people in the society were often stepping out due to various reasons.Mehul Vithalani, a real estate consultant and a resident, said after the lockdown was announced, people from his society would have to go out to purchase groceries, vegetables and fruits. However in a bid to restrict movement, the society tied up with a vendor to provide vegetables and fruits inside the society premises every alternate day. In addition, a pharmacist, who is a resident of the society, assured that all medicines will be delivered to residents’ doorsteps.“People just want a reason to step out. Earlier it was groceries, but after we provided facilities for the same at home, they would go out for bread. Later, we also tied up with a seller who delivers bread to us and we also have a community kitchen. Now, people venture out to go to bank and we cannot stop them from that. Hence, we thought that we need to make arrangement for sanitising the whole body instead of just hands and installed this,” said Vithalani.A water and sodium hypochlorite solution is pumped through the sprinklers.In an open market such chambers can cost ₹1 lakh to ₹2 lakh. However, members of Ibis tower made the shower at the cost of approximately ₹20,000.Those entering the premises are checked with a thermal scanner first, and then made to stand under the shower for five to seven seconds before they can enter the society.Jay Joshi, a resident who manufactures such booths, said these kind of set-up gives an anti-bacterial treatment and disinfects the body. Joshi said the system was a replica of such chambers set up on the streets of Europe.“All societies need to replicate this because one cannot be free of the virus just by washing hands,” said Joshi.However, experts said such chambers are not required as a normal bath with warm water, disinfectant and soap is enough when a person returns from outside.“Personally, I don’t think such disinfectants should be used on body, because sodium hypochlorite is a surface cleanser and is not meant to be used on skin. Also, I had recently read about a study, which said such chambers could do more harm than good,” said Dr Preeti Mehta, former professor and head of microbiology department at King Edward Memorial hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kandivli-society-sets-up-disinfectant-shower/story-YJ063A3ZEkrQu8bQTYOCmL.html
13-04-2020||City||Another BJP corporator booked for violating lockdown rules||Another BJP corporator Ravindra Ithape was booked for violating lockdown orders in Navi Mumbai after he allegedly stepped out for a morning walk on Saturday. Ithape, who is the leader of the house at the Navi Mumbai municipal corporation (NMMC), denied the charge and claimed he had gone to the hospital.“We have registered a case against Ithape and 17 others who were out on morning walk on Saturday. They have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act,” said Dinkar Mohite, senior inspector at CBD Belapur police station.According to the police, Ithape was out for his morning walk even despite city police issuing strict orders to not venture out unless for emergencies or purchasing essentials items. However, a number of people have been flouting norms by stepping out for morning walks.Ithape was walking near Apollo Hospital when a constable apprehended him and took him to the CBD Belapur police station.Ithape said, “I was not jogging. I informed the police constable that I am a corporator and I had gone to the hospital to check on a patient. However, the constable still took me to the police station, However, after explaining to the officers, I was allowed to go.”Ithape also alleged high-handedness on part of the police and claimed there is lack of social distancing practice even in hospitals.On Friday, another BJP corporator from Panvel Ajay Bahira was booked for organising his birthday party at his bungalow in Takka village. Bahira and 10 others were booked in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-bjp-corporator-booked-for-violating-lockdown-rules/story-kHYMaid1mBLc3G4t0WsfTL.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||Police form 3 special teams to stop people from stepping out||The Mumbai Police on Sunday lodged 199 FIRs against people for violating lockdown orders. Of these cases, 77 (almost 39%) were reported from the central region which has the maximum Covid-19 cases in the city. To ensure the pandemic does not spread further, police in central region have made special teams specifically to stop and, if need be, arrest people found loitering and roaming unnecessarily. “We have formed three special police teams in our police station only to stop people who are violating the norms and are unnecessarily roaming on roads. We are lodging FIRs against such people and are also using loud speakers to raise awareness on social distancing,” said Sukhlal Varpe, senior inspector, Worli police station. Central region covers areas from Byculla to Ghatkopar, Mumbai Central to Matunga as well as Dharavi, Shahu Nagar, Kurla, Sion, Antop Hill and Wadala Truck Terminal. Approximately 550 Covid-19 patients are from these areas. BMC has marked a number of areas in this region as containment zones. As these areas have a number of big slums like Dharavi, Nagpada, Jijamata Nagar, Worli Koliwada, which have a common toilet system, crammed lanes and market areas, the police here are finding it difficult to maintain social distancing. A senior police officer from the region said,” The chances of community spread is high in slums. So we have served notices under Criminal Procedure Code and taken action under the Bombay Police Act against thousands of people asking them not to indulge in any unlawful activity and to stop them from loitering. The State Reserve Police Force platoon has been effective and drones are being used for monitoring.”Of the 77 FIRs filed on Sunday in central region, 71 are for gathering in one place. The remaining six FIRs are against shops which were operating despite being counted in non-essential services. No one is allowed to use their vehicle unless emergency.Of the 199 cases filed across the city, 179 (90%) are for gathering in one place while rest are for illegal use of vehicles and keeping shops open. A total of 281 people were booked and 215 people were arrested on Sunday. Apart from central region, 45 FIRs were reported from western suburbs (Bandra to Jogeshwari), which has the most Covid-19 cases after central region, followed by 42 in eastern suburbs, 29 in north region (Goregaon to Dahisar) and six cases in south Mumbai, which has reported less than fifty Covid-19 cases. 7 police personnel test positive in state According to the Maharashtra Police, a total of seven police personnel (two officers, one each from Mumbai and Thane, and five constables, four from Mumbai and another from Mumbai railway) have tested positive for Covid-19. Another 47 personnel from across the state (five officers and 42 constables) have been home quarantined.In one of the cases, a 35-year-old beat marshal from Bangur Nagar police station, which covers the area between Goregaon (West) and Malad (West), tested positive and got himself admitted to Seven Hills hospital in Andheri (East) on Sunday. The constable took to Twitter to complain that doctors were not paying attention to him. The constable was at home since April 7 as he was having fever. “He lived alone in Naigaon police quarters in Dadar (East). His building has been sealed and BMC will be checking other people in the area for symptoms,” said Vinod Kamble, senior inspector, Bhoiwada police station. 88 WhatsApp admins booked “A total of 183 cases are registered across the state for fake news, rumours and hate speech including 88 cases against WhatsApp admins for circulating hate speech and fake news. About 37 people have been arrested and another 114 accused have been identified,” said Balsing Rajput, SP, Maharashtra Cyber. 40,242 FIRs in state A total of 40,242 FIRs have been registered in Maharashtra till Monday morning. 509 people are booked for violating home quarantine orders. Most FIRs were reported from Pune city, Ahmednagar, Nashik city, Nagpur city Mumbai city Pimpri Chinchwad and Solapur city, Kolhapur and Pune rural. A total of 65,646 calls related to Covid-19 were received on police helpline 100 in Maharashtra including 17,396 from Mumbai. A total of 26,474 vehicles have been seized and ₹1.43 crore has been collected in fines. (With inputs from Jayprakash Naidu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/police-form-3-special-teams-to-stop-people-from-stepping-out/story-oR8O7oa02uIWIXQyKYsYyJ.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown and restoration: No commemoration ceremony held in Amritsar on 101st anniv of Jallianwala Bagh massacre||Amid lockdown, coronavirus outbreak, and ongoing restoration and redevelopment work of the historic monument, the 101st anniversary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre (1919) witnessed no commemoration ceremony in Amritsar on Monday.To ensure that the restoration project is not disturbed, the Union ministry of cultural affairs had shut the doors of the Bagh for general public. The closure was then extended till June 15.Nobody was allowed to enter the premises on Monday. Congress’ Amritsar west MLA Raj Kumar Verka attempted to visit the memorial to pay homage but was stopped.Verka said, “Centre can forget the martyrs of the massacre after the centenary, but we cannot. The government discontinuing the yearly commemoration ceremony is disrespectful.”Verka and Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla presented floral tributes on the statue of Udham Singh, installed at the entrance.Sukumar Mukherjee, a third generation caretaker of the Bagh, said, “We are stuck due to the lockdown and construction work on at the monument.”Rajya Sabha MP and member of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, Shwait Malik, said, “How is any ceremony possible amid lockdown? There are strict instructions to not hold even small gatherings. BJP chief JP Nadda has asked the party rank and file to strictly follow the guidelines.”Meanwhile, PM Modi remembered the martyrs and tweeted: “I bow to the martyrs killed mercilessly in Jallianwala Bagh on this day. We will never forget their courage and sacrifice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/lockdown-and-restoration-no-commemoration-ceremony-held-in-amritsar-on-101st-anniv-of-jallianwala-bagh-massacre/story-9JA9wEXA8tLY6XLJp5hJ0K.html
13-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Smartphone gifted by DEO comes in handy for Class 10 student||Fifteen-year-old Manvi Dholan was overjoyed after she was able to continue with her studies online with the help of a smartphone with internet facility gifted by the district education officer (DEO), secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, on Sunday.Class 10 student of Government High School, Dholan, Jagraon, Manvi, had not been able to reply for the past two weeks in the WhatsApp group, formed by the district mathematics mentor for the 81 meritorious students, who had scored above 93% marks in the pre-board examinations held in January.The group was formed to check the progress of students in the tests and provide proper guidance to improve the performance of students in the final board exams. To know the reason for not responding to the group, the mentor inquired from Malvi, to which the girl told him that she did not have a smartphone.Manvi, said, “In the absence of a smartphone, I was not able to reply to the messages sent in the group regularly. I, sometimes, used my cousin’s mobile to reply, but it was not regular. I shared this issue with my teachers and yesterday block mentor of mathematics Bhupinder Singh handed over a smartphone, which was sent by the district education officer. I am grateful to the authorities as, by using this gadget, I am able to improve my performance under the guidance of subject experts.”She added, “Since March 23, I had been studying the previous year’s papers, but felt that I needed proper guidance to enhance my performance. Now, I am part of the WhatsApp group and will practice according to the tests sent by the mentors. Today, three-mark questions of science were sent on the group and, in English, short-answer questions have been sent for practice.”Amid lockdown due to the spread of coronavirus, the mentors started sending daily tests to Class 10 students through WhatsApp group.These 81 students have scored more than 93% marks in the pre-board exams and district mentor of mathematics Sanjeev Taneja monitored the progress of these students from where he observed that Manvi was not responding to the messages sent in the group. He said, “She scored 99% marks in the pre-board exams held in January. She scored 100% marks in mathematics and Hindi in pre-board exams and was just short of six marks from the total 555 marks. So, we traced the student and now she is able to practise the tests under the guidance of all subject mentors. I informed the DEO regarding this problem and she immediately arranged a phone and asked the block mentor of Jagraon to hand over the smartphone to the student.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-smartphone-gifted-by-deo-comes-in-handy-for-class-10-student/story-ozRYVzaJGDvYuhlNxhUHLL.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||How Haryana is holding hands of its poor during lockdown||When lockdown was imposed across Haryana on March 23, there were just 14 confirmed coronavirus cases in the state. By March 31, the virus was detected in 29 people. And within a week, it managed to spread among 129 people of 16 districts.On Monday, a day before the 21-day long spell of the nationwide lockdown is to end, as many as 182 people were in the grip of the infection that has now crawled into 19 of the total 22 districts of Haryana.Even if the virus has been spreading fast, response of the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government to tackle this challenge of unprecedented size and scale appears heartening if the data prepared by the chief minister’s office (CMO) about steps taken so far is of any indication.After March 22’s ‘Janata Curfew’, lockdown was clamped in seven NCR districts of Haryana. Next day, lockdown was declared across the state.Immediately, senior IAS officers were deputed for coordination, planning and monitoring of the lockdown. On March 27, ministers and MPs were posted as in-charges of districts, while ₹1 crore to each district was released to help the poor and needy people.FINANCIAL ASSISTANCEWhile taking steps at war footing to contain the coronavirus, another challenge before the government was to cushion impact of lockdown on the poor.As per the data, till April 9, the administration had transferred ₹4,000 each to over six lakh families. Hence, ₹212 crore was sent to families registered under Mukhya Mantri Parivar Samridhi Yojana (MMPSY). There are about 12.56 lakh families registered under MMPSY, an official said.Also, the government has released ₹70-crore financial assistance for two weeks to Haryana Board of Construction Workers. The government has promised to give them ₹4,500 per month or ₹1,000 a week.Haryana has about 3.5 lakh workers registered under Haryana building and other construction workers’ welfare board.Government officials said all BPL families not registered under MMPSY or as construction workers will also receive ₹4,500 per month. The government is transferring every week ₹1,000 per family since March 30. “More than six lakh BPL families have received ₹1,000 weekly financial assistance. Till April 9, the government had transferred ₹61 crore to such families,” an official said.The government has also identified 70,000 people such as daily wagers, street vendors, migrant labourers, who were earning their livelihood on a daily basis. An official said if they register themselves with the deputy commissioner concerned, all of them will be eligible for ₹1,000 per week financial assistance that will be transferred directly to their bank accounts. FOOD & ESSENTIAL COMMODITIESAll BPL families are being supplied April’s ration free of cost. The package includes rice or wheat as per their entitlement, 1-litre mustard oil, 1kg dal, 1kg sugar and 1kg salt. As per the official data, a month’s ration was provided to over 27 lakh ration cardholders for free. Officials said as many as 64 lakh cooked or ready-to-eat food packets were being distributed daily to needy persons by district administrations with the help of NGOs, while nearly 4 lakh dry ration packets were being doled out weekly. “All contractual workers with government will receive wages even if they were unable to work during the lockdown,” a government functionary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/how-haryana-is-holding-hands-of-its-poor-during-lockdown/story-Sh0LJNEV4KYs0W6xMFU8hO.html
13-04-2020||Lucknow||Pilibhit becomes first UP district to shed corona tag||Pilibhit became the first district in Uttar Pradesh to shed the coronavirus tag when the district’s only two Covid-19 patients — a woman and her son — were discharged from hospital after they tested negative for the Sars-Cov-2 virus for the second time, officials said.There was no fresh Covid case in the district at present, district magistrate Vaibhav Srivastava said.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath congratulated the Pilibhit district magistrate and superintendent of police Abhisek Dixit on achieving the coronavirus-free tag. The chief minister directed the officers to launch intensive tracking, screening, testing and treatment drives to check spread of the coronavirus in the district.The effort of the district administration and district health department was a major achievement for the state, said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi and principal secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad.They said Pilibhit was among the 41 districts in the state in which coronavirus cases were reported. With the exit of Pilibhit from that list now, the number of coronavirus affected districts had come down to 40, the officers said.The Pilibhit DM said the district had a population of 22 lakh. After discharge of two patients from hospital, there were 32 people in institutional quarantine, he said. All of them would be discharged soon as they had completed 28 days in quarantine and their samples had tested negative, he said.Earlier, the district administration was on high alert after the first Covid positive case was reported in west UP, he recalled.“We activated our intelligence network and told all the gram pradhans to alert the district administration if any person arrived from outside the district. On March 19, a gram pradhan in Amaria area of the district informed us that a 73-year-old woman returned from Saudi Arabia with symptoms of the disease. A health department team with four ambulances was rushed to the village at night. The health department transported 36 people, including family members of the woman, to quarantine centres,” he said.The samples were sent for tests. The women and her son were shifted to an isolation ward after they tested positive. The health department sanitized 23 villages in the area afterwards.Srivastava said over 9,000 migrant workers arrived in Pilibhit from various part of the country after the announcement of the nationwide lockdown on March 25. The district administration put the migrant workers in quarantine facilities. All the migrants were screened and examined by the health teams. Fifteen outposts with magistrate rank officer as in-charge were set up on the border to check the entry of outsiders.Patrolling was organised round the clock and a bus transporting people from Noida was seized on Saturday, he said.The district administration is working on a multi-pronged strategy. It includes strengthening health facilities, increasing isolation and quarantine facilities in the hospitals, regular interaction with people through helplines, control rooms and social media platforms, besides providing emergency services to people and supplying essential commodities at their doorstep in villages and localities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/pilibhit-becomes-first-up-district-to-shed-corona-tag/story-ounkh3Kt8SsHnZLAaT4TbM.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two curfew violators attack cops in Kotkapura, 1 held||Hours after armed Nihangs attacked cops and severed hand of an assistant sub-inspector in Patiala, two persons assaulted Punjab Police constables who were on curfew duty near Hari Nau railway crossing in Kotkapura town of Faridkot district on Saturday night.One of the assailants also opened fire at the policemen on being stopped for defying curfew. The fire missed the target and the cops managed to nab Satpal Singh of Rishi Nagar in Kotkapura town, while Kanwarpal Singh of Kotkapura managed to flee from the spot after opening fire. Superintendent of police Sewa Singh Malhi said that the police have registered a case against two persons. “Raids are being conducted to arrest the absconding accused,” he added.Constable Kewal Singh said in his statement that on Saturday night, he along with his colleague, was on curfew duty. “Around 10pm, we stopped two persons on two separate vehicles at a checkpost. Claiming that they were railways employees, they started arguing and also attacked us. Some passersby came to our rescue and the accused ran towards the railway track. They also pelted us with stones. We managed to nab Satpal, who was drunk, while Kanwarpal opened fire on us,” he said. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging his duty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by public servant), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act has been registered at the city police station, Kotkapura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-curfew-violators-attack-cops-in-kotkapura-1-held/story-PAvNiIPtrmig8X55MZM9QK.html
13-04-2020||Lucknow||Man held for giving life threat to UP minister, mayor wife||The Prayagraj police arrested a man for allegedly issuing life threat to cabinet minister Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’ and his mayor wife Abhilasha Gupta over the phone.The accused was traced to Kanpur and arrested by a team of crime branch late on Sunday night, officials said.In her complaint, mayor Abhilasha Gupta said she received a call from an unknown number on Sunday morning. The caller first asked for the mobile number of former MLA Puja Pal and used abusive language when the mayor denied having her number.The caller identified as Niraj Yadav of Hamirpur district then threatened to kill the mayor and her husband Nandi with an AK 47 rifle. The accused also claimed that he was behind the attack on Nandi earlier in 2010 in which the minister was critically injured while a journalist and another man lost their lives. Niraj also claimed himself to be a Samajwadi Party leader and said that he got the election ticket of former MP Atiq Ahmad cancelled from the party.SSP Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said acting on the complaint an FIR was lodged at Kotwali police station. Niraj’s location was traced in Kanpur and a team of crime branch nabbed him. Niraj has past criminal record and three cases of attempt to murder, SC/ ST and arms act were lodged against him.He is being further questioned to ascertain the motive behind issuing threat to the minister and the mayor, said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/man-held-for-giving-life-threat-to-up-minister-mayor-wife/story-NrreFMRHpgvp2LHke7DyKK.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||17-year-old varsity mess worker with Covid symptoms dies in Jalandhar||A 17-year-old suspected patient of coronavirus died in Jalandhar on Monday after he was admitted to a private hospital with acute respiratory problem, cough and fever. The teenaged youth, who worked in the hostel mess of a private university in Phagwara, was first brought to Johal Hospital, Jalandhar, in the morning but was referred to the civil hospital after his condition deteriorated. Dr BS Johal said the patient died on the way to the civil hospital. He hailed from Uttar Pradesh, said an administration official. Kapurthala civil surgeon Jasmit Kaur Bawa said the victim was suffering from jaundice and fever for the last few days and his samples have been taken for testing to ascertain the actual cause of his death.Jalandhar civil surgeon Gurinder Kaur said the test reports will verify whether he died from Covid-19. On Saturday, a 21-year-old student of the university was found positive for the virus. She is undergoing treatment at the isolation ward of the Kapurthala civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/17-year-old-varsity-mess-worker-with-covid-symptoms-dies-in-jalandhar/story-LCNv0ac9EBfKfzs5kp59hO.html
13-04-2020||Lucknow||16 migrants escape quarantine in Bulandshahar, caught||As many as 16 migrants, quarantined in a college at Danpur village in Dibai area of Bulandshahar district, escaped on Sunday afternoon by breaking the window of the room they were confined into.The police, however, caught them again after an intense search and re-quarantined them.SSP Bulandshahar Santosh Singh said all the migrants were caught by the evening and they had been re-quarantined. “Security of the venue has been beefed up so that no such incident takes place again,” said Singh. More than 100 migrant labourers of few villages of Dibai area were first quarantined in a community centre of a village.Finding it unfit to keep such a big number of persons in a small place, few of them were shifted to a college in nearby Danpur village. 16 migrants of the group escaped on Sunday afternoon by breaking a window. The matter was reported to the police and district authorities who launched an intensified search seeking help of villagers. They were caught by the evening. Officials said that it was indeed a difficult task because people and cops were scared to go near to them and somehow managed to re-quarantine them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/16-migrants-escape-quarantine-in-bulandshahar-caught/story-hjKsK6arwxnoPh0yszuR7L.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid 19: Senior Ludhiana cop among 9 more test positive in Punjab||Nine more persons, including an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) posted in Ludhiana, tested positive for the coronavirus in Punjab on Monday, taking the total number of those infected in the state to 179.Soon after the reports of ACP (Ludhiana North) Anil Kohli (52) were confirmed as positive, the health department isolated 15 persons, including four of his family members, station house officers (SHOs) of Salem Tabri and Daresi police stations and other cops. Their swab samples were taken and sent for testing.It comes 5 days after 17 cops and a judicial officer in the city were put in quarantine after an arrested vehicle lifter was found infected with the disease.Kohli was deployed in the New Sabzi Mandi area to check incidents of overcrowding and it is suspected that he may have come in contact with someone infected with the virus there.He was admitted to hospital on April 8 with dry cough, fever and breathing problem. “His initial samples were found negative for Covid-19. But his samples were sent for reassessment and he was tested positive in the latest report,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.Kohli has been kept on ventilator support.Also, the samples of senior officials, including additional deputy commissioners of police (ADCPs) and other ACPs who came in contact with Kohli will be sent for testing on Tuesday, an official said.3 of infected Pathankot man’s family positiveIn Pathankot, six more persons tested positive. Now, the total number of those infected in the district has reached 22.Four of these cases are contacts of a man from Anandpur Rara recently found positive for Covi-19. They are his 24-year-old daughter, a sister-in-law (67), a 52-year-old woman cousin from Bagial village who stayed at their house besides one of his friends aged 59, deputy commissioner GS Khaira said.Two more persons from Sujanpur, who are contacts of the maidservant of a 75-year-old infected woman who died on April 5, also tested positive on Monday. They are a 78-year-old man and a woman (45) from Shekha Mohalla, the DC added.The reports of the 14 contacts of a Phangota resident in Dharkalan area who is employed as a driver in Gurugram and was found positive, were awaited.Two Jalandhar localities sealedIn Jalandhar district, two men aged 25 and 40, tested positive of coronavirus on Monday. With this, a total of 24 cases, including two deaths, have been reported in the district, the highest in the Doaba region and second in the state after Mohali.Jalandhar health department nodal officer Dr TPS Sandhu said the 25-year-old from the Lal Bazaar area and a close contact of a 34-year-old person who was already found positive. The 40-year-old, who had acute respiratory infection, is from the Raja Garden locality.The two neither have travel history nor are they close contacts of any positive patient, health officials said.Civil surgeon Dr Gurinder Kaur said the Lal Bazaar and Raja Bagh areas were sealed and the health department has started contact tracing of the patients. Of a total of 24 cases reported in the district, the department is yet to trace the source of infection in at least five.Congress MLA found negativeCongress MLA from Jalandhar (North) Avtar Singh Bawa Henry tested negative for the coronavirus. He was a close contact of a 34-years-old patient from Mitha Bazaar area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-senior-ludhiana-cop-among-9-more-test-positive-in-punjab/story-pLAMFWPokN04e3dwmxWz2K.html
13-04-2020||Lucknow||Son, daughter of corona patient also test positive in Azamgarh||Son and daughter on an elderly man, found infected with Covid-19 virus on April 8, tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, said district magistrate (DM) Nagendra Prasad Singh.With this, the number of total positive cases of the deadly virus in Azamgarh district reached 6.“The report of 30-year-old son and 24-year-old daughter of the patient has been received. Both have tested positive,” said the DM while adding, “Nayapura Sikathi area in Mubarakpur district has been declared corona hotspot since all six positive patients are from this area.”Of the total six patient, three returned to the district after attending Tablighi Jamat event in Delhi recently.Singh said all the positive cases of coronavirus are undergoing treatment at the isolation ward in the government medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/son-daughter-of-corona-patient-also-test-positive-in-azamgarh/story-FrHlYnPAOBXvS1tJ2MJXUL.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Covid crisis may push city into water crisis this summer: Irrigation dept||An analysis by the Haryana irrigation and water resources department shows that the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may put additional stress on water resources across the National Capital Region (NCR), including Gurugram district, and other metropolitan areas of Haryana. The driving factor behind this increase, according to the irrigation department, is the simple act of washing one’s hands—with an open tap. For the NCR (Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Bahadurgarh, Ghaziabad, and Noida), which sources its water from the Yamuna and Ganga rivers, the Bhakra canal and from an array of ranney collectors and tube wells, the projected population of 28 million (280 lakh) people would require an additional 450MLD (million litres daily) to deal with the ongoing COVID-19 crisis. Gurugram, with a projected population of three million people, will require an additional 45 million litres daily (MLD) to deal with the crisis, show estimates. The tri-city area of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula, with a projected population of two million people, will require an additional 30MLD. EBB AND FLOWSuperintending engineer of irrigation and water resources, Gurugram, Shiv Singh Rawat said, “Washing hands frequently will increase water consumption. A 20-second hand wash with an open tap utilises about 1.5 litres water. We have assumed that, in keeping with World Health Organisation guidelines, if a person is washing their hands about 15 times per day, up from the usual five to 10 times a day, it would require an additional 15 litres of water per person per day. That is an additional 75 liters per family per day, just for washing hands.” Officials in the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) agreed that the domestic water demand has increased but said they would be able to manage supply till the time the curbs on malls and restro-bars continue. “We have seen domestic water use rise by about 1.5 times during the lockdown, but we are able to offset that as many non-essential services, including malls and restaurants, are not operational. Corporate offices are shut, and people are not washing cars. So, at the moment, there is no added stress on the water supply,” GMDA chief engineer Pradeep Kumar said. In the days immediately following the lockdown, the GMDA had reduced its water output from about 440 MLD to 395MLD. Now, just on the basis of domestic consumption in households, this has again been increased to 415-430MLD, Kumar said. WHAT IF THE INDUSTRIES OPEN?According to the irrigation department, the situation may get dire in the summer months, when the GMDA will have to start releasing additional water to make up for rising demand and evaporation losses. “There is a shortage of water in the river Yamuna and it will get worse in coming summer. We are still releasing 600MLD of raw water to the GMDA, as was the case before the lockdown. Efforts are being made to meet the water demand through canals, but it is not enough,” Rawat said. Moreover, when lockdown restrictions are eventually relaxed, it will coincide with the peak of summer season. “This is an additional cause for concern. Even if industries and other non-essential services are allowed to resume operations only by end of May, it will be around the time that evaporation loss and public demand are highest, which will further strain water resources in an area where water is already a scarce commodity. The demand will exceed supply,” Rawat said, cautioning that the scarcity would encourage further exploitation of groundwater in cities such as Gurugram, which lack a perennial source of water to draw from.STRAIN ON GROUNDWATER According to NITI Aayog’s Composite Water Management Index (CWMI) report from 2018, 21 major cities in the country, including Delhi, were pegged to exhaust their groundwater supply by 2020. This would affect water access for 100 million nationally, a cumulative result of groundwater over-extraction, inefficient wastewater management and insufficient monsoons in recent years.Moreover, the looming water shortage holds within it a seed of a larger ecological crisis. “About 80% water consumed domestically is released into drains and sewers as wastewater. In Gurugram, this will further pollute groundwater reserves, and even the Yamuna river. More wastewater also leads to more water borne diseases, such as common diarrhoea,” Rawat said. TURN OFF THE TAP, SHOWERWith this in mind, both, the irrigation department and the GMDA have recommended that residents be more judicious in their use of water. Some of the steps which can be taken to conserve water include two simple steps of running taps only when necessary and taking baths using buckets, not showers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-crisis-may-push-city-into-water-crisis-this-summer-irrigation-dept/story-TAGX3pSTKccPAsdJimJvlN.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Princeton Estate’s residents ready to take up maintenance duties||As the extension of the lockdown to halt the spread of coronavirus seems imminent, residents of Princeton Estate in Sector 51 have formed an emergency task force that will take over the maintenance duties and will be responsible for running the society in case, the maintenance staff leaves.With the idea to make the society self-sustained, a team of about 30 volunteers has been formed to look after the maintenance of the society if the lockdown is extended which may leave the condominium with little or no staff. The task force has been divided into different groups which will oversee horticulture work, housekeeping, technical maintenance, and security. Residents who are part of the technical team will soon be trained about running machines such as elevators, gensets, water pumps and overseeing the electricity supply.“We are expecting a situation when the staff will wish to move out of the society and join their families. In anticipation of such circumstances, we have created the task force. The residents in the team will be given an orientation about how different things in the society run. We plan on creating a more detailed action plan soon,” said Arati Pandya, acting secretary of the society’s resident welfare association (RWA). The volunteers will be provided orientation by the staff of the DLF group, said Pandya.Ranjeet Kumar, a resident who is part of the administration group of the task force, said, “The administration team will be responsible for office administration, procurement of essential items, payments and others.” He added that for the time being, the focus was on making sure maintenance activities run smoothly.Since the lockdown started on March 25, the society cut down its staff by 50%. The remaining staff was asked to stay inside the complex to minimise the exposure to the outside world. Close to 30 members of the maintenance staff have been provided accommodation inside the condominium in vacant apartments, reading rooms, basement etc. Residents donated mattresses, bed sheets to help out the staff and make their stay comfortable. The staff has been provided with a cooking station and are responsible for their own ration. The salaries of the staff working in the society currently have been increased.“The staff who are residing inside the society are receiving 1.5 times their usual monthly salary. They are also being provided a separate allowance of ₹150 a day for their daily expenditure. The staff not residing inside the society are also getting their usual pay,” said Sandeep Sahijwani, vice president, RWA.The condominium, which is home over 3,000 residents, has a departmental store, a dairy store, and a chemist shop. Residents have to adhere to social distancing protocols while buying essential items in the society. Markings have been made in front of the stores to designate places for people to stand in queues. “Only two people are allowed to go inside the milk booth at a time. Others have to wait for their turn outside while standing on the markings,” said Kumar.For the common areas, the RWA has made mandatory for the residents. Posters informing the same have also been placed right outside the elevators of all eight towers. Walks, for the time being, have been put on hold and special ‘Covid security supervisor’ has been assigned to keep track of residents moving around the complex.“The Covid supervisor takes rounds around the complex to make sure no resident steps out other than to go to the store. No one is allowed to amble around unnecessarily,” said Sahijwani.Pet owners, who wish to walk their dogs, are only allowed to go up to the closest poop area and not take walks around the society. At the gate, all residents and staff members have to wash and sanitise their hands. Washbasins have also been installed at the entrance of all eight towers. Most deliveries have been restricted to the main gate, while the delivery of some essential goods is allowed till the tower lobbies. Residents are responsible for picking up their deliveries like groceries, milk, newspaper, and others from the lobby. For senior citizens, the estate office has offered to make deliveries up to their door and provide any support required. The society is also maintaining records of all residents stepping out.“With the coronavirus pandemic, a lot of changes in the way we live have taken place. Enforcing them was difficult in the first week, but now residents have become more understanding,” said Sahijwani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/princeton-estate-s-residents-ready-to-take-up-maintenance-duties/story-RPWXtdzZcmYG4UpndGv1KJ.html
13-04-2020||Noida||Gzb Covid hospital sees off first batch of recovered patients||The doctors and healthcare staff at the L1 Covid-19 hospital in Ghaziabad gave a warm send off to four patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) who had recovered and were discharged from the hospital in Muradnagar on Monday. These were the first set of patients to be discharged from the L1 hospital set up in Ghaziabad in the first week of April, health department officials said. Officials said that one of the four patients was a woman from Vasundhara, an employee of the Noida-based company Ceasefire, while three others were Masuri-based men who were exposed to the virus at a religious congregation in March.“The four will now be under home quarantine for 14 days. We counselled them on all the precautions to be taken so that the infection doesn’t recur. They were sent home in an advanced life-support ambulance. We now have a total of 17 Covid-19 patients under our care,” hospital superintendent Dr GP Mathuria said.The state has created a dedicated chain of Covid-19 hospitals—L1, L2 and L3. The L1 category of hospitals deals with uncomplicated cases of Covid-19 and each district has one such hospital, the cases that require more attention are sent to L2 category hospitals and critical patients are sent to L3 category hospitals for specialised treatment. The state has a total of six L3 category hospitals. In Ghaziabad, the Muradnagar hospital is L1 category while the Sanjay Nagar District Hospital is a L2 category hospital. Ghaziabad does not have an L3 category hospital; any critical patient from here would be referred to the Meerut Medical College or to the hospitals in New Delhi.SCC SAPPHIRE SEALEDThe Ghaziabad district administration on Monday sealed B Block of SCC Sapphire highrise in Raj Nagar Extension. The chief medical officer (CMO) said that the decision was taken after a resident, who is a doctor and posted in Delhi, was found positive for Covid-19 infection.“The family stays in the highrise, but the doctor has not visited them in 1.5 months (since the outbreak). So, a decision was taken to not make it a hotspot. In all, we have seen 27 positive cases of Covid-19 in Ghaziabad and seven patients, including four on Monday, have been discharged so far,” CMO Dr NK Gupta said.“The highrise has been sealed as a precautionary measure; it is not a hotspot. The entire highrise has been sanitized and cleaning was taken up,” city magistrate Shiv Pratap Shukl said. As of now, Ghaziabad district has 14 hot spots. The state has 146 hot spots in 15 districts, including Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, and 1,71,232 houses have been affected with a population of about 9,78,055 people, state government officials said on Monday. “Of the 550 Covid cases, 401 cases are in these 146 hot spots. So, we have about 80-85% Covid-19 cases in these hot spots. We have also identified 62 more hot spots in another 25 districts; these have 1,62,664 houses with a population of about 9,50,828 persons, besides having 80 Covid-19 positive cases. All efforts are being made to control the spread of coronavirus (Sars-Cov-2),” additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said. The total number of Covid-19 cases in UP stood was 550 till Monday afternoon, including 307 cases related to a religious congregation in Delhi in mid-March.Awasthi added, “The chief minister on Monday directed state officials that from now on, in case of non-disclosure, legal action will be taken against people who are still in hiding or have not disclosed their travel history. In case any such instance is found, the respective district magistrates and senior superintendent of police will be held responsible.”POOL TESTINGIn another development, principal secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said the Indian Council of Medical Research has given permission for pool testing of Covid-19 samples so fewer test kits are utilised. “In pool testing of samples, for example, we will mix the swabs of 10 patients. In case the result is negative, we will know all 10 are not infected and only one kit would have been used. In case the sample turns positive, then we will go for individual testing. This will help save us resources and get test results faster for many patients,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gzb-covid-hospital-sees-off-first-batch-of-recovered-patients/story-N9YO46BfMMHX6iRpAlwv3O.html
13-04-2020||City||Lockdown: Govt school children in Gzb deprived of mid-day meal||Ghaziabad: The students of state-run primary schools in Ghaziabad are one of the worst sufferers of the lockdown imposed to stave off the spread of coronavirus outbreak. With the schools shut, the children from the poor sections of the society are deprived of mid-day meals and also lack facilities for any online classes.About 80,000 children are enrolled in 455 government schools in the Ghaziabad district, which come under the basic education department, officials said, adding it is unlikely that the government schools will reopen before July.“My two daughters study at a government school. Since the school has closed down, the children stay at home and have no access to the mid-day meal. My husband is also finding it tough to get some work. So, we are somehow surviving with bare minimum food,” said Rehana, a parent from Usman Colony at Dasna.Anjum, a class 5 student at the government primary school in Dasna, said that she is eagerly waiting for resumption of her classes. “We have no school work at the moment. The food (mid-day meal) is also not available now and we survive with one meal per day at home,” she said.Notably, the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry had last month asked all states to ensure that eligible students either get their meals or a commensurate food security allowance as building immunity through proper diet is an important element in the fight against Covid-19.Since the issuance of advisory by the HRD ministry on March 20, several states have taken a decision on how to proceed with the provision of mid-day meals to students. But this is not the case in Ghaziabad.When contacted, basic education officer Brij Bhushan Chaudhary said that his department has not received any such directions from the HRD ministry. He also said that mid-day meal would be made available to students only when schools reopen.“All the schools are closed due to lockdown. Providing mid-day meal is an issue as we cannot allow children to gather. Also, the mid-day meal is available only when the schools are open. It is possible that schools will reopen only in July,” he said.“Apart from the studies, examinations have also got hampered. But we have received instructions that the students should be promoted to the next class,” Chaudhary added.Some of the officials of the basic education department whom HT spoke to said that the idea behind the mid-day meal was to attract students to schools and to provide them with daily nutrition.“Apart from a meal each day, milk and fruits were also provided. A survey pointed out that about 30 to 40% students in such schools arrived without breakfast from homes. Children of our schools are primarily from poor section of the society and have no access to laptops, computers or internet connections at home. So, online classes for them are also not possible,” said Pawan Kumar Bhati, block education officer of Loni.Bhati said that some teachers are taking initiative to teach students through mobile application. “Some teachers in areas like Muradnagar have created group on smartphone apps and also asked students to connect to the group. But several students do not have access to smartphones, as most of the families have basic phones,” he added.Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and chief development officer Asmita Lal did not take calls for comments on this story.However, some villages in the district are providing food to students. Arunima Tyagi, pradhan of Basantpur Sainthli village, said that she is trying her best to make food available to students.“Children are not getting mid-day meal nowadays since the schools are shut. But we are trying that dry ration reaches each family and children also have access to proper food. Also, children do not have access to technology at home. So we have planned that printed assignments be provided to them. We will place the copies of assignments at ration shops. Once the families arrive for taking ration, they can take assignments’ copy,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-govt-school-children-in-gzb-deprived-of-mid-day-meal/story-nsBAbohcnbfJCexpXkbPEN.html
13-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad authority struggles to meet high cost of supplying food to patients||Ghaziabad: In its changed role in times of Coronavirus outbreak, the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) is working to provide food to patients daily in quarantine centres. However, the agency is struggling to find funds as they are only getting Rs 60 per packet from the administration as against the Rs 250 each packet costs, as they need to maintain calorie requirement of the patients.The authority said that every day, it is supplying at least 500 food packets to patients in quarantine wards and spending about Rs 1.25 lakh for arranging the food through a hired caterer. They added that initially, they started with a kitchen but the idea was shunned and a caterer was hired instead.“We are supplying 500 food packets and it is costing us about Rs 1.25 lakh per day which is very high, as we only get Rs 60 per patient for food. We have written to the district administration to at least hike the rate or make it at least double so that the food provision services are not hampered,” said SK Rai, secretary of GDA.The authority provides four meals which include breakfast, lunch, snacks and dinner.“The menu includes four-six chapatis, or puris in case chapati is not available. Then we have rice or pulao along with pulses and vegetables. If pulses are not available then two vegetables are provided. Apart from this, there is provision of milk and biscuits for minors. To continue with the food supply activity, we are now pooling our own resources so that supply is not hampered. Otherwise it is becoming difficult to provide such food while maintaining the calorie requirement,” he added.A team of GDA officials have stationed themselves at the Pandav Nagar premises of the caterer where they are supervising the food preparation and also ensuring timely supplies to the quarantine centres in Ghaziabad.Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said a patient requires food which should provide him/her with at least 2,400 calories per day.“Since these patients are not ill, they need to be provided 2,400 calories per day as per norms. Although there has been no measure of the amount of calories each food packet provides, we assume that the present food supplied would be meeting such a requirement. However, we do not know if calorie measure is ascertained by any officials or not,” he added.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Padney did not take calls for comments and chief development officer Asmita Lal remained unreachable.In government hospitals like MMG District Hospital, no outside food is allowed but patients in isolation wards are provided food from the hospital mess. Patients who have spent time in the isolation ward of MMG Hospital said that the food provided is less in quantity of late, and also lacks variety.“We used to get lunch and dinner which included pulses, vegetables and chapati. In breakfast we used to get tea with two bread slices and evening tea was supplemented with biscuits. The food packets which we got at the quarantine centre were better in terms of quantity and also had variety,” said a 22-year-old patient who is presently in home isolation.Dr Ravinder Rana, chief medical superintendent of MMG Hospital, said they do not allow outside food for their patients, unlike the one provided by GDA in quarantine centres.“In our isolation ward, the food is provided from the hospital mess. We try to maintain 2,400 calories per day and no outside food in terms of packets, etc., provided by GDA are allowed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-authority-struggles-to-meet-high-cost-of-supplying-food-to-patients/story-nQnIiQtCwxoGw1W5T9Y3EN.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||‘Drop in non-Covid deaths for March compared to past 3 years’||The city saw 5,669 non-Covid deaths in March, a drop from 7,155 reported in the month in 2019, 7,436 in March 2018 and 7,815 in 2017, according to a study compiled by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The state government began its staggered lockdown since March 12, when gymnasiums and swimming pools were closed. On March 13, schools and cinema halls were notified to be closed, and March 14, malls were notified to be closed. A strict work from home advisory for all was issued around March 19-March 20. Maharashtra has been on a complete lockdown since March 25. Local trains in Mumbai stopped working on March 22.Authorities have attributed the drop to early diagnosis, as people are urgently seeking medical advice for any illness or ailment and maintaining strict personal hygiene, even in densely populated areas with community toilets, amid Covid-19 outbreak and the lockdown. The lockdown and shutting of public transport have reduced the deaths owing to road accidents, trauma, Mumbai’s suburban train and tracks-related accidental deaths, and crimes.“We got the numbers and noticed today that there is a 24% reduction in mortality. Everyone is maintaining very strict personal hygiene, people are eating better, and upping their immunity to safeguard against Covid-19, so there are fewer deaths due to other vector-borne diseases. These are our obvious inferences and need to be vetted with examples and case studies. That will take some time,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, who is incharge of BMC’s health department.Experts have also attributed this to absence of industrial accidents as factories are shut, better lifestyle due to reduced incidents of immediate and high pressure leading to heart attacks or hypertension, fewer incidents of asthma attacks due to a cleaner environment and reduced medical surgeries.V Ranganathan, a retired bureaucrat and former municipal commissioner of Mumbai, said, “This is not a unique case. It has happened before. During the 1917 flu epidemic, or more recently in Canada, when all medical professions were on a 45-day strike, the mortality reduced. Right now, the number of medical surgeries for other ailments has gone down. Serious medical surgeries have a chance of not being successful, and hence contribute to mortality rate. There is also the general attention to hygiene, upped immunity, and zero industrial accidents, no road accidents... “Rakesh Maria, who was former commissioner of Mumbai, said, “Reduced traffic accidents, train accidents, and crime definitely play a role in mortality rate. People are indoors. However, we cannot draw an inference from this that everyone must stay at home at all times even after Covid-19 has passed.”Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health consultant from Navi Mumbai, said, “This trend is also because people are home. Heart and hypertension patients are relieved as they are with family. Psychologically, it helps them do better health-wise. With social distancing, spread of communicable diseases, which weaken the immune system, has gone down. Similarly, diseases such as gastroenteritis and diarrhoea have reduced as people are not eating out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/drop-in-non-covid-deaths-for-march-compared-to-past-3-years/story-bA2qOWOZBEu5vtxyQ25sDK.html
13-04-2020||City||Over 50 animals rescued during lockdown in Thane and neighbouring areas||The animal welfare association in Thane has received a number of calls about rescuing animals during the lockdown and has rescued around 50 animals.Wildlife Welfare Association (WWA) from Thane, which has been helping animals even during lockdown, saved several species from various housing societies close to the boundaries of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Thane.“We usually received 1 or 2 calls a day generally, but since lockdown we are receiving 2 to 5 calls a day. In the past 20 days, we rescued 53 animals of different species from Thane and neighbouring areas like Mulund, Bhandup and Navi Mumbai,” said Aditya Patil, president, WWA, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-50-animals-rescued-during-lockdown-in-thane-and-neighbouring-areas/story-gzxNqOFq0aIFym5YWd391O.html
13-04-2020||City||Two fair price shops lose licence||Two shopkeepers of fair price shops in Bhiwandi lost their licence on Monday after they were caught misappropriating food grains. An inquiry by the tehsildar found that the shopkeepers were giving only 5kg rice and wheat when they were supposed to give 25kg rice and 10kg wheat per family.The two shopkeepers were storing the grains for their own use. The officials raided the shops and suspended the licence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-fair-price-shops-lose-licence/story-snqecLfV7ZHps5nUVWCIaL.html
13-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi University looks at ways to conduct exam online for 9 lakh students||As Delhi stares at an extension of lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 disease, Delhi University on Monday conducted a meeting of all its deans to discuss the possibilities of conducting an online examination for around nine lakh students of the varsity.At least 12 deans and the pro-vice chancellor were present during Monday’s meeting, which was conducted through video conferencing. Submitting answers through audio clips was one of the suggestions that came up in the meeting.“We were exploring ideas on how to conduct the examination and it is all in the discussion mode. We don’t think any social gatherings will be allowed before June. From what it seems, conducting examinations at home seems to be the only option now,” said a dean, who was present at the meeting. “We spoke about multiple options in the online mode, including using phones and laptops. The other deans raised apprehensions on how students who didn’t have internet or device would appear for the papers. The university will be taking all these apprehensions into account,” the dean added.A section of teachers, however, have opposed the move. Rajesh Jha, DU executive council member, said, “In this online meeting, the administration proposed oral submission of answers through a third-party cyber platform, which clearly shows its scant understanding of essence of evaluation in higher education and its utter disregard for the students’ interest.”“There is a possibility that some students may be better in written evaluation than verbal evaluation. There is no training for them or the evaluators,” Jha said, adding that the “deans turned down the proposal.” “The examination in DU is a statutory process, which cannot be altered without approval of AC and EC. In the online process of paper setting, submission of answers and evaluation has very high chances of tampering and pilferage,” a teachers’ group Academics for Action and Development said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-university-looks-at-ways-to-conduct-exam-online-for-9-lakh-students/story-XYZ5E4UEjydlQlWxE2gikL.html
13-04-2020||Lucknow||Youth walks over 1600 km to reach Kashi from Mumbai||A 28-year-old youth walked over 1600 km for almost 14 days to reach Varanasi from Mumbai on Sunday night.A resident of Saptsagar Dawa Mandi area in Varanasi, he was, however, allowed entry into his house after he underwent screening at the government hospital and was found asymptomatic for coronavirus.Ashok Keshari works at a hotel in Nagpada area of Mumbai, said a police official.With his hotel shut in view of lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic, he decided to head towards his home in Varanasi on March 30.“I walked along the rail tracks on roads and remained hungry for most of the time. On way, some generous people gave food that helped me survive,” said Ashok, who reached Cantt station, Varanasi on Sunday.Here, when he called up his friends, they advised him to go for screening first.Ashok then went to divisional hospital, Kabir Chaura.The doctors at the divisional hospital informed him that screening for coronavirus takes place at the district hospital.He then walked to district hospital where doctors cleared him of coronavirus symptoms.He said the doctors advised him to stay in home quarantine for 14 days as a precaution.After the screening when he reached the house, his neighbours informed the police and Kotwali inspector Mahesh Pandey reached the spot.On inspector’s intervention, the youth was allowed entry into his locality and his house.Inspector Pandey said the youth was cleared of corona symptoms and hence was allowed to stay at his place.“The family has been told to keep Ashok in a separate room on the first floor of the house,” said the inspector.“We allowed him entry into the house only after screening as we thought police could take action against us,” said Ashok’s brother Kallu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/youth-walks-over-1600-km-to-reach-kashi-from-mumbai/story-zqfPSu4o2PooTptKogDCzN.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||Statewide lockdown should continue past April 30: Study||Maharashtra should extend its lockdown beyond April 30 as it has a high proportion of asymptomatic carriers of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, according to a study conducted by Dinabandhu Andrews College and Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata. Asymptomatic carriers could spread the virus without displaying symptoms themselves.Researchers Tridip Sardar, SK Shahid Nadim, Joydev Chattopadhyay carried out a mathematical analysis of the available data regarding the spread of Covid-19 across the country. According to their study, the lockdown would be successful in Delhi and Tamil Nadu, where 90% of the reported cases are symptomatic. In contrast, only 35% of the reported cases in Maharashtra showed symptoms. The study has been published on open-access preprint repository, Cornell University arXiv, and is under review process in Elsevier and The Lancet journals.Explaining the study, Sardar said, “When an epidemic curve goes up suddenly, the outbreak comes under control as the number of cured patients increases. This trend is visible in the graphics of Delhi and Tamil Nadu.” In Maharashtra, however, the graph shows a steady growth in the number of cases as most patients are asymptomatic, said Sardar. “This means, even after 35 days of lockdown, the cases will be high in Maharashtra and there will be a need to extend the lockdown further,” he added.The researchers suggested extending the lockdown in areas that have reported more cases. “Divide Maharashtra into different clusters with high rates of Covid-19 cases. Then close down the section with highest cases and provide relaxation to the remaining clusters for agro-economic and industrial growth,” said Chattopadhyay, adding that clusters where restrictions are relaxed would need continued monitoring.The Centre is planning a similar arrangement by which districts across the country would be divided into red (more than 15), orange (less than 15) and green (zero) zones, depending upon the number of reported cases. Restrictions would be relaxed in orange and green zones, to aid the agricultural sector and the economy.According to India Meteorological Department, this year the onset of monsoon in the state is expected earlier than usual, around June 10. “If the lockdown extends beyond May, it will be a huge loss in the agricultural sector,” said Sardar.In Maharashtra, several rural districts and urban areas haven’t reported any cases of Covid-19 like Dhule city, Nandurbar, Solapur, Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad Municipal Corporation, Parbhani, Nanded, Akola, Gadchiroli, Wardha among others. Maharashtra is also among the states to have carried out the most number of tests and has the maximum number of testing centres at the moment.Independent health experts have supported the idea of a phased lifting of the lockdown, based on the proportion of asymptomatic cases in an area. “In my opinion, the decision of lockdown should be a mutual decision taking into consideration the condition of uninfected districts. The government can implement the area-wise hotspot containment strategy at the state level,” said health expert Anant Bhan.However, they have also underlined the importance of continued monitoring of those areas were restrictions are relaxed. Public health expert Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, who is with the Association of Medical Consultants, said “If we don’t implement it [lifting the lockdown], we will face economic loss and if we implement it, it can spread infection. So, as a precaution, only Industrial transportation along with social distancing and strong district surveillance should be implemented. Along with that, the government needs to start more fever clinics at relaxed clusters.”Last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced the lockdown would continue in Maharashtra till April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/statewide-lockdown-should-continue-past-april-30-study/story-q6ijHlSAHkoMxyIz4Nq66O.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||18 more medical staffers test positive for Covid-19||On Monday, 18 more medical staffers were tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of infected health workers to 100 in the city. Eleven of those who tested positive on Monday are from Bhatia Hospital in Tardeo and six from Shushrusha Hospital in Dadar. Chanda Jadhav, assistant municipal commissioner, A ward, said one of the doctors from Bombay Hospital’s radiology department has also been tested positive, while the contact tracing for other staffers of the hospital is underway. “While we have sealed Bhatia and Shushrusha hospitals, we have no plans to seal Bombay Hospital as of now. Only one medical staffer has tested positive yet, and the future course of action will depend on the results of the other staffers after their tests,” a civic official said. With 11 more cases on Monday, Bhatia Hospital now has 25 Covid-19 positive staffers. “Around 150 more staff members were tested on Friday as part of precautionary measures, of whom 110 were found negative. The 25 staff members have been quarantined in the ICU and their health is being monitored round-the-clock by the hospital. There are no serious cases,” the hospital statement read. Shushrusha Hospital has already been sealed after two nurses tested positive earlier. On Monday, the civic body in a letter to the hospital management said it will test more than 100 staffers. However, the hospital staff is likely to test other asymptomatic staff too at its own expense. Meanwhile, the infected doctor from Bombay Hospital has been admitted to the Covid-19 ward. “We have also identified around 40 staffers who might have come in contact with the doctor, and will get them tested,” Dr Mehul Desai, president of Resident Doctors’ Association of Bombay Hospital, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/18-more-medical-staffers-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-A0cYPacG3J5Xm84uVemalO.html
13-04-2020||City||Jitendra Awhad comes in contact with Covid-19 patient, tests negative, but quarantines self||Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad has decided to home quarantine himself as he had come in contact with a senior police officer, who tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago. He has tested negative in the first report.Awhad is an MLA of Mumbra-Kalwa, which is under complete lockdown due to the increasing number of coronavirus positive cases.“As a precautionary measure and protocol I have home quarantined myself. Only if all my reports are negative will I be able to step out and help others,” said Awhad in an audio message posted on the social media.On Monday, Thane recorded the highest number of positive cases at 30 -- 14 of them are security guards, helpers and those working with Awhad. The 14 cases are from Mumbra.Among the new positive cases, five are police personnel, six are staffers of a healthcare centre in Thane and a 16-year-old boy. The total number of positive cases in Thane is 76.Sandeep Malvi, public relations officer of Thane Municipal Corporation, said, “We have sealed areas where there are positive coronavirus cases and we are conducting contact tracing. We will make a list of those in high-risk category and test them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jitendra-awhad-comes-in-contact-with-covid-19-patient-tests-negative-but-quarantines-self/story-WalcARQ8lVq6iEFKL4UUVP.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 lockdown: Borivli restaurant provides 12K free meals to daily wagers||A restaurant in Borivli (West) has remained functional, not for business but to help those in need of a meal. Until March 27, Link View Fine Dine restaurant was giving free meal packets to police personnel, and have now started doing the same twice a day for over 12,500 daily wage workers in slums in P North and South wards.“It began with the urge to help, and while we started with a few hundred people in the beginning, soon we were giving away 12,500 packets of food twice a day,” said Y Harish Shetty, owner. “When we saw the number of people striving to make ends meet and feed their families, we increased the number of food packages from 8,000 meals to 12,500 meal packets, twice a day,” added Shetty.The day starts with putting together as much as 1,500kg rice, 625kg lentils, and 750kg vegetables. While Shetty initiated the supply, soon, fellow hoteliers from the North Mumbai Hoteliers Association pooled in their resources as well.“Around 35 hotel staff help with cutting vegetables, cooking and packing food. Our family members have also started helping,” said Karthik, Shetty’s son. BMC vehicles the transport the packed food and civic officials distribute it among the daily wage workers living in the slums.“We are doing our best to reach out to as many people as is possible by us. Thankfully, more members of our community have agreed to pool in resources and with that, we hope to help more people,” said Shetty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-lockdown-borivli-restaurant-provides-12k-free-meals-to-daily-wagers/story-4DXJfGplsrPEPMTkKWJyUL.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||7 wards account for 50% of Covid-19 cases||With 807 cases, seven of the 24 wards in the city make up for more than 50% of the city’s count, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, as on April 12. Till last week, two wards made up for 50% cases.Also, with the rise in cases, the BMC, on Monday, changed the classification for wards. Wards with more than or 70 cases were termed the one with the highest risk, followed by those with 35-70 cases, 15-34 cases and 1-14 cases. The BMC’s data for April 5 classified wards with more than 40 cases as the ones with highest risk, followed by 21-40 cases, 11-20 cases and 1-10 cases.The most affected ward, as of Monday, is G-South, which covers Worli and Lower Parel, with 280 cases, followed by E ward (Byculla) with 120 cases. Other wards are D ward (Malabar Hill, Walkeshwar) with 97 cases, M-East (Govandi, Mankhurd) with 82 cases, H-East (Bandra, Khar, Santacruz) with 80 cases, G-North (Mahim and Dadar) with 77 cases and K-West (Andheri, Vile Parle) with 71 cases.Meanwhile, in a meeting with senior civic officials on Monday, municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi directed all ward officers to identify open spaces or slots where vegetable and fruit markets can be set up while maintaining social distance. “We need to maintain a distance of 20ft between two vendors and 3.5ft between buyers. We can also allot spaces on major roads in the area,” said a ward officer of a suburban area.The civic body has carried out this exercise in Chunnabhati, where a temporary market has been set up at Somaiya Ground or in Vikroli East, where a market has been set up in an open ground of a school. However, there is no clarity on how the civic body plans to streamline groceries. Currently, with every ward officer giving separate directives on timings and, in some cases, days when grocers can keep their shops open, there is confusion on ground. “I was told by our grocer today, he will keep his shop open. When I reached there, the shutters were down,’’ said Nitin Patel, a resident of Prabhadevi, which so far does not fall in a containment zone. The BMC will not allow vegetable markets in any of the 381 containment zones, areas which are sealed as they saw positive cases or where close contacts of positive patients live. A senior civic official said, “We are taking various measures to ensure that people do not move out. The situation in a couple of wards is bad.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/7-wards-account-for-50-of-covid-19-cases/story-9lyFp9M8f81iu32QsHlCrN.html
13-04-2020||City||Navi Mumbai records 11 new Covid-19 cases||Eleven positive cases of Covid-19 were reported from Navi Mumbai on Monday, taking the city’s tally to 50. It is the highest rise of cases in a day.After a 54-year-old man died on Friday of coronavirus, six members of his family in Belapur gaon have tested positive. NMMC commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “We have decided to shift those who have tested positive to Indiabulls institutional quarantine facility in Panvel.”A 38-year-old Ola cab driver tested positive in Panvel on Monday.A Panvel City Municipal Corporation official said, “The driver has been admitted to sub-district hospital in Panvel. He used to ferry passengers from the international airport.”Two people tested positive in Uran on Sunday.Panvel municipal commissioner Ganesh Deshmukh said, “We have 23 cases in PCMC and six in Raigad rural area, taking the total in the region to 29.”One new case of Covid-19 was reported in Dombivli on Monday. The 30-year-old man, who tested positive, is from Dombivli (West).“We are yet to find how he got infected,” said an official of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation, which has recorded 56 cases so far.Eleven have been discharged after treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-11-new-covid-19-cases/story-OK7SQzaEXSrLCykdRq6QaM.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||40 SRPF companies deployed in Covid-19 hotspots||The state has deployed 40 companies of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) in zones which have been earmarked as Covid-19 hotspots. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said the government may even deploy Rapid Action Force (RAF) or Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), if need be, to contain the spread.The force has been deployed in red zones, which have a sizable number of Covid-19 patients, namely Dharavi and Worli-Koliwada in Mumbai, Gultekadi in Pune and Malegaon in Nashik. The hotspots have curfew-like restrictions. “We have given SRPF companies depending on the demand from district collectors or commissioners. Forty such companies of about 90 to 110 personnel have been deployed in various parts of the state,” Deshmukh told HT. “Their [RAF and CRPF] deployment is done in extreme conditions, but I don’t think that will be required. We will be able to handle the situation with the help of local police and SRPF,” he said.Mumbai MLAs and ministers Varsha Gaikwad and Aslam Shaikh had demanded deployment of the SRPF in areas like Worli and Dharavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/40-srpf-companies-deployed-in-covid-19-hotspots/story-X0Z62b8bq1AQQCDvXj6CzI.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Ggm admin gets 2,000 requests for curfew passes after April 14, all rejected||With apprehensions rife that the ongoing 21-day lockdown may be extended, hundreds of city residents have applied for curfew passes after April 14. The administration, however, has rejected all such requests. A 21-day lockdown was initiated by put by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from March 25 to curb the spread of Covid-19.An official familiar with the development told HT that close to 2,000 new applications were received in the past two days from people asking for curfew passes after April 14.“But we are not approving any such applications, as there is no government instructions in this regard,” said the official, adding that those applications were rejected as they did not fit the current format.The official said that the district administration of Gurugram received 52,586 applications for curfew passes till date; of which 15,700 applications were approved.Of the 15,700 curfew passes, close to 12,000 passes are active as on date and around 500 passes are valid till April end, while the remaining 11,500 curfew passes will lose its validity on Tuesday.The curfew passes were approved for essential services and salary disbursement purposes only.“We believe around 3,000 to 3,500 curfew passes were approved to employers and employees for salary disbursements for a couple of days between March 30 and April 7 and they must have exhausted. For the remaining, there are multiple reasons. Some applied for supplying essential goods as retailers or main suppliers, while some applied for medical consultancy. Others wanted the passes for essential duties such as water and electricity supply. We rejected almost 70 percent applications on basis of the reasons given. We have no instructions from the government till date to issue passes after April 14,” said the official adding that the administration issued curfew passes with strict restrictions.A team of four officials KS Dhaka, CEO zila parishad, Inderjeet Kulharia, joint commissioner, MCG, Ramesh Ahuja, deputy labour commissioner and Manveer Singh, district revenue officer worked on issuing the curfew passes.In order to facilitate the curfew passes for lockdown period, an online application format was developed and it was integrated with the mobile application that one could easily download from Google playstore and use to send requests.“The process was made easy with few conditions – people had to attach his or her personal identity documents, supporting documents provided by agency or company he or she was associated with and passport size photograph. The entire administration and GMDA and officials of all other department, police worked day and night to make the lockdown successful. Not only curfew passes, GMDA’s I-CCC (integrated command and control centre) did play a crucial role during the lockdown period to monitor entire district with 300 plus CCTV cameras,” said VS Kundu, chief executive officer GMDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ggm-admin-gets-2-000-requests-for-curfew-passes-after-april-14-all-rejected/story-ni4mroCXb9QkMIzCNxb7GN.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Ola starts emergency service in Gurugram, covers 100 healthcare facilities||The district administration has allowed private cab aggregator Ola to help people access over 100 hospitals and healthcare facilities in the city. The Ola Emergency service became operational in Gurugram on Monday, after its launch in Nashik, Varanasi, Vizag, Bhubaneshwar and Bengaluru. “These services have been allowed to operate only to pre-approved locations because many people who need to access medical care may not have vehicles of their own,” Gurugram additional deputy commissioner and transport secretary Prashant Panwar said. He reiterated that there was no plan, at present, to resume any public transport services in the city.Anand Subramanian, head of communications at Ola, said, “With over 100 hospitals in the city mapped, the Ola Emergency service will be available round-the-clock for medical trips that do not require an ambulance. Trips to hospitals for medical emergencies are unavoidable, even in the current times. With Ola Emergency, we are able to facilitate trips to and from hospitals across the city through our app.”Ola Emergency’s list of serviceable locations are yet to be released. An Ola spokesperson said they were in the process of mapping additional hospitals and healthcare centres into the app and “customers will be charged a nominal fare according to the rate card”.Competitor Uber has also been operating a similar service, Uber Essentials, since April 7 in Gurugram. Besides hospitals and labs, Uber covers convenience stores and pharmacies as serviceable locations. It services 207 locations in the city for now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ola-starts-emergency-service-in-gurugram-covers-100-healthcare-facilities/story-tRmw2aNeIOMXgiWuXiXu1I.html
13-04-2020||City||Faridabad police using drones to monitor residents’ movements during lockdown||Gurugram: The Faridabad police are using five drones to ensure people abide by the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Sars-CoV-2 virus. The drones are helping the police check vehicular movement, implementation of the social distancing norms and use of masks by residents stepping out of their homes, said the police.Faridabad commissioner of police KK Rao said drones have been made a part of policing during the lockdown. “It is a key surveillance instrument to keep a tab on people’s movement. We have identified locations in 13 containment zones, sabji mandi, slum areas, and major traffic junctions to monitor the vehicular movements and to check violations, if any,” he said.The use of drones, which can help in surveillance in an area of over one kilometre, started on April 11, said the police. These drones have high-resolution cameras, and pictures and videos taken by them are better than satellite images and thus can be used for making a 3D model of the area, the police said. “They can fly up to a height of 250 metres and are equipped with night-vision cameras,” said Rao. The police department has hired four drones and outsourced six technical staff to operate them. “We had one drone and two men are trained to operate it. But one was not enough for the city, so we took a call to hire more so that all the containment zones are monitored,” said the police commissioner.Rao said they are adding another feature, starting Wednesday, using drones to announce the restrictions on the movement of people. “We are flying drones over places where we suspect violations of the lockdown can occur. After capturing the images, we immediately send them to the nearest police station which book those who violate the lockdown norms,” he said.In Faridabad, the police have booked 124 people using drones for allegedly loitering in their areas without mask.On Monday, a boy tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of positive cases to 32 in Faridabad, officials said. As many as 1,267 people are in home isolation, while 558 samples have been sent for testing. Out of 558 samples, 485 have tested negative and reports of 42 are awaited, the officials said.Faridabad deputy commissioner Yashpal Yadav said that 26 Covid-19 patients are still hospitalised.Yadav said they are regularly holding meetings with the police commissioner and chief medical officer to keep a tab on the ground situation. “The drones are of big help as in many areas the staff are unable to keep a tab. The drones are acting as our eyes and ears,” he said.Police commissioner Rao said that drones are being used for monitoring purposes. “Pickets have been set up along main roads and other arterial carriageways. The police can’t be everywhere, so remote monitoring is also needed. We have also requested resident welfare associations (RWAs) to keep a close vigil,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/faridabad-police-using-drones-to-monitor-residents-movements-during-lockdown/story-vEZfRFNjfyuRkvTUJfbTjL.html
13-04-2020||Delhi||List of Delhi’s 47 containment zones to check Covid-19 pandemic||The Delhi government on Monday added four new areas to the national capital’s list of containment zones, from where a majority of Covid-19 cases had emerged. The new additions take the number of sealed localities to 47.The government on Monday also launched a massive sanitisation drive in the city’s Covid-19 containment areas, declared as red zones, some as high-risk zones, and yet others identified as orange zones, to prevent the spread of the deadly coronavirus.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe administration also ran a pilot disinfection drive using hi-tech Japanese spray machines at the Rajinder Nagar Assembly constituency. Later this week, 50 smaller machines of the Delhi Jal Board will also be deployed as part of the disinfection drive. Areas where positive Covid-19 cases were found have been declared as containment zones.The four areas which were added to the list of containment zones on Monday are 1) Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, 2) in and around A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Paschim Vihar, 3) in and around A-280. J.J. Colony, Madipur and 4) in and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar.The Delhi Police have barricaded all the 47 containment zones and nobody can either enter or exit these containment zones till further orders.Following is the list of localities in the 47 containment zones:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. Affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Benagli Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone11. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II13. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi14. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi15. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave16. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi17. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash18. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi19. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash20. B Block Jahangirpuri21. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri22. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri23. Mansara Apartments , Vasundhara Enclave24. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur25. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar26. Vardhaman Apartments , Mayur Vihar, Phase I , Extension27. Mayurdhwaj Apartments , I P Extension, Patparganj28. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension29. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension30. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar31. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave32. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden33. G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri34. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony35. Pratap khand, Jhilmil Colony36. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh37. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane Sadar Bazaar38. Chandni Mahal39. Nabi Karim40. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar41. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar42. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar43. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden44. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari45. In and around A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Paschim Vihar46. In and around A-280. J.J. Colony, Madipur47. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/list-of-delhi-s-47-containment-zones-to-check-covid-19-pandemic/story-zY6P1Q0e3h6G3n0MVfthtJ.html
13-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus lockdown: Delhi Police’s commandos deliver rations to those in need||Until the evening of March 22, when Delhi was placed in lockdown by the state government to contain the spread of Covid-19, the commandos of the Delhi Armed Police were busy transporting prisoners such as Abu Salem and Neeraj Bawana to and from various courts in the capital for hearings in their cases. They were also posted in the north-eastern part of the city, which had been hit by riots recently, to maintain law and order.But as the National Capital came to a halt, with less crime as well as all courts being closed, and court hearings taking place via video conferencing, these commandos are now working to feed the hungry and the underprivileged in the city.The two target shooting simulation rooms of the commandos in Malviya Nagar have temporarily been converted to a space where police personnel stock food, pack it for families in need and make it ready for distribution through the vans parked outside. Before the lockdown, these vans were used for transporting close to 2,000 prisoners from prisons to courts on a daily basis. Sitting near the rifles, used by the commandos to practice shooting until last month, the police personnel are busy packing the rations. Each ration packet has four kilograms (kg) of rice, three kilos of flour, two kilos of pulses, a bottle of cooking oil and a bar of soap.The unit has formed different teams – one to liaison with the Good Samaritans who want to donate food items, another to check that all distress calls are attended to, and a third team to keep stock of the essential food items and their distribution. The distress calls are attended by two NGOs, which the unit has tied up with.“Until last month, we were busy transporting prisoners as part of our job. However, now priorities have changed. At a time like this, we are glad to be doing something for society. This is such a noble cause,” said a head constable, requesting anonymity, part of the team tasked to feed the needy.On Monday, an orphanage located on Mathura road at the Nizamuddin-Jangpura crossing near Nizamuddin’s Markaz, called the police control room informing them that they were running short of ration and essential items for the 37 children who live in the home. The caller told the police that for the past few days, delivery persons have also stopped coming to the area after reports of rise in Sars-Cov-2 cases in the adjoining Nizamuddin area. The Nizamuddin Basti has emerged as the biggest hot spot for such cases in the national Capital.Special commissioner of police Robin Hibu, the chief of the Armed Police, said that upon receiving the call, a team of officials from his unit rushed to the orphanage. “Our officials did not hesitate to go to an area where so many cases have been reported within mere 50-100 metres. No delivery persons have been coming to the orphanage. I am proud of my boys. They even packed sanitary napkins for the young girls in the orphanage. We have also assured the caretakers that the police will continue to help and reach out to those in need during this time.” Since the lockdown began, government agencies have been working to feed the underprivileged on priority and officers at police stations across the city are also engaged in the same.Officials say the unprecedented decrease in incidents of crime in the national Capital has enabled the city police to focus on helping the underprivileged deal with the lockdown. According to them, there has been a marked reduction in all types of crimes including murder, robbery, snatching, theft and kidnapping ever since the lockdown began.But how does the Delhi Armed Police manage to gather resources every day? Hibu says Good Samaritans who want to help the poor are plenty.“Till now we have distributed ration to 4,762 families in the city. The two NGOs -- Helping Hands and North East Chamber of Commerce -- informed us of those in need of supplies. We verify the information they give and hand over the items. Each packet of ration is sufficient to last a few days. The government is helping us get in touch with NGOs. There are enough good people in the city who want to help. Some of them are anonymous donors. They want to join this fight against coronavirus. It is with their help that we have been managing to reach out to the underprivileged all these days,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-lockdown-delhi-police-s-commandos-deliver-rations-to-those-in-need/story-iLNp4Bq169pWAPhoLu8VOL.html
13-04-2020||City||Bridegroom, 6 others arrested while trying to sneak into Meerut for wedding||Ghaziabad: A 25-year-old groom and his six friends were arrested by the Ghaziabad police early Monday morning while they were trying to sneak into Meerut for wedding, in violation of the national lockdown enforced to stave off the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The Muradnagar police arrested the seven and booked them under various IPC sections.All of them are residents of Muradnagar and were to Meerut in two cars when they were nabbed by the Muradnagar police around 1.30am on Monday.“On Sunday evening, we received a communication from Meerut police about two marriages in a family based at Lisadi Gate, Meerut. One baraat was to come from Meerut and another from Muradnagar, Ghaziabad. So we contacted the bridegroom at Muradnagar and asked his family not to leave for Meerut without permission/passes since the lockdown is in place,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural).“Despite warning, the seven -- the bridegroom and his six friends -- tried to go to Meerut in two cars but were nabbed during checking by the police. The groom was dressed up in full wedding attire. The seven were taken to the police station and an FIR was lodged against them. The cars were also seized,” Jadaun added.The police have booked the seven men under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life).“Now the wedding has been postponed and it will take place only after the lockdown is lifted. We were hoping to reach Meerut during night and perform wedding on Monday. We had planned to return late night. But the police stopped the groom and his friends and arrested them,” said a relative of the groom.Officials said the seven men were later released on bail and sent back home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bridegroom-6-others-arrested-while-trying-to-sneak-into-meerut-for-wedding/story-hdXyRkfDaSsFlvYID0g52O.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||Local train services unlikely to resume on Tuesday||As the 21 days lockdown owing to the spread of coronavirus will end on Tuesday, both the Central and Western Railway have stated train services are not likely to resume.“Train services will not resume in the city. Local train services could resume after April 30 if there is reduction in cases. Discussion with railway ministry reveals that it will not be advisable to commence local train operations.” said a Western Railway official. Earlier, the railway ministry was looking into categorisation of areas in the country as red, yellow and green zones. Restrictive train movements were being planned in yellow and green zones with less number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/local-train-services-unlikely-to-resume-on-tuesday/story-7Gj70JxwV2feOZwkBHoHPN.html
13-04-2020||Noida||Despite appeal, medical waste not being segregated in Noida societies||Despite the Noida authority’s appeal last week to segregate medical waste from regular garbage, the process has proved itself difficult for the inhabitants of high-rises in the city.The notice issued by the authority had said that all medical waste has to be treated through a scientific process.“Almost everyone is using masks and gloves, and according to government guidelines, medical waste has to be disposed of scientifically. So, it is a request to all residents to ensure that all such used products (gloves and masks) should be handed over to the door-to-door collection agency separately. The medical waste collected will be handed over to another agency for proper disposal,” the appeal from the authority said.Office bearers of residential bodies believe that the segregation has to start at the individual house level.“If each house hands it over separately, it becomes easier for segregation. Vendors can then separate it before handing it over to the authority. And that way it can be treated properly. However, this isn’t happening,” Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association, said.Despite the appeal, residents are not separating medical waste.“Most people are not segregating it at an individual house-level. It becomes difficult for staff to do it thoroughly afterwards which defeats the purpose. Despite handing over the segregation to the door-to-door collection agents, it is still not being implemented,” Amit Gupta, president, Prateek Wisteria, Sector 77, said.The appeal has been circulated among residents in at least 70 societies in Noida. “We are urging people to do this and hope to see better results in the coming days. Even the maintenance staff and guards are being educated on this and we are pursuing this thoroughly in all societies now. The collection vendor was not doing it, which seems to be a communication gap on the authority’s end and let’s hope that the situation gets resolved soon,” Singh said.The Uttar Pradesh government, like several other state governments, had mandated the use of masks in all public places last week, which implies that going forward there will be more generation of medical waste in the city.“To avoid this whole situation we have been requesting our residents to use cloth masks, which can be washed and re-used. That way there will be less generation of waste. We even distributed 150 cotton masks to our society staff,” Gupta said.The problem is more pronounced in high-rises as compared to individual houses.“The segregation is taking place and apart from the earlier two categories of recyclable and non-recyclable waste, we now have a third category of medical waste, which is being segregated at the first level itself and is being collected separately,” KK Jain, secretary-general, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Association, said.Noida authority officials clarified that though it is not very extensive for now, segregation is taking place in some areas.“All door-to-door collection agents have been given a third separate dustbin to collect medical waste, which is being treated separately. In the next few days, the efficiency of the process will improve further,” Vijay Rawal, project manager, health department, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/despite-appeal-medical-waste-not-being-segregated-in-noida-societies/story-5ddyIHUevPx3Y1wSVFXYlJ.html
13-04-2020||Noida||Injured civet rescued from Noida, under treatment||Highly distressed and in pain, an injured palm civet – an extremely shy nocturnal mammal --was rescued on Monday from a residential area in Sector 41, Noida.The animal was found hiding under a car bonnet on Monday afternoon. It had a fractured hind leg. According to rescuers from the animal organisation People for Animals (PFA), the civet had cuts on its chest that seemed to have healed under medical care, suggesting that the civet had been rescued earlier as well.“We received a call from residents of Sector 41 that an animal was trying to crawl across the road and seemed in distress as it was crying. We searched late Sunday night but only found it hiding under the bonnet of a car the next day. It’s undergoing treatment, we got an x-ray done at a hospital in Sector 120,” said Kaveri Rana, president, PFA, Gautam Budh Nagar.She added that they looked forward to its recovery and would then rehabilitate it in the Surajpur forest, which is one of the few protected forests in the district.“We are in talks with the chief veterinary officer also, and he has assured us help in case it is required. We will also speak to the forest department for its safe rehabilitation,” Rana added.The district forest department said that the city has several urban forest patches, which are suited for civets, while protected habitats like the Surajur wetlands are most apt.“We have a good habitat to support a breeding population of civets in Gautam Budh Nagar, though their sighting is very low because of their nocturnal behaviour,” Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.According to the forest officer census, there were a total of 13 civets spotted in the district in 2019, while in the previous census held in 2011 their number was 12.Protected under schedule-2 of part-1 of Wildlife Protection Act-1972, that makes it a punishable offence to hunt the species, civets are vulnerable species.“The civets are arboreal species which means that they like the trees and often live inside holes. They are an excellent indicator species, which means that their presence shows that the habitat is healthy with enough prey. They often eat fruits but also live off eggs and insects, and occasionally also scavenge. There are myths and misconceptions associated with them, such as they dig graves,” said Kartick Satyanarayanan, co-founder of wildlife welfare organisation Wildlife SOS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/injured-civet-rescued-from-noida-under-treatment/story-3Mjvxqn0u18oYfybH3wQeN.html
13-04-2020||Noida||Postpone power bill payment till June, demand Noida residents||City residents wrote a letter to the Uttar Pradesh government on Monday, demanding the postponement of electricity bill payment till June-end, 2020, due to the nationwide lockdown in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis. They said there are at least 60% consumers who cannot pay online or are unable to make the payment.“The electricity bill based on March’s consumption is due and has been sent to respective customers. Soon, the bill for the month of April will be sent to consumers. Only a few customers have been able to pay the bill online. At least 60% of customers, who are not paying online, are unable to process their bills. If the nationwide lockdown extends then payment of bills will not be possible. Therefore, we have requested the government to postpone the payment of electricity bills till June 30, 2020 for the ease of such customers,” said retired Brigadier Ashok Hak, convenor of the Noida chapter of confederation of Delhi-NCR residents’ welfare associations (CONRWA), a residents’ group.CONRWA said that the payment of electricity bill is not only an issue with residents but also with daily wage labourers, who are living on rent, small shopkeepers and other small traders, whose businesses are shut.“Due to the nationwide lockdown all kinds of economic activities are shut. As a result there is a liquidity crisis that is troubling every section. It will be useful if the state government extend the payment of electricity bills till June 30, 2020 to provide ease to customers in Noida,” said PS Jain president of CONRWA.There are 3.5 lakh total customers in Noida who get electricity supply from Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL). And the payment of bills has been affected due to lockdown said officials of PVVNL.“Our 65% customers pay online bills generally and after the lockdown started we are encouraging all our customers to pay the bills online to avoid any hassle. However due to lockdown the payment has been affected. We do not have any communication about postponement of bills from the state government. Such a decision on this can be taken by the government only,” said VN Singh, chief engineer, PVVNL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/postpone-power-bill-payment-till-june-demand-noida-residents/story-bE6DCCsQ66D0X3MB2kOrII.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Two arrested for fighting, breaking lockdown in Gurugram village||Two men were arrested for allegedly fighting with each other and violating the rules of the ongoing nationwide lockdown imposed by the authorities in the wake of the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The incident took place in Bhimgarh Kheri village in Sector 5 on Sunday. According to the police complaint, the alleged altercation took place due to personal enmity and the men used religious slurs against each other. The police said that the arrested men were identified as Sanjay Kumar, a native of Sultanpur and Sajid Khan, native of Auraiya. Both the places are in Uttar Pradesh. Both of them are currently residents of Bhimgarh Kheri. The incident took place on Sunday around 10.20pm when a police official spotted the two men allegedly fighting with each other.In the police complaint, Raju, assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Sector 5 police station, said, “I was doing my duty near the railway road, Bhimgarh Kheri village, when I saw these two men. They were screaming religious slurs against each other and fighting despite the lockdown.” He added that he interrogated the men and later arrested them.Samsudeen, station house officier (SHO), Sector 5 police station, said that the men are neighbours and had a personal enmity regarding some past incident. “During our probe, we did not find any communal tensions. They are neighbours and were fighting over some past incident. We arrested them immediately at the spot.”A case has been registered against the men under sections 166 (punishment for committing affray), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 5 police station on Sunday. The police said that the men were later granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/two-arrested-for-fighting-breaking-lockdown-in-gurugram-village/story-7GhIpkN3ZlKaPAmRLROCZO.html
13-04-2020||City||Pune collector directs private doctors to treat Covid-19 patients||Pune: The Pune district administration on Monday issued an order under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, taking over the services of private doctors for treating Covid-19 patients. The order, issued under Section 25 of Disaster Management Act, allows the administration to constitute a tribunal which has transferred services of enlisted private doctors.According to a press release issued by the district collector’s office, private doctors would now have to help the administration design a treatment protocol for the treatment of Covod-19 patients, especially those with comorbid conditions. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) believes that it will be a tough challenge given that the pandemic has already hit the city.Dr Aarti Nimkar, chief, IMA Pune chapter said, “IMA Pune has already started helping the district administration from Monday with their OPDs and clinics. In a recent meeting of private doctors and major hospitals with the district administration it was discussed that each medical college and major hospitals would have to prepare a Covid-19 isolation centre and provide their senior doctors to help the administration.”She said at this juncture it would be difficult to design a protocol since the city has already seen many positive cases. “There is no single drug or protocol which works for all patients and many of them have multiple health conditions. Hence, to design a treatment protocol is a challenge,” Nimkar said.With increase in the number of positive and suspected cases in the city, the district administration is scrambling to find isolation centres for suspected and their close contacts. According to the district administration, each major hospital in the city would have a nodal officer who would be in touch with Sassoon General Hospital to coordinate between the doctors. The doctors concerned would also be paid an honorarium. The collaboration between private and government doctors would help bring in the expertise required to treat comorbid patients who are most affected with Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19 (coronavirus).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-collector-directs-private-doctors-to-treat-covid-19-patients/story-F73JsjGyQ4QptafkT3EajL.html
13-04-2020||City||SHO among three cops injured while enforcing lockdown in Tauru||Gurugram: Three policemen, including a station house officer (SHO), sustained injuries on Sunday evening after they came under attack by a group of at least 11 people while trying to enforce lockdown in Tauru. Six men have been arrested in the case, the police said on Monday. According to the police, the incident took place around 7pm when head constable Anil and special police officer (SPO) Niranjan were on duty in ward number 14 on Pataudi road in Tauru. The policemen noticed a group of men loitering at the corner of two lanes and proceeded to caution them. The head constable said that he reasoned with men in one of the lanes and asked them to remain inside their homes or face prosecution for violating the lockdown orders. “In the opposite lane, some men saw us and dispersed. The SPO and I went towards the second lane and told a man, who was standing in front of his house, to go inside. As we were about to exit the lane, a group of men, armed with sticks, approached us from behind,” said Anil. The police said one of the suspects started arguing with us. “As the argument escalated, the men started hitting us with sticks. After a brief assault, the suspects ran away and we called for backup from the police station,” the head constable said. Anil further said that several policemen, including the SHO of Tauru City police station, arrived and identified the main suspect and tried to apprehend him. “Suddenly, several suspects started pelting stones and one of the stones hit the SHO on the head,” he said.The police said that Anil sustained a shoulder injury and SPO Niranjan was hit on his hand, while the SHO suffered two stitches on the head. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said the injured policemen were administered first aid and returned to the duty. “Eleven suspects have been identified, while others are yet to be identified,” said the police official, adding that six people have been arrested. A case was registered against the suspects under sections 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 379 B (snatching with hurt, wrongful restraint or fear of hurt), 307 (attempt to murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code at Tauru City police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sho-among-three-cops-injured-while-enforcing-lockdown-in-tauru/story-d3d888kN6Pg2jFwmaFktpM.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||Congress slams Modi govt for bias against Maha over not allowing CSR funds under CM relief, BJP refutes allegations||The state Congress has slammed the Centre for bias against Maharashtra in its time of need by not granting a go ahead to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to accept funds under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) even though the same has been permitted for the recently formed Prime Minister Cares Fund. PM Cares Fund was formed recently to tackle coronavirus. Congress spokesperson and general secretary Sachin Sawant said that despite several Chief Ministers including Uddhav Thackeray raising this issue in the recent meeting with the Prime Minister, no clarification or assurance has so far been given to the states. BJP has refuted this as a false narrative and pointed out that the law amending Companies Act to allow for CSR only in PM relief fund was enacted in 2013 during former UPA II regime.``Considering the gravity of the Covid-19 problem in Maharashtra, non receipt of rightful funds from the Union government and also their insufficient aid for tackling coronavirus, Maharashtra needs CM relief fund like never before. While CM relief Fund has been in existence for several years the Union government has not considered it to be eligible for CSR funding,’’ said Sawant, who has also written a letter stating the same to revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat along with Chief Minister Thackeray and deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar.Sawant added that while several industrialists and business houses wanted to donate to CM Relief fund, this clause would deter them from doing the same and channel the funds to the centre.Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis however said, ``It was in 2013 that the law was enacted which stated that CSR funds can be given only to PM Relief Fund and not to CM Relief Fund at the state level. This is not a decision taken by the Modi government. At the same time the Centre allows CSR funding being given to the state disaster management fund. Why is this government not using this route ?’’Sawant accepted that the Centre via its general circular dated April 10 had clarified that contribution by corporates to the State Disaster Response Fund can qualify as CSR expenditure but pointed out that there was ambiguity about accepting such funds from corporates in the Act.Since the Act was enacted, he said corporate funds or individual contributions haven’t been accepted in this Fund because there are no provisions for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/congress-slams-modi-govt-for-bias-against-maha-over-not-allowing-csr-funds-under-cm-relief-bjp-refutes-allegations/story-3Gyk13M4fYZLRWGEV08u6O.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana residents send medicines to loved ones via post||The lockdown has led to the non-availability of some medicines in certain places, as such many people are now using the services of the postal department to ensure that their loved ones get the medicine they need.The shortage is more acute in big cities where the demand is more. People getting treated in a different city are stranded and dependant on relatives for medicines. Rajguru Nagar branch sub-post office master Sarita Madaan said the branch had booked 85 parcels of medicine since the lockdown. “Before the lockdown, we rarely received bookings for medicines as people mainly relied on private courier companies but now we deliver medicines on a regular basis. People have medicines delivered within the state and to neighbouring states.”She said the branch is receiving parcel bookings for Hoshiarpur, Banga, Chandigarh, Kharar, Sangrur, Patiala, Ferozepur Cantonment and Moga.“Today, a woman whose son works in Chandigarh, requested that her package containing medicines be delivered urgently. She said her son was being treated by a doctor in Ludhiana and was unable to get the prescribed medicines in the UT,” she said. Ludhiana senior superintendent of post office Amanpreet Singh said in a day, the Ludhiana post circle, which covers 45 post offices in urban areas and 11 branch offices (BO) that in turn cater to 85 villages, on an average receive 120 medicine parcels for delivery.“We are priortising the delivery of medicines that are separately packaged and sorted at the National Sorting Hub office based at the Ludhiana railway station. The hub receives mail from 11 districts,” said Amanpreet.Amid the lockdown, all branches under the Head Post Office, Ludhiana, are only accepting booking to cities and towns in Punjab, neighbouring states of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and the five metros of Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Chennai and Bengaluru. With trains and buses shut, the postal department is primarily relying on its own Mail Motor Services (MMS) for carrying out delivery services within the state and in adjacent states while airlines are being used to deliver parcels in the metros. “The postal department tries to ensure that medicine orders within the state are delivered the very next day. For Himachal Pradesh and Haryana, it takes two to three days while for the metro cities, the parcels are delivered within the week,” he said. The official added that the department was contacting city-based pharma companies to get consignment through India Posts since all other courier services were shut. How to prepare a package for medicines BOX Take a box. Line it with cotton or a newspaper. Syrup should not be in glass bottles. Cover the box with the clean white paper and clearly mention the particulars of the receiver and giver. Add mobile numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-residents-send-medicines-to-loved-ones-via-post/story-WJli9ZEt3b2Fjyf1JXesRL.html
13-04-2020||City||Yamuna authority to sanitise 96 villages in Covid disinfection drive||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority on Monday said it has identified a total of 96 villages where regular disinfection drives will be carried out to contain the spread of Covid-19.The drive will cover villages like Rohi, Parohi, Banwaribas, Dayanatpur, Kishorpur and Ranhera where the Noida International Greenfield airport project is proposed to be built along the Yamuna Expressway. It has also installed a disinfectant tunnel for employees who are engaged in the sanitisation drive.The Uttar Pradesh government on April 24, 2001, had established Yeida for developing areas between Greater Noida and Agra. The objective was to set up industries and generate employment and develop urban areas in the region. Around 2 lakh hectares from 1,187 villages of six districts — Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura and Agra — were notified under Yeida. As of now no Covid-19 positive case has been found in any of the villages along the expressway, which falls under the jurisdiction of Yeida. However, the staff has been pressed into service and a massive sanitation exercise undertaken as a precautionary measure..“We have 200 staff members, who are engaged in the task of conducting disinfection drive. We have decided to disinfect 96 villages where we are taking care of civic amenities, including sanitation, waste collection. Four Yeida teams will regularly conduct disinfection drives in these 96 villages so that these areas stay safe from Covid-19 ,” said Shailendra Bhatia, officer on special duty of the Yeida.The Yeida is mixing sodium hypochlorite in water tanks and spraying the solution on common spaces, that include footpaths, roads, community centres and houses, among other areas.The Yeida chief executive officer Arun Vir Singh has directed his staff to maintain social distancing properly so that they stay safe .“Our staff will pass through the disinfectant tunnel to sanitise themselves. Once a person passes through they can be disinfected in 30 seconds,” said Bhatia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamuna-authority-to-sanitise-96-villages-in-covid-disinfection-drive/story-mWJtS9F2QvsdmXR9iVPhtJ.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Wrestling trainee steals ₹3 lakh from Ludhiana SP’s account||A wrestling trainee has allegedly stolen ₹3 lakh from the salary account of a superintendent of police (SP) deputed with the third Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB). The incident took place in January but police registered a case on Sunday.The accused, Dharminder Singh, 32, of Bharatpur of Rajasthan, was availing training at an ‘akhara’ in Manakwal village on Dhandhran road, which is run by the complainant, SP Kehar Singh, of Urban Estate, Dugri. The SP had filed a complaint with a police station in Dugri in January, but no action was taken as the ‘akhara’ where the accused was staying fell in the jurisdiction of the Sadar police. On Sunday, the SP filed a complaint at the Sadar Police station, after which an FIR was registered against the accused.The SP said he had once handed him his debit card and PIN and asked him to withdraw money from his account. Subsequently, the accused allegedly stole his debit card. When the SP received a call from his bank regarding the withdrawal of ₹72,000 from his salary account, he checked his account particulars and found that ₹3 lakh had been stolen.Investigating officer, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Paramjit Singh, said a case had been registered under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wrestling-trainee-steals-3-lakh-from-ludhiana-sp-s-account/story-ctFOhOKLXkZejKgNTsl0AM.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Labourer held for making fake distress call to Ludhiana police||A labourer was arrested for sending a false alarm to the police control room, claiming that he had run out of essential supplies and his family was starving. When cops reached the spot, they found that he had adequate groceries, including rice, flour, pulses, vegetables and almonds, at his house.The accused has been identified as Pawittar Kumar of Sherpur Kalan.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Mewa Ram, who is investigating the case, said that on Sunday a distress call was received at police control room. “The caller told us that he has nothing to eat and his family is starving. A team was immediately dispatched to his house. But when the team reached there, they found adequate supplies,” the ASI said.When questioned, the labourer told the police that due to uncertainty over the lockdown, he wanted to store more groceries at home for his family.The ASI said that a case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 182 (false information, with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against him.BOX: NOT THE FIRST CASEApril 9: A labourer sent a false alarm to the police control room and Bihar government that at least 300 migrants in Jamalpur area were starving. When the municipal corporation and police teams reached the spot, they found all families had adequate supplies to last at least a month.April 7: A labour contractor, hailing from Bihar, sent an email to the Bihar government, claiming that he has nothing to eat.But when the police reached his home in Kohara village, following a communication from the Bihar government, they found that the man was hoarding groceries. April 5: A resident of Azad Nagar had made a similar call to the control room dealing with the novel coronavirus outbreak, claiming that he and his family members were starving. When the police reached his home to deliver essentials, it was found that the family had adequate supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/labourer-held-for-making-fake-distress-call-to-ludhiana-police/story-I3ZZgIUOauBgwgzK7bukcI.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||LIFE IN TIMES OF LOCKDOWN: ‘Indulge in creative activities, forgo negativity’||Dronacharya awardee Sukhdev Singh Pannu says with worrisome news regarding the coronavirus pouring in from all quarters people were giving in to negativity and developing phobias.The 65-year-old city-based athletic coach says the best way to stop fixating on the pandemic is to keep oneself occupied.Ask him his schedule during the lockdown and Pannu says he starts the day at 6.30am and devotes one-and-half hour practicing yoga, jogging and strengthening his core. Later, he takes up housework such as cooking and cleaning. He also takes out time to enhance his knowledge about sports through the internet. He spends his evening guiding his students telephonically.“My wife was in Canada with our younger son when the lockdown was imposed. I am at home with my 86-old-year mother and elder son. My mother is teaching me to cook these days,” he says with a laugh.He adds that keeping active was helping him stay physically and mentally fit.“However, I have observed that many residents are killing time watching TV or browsing the social media. They are not involved in any physical activity, which is leading to negative thoughts and has an adverse impact on the health,” he says.Pannu says that to avoid boredom and to replace negative thoughts with positive ones, people should keep themselves busy with creative activities. He says in order to tackle this unprecedented situation, we must keep ourselves mentally and physically fit. He suggests that one should spend 15-20 minutes exercising or doing yoga. “People should also walk or jog on the terrace or veranda.“One should make the best of the situation and learn something new. Today, we can find everything on the internet. So, one can chose to learn gardening, dancing, cooking or some other skill, rather than just sitting or lying in one place,” Pannu says, signing off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/life-in-times-of-lockdown-indulge-in-creative-activities-forgo-negativity/story-QIErUCtSEhc2Qa53HEfvjN.html
13-04-2020||Delhi||One cop arrested for transporting liquor, another sent to Police Lines for excessive force||A policeman was arrested for transporting liquor in north-west Delhi’s Mahendra Park and another was sent to Police Lines for beating up two men in east Delhi’s Jagatpuri, the police said on Monday. In the first instance, the Mahendra Park police received a tip about illicit liquor being brought to Jahangirpuri in a Swift Dzire car on Sunday. “There were four persons in the car and they were carrying 54 bottles of whiskey of two different brands. The alcohol was meant for sale only in Haryana,” said Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west). The men were arrested and booked under sections of the Excise Act and the Indian Penal Code. The DCP identified one of the arrested men as Ravinder, a constable posted at the Begumpur police station of Rohini district. Action against the second policeman was taken in Jagatpuri wherein a video recorded by a resident showed a policeman in plain clothes raining blows a lathi on two scooter-borne men. DK Gupta, deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara), said that the man raining the blows is a constable who was trying to enforce the lockdown. For using excessive force, he has been sent to Police Lines, the DCP added. The video showed a policeman in uniform threatening to hit the two scooter-borne men with a lathi. Even as the men tried to explain why they were out during the lockdown, another man in plainclothes took the lathi from him and began hitting the two men. While one of them tried to get away after receiving a couple of blows, the other man continued to be hit even as his scooter fell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/one-cop-arrested-for-transporting-liquor-another-sent-to-police-lines-for-excessive-force/story-RHutx3A3DaA4lO12N7Jy9J.html
13-04-2020||Delhi||Man held for beating up vegetable vendor in Badarpur||Delhi Police on Monday arrested a man for allegedly attacking a vegetable vendor with a stick and demanding to see his Aadhaar card in order to ascertain his religion and name. A video of the incident later surfaced on microblogging site Twitter, prompting Delhi Police to swing into action.Police identified the attacker as Praveen Babbar, who runs a tour and travels agency. He had allegedly attacked the vegetable vendor on Tajpur Road on April 10 and was arrested from Badarpur Extension, where he lives with his family.A case was registered at Badarpur police station. “Babbar has been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code,” said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said.In the 44-second video, the vendor is seen with a vegetable pushcart. Apart from the attacker and the person making the video, at least three other people are seen at the spot. One of them can be heard threatening the vendor. . The vegetable vendor, Mohammad Salim, said the attack took place barely 20 metres away from his rented accommodation where he lives with his family. Salim said that his brother was originally selling vegetable on the cart, but had gone to eat lunch. So he was filling in.“Around 1.30 pm. I was standing near the cart when four men came and one of them asked me my name and demanded my Aadhaar Card. I told him my Aadhaar card was at home. The man started hurling abuses at me as soon as he heard my name. He then grabbed a stick and began assaulting me. He told me not to sell vegetables or come into the neighbourhood,” said Salim.The vegetable seller said that he did not inform the police or file a complaint, thinking that those men were police personnel. “I was scared and decided not to file a police complaint,” added Salim. The incident came to light the next day when a video began circulating on Twitter. The Twitter user tagged Delhi Police, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Dwarka, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia. Aam Aadmi Party’s Malviya Nagar legislator Somnath Bharti sought action from the Delhi Police commissioner tagging him in his tweet. “.@CPDelhi if your police can bring back stolen purse of niece of PM within 1-2 days, I am sure that this shameless creature can be traced by you. Plz do justice with him and assure Delhi that any and every attempt to divide Delhi on religious lines will be dealt with iron hands (sic),” the AAP legislator tweeted. On Monday, deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena responded to the AAP leader’s tweet and tweeted, “Cognizance of the incident has already been taken. FIR has been registered under appropriate sections of law & perpetrator of crime has been arrested. Such incidents shall not be tolerated at any cost & law will take its own course against such persons.” DCP Meena said that during the probe, the investigators identified the owner of a motorcycle seen in the video and questioned its owner, Sudhanshu. “Sudhansu told us that the incident happened at Tajpur Road and identified the attacker as Praveen Babbar,” said Meena. Babbar, the DCP added, stated that there were about 10 vendors selling vegetables that area. “He had asked the vegetable vendor to move from there as lockdown had been enforced, but he did not listen. At this Babbar started to beat him up,” the DCP added, quoting Babbar’s statement. Last week, a similar video of racism pertaining to Covid-19 had surfaced on social media. In the video, a man was seen bleeding from his leg and pleading to his attackers that he was not spreading the virus. The police later found that the incident took place in outer Delhi’s Bawana. Three men were arrested for the incident. On April 8, two women doctors of a government hospital were allegedly molested and assaulted in south Delhi’s Gulmohar Enclave by a 42-year-old interior designer living in the same neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-held-for-beating-up-vegetable-vendor-in-badarpur/story-1Js0rTsY5gYI8WtGhQFyeL.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||State education department rolls out e-learning content for Class 1-9||The state education department started rolling out digital learning content to students in government and aided schools across Maharashtra on Monday (April 13). Under the initiative, students from Class 1 to 9 can watch videos, listen to recorded lessons and solve exercises on their phones. The content is hosted on the Diksha app which is a ministry of human resource department (MHRD) platform for e-learning. Every day, students would be sent a set of links on the phones of their parents or guardians, and they can access this content as per their convenience to continue learning. Dinkar Patil, director, Maharashtra State Council for Educational Research and Training, that is overlooking the initiative, said, “The Diksha app already has nearly 9,000 different uploads for learning content. But to ensure that students follow the right sequence, we will share links from the app which would make it easy for them to access the content.” The links will be shared with the students through their class teachers. The department is also working on the use of television and radio to air educational content for students who do not have access to smartphones. “MHRD’s Swayam channel will host this content for two hours in the morning and evening every day. We are working on the content and it should begin in a couple of days,” added Patil. With the education department’s announcement of promoting students from Class 1 to 9 based on their previous scores, several teachers had raised concerns about learning coming to a standstill. The department has thus ensured that through online education, students stay in sync with studies even as they are at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-education-department-rolls-out-e-learning-content-for-class-1-9/story-Ls6xhDUWZHajakeIITKOjI.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||Man arrested for forging BMC identity card||A 25-year-old was booked by Oshiwara police for allegedly forging the identity card of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) so that he can travel freely and dodge police checking during the ongoing lockdown. The accused, Shahare Alam Khan is a resident of Vikas Nagar in Behrampada. On Saturday evening, Khan was stopped by police at a checkpost near Behrampada. Khan told police that he was employed with the civic body on contract basis and showed them an identity card. The police personnel suspected something amiss and decided to verify the credentials.Investigations revealed that the card was forged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-forging-bmc-identity-card/story-LIeqcxOvHPOUuqnsVL37KP.html
13-04-2020||City||Hisar medical college ends animal testing||Maharaja Agrasen Medical College at Hisar’s Agroha has ended the practice of using rabbits to train its undergraduate students after one of them alerted People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (Peta) India – an animal rights organisation.College director and principal Dr Gopal Singal said, “Many activities had already been suspended in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. But, after a communication with Peta, we have stopped using rabbits for testing which were earlier being used to train undergraduate medical students at the institute.”He said the institution was not using any animal for experiments, even for demonstration, in the undergraduate courses. According to a press release of Peta, in its letter to the college, it pointed out that the use of rabbits, who were denied food for several days at a time and were being held in crowded cages, appeared to violate not only the Medical Council of India’s 2014 notification and the Indian government’s 2012 directive to replace animal dissection with modern, non-animal teaching methods at the undergraduate level, but also the regulations established by the Committee for the Purpose of Control and Supervision of Experiments on Animals on the use of animals in experiments. In the release, Peta India research associate Dr Ankita Pandey said, “We are urging all medical colleges to take note of this incident and keep animal experiments and dissection out of the classroom and instead use superior non-animal teaching methods.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hisar-medical-college-ends-animal-testing/story-2HM8ylxU6OmbbS1m07QZIP.html
13-04-2020||City||As Canada airlifts citizens, permanent residents stranded in India allege discrimination||Canadian permanent residents (PRs) stranded in India due to the countrywide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 have alleged discrimination by their government, saying it is only airlifting its citizens by special chartered flights.PRs given permanent resident status by immigrating to Canada are not Canadian citizens. Thousands of such people are stranded in India, especially Punjab, feel the Canadian authorities have left them in the lunch.“My wife and two sons are Canadian citizens and in Vancouver right now. We are not being allowed to go there by special charter flights arranged by the Canadian government for people stranded here,” says Gurpal Singh from Kabir Park. He and his parents hold Canadian PRs.“People are ready to pay. Also, why are PRs from Pakistan and Nepal being allowed to go back but not us?” he asked. As many as 200 such Canadian PRs have written to the consul general of Canada in Chandigarh to raise the issue. “Having no option to return, Canadian PRs are forced to wait for the Indian airspace to open, which honestly, does not appear to be happening anytime soon”, it reads.“We understand that there are a large number of Canadian citizens currently stuck in India, and that the government of Canada must prioritise repatriating citizens first. We appreciate all the efforts being put in by your office, which has been working nonstop to organise a way home for Canadian citizens in India. Having said that, we consider ourselves an integral part of the Canadian society. We have our family, jobs, houses, and friends in various parts of Canada. And we are desperate to go home as well, just like the citizens, which is not possible without your urgent intervention,” the letter reads.In their plea to the counsul general, the PRs say, “All of us were well established in our respective lives when we left from India and we have ever since been contributing towards the growth of Canada in every sector, be it education,medicine, research, engineering, social work, paying our share of taxes, creating employment opportunities for fellow Canadians, and generally keeping the economy running. Our share is no less than that of citizens in building a great country like Canada. Therefore, is it too much to demand our share of fair treatment as well, particularlywhen we need it the most? The Canadian border is open for Canadian citizens as well as the PRs. In other countries, you have included PRs (without any clause affixed) in your repatriation missions. Thus, why should PRs from India be left behind?”Listing the names of 200 PRs wanting to fly back to Canada, the letter reads, “Though this list is not exhaustive by any means but it still gives you an idea as to the number of PRs that are desperate, yet not getting the desired support from the government to return to Canada. It is, therefore, our kind and earnest request, to please include the permanent residents of Canada (that are not accompanied by citizens) as well in your forthcoming flights from India.”Abhinav Rana, a PR from Chandigarh, said they had also sent emails and tweeted to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Foreign Affairs Minister Philippe Champagne appealing for help and the PM’s office had responded in a revert email saying their case would be considered.The PRs have also started a twitter campaign, #CanadianPRinDistressInIndia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-canada-airlifts-citizens-permanent-residents-stranded-in-india-allege-discrimination/story-uD214LNBJybQ2LpP3nRyKP.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab milk producers grapple with price drop, erratic payments amid lockdown||As the lockdown continues, milk producers in Punjab are struggling with low demand, price reduction and irregular payments by mass procurers.As consumption by small-scale milk processers, dairies and halwais these days is nearly negligible, the milk producers are dependent on state milk cooperative Milkfed and big private players like Amul and Nestle for procurement.Prior to the lockdown, 3.15 crore litres of milk were produced in the state daily, but the current figures are not known to us yet, said Milkfed managing director Kamaldeep Singh Sangha. “Around 60 lakh litres are procured by private milk processing brands. Of this, Milkfed is processes 27 lakh litres every day, while the other brands are collectively processing 30-35 lakh litres of milk,” said Sangha. Milkfed sells products under the Verka brand.Sukhwinder Singh a milk producer who also manages a collection centre for milk processors in his village Bhattian, Samrala, told HT that Milkfed and other brands have not paid dairy farmers for the last 20 days. After price revision, the procurement price of buffalo milk has been reduced to ₹47.25/litre and that of cow milk to ₹30-32/litre.Former Verka milk plant head Parminder Singh Chalaki seconded that due to lockdown the entire procurement burden was on the state cooperative and the big private firms. He asked the state government to support milk producers on the pattern of Haryana government which is giving ₹5/litre support over and above the prevailing prices.Reportedly, milk supplies from Punjab to Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi are almost nil, which used to be ₹5 lakh litres daily earlier. “We’re in the process of increasing the production of ultra-heat treatment (UHT) milk packs with shelf-life of six months. Nowadays, UHT is majorly bought by the army,” said Sangha.According to him, Milkfed is currently selling 11 lakh litres of milk daily, while 16 lakh litres go into production of milk powder and white butter. “Every day, the state cooperative procures milk worth ₹10 crore and to keep its operations going in the wake of dwindling sales, it has taken a credit of ₹100 crore and is seeking additional ₹150 crore,” said Sangha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-milk-producers-grapple-with-price-drop-erratic-payments-amid-lockdown/story-u1zT6hn5lx31BFXQmN8bIM.html
13-04-2020||City||Police officer stationed at Ludhiana’s New Sabzi Mandi tests positive for Covid-19||In a major blow to the police department’s drive to control the spread of Covid-19, Anil Kohli, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) north, has been diagnosed with the disease. Fifteen others who had come in contact with him have also been hospitalised.Kohli had been stationed at the New Sabzi Mandi near Jalandhar Bypass to check overcrowding. It is suspected that he may have come in contact with an infected person during duty.Soon after Rakesh Agrawal, police commissioner, confirmed Kohli’s status, 15 persons, including four family members and station house officers (SHO) of the police stations at Jodhewal Basti, Salem Tabri and Daresi, were quarantined .Kohli had been taken to PS Hospital near Sherpur Chowk a week ago following complaints of dry cough, fever and breathing difficulty.Dr Rajesh Bagga, civil surgon, said Kohli’s first samples had tested negative, but the latest report after a retest was positive.The ACP is currently on ventilator support, health department, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/police-officer-stationed-at-new-sabzi-mandi-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-AG9s5RyQ5QwlEFDZEUiF5H.html
13-04-2020||Noida||GB Nagar home guards feed unemployed migrants without masks, salaries||Feeding hundreds of unemployed workers and their families in Noida’s Sector 8 is a bitter-sweet experience for Satish Kumar, a home guard. The sight of families eating makes him think of his own eight-year-old daughter and wife. They live in Bulandshahr and have no ration or money. Kumar, too, has no money to send them; he hasn’t been paid yet. “They have no ration, no money. My daughter told me yesterday she has not had any milk in 15 days. I am helpless as I haven’t received my salary for March,” he said.Kumar is one among the nearly 600 home guards—deployed at collectorate, police stations, other government offices and on emergency duties such as distribution centres for essential commodities, including sealed hot spots—who are yet to receive their salaries for the month of March.The ground reality shows the orders issued by the Central and state governments are not being followed. After the announcement of lockdown, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced that the wages or salaries of any government employee will not be cut and had directed government authorities to “ensure timely payment of salaries”.“Forget salaries, we don’t even have masks,” said another home guard Sujeet Chowdhary, who added that to top it all they were being ill-treated by their seniors. Pointing at dozens of his colleagues working near Sector 22, a hot spot, he said, “See, we are working in the most dangerous areas. But, has anyone noticed that we have not been given masks. Either we use our old masks or we use our towels to save ourselves.”Chowdhary’s colleague Dinesh Singh was rebuked by his platoon commander when he asked for masks two days ago. “He said that nobody has invited us to work as home guards. He has made it clear that that they will not provide us any protective gear. When I asked him about March’s salary, he said that it will be given once this crisis is over,” he said.When contacted, GB Nagar district commandant (home guards) Vedpal Singh Chaprana said that salaries could not be processed in the district treasury due to the Covid-19 outbreak. “Everyone is on duty these days. It is a time-taking exercise. We have not collected the muster rolls from guards’ respective places of posting. It will be verified first. Then, we will send the compiled report to the treasury, from where it will be processed to banks for payment,” he said.When asked about his salary, Chaprana replied: “Our case is different. We are not the part-time employees.”Asked when the home guards were likely to get face masks, Chaprana’s response was a light-veined, “The arrangement will be made.”Since the outbreak in December last year, Covid-19 pandemic has claimed over 1 lakh lives globally and 326 in India, where an increasing number of states, including Uttar Pradesh, have made it mandatory to wear face masks before going out to get essential supplies amid a nationwide lockdown. Governments have said citizens who are caught without a face mask could even face jail. Many countries that have reopened post lockdowns have reported a second wave of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-home-guards-feed-unemployed-migrants-without-masks-salaries/story-aUbq8yaouA9VjwJqjvHkNP.html
13-04-2020||City||Noida apartment owners make Roti Bank for needy amid Covid 19 pandemic||NOIDA: To ensure that the homeless and persons from impoverished backgrounds do not go hungry amid the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19, apartment owners on Sunday started a ‘roti bank’ by collecting two chapatis from each flat in apartment complexes located in sectors 78 and 79 of Noida.After collection, the home-made chapatis are taken to a community kitchen run by the Noida authority, located in nearby Sorkha village, and then delivered to migrant daily workers and others living in the city.The initiative was started by apartment owners of three housing complexes of Sector 78 -- Antriksh Golf View 1, Golf View 2, Assotech Windsor Court -- and Sportswood in Sector 79, who came together to start this group.“We have requested other residents and apartment owners via Whatsapp groups and other social networking channels to make two extra chapatis at home daily to help those in need. Each apartment owner will hand over the items to security guards in a packet, after which the authority’s representative will collect these packets daily in the evening,” said Brijesh Singh, an apartment owner.Volunteers said they hope all families come forward to donate. “We hope we will are successful in helping as many people as we can and hope other society residents also join us in this cause,” said a volunteer, requesting anonymity.The initiative was started to help the Noida authority feed those in need as arranging food for so many people on a daily basis is not an easy task for any one entity alone, said volunteers.Officials said the authority has approved this plan of these socially active apartment owners, who want to help the impoverished sections of the society.“Social groups are coming forward in large numbers to help the needy get regular food, across the city. We will continue serving food as per government orders,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the authority.Volunteers say they contacted people from different societies. However, they have decided not to give credit to any one person for the same as it is a group effort, they add.They say that as of now, this campaign is being run for two weeks, but they can extend it if more people come forward. The authority is running five community kitchens in the city – at Shani temple Sector 14A, Harola in Sector 5, Bhangel, Sorkha and Mamura – to feed those in need. So far, it has distributed a total of 6,91,943 food packets, Many social groups are also contributing to this job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-apartment-owners-make-roti-bank-for-needy-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-M8jJcO3zk4F2FtwYeyi9xK.html
13-04-2020||Noida||For local leaders video conferencing, social media are the way to go||Even as the nation continues to maintain a semblance of normalcy during the ongoing lockdown, local public representatives have resorted to speaking with their constituents via video conferencing and social media.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced a three-week nationwide lockdown on March 24 and with the imposition of Section 144 in the district, any gathering of people was out of the question. So to raise their concerns, people started interacting with local leaders via social media.“I did a Facebook live session today for an hour during which people raised their issues. In any place where the public said that they are not getting essential services, we took measures to help them out. The whole social media thing started when we first started interacting with the state ministers and is now a means to speak with the public as well,” said Dhirendra Singh, MLA, Jewar.He said that he is constantly speaking with residents of his constituency. “We are interacting via video calls with representatives of both sectors and high-rises. Yesterday I also spoke with a few NRIs. In fact, instructions to the public kitchen staff in Jewar are also being given through video calls. This way problems are noticed and we work on resolving them,” said Singh.In Noida city as well, office bearers of various residential bodies are interacting with elected leaders in this manner.“Representatives of at least 15 high-rises interacted with the Noida MLA on Friday. The main issues were the dos and don’ts for the apartments, garbage collection, regulation of retail prices, payment of water bills, etc. and some passes for residential volunteers for local movement,” said Rajesh Sahay, secretary general, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association.In addition, office bearers from individual sectors and the Federation of Noida Residents’ Welfare Associations have also conducted online meetings with Noida MLA Pankaj Singh.Singh said that it is not just interaction with residents; meetings with party workers are also taking place via video conferencing. “I have spoken to residents today as well and will continue to do so in the next few days. I am planning an interaction with industrial bodies also soon. We are speaking with party workers also in a similar manner. No one had ever thought that this is what it would come to but we are making the best of it. Public concerns are being looked into and this is a great platform to discuss common issues,” said Pankaj.Residents are also heavily relying on social media platforms for their routine work.“We are using the society’s WhatSapp group to exchange books among various students from different classes,” said Dharmendra Sharma, president, RWA, Sector 34.Residents are offering their children’s old school books to others as the academic session has now begun in most educational institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/for-local-leaders-video-conferencing-social-media-are-the-way-to-go/story-m2hoNm0lp7dtzyO4NeIO1L.html
13-04-2020||Noida||Corona warriors deliver essential services in Noida||When vendors couldn’t turn up on time to deliver essential services such as groceries, milk or vegetables in some areas amid the lockdown, particularly in sectors that are sealed for being coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hot spots, many junior engineers, horticulture inspectors and other government officials helped to deliver goods at odd hours.At times vendors are late or left with no supply, and residents, particularly elders, call the Noida authority that is supplying essential services for help.“If anyone in any sector be it normal or part of sealed hot spots needs vegetables, fruits, milk, groceries or even medicine, then we try to address the issue immediately no matter what time it is. Our motive is that people get immediate help in this time of crisis. Our juniors engineers, inspectors or other team members are delivering essential goods personally at homes, either with a vendor or by themselves,” said Rajeev Tyagi, general manager of the Noida authority.There are 25 hot spots in Gautam Budh Nagar district. On Saturday morning, Sumitra V Goenka sought help from the Noida authority as she needed vegetables and other essential goods in Sector 44, which is one of the hot spots. The authority delivered vegetables to her.“She was facing issues in locating the vendor and was stressed out. Our junior engineer Dinesh Lawania immediately provided help. Similarly, our staff delivered all essential goods to people in all hot spots and other areas immediately. We are trying to resolve all issues, wherever people are facing them,” said Tyagi.In Wazidpur, another hot spot, a family had issues in locating the vendor assigned to the area and called the authority’s engineer at night.“At our request, the junior engineer himself came with our order in the night. We are thankful to the Noida authority, that their junior staff is working day and night, and personally visiting people in need of essential services,” said Dipika Singh, a resident of Wazidpur. Similarly in Sector 22, which is also a hot spot and sealed, the authority immediately sent their staff when the assigned vendor did not turn up for some reason.“Senior Noida authority officials immediately called me and rushed junior staff to the sector. They immediately arranged another vendor, who provided all essential goods. We must appreciate and encourage these corona warriors, who are coming out daily for their services because their lives are also at risk,” said Sudharshan Awasthi a resident of Sector 22. Even Sector 51 residents were irate on Saturday as they did not receive the supply of essential goods.“I called up the Noida authority and informed them that people are angry. In half an hour, the junior engineer and other staff along with vendors reached our sector with vegetables, fruits, medicines and milk. We appreciated their effort,” said Sanjiv Kumar, general secretary of the Sector 51 residents’ welfare association.The Noida authority’s team also promptly helped residents after Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh’s intervention.“Some people sought help from me. We informed the Noida authority and they immediately helped the persons in need. Helping the needy in a crisis is our duty and we are trying to do our best,” said Singh.Residents started facing problems after the entry of vendors was prohibited inside the housing complexes once the UP government identified hot spots. But on Sunday, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY strictly ordered that goods must be delivered at doorsteps.“The administration and the police have allowed for the provision of door delivery of essential goods inside the hot spots. Some residents’ welfare associations are forcing residents to go to the gate compulsorily. Request them to follow rules. Violations shall be strictly dealt with,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/corona-warriors-deliver-essential-services-in-noida/story-OM9mKs49d92dJZ7QOcNebO.html
13-04-2020||City||Entry of general public banned in Sahibabad market after videos of crowds gathering emerge||After videos of people flouting of norms of social distancing went viral, officials banned the entry of general public in Ghaziabad’s biggest government vegetable market — Sahibabad Mandi. The officials said that from now on only the wholesalers and retailers will be allowed to enter the market and operations will take place between 10pm to 7am.The decision was taken by officials when, two days ago, some videos went viral in which huge crowd of local residents and traders were seen buying and selling vegetables within the Sahibabad market premises. The market is a favourite destination of residents of Indirapuram, Vasundhara, Vaishali and Sahibabad to buy fresh produce. “The entry of general public in the market has been banned as social distancing was not being followed. From now on, only the wholesalers and retailers will be allowed inside the market. We already have 600 registered wholesalers and passes will be issued to retailers who are attached to the wholesalers. Others who are not attached to the wholesalers will be issued passes only if they are able to produce bills of previous purchases,” said Vishvendra Kumar, secretary of Mandi Samiti.The Sahibabad vegetable market sees the entry of about 800-1000 retailers each day while the wholesalers have shops inside the market.“The produce, in the form of fruits and vegetables, is transported via 50 trucks and other vehicles from different states, including Uttarakhand, Jammu & Kashmir, western Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat, among others. Exit is also given to about 800 vehicles which are brought in by retailers. Since the entry of public is now banned, residents need not come to the market. They can make purchases from the retailers in their areas,” Singh added.Sahibabad police, on Saturday, also registered an FIR against 18 persons under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“The 18 persons who were booked were all retailers. They were let off after they furnished personal bonds. We conducted a raid early on Saturday morning and found that people were crowding and not observing social distancing, while the retailers had set up temporary shops where they were selling vegetables to the public,” said Rakesh Mishra, circle officer (Sahibabad).“Despite the lockdown, people were running to the vegetable market to get their daily supplies. This also jeopardised social distancing,” he added.As per new the norms, only farmers, wholesalers, etc. will be allowed entry to the market from 10pm to 1am while the retailers who come for purchase of fruits and vegetables will be allowed entry from 1am to 7am every day.The district is presently under lockdown and one of the 14 hot-spot areas from where positive cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have emerged. It has been under complete sealing from April 9. The administration has assigned different vendors for the supply of milk, fruits, vegetables, medicines and grocery items to each of the 14 hotspots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/entry-of-general-public-banned-in-sahibabad-market-after-videos-of-crowds-gathering-emerge/story-C2WOPPORsnr4n9FeSpcxwI.html
13-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: 61 sent to quarantine after 25-yr-old man’s death at Delhi’s RML hospital||Ghaziabad: At least 11 primary contacts and 50 secondary contacts of a 25-year-old man were sent to quarantine by the district health department late Saturday after the man, who was from Loni, died at Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital in Delhi on April 8. According to the sub divisional magistrate (SDM), this was done after he received reports that the man had tested positive for Covid-19.The district health officials, however, said they have written to RML Hospital authorities seeking detailed health reports of the man and have termed the information of the man dying from coronavirus “unconfirmed”.“The man was admitted to RML Hospital on April 8 after he developed complications and died the same day. His samples were taken by the hospital. The last rites of the man were performed in Delhi. On April 11, we received reports that his samples indicated that he was positive for Sars-Cov-2. As a precautionary measure, we immediately picked up 11 of his family members and relatives and sent them to quarantine facilities,” Loni SDM Khalid Anjum said Sunday.“We have also traced 50 of his secondary contacts. The man was suffering from kidney ailments since the past couple of months and his condition deteriorated, after which he succumbed. We have now asked the Ghaziabad health department to give us the reports of the 11 contacts of the man. In case anyone of them tests positive, we will have to seal the entire locality where the man lived, which has about 2,000 families,” he added.Contrary to the claims of the SDM, Ghaziabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr NK Gupta said this was “unconfirmed.”“We have written to the RML Hospital authorities to send us the detailed medical reports and also the cause of death of the patient. He was suffering from kidney ailments and was on dialysis for the past couple of months. Prima facie, we suspect he died of kidney ailments but unconfirmed reports indicate that he could be carrying Coronavirus. The exact cause of death of the patient will be known only after all his medical reports are received,” Dr Gupta said.“We have also spoken to our authorities in Lucknow and they have asked us to get the detailed reports. In the meantime, we have sent to quarantine his 11 primary contacts and 50 other contacts. Their sampling is being done and the entire area near his place of residence in Loni has been sanitised,” he added.According to the health department’s records, the Ghaziabad district till Sunday evening had a tally of 27 Covid-19 positive patients, while three have been discharged while reports of 206 are still awaited.The tally of 27 has remained unchanged since Saturday and 14 hotspot areas are being monitored round the clock.Across Uttar Pradesh, however, the number of Coronavirus positive cases has reached 480, affecting 41 districts in the state. This number includes 45 persons who have been discharged from hospitals.“From Monday, we will be opening registration links on the health department website inviting retired doctors who can help us in tele-consultation services. In another 2-3 days, we will be opening up the tele-consultation facility through our toll free helpline number -- 1800180145. People can call up this number to avail consultation. The same number has also been opened for free counselling and citizens can connect to our counsellors,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).The state officials also said that the number of hotspots in 15 districts have gone up to 133, having 1,57,665 houses and a population of 10.61 lakh.“These hotspots have a total of 342 Covid-19 positive cases. The district magistrates are also working on other 59 hotspot areas which have a total of 75 Covid-19 positive cases, with a population of about 9 lakh living in 1.43 lakh houses. The chief minister has given directions that door-to-door survey, sanitisation and cleaning, etc., should be taken up on priority in such areas in order to control Coronavirus outbreak,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-61-sent-to-quarantine-after-25-yr-old-man-s-death-at-delhi-s-rml-hospital/story-Q3uOX6ETUtm3TE4AUMUA9O.html
13-04-2020||Pune||Monday Musings: Stories of distress from the bottom of the pyramid||Are we listening to stories of distress from the bottom of the pyramid? Stories of those who live a hand-to-mouth existence; of those who are self-employed, and who don’t have enough savings and reserves to fall back on? “We poor have been hit hardest by this rich man’s disease,” says 34-year-old Azad Sheikh over the telephone. He is smart, but poorly educated and yet understands that the Covid-19 disease came through air travel- it is not a disease that was brought into the country by the poor. Azad runs a small, but successful business of wallpapers, and vinyl flooring. He has a one-year-old daughter who requires regular medical treatment and care for a serious, congenital kidney malfunction. But like everyone else around him, his biggest worry is the massive hit that his business has taken; the continuing overheads such as the rental for his shop, and the uncertain future. “The wealthy have left for their farmhouses, the poor are worried about their next meal,” he says. One day before the lockdown, four of his seven workers from Uttar Pradesh caught the train back to their village. “There is a lot of distress there,” he says. These seven workers lived in a shared accommodation in Pune for which they paid a rent of about Rs 7,000 per month. Skilled in their work of plastering wallpapers and laying vinyl floors, these men spent about Rs.5,000 a month on their living expenses in Pune and sent home two to two-and-half times that amount to run their families in their villages.Back in their villages, they are now worried about their future employment and salaries. “Let me think, what to do. If you need some money urgently, let me know, I will send by money transfer,” is what Azad has assured them. Like most others, he, himself doesn’t know the way out as of now. He is more or less certain that his landlord won’t relent on the shop rental and is hopeful that the government will offer a helping hand with a series of concessions and waivers. The picture gets bleaker and bleaker as we go further down the pyramid. We need to know what is happening there, and we, as a society, need to do what needs to be done. Because, after all, it is the poorest who have been hit the hardest by Covid-19, for no fault of theirs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/monday-musings-stories-of-distress-from-the-bottom-of-the-pyramid/story-C2JA4nELTAiGTYQ1TQhsUJ.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana CM interacts with two Covid-19 patients who recovered||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday interacted with two Covid-19 patients of Gurugram who have recovered and discharged from hospitals. Khattar in his address to the citizens at 5pm held a conversation with 40-year-old Manu Vaisya, a resident of Nirvana Country and 45-year-old Kapil Chopra, a resident of Sector 28 who had undergone treatment for Covid-19. In a telephonic interaction, which was shown live, Khattar asked about their experiences, the way the incident has changed their lives and the advice they want to give to others. Vaisya and Chopra told CM how after their foreign visit, they had started showing flu-like symptoms and were admitted to the hospital. Vaisya, who was the second Covid-19 case in the state, was discharged on March 31 and finished his home quarantine period after recovery on Sunday. Vaisya said he was surprised that his society has been declared a containment zone after he had been completely treated. On this Khattar said, “In tough situations like these, people will have to face some difficulty. The declaration of the containment zone would help in preventing the disease to spread any further.” Vaisya said during his stay in the hospital, he used to read about the disease. On being asked how the incident changed his life, he said, “Situation like this makes you realise about your responsibilities.” Chopra, who was discharged from the hospital on Sunday, said he was confirmed Covid-19 positive on April 2 after having some fever. He started showing symptoms on March 22-23, took some medicines and later got admitted to the hospital for the treatment of fever. “It was at that time, that I tested Covid-19 positive,” he said. When Khattar asked Chopra what advice he wants to give to others, he said, “One should be patient and take all precautions to avoid getting affected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-cm-interacts-with-two-covid-19-patients-who-recovered/story-UAHlFkfB1CKwNzHDMFbr9M.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Faridabad chemist with Covid-19 booked for self-treating symptoms, cops urge his customers to come forward||A case was registered on Sunday against a 45-year-old Faridabad chemist who tested positive for Covid-19 and indulged in self-medication despite knowing the symptoms. He was admitted to the isolation ward of a Covid-19 hospital , said police. The police have now put out newspaper advertisements asking anyone who had got in touch with the chemist or visited his shop recently to come forward and get in touch with them.Faridabad police commissioner KK Rao said that the chemist developed symptoms of Covid-19 on April 4 and indulged in self medication. He was allegedly taking antibiotics on his own, without consulting the doctors. “When he did not get any relief, he consulted a doctor in a private hospital and got his test conducted. He tested positive on April 9,” he said.The hospital informed the district administration and police, following which the chemist and some people who came in his contact were identified and quarantined .Rao said three salesmen who worked in his shop are also quarantined as are the five family members of the chemist. “We have placed an advertisement in all local newspapers and social media requesting people to inform the district administration or police if they visited his shop in Sector 28 or met him during this period,” he said.The chemist was booked under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) , 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and section 51B of Disaster Management Act, 2005.Police suspect the chemist had come in contact with more than 100 people but they are yet to identify all of them. They have started receiving calls from Sunday from people who had visited the man’s shop between April 1 and 10.Yashpal Yadav, deputy commissioner of Faridabad, said that they have sealed Sector 28 on Sunday and have directed the medical teams to screen every resident in the area. “We have sealed all the boundaries and entry and exit of the sector and declared it as a containment zone. We have been requesting residents to come forward and share travel history if they have come in contact with people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin in March. Unfortunately people hide information and mislead the administration risking their as well as other’s lives,” he said. The samples of the three salesboy and five family members of chemist came negative on Sunday, he added.Yadav said that strict action would be taken against any person who tries to hide their travel history or information about having been part of the Jamaat congregation in Delhi. Their family members will be placed under home quarantine as they were in close contact with a possible Covid-19 patient.meanwhile, two more people tested positive for the virus on Sunday in Faridabad, while two others recovered from the infection and have been discharged. The total count of cases in the district on Sunday stood at 31, of which 26 are active and five have recovered.In another incident, a woman — who was placed under quarantine — was booked for misleading police and sharing wrong address .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/faridabad-chemist-with-covid-19-booked-for-self-treating-symptoms-cops-urge-his-customers-to-come-forward/story-IWxfrUbKAg4UGspQGwORTI.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Orchid Island residents say best way to beat virus is by staying indoors||The residents of Orchid Island — a gated colony of villa-style houses, located in Sector 51— have barely ventured out ever since a 21-day nationwide lockdown was initiated by Prime Minister to contain the spread of Covid-19. To ensure that residents do not flout lockdown rules, the Residents’ Welfare Association makes regular announcements through loudspeakers, highlighting the Do’s and Dont’s of the lockdown. These announcements, in addition to the advisories shared by the RWA.“Most people stay inside their homes and avoid stepping out. The RWA has also started making announcements via loudspeakers, though which we are reminded to stay inside and not flout any rules of the lockdown. These announcements reinforce the message of the lockdown and remind people about the necessity of curbs that are in place,” said Sonal Kaushik, a resident.Kaushik added that the RWA had asked residents to keep a tab on each other and discourage anyone from venturing out. “The RWA has sought our cooperation and asked us to inform them if people don’t abide by the rules. If any such information is shared with them, they ensure that people flouting rules are briefed about the consequences,” said Kaushik.The colony went into a self-imposed lockdown in the third week of March, much before the national lockdown was announced, and has completely restricted entry of outsiders and part-time staff, except in cases of emergency. The entry of part-time domestic helps, drivers, car cleaners, dog-walkers, among others, has been barred. A strict screening mechanism has been initiated with entry allowed only for those people who provide essential services. Everyone entering the building is required to use hand sanitiser and get their temperatures checked. “We have banned any unnecessary movement inside the colony and follow a strict sanitisation process. The entry of part-time domestic help has been stopped and people providing groceries and milk are only admitted after a thorough check,” said Vipin Bhatia, RWA general secretary.Bhatia said that the colony had allowed the entry of a milkman, who was delivering daily. For other essentials, residents mostly depend on grocery shops located within the complex. “The shops are stocked with ration and the RWA has been in touch with the administration for supply. We ensure that the shops remain stocked,” said Bhatia. He added that the shop owners had been asked to make sure that social distancing was practiced by people while they stood in queue. Other common areas like lifts, corridors, and stairs are also regularly being sanitized with disinfectants, he said.In view of the lockdown, the colony has cut down the strength of its non-essential staff and has provided the remaining staff members with boarding and lodging facilities within the condominium to reduce their chances of exposure . “We have provided accommodation to the security and housekeeping within the society . This will reduce any movement in and out and reduce risk of exposure. We provide them with all necessities,” said Bhatia.The RWA is relaying all Covid-related affairs through its Whatsapp group and residents have been encouraged to post their queries or requests for help on the same forum. “Residents can reach out to us for any requirement. As far as senior citizens are concerned, we have their details and stay in touch with them regularly. In case, there are senior citizens who need help with chores, we ensure that the housekeeping staff meet their needs. For medical emergencies or any other requirement, we provided the services of a driver if needed,” said Bhatia.Besides the RWA which is overseeing all the operations, residents also volunteer to help out anyone in need. “Senior citizens here are mostly living with their families. Apart from the RWA, many residents have also stepped forward to help and volunteer. We simply need to inform people about our availability via the society group and confirm our willingness to volunteer,” said Sonal Kaushik, recalling how a senior citizen had recently reached out to her after she faced difficulty in downloading a mobile application. “ We helped her out. All residents have been quite helpful to each other during this lockdown period,” said Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/orchid-island-residents-say-best-way-to-beat-virus-is-by-staying-indoors/story-GV1BfYdCKAUa4nyTgfw9cK.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Education dept allows fee collection by pvt schools; no clarity on annual hike||In a departure from its previous stance, the school education department on Sunday said that private schools in the state could collect monthly fee.In a letter shared with district education officers across the state on Sunday, the education department stated that it had earlier issued orders stopping schools from charging any fee until the resumption of normal classes. The department had, however, learnt that some schools were collecting the fee for the first three months of the new academic session in April, and students unable to pay the same were being struck off the rolls. “Students who are unable to pay the three-month fee right now are being deprived of online classes and their names are being struck off the rolls of the school. In light of the updates, students should not be bound to pay the fee for three months. Instead, schools should only collect monthly fee from parents and ensure that students are not deprived of online education,” stated the letter.Since March, the department has issued three directives stating that schools shouldn’t pressurise parents to pay any fee until normal classes resume. The last such order was issued on Saturday and stated that the department had received complaints from parents about schools that were pressuring them to pay the fee immediately. The letter had mentioned that action would be taken against erring schools. The new order issued on Sunday didn’t mention what led the department to reconsider its stance.It further stated that no school could charge transportation fee during the lockdown. The department also said that parents facing financial distress due to the lockdown should not be forced to pay the monthly fee and could seek relaxation from schools. “Business and livelihood of many parents have been affected due to the lockdown that has been implemented to contain Coronavirus. In such conditions, it won’t be possible for them to pay the fee and they should not be pressurised to deposit fee. If such parents approach the school, administration/ principals should consider postponing the fee payment for such parents in light of the lockdown,” the department said. It stated that schools could collect the fee in instalments in the coming months by adjusting the arrears. The department also wrote that parents in a stable financial situation could pay the monthly fee.The department said that parents could share their grievances as per Rule 158-A of Haryana School Education Rules, 2003, if schools were found not complying with the directive.While schools said that the new directive brought much-needed relief, parents were not happy and said that the order mentioned nothing on the annual fee hike.Colonel (retired) KR Pratap Singh, the president of the Haryana Progressive School Conference, a consortium of private schools, said that the new order would allow schools to pay teachers. “There were some schools that couldn’t pay complete salary to employees due to shortage of funds. Hopefully, parents will pay now. Earlier, the government had said that nobody needed to pay. If there are parents who are in financial distress, the government should compensate them,” said Singh.Rashmi Malik, principal, Salwan Public School, Sector 15, said, “We welcome the order. At least the salary of the teachers will keep moving and they’ll get paid for all the efforts that they are putting in.”Kailash Sharma, general secretary of Haryana Abhibhavak Ekta Manch, a parents’ body, said that parents were disappointed with the directive. “The government has ruled in favour of private schools. We oppose the order and will respond to it after holding consultations with members. We have asked parents to oppose this move and not pay under any situation,” said Sharma.Tripti Singh, a parent, said that they had the provision of paying monthly fee even earlier and the new order mentioned nothing about a fee hike or additional heads. “Many parents are paying a monthly fee. They can opt between monthly or quarterly payments. This is not new. The crucial thing to note is that nothing has been said about additional heads such as annual fee, meal feel, whose invoice has been sent by schools. It also says nothing about the annual fee hike, which is an additional burden on parents,” said Singh.The district education officer, Indu Boken, said that the department had taken into account the financial condition of parents, and such parents could seek relaxation from the school. “Schools can collect monthly fee from parents, but if the financial condition doesn’t allow them, they can seek a relaxation,” said Boken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/education-dept-allows-fee-collection-by-pvt-schools-no-clarity-on-annual-hike/story-KNiiZDVqXosfXJQgT4q4BM.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Vegetable vendor alleges assault in a video; police deny claim||A video surfaced on social media on Sunday in which a vegetable vendor alleged that he was beaten up by a police officer amid the lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Sector 10. The vendor had sustained injuries on his left hand. The police refuted the claim and said that they have not received any kind of complaint regarding the matter.The vendor, in the almost one-minute-long video, alleged that he had put his vegetable cart in Kadipur Mandi, Sector 10. He added that a police officer allegedly asked him to remove his cart and when he refused to do so, the officer hit him with a stick. The video was recorded on Saturday evening by a human rights activist based in Gurugram who requested anonymity and said, “I had gone to the Sector 10 police station regarding some other case when I saw the vendor standing outside the premises. He told us that he was hit by an officer of the police station while he was selling vegetables. His hand was severely injured. As I was in a rush, I could not make sure that he filed a complaint. I just recorded the video and posted it to social media on Sunday.”A police officer posted at the Sector 10 police station, requesting anonymity, denied the claim. “We have not received any kind of complaint regarding the incident,” he added.On April 1, a special police officer (SPO) was dismissed from duty for allegedly beating up a doctor who was returning from a government hospital after finishing his shift in Pataudi. The doctor had sustained minor injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/vegetable-vendor-alleges-assault-in-a-video-police-deny-claim/story-k4tEJaaa7ys6i6TATepw7I.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Ten held for not wearing masks in public places||Two days after the administration made wearing a mask compulsory while stepping out in public places in Gurugram in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, the police on Sunday said that at least 10 people were arrested for allegedly violating the orders and for venturing out without a mask. At least seven FIRs were registered in Sadar, New Colony, and the Sector 14 area, the police said. According to the police, five cases were registered at the Sadar police station and one FIR each was registered at New Colony and Sector 14 police stations on Saturday night. Subhash Boken, spokesperson, city police, said that all the cases were registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code. “The men were arrested and released on bail,” said Boken. On Friday, the administration had passed an order, making the masks mandatory, under sections 2, 3 and 4 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Haryana Epidemic Disease, Covid-19 Regulations, 2020. The order had stated that all persons going out in public places like streets, hospitals, offices, markets etc, must compulsorily wear a 3-ply mask or cloth mask. The mask was also made compulsory for any person moving around in their personal or official vehicle, including government officials. The move had come a day after nine containment zones were identified in the city and these areas were sealed off to prevent the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ten-held-for-not-wearing-masks-in-public-places/story-EVVajYNcN5bNSG1ls77XAL.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Jaipur-Delhi side of Hero Honda Chowk flyover to become operational by April 15||After having remained shut for more than five months, the Jaipur-Delhi carriageway of the Hero Honda Chowk flyover will be made operational by April 15, even if the lockdown is extended, officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said.Officials said that the required testing of the flyover, which was undergoing repairs, was complete, but the NHAI is still waiting for the test reports to be handed over to the authority.Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI (Gurugram), said, “The Hero Honda Chowk flyover is going to be opened for traffic by April 15. The contractor has been directed accordingly.”NHAI officials said that if the contractor is not able to start the flyover by April 15, then the highways authority will make the flyover operational on its own. The officials said that the traffic police has been briefed about the opening of the flyover.NHAI contractor said not having the test report was not a major issue and there was no danger in opening the flyover without assessing the test reports. Rakesh Mathur, deputy manager of Valecha Engineering Limited, contractor for the project, said, “The test report had been generated, but they had to be submitted to the NHAI headquarters around the time the national lockdown came into force. If those who were preparing the report had two days more before the lockdown, they would have given their report.”The NHAI contractor said they have received a mail from NHAI to start the flyover by April 15, were short of enough workers to remove the jersey barriers placed in front of the flyover. The contractor, however, said they will figure some way out before April 15.The NHAI had said in early March that it had plans to open the Jaipur-Delhi carriageway of the Hero Honda Chowk flyover by March 31. The authority had missed four deadlines before March 31 already. The highways authority had previously planned to open the carriageway by December 1, 2019, January-end, March 1, and March 15. Officials had said that the repair work was completed in February, necessary tests had been carried out and the flyover would be operational by the end of March. “All repairing is over, the asphalt pavement was also laid down on the part that had to be repaired well before the lockdown,” Mathur said.In May 2019, a large chunk of concrete fell off the surface of the flyover, leaving a large hole on the road at the same spot where a hole had first appeared in April 2018. Around 15 metres of the Jaipur-Delhi carriageway was to be rebuilt by the NHAI. The flyover was closed for traffic on October 31, 2019 for the repair works.The repair works on the flyover started in mid-December as construction work was halted in between due to construction ban. “From our side, the flyover is completely ready. We have checked everything,” Mathur added.The eight-lane, 1.4-kilometre-long flyover was constructed as part of a three-layer crossing — flyover, underpass and surface roads — at Hero Honda Chowk. The construction of the ₹197.84-crore project began in November 2014 and it was opened to the public in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/jaipur-delhi-side-of-hero-honda-chowk-flyover-to-become-operational-by-april-15/story-g844fJQV7KefkqzjTXJtUJ.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana to be divided in zones to restart industrial activities in a phased manner||To restart industrial activities amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown, which is likely to be extended till April 30, the state government has divided the districts into three colour-coded zones — red, orange and green. This colour coding is based on the number of Covid-19 positive reported from the districts. While Gurugram, Palwal, Nuh and Faridabad have been placed in the red zone for having the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases, the remaining 18 districts will be placed in orange and green zones. Economic activities in each of these zones will start in a phased manner with a longer period of restriction for the red zone. On Gurugram being declared as the red zone, Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner said, “We will continue with the district containment plan. There is no relaxation in vehicular or public movement across the city. The epicentre of containment zones will remain sealed while we are ensuring the supply of groceries and essential services to these zones. We are also coordinating with the industries, which can help in accelerating the supply of essential services.” On Saturday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar held a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi via video conference, after which he hinted at the extension of the lockdown for next two weeks, i.e till April 30. He said the formal announcement will be made by the PM in a day or two. Khattar added that there has been a steady increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, while economic activities have come to a standstill due to the lockdown. “It would be difficult to continue like this for long as it is not in favour of the state or the country. As such, economic activities will start in a phased manner ensuring that social distancing is followed. For this, the state will be divided into three parts – red, orange and green zones. Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal and Nuh will be in the red zone, while the orange zone will cover those districts where people have been put under quarantine with a fewer number of cases. The green zone will only consist of those districts which do not have any Covid-19 positive patients,” said Khattar. Currently, most of the districts in Haryana have two to five Covid-19 positive patients undergoing treatment. It includes Bhiwani, Charki Dadri, Fatehabad, Hisar, Sonepat, Kaithal among others. Gurugram, however, has reported 32 cases till now, of which 14 have been discharged while remaining are undergoing treatment. Likewise, Nuh has reached a tally of 45 active cases, Palwal 28 and Faridabad 26.Senior state officials said the detailed report on each of these zones will be prepared by Monday. The state government will also form a screening committee to authorise industries or companies for operations based on social distancing plans submitted by them. “In the situation of a lockdown, organisations and companies will have to prepare plans for the social distancing of their workers, their sanitization and accommodation facilities. Based on their social distancing preparedness, they will get approval for running the operations,” said the CM, while addressing the citizens. Khattar said that builders can also submit their plans along with an affidavit on maintaining social distancing among workers. “Even after getting the pass, wearing masks will be mandatory. There are presently more than 15,000 labourers in Haryana from other states. They are at relief camps. Details are being collected from them so that they can work in the nearby villages while public movement will be restricted to prevent the disease from spreading,” he said.According to Khattar, Haryana is still in stage-2 (local transmission) of the spread of the disease and steps are being taken to prevent stage-3 or community transmission of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-to-be-divided-in-zones-to-restart-industrial-activities-in-a-phased-manner/story-UmCtjGd56kGz0W7W9C1zxJ.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Industry, realtors say they are ready for phased resumption of economic activities||Even as the Haryana government on Saturday put Gurugram in the red zone, real estate companies and industrial groups based in the city are hopeful that the state government will allow manufacturing units and construction project to resume operations, at least in at least a phased manner, without which they would incur huge losses.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday evening had announced a phased plan to end the lockdown under which some industries would be allowed to start operations while adhering to social distancing norms. The CM, however, said that Gurugram, Faridabad, Nuh and Palwal would be put in the red zone and minimum amount of economic activities would be allowed in these four regions from where the highest number of coronavirus cases have been reported in the state.Industrialists and realtors bases in based in Manesar and Gurugram said that they were hoping the state government to give approval for some economic activities to restart in the region without which they would be hit by recession. The Manesar Industries Welfare Association (MIWA), which has around 2,000 small and large industrial units as its members, said they are already working on a plan to ensure that once work resumes the workers will maintain social distance while working in manufacturing units. “A standard operating procedure (SOP) has been devised, and is being shared among the members to prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. All measures for sanitation, maintaining distance and providing food will be taken care of. The industry requests the government to allow resumption of manufacturing in a guided manner to save the economy,” Manmohan Gaind, vice president, MIWA, said.According to the SOP devised by the association, all units will have to install adequate number of wash basins at the factory gates. All the workers would be asked to wear masks inside the units, and CCTV cameras would monitor them. The SOP further directs that thermal scanners would be deployed to check temperature of the workers and six-feet distance would be maintained while working and during breaks in canteens, the association said.HR Vaish, who owns an LED lights manufacturing unit in Udyog Vihar, said the government needs to work out a comprehensive manufacturing policy and find a solution to end the woes of micro and small industries. “The epidemic has given us an opportunity to strategically rethink on manufacturing. Right now focus should be on producing essential commodities,” he said.Realtors based in Gurugram also said they hope state government allows them to resume construction work. They said workers are already living on the project sites, and the developers are providing them food and essential goods. “Work can be started keeping the safety guidelines in mind. Most arrangements to work safely are already in place,” said Praveen Jain, vice chairman, NAREDCO. The National Real Estate Development Council(NAREDCO) is autonomous self-regulatory estate body that works under the aegis of ministry of housing and urban affairs.Jain said around 20,000 workers are living at 85 project sites in Gurugram, who can restart work within two or three days. “We can provide residential facilities to workers coming from outside to the sites and foods can be made available as well,” he added.Both realtors and industrialists said that in case economic activities are not resumed soon, there is a strong possibility the migrant workers, who are currently staying in the city might return to their villages whenever they get an option. “Remobilising workers in case of reverse migration would be a more difficult task,” said Gaind.While the state government is yet announce the details of how industrial activities can be resumed in the state and what industries will be allowed to restart operations in red zones, industrialists based in Udyog Vihar, said that the government should take measures to ensure that at least units manufacturing essential commodities are able to operate with ease. “For factories manufacturing essential goods, it is already difficult to get curfew passes for its workers and officials. Moreover, their workers find it difficult to move. Keeping this in mind, how will other industries get raw materials and send off thier finished goods,”said Ashok Kohli, president, Chamber of Industries of Udyog Vihar, which has over 400 members.Even as the Haryana government on Saturday put Gurugram in the red zone, real estate companies and industrial groups based in the city are hopeful that the state government will allow manufacturing units and construction project to resume operations, at least in at least a phased manner, without which they would incur huge losses.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday evening had announced a phased plan to end the lockdown under which some industries would be allowed to start operations while adhering to social distancing norms. The CM, however, said that Gurugram, Faridabad, Nuh and Palwal would be put in the red zone and minimum amount of economic activities would be allowed in these four regions from where the highest number of coronavirus cases have been reported in the state.Industrialists and realtors bases in based in Manesar and Gurugram said that they were hoping the state government to give approval for some economic activities to restart in the region without which they would have to face recession.The Manesar Industries Welfare Association (MIWA), which has around 2,000 small and large industrial units as its members, said they are already working on a plan to ensure that once work resumes the workers will maintain social distance while working in manufacturing units. “A standard operating procedure (SOP) has been devised and is being shared among the members to prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. All measures for sanitation, maintaining distance and providing food will be taken care of. The industry requests the government to allow the resumption of manufacturing in a guided manner to save the economy,” Manmohan Gaind, vice president, MIWA, said.According to the SOP devised by the association, all units will have to install an adequate number of washbasins at the factory gates. All the workers would be asked to wear masks inside the units, and CCTV cameras would monitor them. The SOP further directs that thermal scanners would be deployed to check the temperatures of the workers and six-feet distance would be maintained while working and during breaks in canteens, the association said.HR Vaish, who owns an LED lights manufacturing unit in Udyog Vihar, said the government needs to work out a comprehensive manufacturing policy and find a solution to end the woes of micro and small industries. “The epidemic has given us an opportunity to strategically rethink manufacturing. Right now focus should be on producing essential commodities,” he said.Realtors based in Gurugram also said they hope state government allows them to resume construction work. They said workers are already living on the project sites, and the developers are providing them food and essential goods. “Work can be started keeping the safety guidelines in mind. Most arrangements to work safely are already in place,” said Praveen Jain, vice chairman, NAREDCO. The National Real Estate Development Council(NAREDCO) is an autonomous self-regulatory estate body that works under the aegis of ministry of housing and urban affairs.Jain said around 20,000 workers are living at 85 project sites in Gurugram, who can restart work within two or three days. “We can provide residential facilities to workers coming from outside to the sites and foods can be made available as well,” he added.Both realtors and industrialists said that in case economic activities are not resumed soon, there is a strong possibility the migrant workers, who are currently staying in the city might return to their villages whenever they get an option. “Remobilising workers in case of reverse migration would be a more difficult task,” said Gaind.While the state government is yet announcing the details of how industrial activities can be resumed in the state and what industries will be allowed to restart operations in red zones, industrialists based in Udyog Vihar, said that the government should take measures to ensure that at least units manufacturing essential commodities are able to operate with ease. “For factories manufacturing essential goods, it is already difficult to get curfew passes for its workers and officials. Moreover, their workers find it difficult to move. Keeping this in mind, how will other industries get raw materials and send off their finished goods,” said Ashok Kohli, president, Chamber of Industries of Udyog Vihar, which has over 400 members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/industry-realtors-say-they-are-ready-for-phased-resumption-of-economic-activities/story-0Om9Z603GLn6gSaV4ILcIP.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Neighbour of infected truck driver tests positive in Nuh; number of cases up to 45||A neighbour of a 50-year-old truck driver, who was confirmed to have Covid-19 last week, also tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Sunday morning. On Saturday, five relatives of the driver had tested positive and four family members tested negative, said officials.After the seven people were tested from Khanpur Ghati village, the district administration sealed all the entry and exit gates and deployed more than 150 police personnel.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), Nuh, said the 52-year-old man who tested positive is a distant relative of the truck driver who is admitted to Shaheed Hasan Khan Mewati Government Medical College, Nalharin Nuh. “On Sunday, medical teams, the police and the district administration visited Khanpur Ghati village and requested people not to hide their travel history and requested the sarpanch to ensure all people remain under quarantine for 14 days,” he said.The samples of 139 people were collected on Sunday and sent for testing. They all are under quarantine and reports are awaited by Monday morning, said the CMO. A total of 45 cases have been recorded in the district so far—the highest among the 22 districts in the state.Superintendent of police, Nuh, Narender Bijarniya, said that it is important to isolate people and place them under quarantine. “Our teams are keeping a close watch on the movement of villagers. The essential supply is sent by the administration and a team of health workers and police are ensuring each house gets cooked food and dry ration,” he said.The police said they have also identified as many as 400 people, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi in March, of which the samples of 200 persons were taken for testing. The infected persons are admitted in Nalhar Medical College while the remaining are under quarantine at a polytechnic college.According to the CMO, at least 1,368 people have been put under surveillance to date, of which 84 people have returned from foreign countries and are presently in Nuh. They were traced inside different mosques in Nuh villages. “We had sent the samples of 754 people, of which 45 have tested positive, 506 have tested negative and the results of 139 samples are awaited. Forty-five people are currently hospitalised,” said Yadav.Pankaj (known by his first name), deputy commissioner of Nuh, said that the village—Khanpur Ghati – was sealed and barricaded and police are deployed around the village. “We are providing food, dry ration, dairy and fresh vegetables to them and have requested them not to step out of their houses,” said Pankaj.The administration has converted seven buildings into quarantine centres in the district and has named them quarantine shelter homes. ITI College in Ferozepur Jhirka, Model School in Palla, a private hostel in Rehna and Polytechnic College in Malab as well as a school in Ferozepur Namak have been converted, said officials. One building is dedicated to only foreigners who are quarantined in Rehna village.Four kitchen services— one government and three private— are operating in the district for supplying cooked meals thrice a day. These NGOs are supporting the administration and are delivering 12,000 cooked food packets daily, which include 2,700 from the government kitchen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/neighbour-of-infected-truck-driver-tests-positive-in-nuh-number-of-cases-up-to-45/story-gyhvXJIDfiZZ6sob8f8NXO.html
13-04-2020||City||Corona crisis: Haryana govt to use state roadways buses for mobile clinics||Gurugram: Amid the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Haryana government has decided to convert state roadways buses into mobile clinics to ensure sufficient availability of basic medical facilities across the state. The state chief secretary, Keshni Anand Arora, on Saturday held a meeting of the Crisis Coordination Committee featuring deputy commissioners of 22 districts and instructed them to start mobile clinic services, officials said. The Haryana Roadways has been instructed to make vehicles available for the purpose, and to refurbish buses if need be, after seeking specifications from the district administrations and health departments. “We have received these instructions by the principal secretary (transport). Our buses are on standby. We are awaiting words from the deputy commissioner or chief medical officer, if the buses need to be refurbished,” said Anu Sheokhand, Haryana Roadways’ general manager in Gurugram.It is presently unclear how many buses will be converted into mobile clinics in Haryana. In a text message to HT on Sunday, Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri said, “Yes, we will be starting the mobile clinic service soon using Gurugaman buses. We will also engage Haryana Roadways buses as per need.” However, Khatri did not provide any further details. JS Punia, chief medical officer, did not respond to multiple calls and messages seeking comment for this story. In addition to planning for mobile clinics, the Gurugram district administration has ordered six buses (four of the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) and two of Haryana Roadways) to be reserved exclusively for ferrying health teams from Civil Hospital to containment zones and back. Vanita Akhaury, spokesperson, GMCBL, said, “We have sent four buses on Sunday at the CMO’s request. These buses will be used only for carrying health teams from hospitals to containment zones, where door-to-door surveys and thermal scanning of residents are underway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/corona-crisis-haryana-govt-to-use-state-roadways-buses-for-mobile-clinics/story-sWSAJQFfLgv72FFSkzgb8I.html
13-04-2020||Gurugram||Tested positive for Covid-19, Palwal man booked for hiding travel history||A 48-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19 was booked by the police on Sunday for allegedly defying lockdown and not disclosing to the district administration that he had returned from Guntur in Andhra Pradesh where he lived with 11 persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month. The police said despite the lockdown. the suspect returned to his village Mirpur in Palwal on April 7 where he hid in his house.The police said on April 8 the sarpanch of Mirpur village informed the district administration and the police about the man following which teams were sent to his house and he was taken to the Palwal Civil Hospital.Dr Brahmdeep Sindhu, chief medical officer, Palwal Civil Hospital, said the man was immediately placed under quarantine and his samples were collected. The man tested positive on April 10. “We have collected samples of his 13 close contacts, including his family members, and their test reports are awaited,” he said.The police said that the man had gone to Guntur around two months ago. The 11 Jamaati members with whom the man stayed there had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), they added.Deepak Gehlawat, superintendent of police, Palwal, said the suspect returned from Andhra Pradesh hiding in a truck that was carrying essential goods. “ After returning back, he went to his house and did not inform the district administration or the police despite strict warnings to those who had attended the congregation in Nizamuddin, Delhi or had come in contact with Jamaat members ,” he said.More than 2,350 people were evacuated from Tablighi’s Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin, also called the Markaz, last month and several evacuees have tested positive for Covid-19.The man has been booked under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and section 54 of Disaster management act 2005.“The sarpanch learned about his return and sent his car to take him to the civil hospital. We have placed his family members and close contacts under quarantine until their samples are received,” Dr Sindhu said.Naresh Narwal, deputy commissioner of Palwal, said the sarpanch will be felicitated on August 15.Meanwhile, 15 people were booked in Nuh on Sunday for allegedly not informing the authorities about their visit to the Nizamuddin Markaz.While nine people were booked at the Nagina police station, two persons were booked at Pinagwa police station and four at Bicchor police station.Superintendent of police, Nuh, Narender Bijarniya, said all fifteen had attended a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin on February 6 and returned on March 17. “Despite several reminders, they did not visit the hospital to get their tests done. They hid their travel history and instead of confining themselves to home, they continued travelling around and meeting people in their village and nearby areas even after the lockdown was invoked,” he said.The police said the samples of the fifteen persons and samples of their all close contacts have been taken and their reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/tested-positive-for-covid-19-palwal-man-booked-for-hiding-travel-history/story-enoPQRCOo04oLeiDtdqaXI.html
13-04-2020||City||5,800 thermal scanners recovered in IMT Manesar||Gurugram: The district food and drugs control department, along with the police, raided a firm in IMT Manesar on Saturday and recovered 5,800 thermal scanners imported from China. The firm’s owner was allegedly black-marketing the scanners at a higher price, said the police.Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the food and drugs control department has launched an operation to check hoarding of thermal scanners, hand sanitisers and masks, which are being black marketed across the district, officials said.Amandeep Chauhan, drug control officer, said that he formed a team of officials from the department and the police after receiving information on Saturday evening. “We raided the godown and found several cartons of thermal scanners. When we asked the owner to produce the bills, he showed the import documents and other records,” he said.The owner informed the team that he was selling a thermal scanner for Rs 700 plus goods and services tax (GST). However, his claim of selling the device for Rs 700 each is a matter of investigation, the officials said. Chauhan said the owner told them that the product is being sold at very high prices in the market. “It was sold in the market between Rs 7,500 and Rs 10,000. It was black marketed and sold to distributors from Manesar area,” he said.The officials said even the state is facing a shortage of thermal scanners and buying them at a higher cost due to the unavailability with the distributors.“The recovered thermal scanners have been sent to the state government, which will distribute them to the medical facilities, the police, and others deployed in the duty of Covid-19,” said Chauhan.The team after the raid informed Gurugram deputy commissioner Amit Khatri about the incident. Khatri said, “We are regularly conducting raids at godowns across the district and issuing regular warnings to people who are black marketing essential products like masks, sanitisers, and thermal scanners. We have already issued 46 challans against shopkeepers and will take strict action against those taking advantage of this lockdown situation. We want to prevent hoarding and black marketing of the protective gear.” Muhammad Akil, commissioner of police, said that a team from Sector 40 police station raided the godown on Saturday evening. “The owner agreed to sell all the pieces to the state government as per the directions of the officials. Now, the thermals will be available in the market for merely Rs 862, including all the taxes and transport charges,” he said.On March 11, the drugs control department had raided a hand sanitizer manufacturing unit in Manesar which was running without a licence. The team had recovered 5,000 bottles of 500 ml and 350 ml with the label mentioning alcohol hand rub.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/5-800-thermal-scanners-recovered-in-imt-manesar/story-gIgJL5hUuYLaddmwApz7EM.html
13-04-2020||Noida||2 discharged patients test positive in Greater Noida, doctors say ‘looks like glitch’||Two patients of coronavirus disease Covid-19, who were discharged recently from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida, have been called back after their repeat tests showed them positive again on Monday morning.According to officials, the sample results of both the patients came negative from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), but the reports from a Aligarh laboratory has shown them positive again. Officials have said that the Aligarh laboratory report can be a result of some technical glitch.The discharged patients who have been called back are the daughter of a Ceasefire employee from Sector 137 and a 53-year-old man from Sector 128, Noida.“The reports from NCDC have shown them negative, but the Aligarh results are showing them positive which looks like a technical glitch but we aren’t aware of it. We have got the patients back as a precautionary measure. Our laboratory is ready so we are conducting their tests in Noida once again. We are expecting the reports will be negative and they will be sent back again by the end of the day,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS.The district health department has been facing trouble for the last one week following the delay in the sample reports of Covid-19 suspects. The district magistrate has allotted Rs 46.22 lakh to the GIMS in Greater Noida and Rs 65 lakh to the Super Speciality Children Hospital in Sector 39 to develop Covid-19 laboratories so that the delay in reports can be avoided.Most of the samples for Covid-19 tests were going to the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) or the Meerut laboratories, but since the number of sampling has increased in the state, these labs have been overloaded with work. According to the officials, the tests of the discharged patients are conducted to keep a check if the virus infection doesn’t reoccur. The discharged patients are always asked to go under home quarantine for 14 days after getting discharge to ensure that nobody else gets infected if the infection reoccurs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/2-discharged-patients-test-positive-in-greater-noida-doctors-say-looks-like-glitch/story-SRYR5PTf9MbgR3GLYDa6gJ.html
13-04-2020||Noida||Tablighi Jamaat contact sent to quarantine centre jumps off 7th floor: Cops||A 32-year-old man who was under quarantine at the Galgotias University hostel in Greater Noida, fell to his death on Sunday evening. The person has been identified as a resident of a village in Phase 2 of Noida.According to officials, the incident took place at around 8pm when the man fell from the seventh floor of the hostel. Officials said that he allegedly jumped from the balcony of his room when there was nobody inside.The person was previously under quarantine at the Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar Hostel in Gautam Budh University and was shifted to Galgotias University hostel on Sunday. Officials had taken his sample for Coronavirus testing and his reports were awaited.According to officials, the person was declared dead when the doctors on duty checked him after his fall. They added that the man was allegedly mentally unstable. “The person who died was mentally unstable but we are verifying all facts. The person jumped from the seventh floor. Our investigations are on in the matter,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.The DM has also ordered a magisterial inquiry in the matter. “A magisterial inquiry headed by the additional district magistrate has been ordered to find out the circumstances of the incident and also to figure out the person responsible,” added the DM.Officials said the body will not be handed over to his family members as the Sars-Cov-2 test reports are awaited. The funeral has to take place as per the protocol set up for the last rites of Covid-19 positive patients.“We will get the sample reports of the deceased on a priority basis. The body can’t be handed over to the family before his results are clear to us as there is a set protocol for the disposal of a Covid-19 patient’s body,” said Dr Vikasendu Agarwal, state surveillance officer, Lucknow.According to authorities, the victim was one of the 72 persons in the district who had directly or indirectly come in contact with the Tablighi Jamaat event last month in Nizamuddin Markaz.As per the preliminary investigation, the person has not left any note behind. Knowledge Park police is going to register a case of suicide in the matter. “The investigations are on to find out the exact reason behind his extreme step,” said the DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/tablighi-jamaat-contact-sent-to-quarantine-centre-jumps-off-7th-floor-cops/story-Ma0Absp7V9HO9E9tgc5fPL.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Pakistani Sikhs to celebrate Baisakhi on a low key on Tuesday amid Covid-19 lockdown||ISLAMABAD: The Sikh community in Pakistan will celebrate the traditional spring festival of Baisakhi and the 321st anniversary of the founding of the Khalsa on Tuesday, media reports said on Monday.Traditionally, people mark the two occasions with much fanfare, but due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic in the country, celebrations will be low key, The Express Tribune said in a report.A ceremony marking the two occasions will be held at Gurdwara Punja Sahib in Punjab province, considered to be particularly important as the handprint of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, is believed to be imprinted on a boulder at the shrine.This year, pilgrims from India and other parts of the world will not be able to participate in the festivities as the country is under lockdown imposed to stem the spread of Covid-19.Sardar Satwant Singh, the president of the Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee Pakistan (SGPCP), said that 3,000 pilgrims come from India, Canada, the UK, Australia, the US and other parts of the world to attend the Baisakhi festival and Khalsa anniversary in normal circumstances.“We invited them this year also but they could not attend due to the coronavirus lockdown,” he said.KARTARPUR EVENT ALSO CANCELLEDHundreds of pilgrims from India wanted to take part in the function at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, the last resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak, on the occasion but that event has also been cancelled.Sikh leader Sardar Bhushan Singh said that he had finalised the arrangements of food, security and accommodation for thousands of pilgrims who were due to arrive from India and other countries but all preparations have been cancelled due to the current situation.Baisakhi is celebrated on April 13 in India but in Pakistan, it is celebrated on April 14, as per the Nanak Shahi calendar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pakistani-sikhs-to-celebrate-baisakhi-on-a-low-key-on-tuesday-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-wWJ8pZzU2C1daGR6KhApBN.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh, Union minister Harsimrat Kaur extend #VaisakhiAtHome greetings during Covid-19 times||NEW DELHI/CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Monday extended greetings on Vaisakhi and urged people to celebrate the festival at home.“I wish all a very Happy Vaisakhi. This day marks the celebration of the harvest and the establishment of the Khalsa. Today let us all do #ArdasAt11 for Sarbat Da Bhala. #VaisakhiAtHome,” Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted.In his tweet, Singh also asked people to pray for the frontline warriors and those who are battling COVID-19.Taking to Twitter, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said: “Many wishes to the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Baisakhi. May the festival of new aspirations bring new energy and new enthusiasm in everyone’s life.”Union food processing minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal extended greetings on Vaisakhi and urged people to stay at home in a video message in Punjabi on Twitter.Congress MP Rahul Gandhi also wished people on Vaisakhi. In a tweet in Hindi, he wrote, “Best wishes and hearty congratulations to all the people in the country on this holy festival of Vaisakhi.”‘WON’T FORGET COURAGE OF MARTYRS’Modi paid tribute to martyrs who lost their lives in the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and said, “I bow to those martyrs who were killed mercilessly in Jallianwala Bagh on this day. We will never forget their courage and sacrifice. Their valour will inspire Indians for the years to come.”The Prime Minister also shared a picture of his earlier visit to Jallianwala Bagh memorial.The Jallianwala Bagh massacre took place on April, 13, 1919, when troops of the British Indian Army, under the command of Colonel Reginald Dyer, fired into a crowd of unarmed protesters and pilgrims who had gathered in Amritsar on Baisakhi.The crowd had assembled peacefully at the venue to condemn the arrest of two national leaders, Satya Pal and Saifuddin Kitchlew, when they were fired at.British government records say 379 people were killed, while 1,200 were wounded in the firing. Other sources place the number of dead at well over 1,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-singh-union-minister-harsimrat-kaur-extend-vaisakhiathome-greetings-during-covid-19-times/story-ifbNtc65GyvuQaEZ30gUXO.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Special flight evacuates 134 Bhutanese students stranded in Punjab amid Covid-19 pandemic||JALANDHAR: As many as 134 Bhutanese students, who had been stranded in the hostels of Lovely Professional University (LPU) near Jalandhar, were evacuated by a special flight arranged by the Bhutanese government. They flew out from the Amritsar airport on Monday morning. This was the second batch of students from Bhutan to have left after the Covid-19 pandemic. The first batch of 100 students left on March 28.“134 Bhutanese students, who had been stranded in the hostels of Lovely Professional University, Phagwara-Jalandhar, were allowed to leave for Bhutan through a special flight arranged by the Bhutanese government,” Punjab special chief secretary (disaster management Covid-19) KBS Sidhu tweeted on Monday.A 21-year-old woman hosteller of LPU from Maharashtra tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday.Last week, Bhutan had thanked India for facilitating the evacuation of Bhutanese nationals stranded in India due to the coronavirus lockdown.Bhutan has evacuated many people residing in India in the past few days.The Himalayan country has sealed its border with India last month to stem the spread of coronavirus.India is under a 21-day lockdown till April 14 and has suspended all flight operations.So far, Bhutan has reported five coronavirus cases.India has cleared the first list of 13 countries to export hydroxychloroquine, including Bhutan. Government sources said on Saturday that Bhutan will get two lakh tablets of hydroxychloroquine, which is an anti-malarial drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-flight-evacuates-134-bhutanese-students-stranded-in-punjab-amid-covid-19-pandemic/story-KhsMQTmh1BTHDvuYs2PWdI.html
13-04-2020||Bollywood||Delhi calling: Here’s what these celebs want to do post-lockdown||Delhi is not a city; it is a lived experience, shared with everyone who has ever been part of this megapolis. Once a Delhiite, always a Delhiite, they say. We speak to some celebrities from Delhi to know what is that one thing or place they are craving to do or visit once it is safe to venture out. From the leafy stretches of Lutyens’ Delhi to the corner marketplaces rich with the aroma of street food, here is what these celebs miss the most.   ̴S̴̴o̴̴m̴̴e̴̴t̴̴i̴̴m̴̴e̴̴s̴̴ ̴̴c̴̴o̴̴m̴̴f̴̴o̴̴r̴̴t̴̴ ̴̴d̴̴o̴̴e̴̴s̴̴n̴̴'̴̴t̴̴ ̴̴m̴̴a̴̴t̴̴t̴̴e̴̴r̴̴.̴̴ ̴̴W̴̴h̴̴e̴̴n̴̴ ̴̴a̴̴ ̴̴s̴̴h̴̴o̴̴e̴̴ ̴̴i̴̴s̴̴ ̴̴f̴̴r̴̴e̴̴a̴̴k̴̴i̴̴n̴̴'̴̴ ̴̴f̴̴a̴̴b̴̴u̴̴l̴̴o̴̴u̴̴s̴̴,̴̴ ̴̴i̴̴t̴̴ ̴̴m̴̴a̴̴y̴̴ ̴̴b̴̴e̴̴ ̴̴w̴̴o̴̴r̴̴t̴̴h̴̴ ̴̴a̴̴ ̴̴s̴̴u̴̴b̴̴s̴̴e̴̴q̴̴u̴̴e̴̴n̴̴t̴̴ ̴̴d̴̴a̴̴y̴̴ ̴̴o̴̴f̴̴ ̴̴m̴̴i̴̴s̴̴e̴̴r̴̴y̴̴.̴̴ ̴̴S̴̴o̴̴a̴̴k̴̴ ̴̴i̴̴n̴̴ ̴̴E̴̴p̴̴s̴̴o̴̴m̴̴ ̴̴s̴̴a̴̴l̴̴t̴̴s̴̴ ̴̴a̴̴n̴̴d̴̴ ̴̴t̴̴a̴̴k̴̴e̴̴ ̴̴c̴̴o̴̴m̴̴f̴̴o̴̴r̴̴t̴̴ ̴̴i̴̴n̴̴ ̴̴t̴̴h̴̴e̴̴ ̴̴f̴̴a̴̴c̴̴t̴̴ ̴̴t̴̴h̴̴a̴̴t̴̴ ̴̴y̴̴o̴̴u̴̴'̴̴r̴̴e̴̴ ̴̴b̴̴e̴̴t̴̴t̴̴e̴̴r̴̴ ̴̴t̴̴h̴̴a̴̴n̴̴ ̴̴e̴̴v̴̴e̴̴r̴̴y̴̴o̴̴n̴̴e̴̴ ̴̴e̴̴l̴̴s̴̴e̴̴.̴ JUST WEAR SNEAKERS!!! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . #aboutlastnight #sneakers #sneakerlove #love #behenkishaadi #seeteebajao #vibe #look #fun #happy #weddingA post shared by  Suhail Nayyar (@suhailnayyar) on Dec 9, 2019 at 6:18am PSTActor Suhail Nayyar, who grew up in North Delhi’s Model Town, and currently resides in Mumbai, says, “I would go to Big Chill in Khan Market and grab a Belgian chocolate shake. No matter how strict a diet I’m following, when I’m in Delhi, I don’t miss this chance.”Read: Salman Khan sketches amid coronavirus crisis: ‘The way we dress is perhaps the best thing our culture has ever done’  Untidy 📷: @rohanshrestha #whitetseriesA post shared by  Bhuvan Bam (@bhuvan.bam22) on Feb 23, 2020 at 3:05am PSTYouTuber and singer Bhuvan Bam, who grew up in South Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, says, “I crave for chhole bhature from the Malviya Nagar market. I have been having them for the last 10-12 years. So that’s where I will go once things return to normalcy.” Thank goodness for nature’s hugs and love in these tough times .A post shared by  nafisa ali sodhi (@nafisaalisodhi) on Apr 5, 2020 at 6:43am PDTActor Nafisa Ali, who lives in Defence Colony with her family, is currently cooped up in Goa. She says, “The first place I’d like to visit is my favourite coffee shop in Khan Market with my daughters. Delhi skies are so clear now, with all the shades of blue. The Yamuna is so clean that people are taking a dip in it. I am missing all of that and would love to experience it. Read: Katrina Kaif sings and plays guitar in new video from self-quarantine, promises ‘sound coming soon in a few days’  Writing, again. photo: @giannidubbinivenierA post shared by  William Dalrymple (@williamdalrymple) on Apr 9, 2020 at 11:08am PDTAuthor William Dalrymple is no stranger to the Capital and its historic landmarks, lush with greenery. The Scotsman, who resides in Mehrauli, has his heart in Delhi, and his head up in the hills. “I would frequent places like Jamali Kamali, Rajon ki Baoli and Sundar Nursery. But once this is over, I plan to go somewhere up in the hills…Chamba, Kedarnath, Gangotri etc.”  As we run, we become! Pure, unadulterated joy= Sunday morning LSD! Photo credit @jonathan.gil.harris #fashionandfitness #runstrong #aligned #sabr #shukr #sundayvibes #sundaylook #newdelhirunning #runfree #sundayslay #runnersofinstagram #runsunday #fashionrunner #runhappy #runandrunway #distancerunnerA post shared by  Namrata Joshipura (@namratajoshipura) on Feb 29, 2020 at 9:40pm PSTDesigner Namrata Joshipura, a fitness enthusiast and a resident of Defence Colony, is keeping herself busy with baking and cooking. Once it is safe to venture out, she plans to go for a run. “I would go for an uninterrupted 20k run around the beautiful stretch of Lutyens’ Delhi. I have been missing that.” Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinian||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bollywood/delhi-calling-here-s-what-these-celebs-want-to-do-post-lockdown/story-Srlbu0Ka9T9VHCirn1ERDL.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cop’s hand, chopped off by Nihangs, reattached after 7-hour surgery||A policeman’s hand was chopped off with a sword and six of his colleagues were injured in an attack by a group of Nihangs at a vegetable market in Punjab’s Patiala, the state police said on Sunday.Assistant sub-inspector Harjit Singh’s hand was later reattached after a plastic surgery lasting seven and a half hours at Chandigarh’s PGI hospital and 11 people were arrested from a village dera over their role in the incident. Police said Rs 39 lakh in cash, two petrol bombs, spears, swords and other weapons, as well as five bags of poppy husk were recovered from them.Parts of the early-morning incident captured on video by bystanders showed a group of men carrying sharp-edged weapons in an SUV driving through a police barricade and clashing with policemen armed with lathis. “Police Party on Naka duty was attacked today in which one ASI’s hand was cut off & 6 were injured. Police cornered the culprits & have taken them into custody. Have given instructions to the @PunjabPoliceInd to deal with anyone breaking the law in strictest possible manner,” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said in a tweet.The Nihangs are a Sikh sect whose members live on the fringes of society and dress up as medieval warriors owing allegiance to Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th Guru, specialising in the traditional martial art of gatka (similar to the modern sport of fencing). Deras are shrines devoted to individuals deemed holy by their followers and do not enjoy the sanction of mainstream Sikh clergy.The incident drew widespread condemnation across the political spectrum. Apart from CM Amarinder Singh, several senior Congress leaders said the strictest action should be taken against the culprits.Opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal) patriarch Parkash Singh Badal condemned the incident too, while the Shiromani Panth Akali Budha Dal, the leading Nihang jathebandi (organisational assortment) said the men were not Nihangs and were, in fact, anti-social elements locally involved in extortion -- a fact borne out by the recovery of Rs 39 lakh from them in cash -- something the ascetic members of the sect would not do.“Seven fugitives, donning the robes of Nihangs, have been arrested from the Gurdwara in village Balbera. One of these was injured in the police firing and has been rushed to hospital... The police party observed full Maryada while entering the Gurdwara premises. There were also women and children inside, who were unharmed, and have been left secure within the Gurdwara as before,” Punjab’s special chief secretary KBS Sidhu said on Twitter.Gobind Singh Longowal, president of the Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the body that manages Sikh places of worship, urged people to remain disciplined during the curfew.BJP leader and Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said, “The inhuman attack on policemen in Patiala needs to be condemned in the strongest of terms. Such criminals and anarchists should be brought to justice at the earliest.”Police said the men were asked to show their curfew passes at the vegetable market, which they refused to do and instead forced their way through the barricade. When the policemen chased them and told them to step out of their vehicle, five men came out and launched an attack with swords. As six policemen received injuries and ASI Harjit Singh fell down after his hand was cut off, the men drove away to a dera building part of the Gurdwara Kichdi Sahib complex in Balbera village nearby.A commando operation was launched to get the men, who refused to surrender and hurled petrol bombs at the raiding party. They set up eight LPG cylinders on the periphery, threatening to blow them up. One of the Nihangs was injured by a gunshot fired by the commandos and hospitalised later.Intense negotiations spearheaded by Patiala IG Jatinder Singh Aulukh and SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu, aided by the village sarpanch and others, could not lead the men to surrender. They were finally arrested after a fierce scuffle with the commandos.The accused were booked for attempt to murder, grievous hurt, rioting, attack on a public servant under the Indian Penal Code as well as under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. They were also booked under the stringent anti-narcotics law, NDPS, for possessing a commercial quantity of poppy husk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/nihang-men-chop-off-cop-s-hand-after-defying-restrictions/story-kDIigxn7FPQTP0zwK2cQVL.html
13-04-2020||Delhi||Mild earthquake jolts Capital amid lockdown silence||Delhi recorded an earthquake measuring 3.5 magnitude on Richter scale on Sunday evening with epicentre at Sonia Vihar in the national capital, according to the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) under the ministry of earth sciences. It’s not unusual for the epicentre to create relatively small tremors in Delhi and neighbouring Haryana, seismologists said. But this time the experience was much more intense for people in the national capital because of less noise associated with traffic movement, they said.The seismologists at NCS also said that they had a “very good” recording of the event on their seismometer. “The recording is very clear because of no noise. People may have experienced the earthquake differently because most people are at home and not in a vehicle or not in movement. You can feel it the most during static conditions. I cannot comment on whether the sound heard (many people have reported to NCS that they heard a rumbling sound during the earthquake) is pertaining to the earthquake,” said AP Pandey, a seismologist at NCS.According to a statement by NCS, Delhi experienced last perceptible earthquake of magnitude 3.5 on April 24 in 2018 and prior to that earthquake of magnitude 3.8 occurred on September 7, 2011 near the Delhi-Haryana border. Delhi had also recorded low magnitude earthquake with epicentre within Delhi in 2007. Another similar earthquake was recorded in Delhi on April 28, 2001 of 3.4 magnitude, according to officials.“These are called tremors and very small earthquakes have been recoded in the past in the Jhajjar and Rohtak area. We are checking when was the last time the epicentre was within Delhi. We are in seismic zone 4 (severe earthquake intensity zone). We are close to the Himalayas where even magnitude 8 earthquakes can be recorded. The local soil quality also plays a role. Thick sediment soil in Delhi also amplifies the impact. The area where the epicentre is has newer alluvium soil which can record more tremors. It is close to the Yamuna belt,” said Pandey.According to experts, the reason people felt strong tremors here is also because the depth of the earthquake is moderate (not very deep), the epicentre is in Delhi and there is very little ambient noise or vibrations induced by traffic movement. “We had an excellent recording of the event better than all our earlier recordings here. The signal strength was very high. The signal to noise ratio is perfect,” said G Suresh, another seismologist at NCS.“Some people also heard a rumbling sound. That may be because of the energy released which interacted with atmosphere. Obviously, people have a clearer experience of the tremors when there is less noise and movement. We haven’t heard of any damage so far,” explained Suresh, adding “the earth quake was not very deep. This had a depth of less than 10 km.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mild-earthquake-jolts-capital-amid-lockdown-silence/story-wrpSmomvoTIwS70Vk2WSPJ.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra inches closer to 2,000 mark; 1,982 coronavirus cases and 149 deaths so far||Maharashtra recorded 221 coronavirus cases and 22 deaths on Sunday, taking the state closer to the 2,000-case mark at 1,982. The death toll has reached 149, state figures revealed.The state had crossed 1,000 cases just last Tuesday, but the past nine days reported more than 100 per day, including three days that saw more than 200 cases. Mumbai has 1,298 cases and 92 deaths. The state has tested 41,109 people and has kept 5,064 suspected patients in government quarantine facilities, while 61,247 are quarantined at home, said health officials.Senior officials have indicated that the rate of the virus’s spread will be arrested, but it could take a couple of days. “The rise is on and for two days, the number of new cases had even crossed the 200 mark, but on Saturday, it came down to 187. We have taken adequate measures to curb the spread and are hoping that the decline in new cases will start in the next couple of days,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.The rising numbers had forced chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday to extend the lockdown till April 30, so as to prevent the state from slipping in to phase three — community spread — of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, said the official. He has also said they may have to extend it further if people did not co-operate. However, the state is also mulling relaxing restrictions in areas where there are no cases. “There is a meeting with the chief minister on Monday where the issue is likely to be discussed. We have suggested areas completely unaffected should be given some relaxations,” said another senior official, on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, the state medical education department on Sunday directed all government and private medical colleges to send their proposals to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for starting Covid-19 tests. “There are eight government and 33 private medical colleges, where the facility is yet to be started. We have asked all of them to send their proposals to ICMR so that the facility can be started there as well,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).The testing facility for Covid-19 is currently available at 17 government and 15 private medical colleges across the state.Meanwhile, the state government decided to cancel this year’s geography paper of Class 10. It has further decided to cancel the second semester examinations of Classes 9 and 11. The results will be declared based on performance of the students for the entire year, said school education minister Varsha Gaikwad.Geography paper of Class 10 was supposed to be held on March 23, but was postponed following the outbreak. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary & Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will come out with a fair marking formula for Class 10 students, said the education minister.To curb practice of overpricing and black-marketing in the lockdown period, state food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal also directed the legal metrology department to form squads with the help of police, revenue officials and inspect godowns, shops of retail and wholesale traders and take action accordingly. “They can be booked for violating Commodities Act and can face imprisonment up to seven years, said an official from food and civil supplies department.Meanwhile, the district administration of Wardha in Vidarbha has decided to disinfect the vehicles entering the district for supplying essential commodities. Wardha collector Vivek Bhimanwar issued orders on Sunday. He has also directed to stop vegetable supplies from the districts affected by the epidemic.Wardha has no case of coronavirus so far.The state health department has found 37 coronavirus patients who have attended the international congregation of Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. A total of 755 people from the state had attended the religious gathering. Of them, eight are from Latur; seven from Yavatmal; six from Buldhana; three from Mumbai; two each in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Ahmednagar; one each in Ratnagiri, Nagpur Municipal Corporation, Hingoli, Jalgaon, Osmanabad, Kolhapur and Washim, said state health officials. “In addition, seven people, who have come in contact, have also tested positive. Six are in Ahmednagar and one in Pimpri-Chinchwad,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/state-inches-closer-to-2-000-mark-1-982-coronavirus-cases-and-149-deaths-so-far/story-WEtXblBaQqTZlK5ICygtlN.html
13-04-2020||City||Paraplegics make, donate thousands of masks in Mohali||Pitching in against the corona epidemic, inmates of the Paraplegic Rehabilitation Centre (PRC) in Mohali’s Phase-6, have stitched 3,500 surgical masks over three days and distributed them free of cost. Now, the centre has received an order from the Western Command for 1,000 masks.Of the 30 inmates, who live with their families at the PRC, 11 are quadriplegic and 23 are paraplegic. After they were declared mandatory by the administration, even their families are lending a hand in making the masks. Director of the centre, Col Gurkirat Singh Nagra (retd) said, “We are using green cloth to make them; these are also called surgical masks. In three days, the PRC has made 3,500 masks and distributed them to policemen and people in neigbouring areas, free of cost. Now, we have got an order from the Western Command for 1,000 masks and will be delivering them in couple of days,” he said.Former soldier Mohammad Latif, 35, an inmate from Kashmir said they wanted to contribute their bit for the nation in its time of crisis. “It is a service to the nation. The wives of inmates are also helping,” he said .The PRC in Mohali was set up in 1978 on 10 acres gifted by the Punjab government with a mission to ensure best aftercare and rehabilitation of personnel of the armed forces (army, navy and air force), who are medically boarded out, i.e. retired from service, due to spinal cord injury while serving the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/paraplegics-make-donate-thousands-of-masks-in-mohali/story-k2CRyioTWgyJtqeZ5A6i8H.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Anxiety, depression running riot amid lockdown, say mental health experts||The coronavirus pandemic is taking a toll on people’s mental health, say city-based experts. Those with a history of mental illness are finding it especially hard to deal with the stress and anxiety brought on by the Covid-19 outbreak.Experts say many patients are overwhelmed with sadness, anger, helplessness and distress. For some their anxiety has taken physical manifestations in form of an upset stomach, insomnia, panic attacks or loss in appetite. Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) consultant psychiatrist Dr Pallavi Abhilasha says, “At least 11 of my patients with anxiety disorders, who had been managing their condition without medication for several months, have relapsed since India went into lockdown.” “There has also been a spurt in cases of depression. While there has been a 25%-30% increase in anxiety disorders, depression cases have increased by 15%-20% this month,” she said.Abhilasha says constant exposure to alarming news on different platforms, isolation, boredom and uncertainty was causing mental health problems among people.“Most patients are wondering when the situation will normalise and they will get to meet their loved ones? They are also worried about what will happen in case they get infected? All of this is causing heightened anxiety and leaving them restless all the time,” says Abhilasha .‘MEN AT GREATER RISK’Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) department of psychiatry professor and former president of Punjab and Chandigarh branch of Indian Psychiatrists Society Dr Rupesh Chaudhary said men, especially the bread winners, are experiencing stress, anxiety and depression as the lockdown has put financial strain on many. “The male to female ratio of patients we attend to these days is 2:1,” he said, adding, “In order to help those experiencing anxiety and depression, the Indian Association of Private Psychiatry and Indian Psychiatric Society, in a joint initiative have launched an emotional helpline in Punjab and Chandigarh, which remains active from 8am and 8pm.”Under the initiative, experts from across the state provide free consultation for an hour and also prescribe medicines. The experts are addressing anxiety and trepidation regarding Covid, obsessions and compulsions, irrelevant thoughts, drug and substances abuse, acute suspiciousness, hopelessness and sadness. “We receive 15 to 20 calls every day and take care to prescribe medication that is available at their nearest chemist. Due to lockdown, many medicines are unavailable and we suggest alternatives.”‘People with OCD fixated on coronavirus’Ludhiana Civil Hospital psychologist Dr Davinder Sharma says he has been telephonically counseling people for free.“The situation has triggered obsessive compulsive disorders (OCD) among people already suffering from mental illnesses. Many are compulsively cleaning. Even those who stay home all day have been extensively sanitising their mobile phones, vehicles, gates, clothes and hands.” “We warn such people against watching news on the television all day since it worsens their compulsions and ask them to continue with medication.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/anxiety-depression-running-riot-amid-lockdown-say-mental-health-experts/story-0ANmecgbWwWWpvnUdURxxI.html
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||₹25 lakh collected in traffic challans amid curfew in Chandigarh||At a time when driving on the roads is banned and traffic has fallen considerably after a curfew was announced in the city on March 24, the traffic police have collected ₹25,23,500 in challans.As per data available with the challaning branch of the traffic police, 3,935 challans were issued during this period out of which 1,642 or 41% have been paid to date. Out of total 9,564 violations, 44% violations were driving license related offences, 23% violations were for driving with expired or without insurance, and 21% violations were for driving without vehicle registration.On an average, the challan collection amount is between ₹40 to 50 lakh a month. The police were expecting a much lower average owing to the curfew, but the traffic police say the amount collected is still on the higher side and the collection is expected to easily cross ₹30 lakh by month-end.ROUTINE CHECKS ON HOLDSpeaking about this, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic administration) Kewal Krishan said, “We are not putting up nakas for checking routine violations like jumping of lights. Our focus is on impounding the vehicles of people who break curfew. Many of these people are found to be driving without a license or other documents for which they are being challaned. Anyone driving without a valid driving license, registration or insurance has to pay ₹12,000. This doesn’t include towing charges and fine for breaking curfew which is another ₹2,500.”The DSP added that challans are being collected only for offences related to the impounding of vehicles. “Since their vehicles have been impounded, the violators have to come forward to pay the challans. Those who have other infractions have been advised to pay the challan only after the curfew is lifted.”The local police are also impounding vehicles for breaking curfew, but the challans are being issued by the traffic police alone. Though e-challan services are still active, the number has greatly reduced because of the curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/25-lakh-collected-in-traffic-challans-amid-curfew-in-chandigarh/story-gTzZ1A4K25ROrnUxd7JFTM.html
13-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus in Delhi: Sale tokens, shifting bazars to aid mandi crowd control in markets||To control crowding in wholesale vegetable markets amid the lockdown to contain Covid-19 spread, the administration has come up with a slew of measures, such as relocating markets, staggering sale timings and issuing tokens for customers. The Delhi government has drafted a policy in this regard.Over the last 48 hours, several such rearrangements were done at the Azadpur, Keshopur, Najafgarh and Mehrauli markets. While the first two have been subjected to staggered timings, the others have been relocated to more spacious zones, to ensure better social distancing.“The Najafgarh mandi was located in a cramped space, which often witnessed a crowd even during the lockdown. It has been shifted to a spacious area in the vicinity to ensure better social distancing norms,” said Rahul Singh, district magistrate (South-West).The Delhi government on Saturday directed the relocation of the Mehrauli vegetable mandi to Mehrauli bus terminal. The wholesale market was shifted to its new location by Sunday morning, where the local police had designated areas for vendors, ensuring a safe distance from one another. Markings were also made for the general public, to ensure six-foot gaps among them.District magistrate (South), BM Mishra, said, “Meticulous planning was done to temporarily relocate the Mehrauli mandi near the DTC bus terminal. The subdivisional magistrate and her team worked round the clock to make it happen.”Delhi Police officials said that personnel have been deployed around the market to ensure that the norms are followed. Besides manual inspections, the police are also keeping a check on the mandis using drones.Other vegetable and fruit markets in the city are also following strict precautionary measures to ensure social distancing during this pandemic.In Delhi’s Azadpur mandi, Asia’s largest wholesale vegetable and fruit market, the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) has decided to allow sales in shifts. From Monday, the market will allow the sale of vegetables between 6am and 11am, while fruits will be sold from 2pm to 6pm.Deepak Shinde, district magistrate (North), directed Delhi Police and the APMC in Azadpur to ensure the introduction of a token system for customers.“Tokens will be distributed for all customers coming to the market. Joint enforcement teams of police and mandi officials will monitor all activities, and a public address system will be installed in all sheds to ensure proper communication,” an order issued by Shinde on Saturday read.Anil Malhotra, a member of APMC, “Different orders are issued every day. We were asked to operate from alternative sheds to ensure distance is maintained between vendors. However, while the government is coming up with all these orders, no one is listening to the actual woes of wholesalers. The market area is yet to be cleaned or sanitised. We are being asked to open shops compulsorily every day and our safety is at stake.”The Azadpur mandi gets a daily supply of 15,000 tonnes of vegetables, but over the last two weeks, the supply has dropped to 9,000-10,000 tonnes every day, because of the lockdown restrictions.In the Keshopuram mandi too, the police have issued orders for staggered timings. For the internal dealings, including supple of stock to the market, 5am to noon is the designated timing, while traders will be allowed to cater to customers only between noon and 7pm, and no commercial vehicle will be allowed to park in the market area beyond a “validated period”.“The mandi will be completely sanitised and we will conduct a verification of vendors and buyers before entry. The local authorities have also been asked to remove stray animals from the mandi area,” a notice issued by the local police unit read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sale-tokens-shifting-bazars-to-aid-mandi-crowd-control-in-markets/story-g8GvDrS9OuM0AAf2MufOvI.html
13-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus update: Delhi govt to scale up disinfection drive in containment zones||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that sanitisation and disinfection drives will be scaled up from Monday in the containment zones created across the city to prevent the spread of coronavirus and “high-risk” areas ascertained by the health department, for which his government has availed machines that can disinfect up to 20,000 square metre area per hour.“We are starting a massive sanitation programme tomorrow (Monday). PI Industries (an agriculture sciences company) have provided us with 20 Japanese hi-tech machines that are capable of disinfecting 20,000 square metres area in an hour. The machines were provided for free. Other than that, the Delhi Jal Board has 50 smaller machines which will be deployed in the disinfection drive,” said the chief minister in a video press conference.“Delhi currently has 33-35 containment zones. Our teams have identified more areas and more containment zones will be notified in the next couple of days. All these areas will be subjected to Operation SHIELD. People living in these areas may face some difficulties but we will ensure that they receive essentials at their doorstep. It is for their safety,” said Kejriwal, citing the example of Dilshad Garden, in east Delhi. By Sunday evening the Delhi government announced 10 new containment zones, taking the total number of such areas to 43 in the city. The new zones included three in upscale East of Kailash residential neighbourhood in southeast Delhi. The South East Delhi district now has the highest number of containment zones (12), outnumbering East Delhi district, which had the highest number of containment zones (9) in the national capital. Dilshad Garden is an identified coronavirus hot spot in the city where the strategy was deployed and no fresh cases were recorded in the area since April 1. Few lanes in the neighbourhood are still notified containment zones.“No new case of COVID-19 has been reported in Dilshad Garden in the last 10 days due to Operation SHIELD,” he said.Sealing, home quarantine, isolation and tracking, essential supply, local sanitisation and door-to-door checking are the key aspects of ‘SHIELD’ in any containment area.“Operation SHIELD will be implemented in all areas which have been declared as containment zones... I know people would be facing difficulties in these areas, but it is necessary for saving their lives,” Kejriwal said.RED & ORANGE ZONESFor the new sanitation and disinfection drive, Kejriwal said, all containment zones will be referred to as “Red Zones”. He further said, “The government is in the process of ascertaining high-risk zones and experts have been roped in. Those will be referred to as Orange Zones. Both Red Zones and Orange Zones would witness heightened sanitation and disinfection drive.”When asked about the list of orange zones, a senior official in the Secretariat said, “Currently, all buffer zones are being treated as orange zones. With time, the list will be updated.”Buffer zones are geographical areas immediately surrounding containment zones, as described by the Union health ministry in a document — Containment Plan for Large Outbreaks — released last week.In the next couple of days, the senior officer said, areas such as agriculture market, those with high population density and those which have residents of SARS-CoV-2 patients but have not been marked as containment zones are likely to be added in the list of orange zones.“The spike in the number of cases in Delhi is a concern. But I am sure, it can be controlled,” he said. On Saturday, Delhi crossed 1,000 active cases of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-scale-up-disinfection-drive-in-containment-zones/story-YskBVEqFkYbkOVajfw1aLI.html
13-04-2020||Delhi||Others suffer as Delhi hospitals free up resources to combat coronavirus||A month after the surgery to remove an oral cancer malignant growth, Mohd Kareem, 40, started his radiation therapy at Delhi State Cancer Institute (DSCI) mid-February. He still had five cycles of radiation therapy remaining when the hospital shut down after doctors and nurses there started testing positive for Covid-19.“What should we do now? I do not want his cancer to come back. We have three young daughters and he has already struggled a lot. We even went to a private hospital, but they said that the treatment should continue at the same hospital. Should we keep waiting for the hospital to re-open?” asked Saheem Bano, Kareem’s wife.DSCI was completely shut down after 22 of its staff and three patients tested positive for the infection.Not just DSCI, hospitals across the city – both government and private – have curtailed or shut its routine services in order to decongest and keep beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. This, coupled with the 21-day lockdown, has severely limited people’s ability to access health services in Delhi.Reaching hospitals“It is important to focus on the pandemic, but not at the cost of other healthcare services. Mortality from non-communicable diseases will shoot up in parts of the country that do not have strong public healthcare systems,” said Dr Abhishek Shankar, assistant professor of radiation oncology at Lady Hardinge Medical College. He used to work in the department of preventive oncology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) before joining Lady Hardinge..“When it comes to cancer, every step is emergent. There shouldn’t be interruption in treatment. Now, private sector hospitals – which treat a majority of indoor patients across the country -- are not bound to stay open and risk their staff getting the infection. People will depend on government facilities. In the absence of experienced doctors at district hospitals, who will treat cancer patients who are now unable to reach AIIMS?” he said.The non-Covid-19 hospitals should continue running all routine services, he suggested, after taking proper precautions.“Chronic conditions — like anaemia and hypertension — get diagnosed when patients come to our clinics. These might get missed and the patients might land up in the hospitals only when they get severe symptoms,” said Dr Roopali Diwan, head of the department of gynaecology at Safdarjung hospital.Services like delivery of babies have also gone down at the busiest labour room in the city. From about a 100 deliveries a day, the hospital has been getting only about 60 expecting mothers.“The numbers have gone down mainly because people from far off places, who would earlier come to the hospital for their deliveries, can’t do so now because of the lockdown,” she said.Longer waiting periodsTransplantation surgeries — not just in Delhi, but across the country — have been hit, with the government suggesting that non-emergency surgeries be put on hold for now.“No transplant surgeries have taken place in the entire country in the last eight to ten days. What we need to understand is that some transplant surgeries are absolutely life-saving — like heart or liver transplants. Patients in need of kidney transplant may wait a little longer. But, Covid-19 is here to stay and we cannot deny people these procedures forever,” said Dr Sandeep Guleria, renal transplant surgeon from Indraprastha Apollo hospital.He is the former head of the kidney transplant unit at AIIMS, who led the team that performed the first cadaver kidney transplant in the country. Around 150 kidney transplants usually happen across the country in a week.“We need to frame guidelines that will reduce the risk of performing transplantations, like thoroughly screening the donor and recipient for Covid-19 or even testing them before performing the procedure. The thing is we are still not sure whether it can be passed from donor to recipient through the organ. That said, South Korea never stopped transplantations. Also, not utilizing cadaver organ is a shame, especially when there are so few organs,” said Dr Guleria.With surgeries getting postponed, the long waiting lists for surgeries at government hospitals in the city are likely to get longer.“We are not conducting any routine surgeries, like cataract or gall stone removals. Even when planned surgeries start, the most emergent ones are likely to be taken up first. There would inevitably be a long waiting period for routine surgeries,” said Dr Rajeev Kapoor, medical superintendent of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel hospital in East Patel Nagar.At hospitals like AIIMS, the wait period for surgeries in some departments can be up to a year.Routine consultationsRoutine out-patient services in big hospitals — like All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Lok Nayak — in the city have been completely shut after they started accepting Covid-19 patients. Some others run a curtailed out-patient department.“We receive less than half the number of patients in our clinics even though all services – except for planned surgeries – are open. We have started giving patients with chronic conditions, like diabetes, medicine for longer periods to reduce their number of visits,” said Dr Rajeev Kapoor, medical superintendent of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel hospital in East Patel Nagar, one of at least 25 Delhi government run hospitals that are still providing routine healthcare services.After the two mohalla clinic doctors from northeast Delhi contracted the virus from a patient, at least 100 of these government-run clinics have also been shut. Besides that, half of the private practitioners across the city have also closed their practice.“The doctors are scared after instances of people getting the infection from their patients was reported. Even as bigger hospitals are focusing on Covid-19 patients, at least half the small clinics in the city have shut shop. And, with personal protective equipment hard to get by, even small nursing homes are closing up,” said Dr Grish Tyagi, president elect of the Delhi Medical Association. There are around 700 nursing homes in the city, most are small with just one to 20 beds.Although some hospitals have started telemedicine consultations after the government of India released guidelines, the uptake is not great.“There is a 12-hour teleconsultation number we have launched. But the uptake is not great and we are getting just about three or four calls a day. On another number, on which we can give prescriptions, only about 40 patients are calling in a day,” said Dr Nimesh Desai, director of the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences. The hospital OPD, which was shut, used to receive about 1,200 patients a day earlier.ImmunisationAlthough, the government has ensured that vaccines are available at all its dispensaries and non-Covid-19 hospitals, universal immunization programme has also taken a hit in the city.“With all the ASHA and ANMs involved in the government’s surveillance efforts, the outreach activity for immunization has been stopped. All vaccines are available at the fixed delivery points like dispensaries and hospitals. And hospitals, that have shut routine services, have been requested to send patients to the nearest dispensaries,” said an official from the Delhi government’s health department.“With 90% of the immunization services being provided by government facilities, it should not be impacted too much. But there will definitely be some impact. How much, we will come to know only after a couple of months when the data comes in. We might have to carry out intensive drives to catch up,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others-suffer-as-delhi-hospitals-free-up-resources-to-combat-coronavirus/story-uZXgEyywcBRNCXzniIxdJP.html
13-04-2020||Mumbai||Last SSC paper cancelled; Maharashtra education department won’t hold Class 9, 11 exams too||In a major relief to around 17 lakh students in the the state, the education department on Sunday has decided to cancel the last paper [Geography] of the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exam after the Maharashtra government decided to extend the lockdown till April 30. The exams for the vocational subjects, which are offered to students with special needs, and are conducted two-three days after the main exams, have also been cancelled.State education minister Varsha Gaikwad also announced the cancellation of exams for Class 9 and Class 11 which are conducted by the schools and junior colleges respectively. Students will be promoted on the basis of the previous exams. The Mumbai Junior College Teachers’ Association had called for the cancellation of Class 11 exams earlier and had suggested that students be promoted directly to Class 12.The Class 10 Geography paper, which was to take place on March 23, was rescheduled in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The department had decided to announce the new date on April 14, after the lockdown ended. However, on Saturday it was extended till April 30. “The department had earlier decided to come up with a revised date for the exam after April 14 when the lockdown was supposed to get over. However, with the extension of the lockdown and owing to the current situation, it has been decided to cancel these exams,” Gaikwad said. Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education officials said a marking formula for students in this situation will be devised soon. “This is an unprecedented situation and the board doesn’t have a rule in place for a situation in which a paper has been cancelled altogether, as it has never happened in the past. Officials at the board would think of all the possible solutions and a come up with a fair marking scheme in the coming days so that no student is at loss,” said Shakuntala Kale, chairperson of the board. Vasant Kalpande, former chairperson of the board, said, “It’s good that the department has made the decision, as it would bring relief to lakhs of students and parents. The board can work on the specifics now and parents need not worry as a marking criteria would be arrived at soon.” Many teachers had earlier urged the state to mark Class 10 students on the basis of the five papers that have been held, as the board already practices the best-of-five formula to add up the final scores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/last-ssc-paper-cancelled-maharashtra-education-department-won-t-hold-class-9-11-exams-too/story-IEAJQfzl6j2eZPvdLhDz5N.html
13-04-2020||Pune||Collector attributes rise in positive cases in Pune to aggressive screening||From 105 Covid-19 (coronavirus) positive cases reported last Sunday (April 6), Pune city’s tally crossed 255 on Sunday evening, which the authorities say is because of increased door-to-door screening. “The cases have doubled in less than seven days as we have started aggressive screening of people wherein health workers are visiting every house to see if there are people with symptoms. After preliminary screening, those with symptoms are tested for Covid-19,” said Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram.On March 9, city witnessed first two cases of Covid-19 positives when a couple who returned from Dubai, tested positive for the Sar-Cov-2 virus. While the couple and 24 others have recovered, the city’s graph is gradually going north. The city, according to Pune Municipal Corporation, has been witnessing Covid-19 cases in double digit since last week of March. To cater to increasing number of cases, the Pune civic body along with district administration has prepared 14 hospitals including 12 private and two government hospitals.Sahil Deo, co-founder of CPC Analytics, said that the spike in cases is gradual. “There was one day when the cases grew by almost 40 and another day when there was a significant increase. But other than that, the increase has been fairly gradual, which is a relief,” said Deo. Deo and his team has been mining Covid-19 related data in India on a day-to-day basis.According to statistics, the biggest spike in a day was witnessed on April 8, when city saw 39 cases and 10 deaths. Among those succumbed to Covid-19 related complications, most have died in government-run Sassoon General Hospital in the city. The death toll has increased from five to 31 between April 6 and April 12, according to data provided by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department. Till Saturday evening, total tests conducted in the city from day one stood at 2,078, which indicates around 10 per cent of those who tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/collector-attributes-rise-in-positive-cases-in-pune-to-aggressive-screening/story-GAsr5bkDRE4WY0PJBFQqaN.html
13-04-2020||Pune||Medicine stock to last till July, don’t panic buy, says Pune District Chemists Association||Pune residents are queuing up outside retail medical shops to buy essential medicines, however, some of them have to come back empty handed as the medicines they need are unavailable. There is no shortage in medicine stock, according to the Pune District Chemists Association president Rohit Karpe. “There is no problem with the stock of medicines and we have enough supply to last until July. All the five wholesale zones of Pune city, PCMC, Shirur, Junnar Ambegaon Khed (JAK) , and Baramati, have enough for smooth transactions for the next three months,” assured Karpe, who supplies to almost 4,000 medical retailers in the city.However, there are many customers who are finding it difficult to get medicines, like Ramesh Iyer, a resident from Kothrud. “I go the medical every alternate day to buy injections and medicines for my mother, however, for the past few days they are not available. Due to the area containment of Sadashiv peth, that houses wholesale medicine stockists, it is delaying the process of getting medicines.”“Following the curfew and containment of the peth areas, the stockists in ‘Dawa Bazaar’ area in Sadashiv peth are closing their shops early. Before the containment, all the stockists would keep their shops open from 10am to 7:30pm, now, the medical store owners inform us that now the stockists shut shop early,” said Iyer.Karpe adds, “It was the decision of the association to curtail the time of the shops to 2pm. Before, there would be a lot of crowd to buy medicines and social distancing was not followed, hence, we decided to keep the shops open only till 2pm, whereupon we also made a rule that on the first day, we will collect all the lists of the retailers and then they have to come the next day to collect or get it delivered to ease off the crowd.”Ajit Dole, owner of a medical store on East Street, said, “The stockists have decided to shut the shops by 2pm, but that gives us less time to get the necessary supply of medicines. Earlier, stockists would come to check the stock, now we have to go, and due paucity of time, all medicines are not available , which is creating panic among senior citizens who are maximum of our customers.”Pratibha More, a resident of Sinhgad road, said, “My child is just a year old and we need medicines for him and I, but whenever my husband goes to the medical shop, they say they have to place an order. Before it was available easily and I didn’t have to wait for two days to get them. Now, we have ordered supply to last us two weeks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/residents-queue-up-outside-retail-medical-shops-as-suppliers-in-containment-zone-shut-shop-early/story-a0d5xHkJlIqhU1fkCUQcvL.html
13-04-2020||Pune||Nurse at Ruby Hall Clinic tests Covid-19 positive, 30 others quarantined||A 45-year-old nurse working at Ruby Hall Clinic, tested positive for coronavirus, health authorities said on Sunday, prompting the hospital administration to quarantine other hospital staffers. This is the first instance where a staff involved in health services in Pune has tested positive for Covid-19.After the nurse tested positive on Saturday evening, at least 30 other nurses, who were colleagues of the positive patient, were quarantined immediately, said officials of the Ruby Hall Clinic, a private multispeciality hospital in the city.“The nurse, who works in the general ward, was on leave. After resuming work, she showed minor symptoms of the coronavirus infection. As a precautionary measure, we conducted a medical check-up and her samples were sent for testing,” said Dr Sanjay Pathare, director of Medical Services, Ruby Hall Clinic.It was confirmed that she was Covid-19 positive after her test reports came on Saturday. After this, she was immediately taken to the isolation facility of the hospital and her colleagues were quarantined.“As she works in the general ward, she was not in contact with the isolation patients. Her condition is stable now and is under treatment. We have quarantined 30 nurses after the reports, some of them are head nurses, so their samples have been sent for testing, ” added Dr Pathare. Earlier last week, as many as 92 people, including doctors and nurses from the Yashwantro Chavan Hospital at Pimpri-Chinchwad, had to be quarantined after a patient who has been treated there, tested Covid-19 positive. However, all the doctors and other staff tested negative for the Sars-Cov-2 virus which caused the Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nurse-at-ruby-hall-clinic-tests-covid-19-positive-30-others-quarantined/story-6vpDvkM1sI1YBGt06wcP4H.html
13-04-2020||Pune||Vasant Vyakhyanmala, spring lecture series, cancelled in Pune due to Covid-19||Vasant Vyakhanmala, the spring lecture series organised by Vaktrutvottejak Sabha, has been cancelled due to Covid-19 (coronavirus). The lecture series was supposed to be held from April 21 to May 20 at Tilak Smarak Mandir in the city.Deepak Tilak, president of Vaktrutvottejak Sabha that has been hosting the Vasant Vyakhanmala since 1875, said, “We have to cancel this year’s Vasant Vykhanmala due to the ongoing lockdown to stop the spread of Covid-19.”“This will be the second time in the years since it began that the lecture series had to be cancelled. It was cancelled once during the 1897 plague,” said Tilak.“We had confirmed speakers for the event and dignitaries were going to speak on various facets of Lokmanya Tilak since it is the death centenary year of Tilak,” he said.“We plan to keep some lectures spread over the year post the crisis is over,” Tilak added.Mandar Bedekar, chief secretary, Vasant Vyakhyanmala, Pune, said, “The tradition of the Vasant Vyakhyanmala was started by Justice MG Ranade in 1875. The idea was to present a variety of lectures, across various topics to the people.”Started by Vaktruttvottejak Sabha, which was founded by Mahadeo Govind (Justice) Ranade in 1875, the lecture series has been offering lectures on a broader range of subjects with experts speaking on a variety of topics like culture, arts, economics, science, health, governance, history, among others. The lecture series has been attended by various politicians including former prime ministers Jawaharlal Nehru and Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Earlier, the Vasant Vyankhyanmala was held at Hirabag and Belbag, and now it is held at Tilak Smarak Mandir, since the past many decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vasant-vyakhyanmala-spring-lecture-series-cancelled-due-to-covid-19/story-IDbEaRkFlwAH1tw1Ty31mN.html
13-04-2020||Pune||On the Frontline: Focus on making maximum use of available resources to deal with current situation, says PMC health chief||Ramchandra Hankare, head, PMC, health department, spoke about the challenges he faces while fulfilling his duty in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. What is your role in this pandemic?I handle the health deportment team that comes under the PMC jurisdiction. I have to coordinate with all the private and government hospitals in the city and make sure all the necessary arrangements are in place to help Covid-19 patients. I have to coordinate with divisional and municipal commissioners, additional municipal commissioner and district collector and follow the instructions on how to go about in this current situation.How does your day begin and roll out?Currently, there is no fixed timing for anything as I have to be on my toes to fulfil my responsibilities. My day starts at 6am and ends at 1am or 2am in the night or even late. I have to coordinate the ongoing house-to-house survey undertaken by the civic body staffers to detect Covid-19 related symptoms like fever, dry cough, cold and respiratory illnesses in certain areas of the city. I also have to keep a check on the number of patients testing positive for the virus and coordinate with private and government hospitals authorities about the ongoing measures taken to treat patients.What precautions are you taking?I follow social distancing while dealing with patients or their family members and during visits to the hospitals. I also wear a mask and other necessary equipment while on duty. I carry my food with me and avoid eating out.When I return home from duty, I take bath and sanitise my phone, spectacles, watch and other items, if I am carrying them to work. My wife and daughter are both in the medical field so they are busy as well and my son is pursuing a degree in medicine. So, we all make sure we take necessary precautions at home to keep away from Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection.What is your view of the Covid-19 crisis in Pune? How do you see it unfolding?The situation is under control right now. People should coordinate with the authorities and together we can fight and overcome this situation. If people follow all the precautions and avoid stepping out of their houses unless it is urgent we can control the spread of Covid-19. Those who have symptoms should come forward and get tested and quarantined, so that the spread of virus stops.What gaps do you see in health and relief work?We are preparing for the worst. We are making maximum arrangement for Covid-19 patients and keeping various private hospitals ready to accommodate more patients. We are arranging medical and non-medical staff to deal with the patients, if the numbers increase. The civic body is doing its best with the available resources and many non-government organisations and individual volunteers are coming forward to offer help us. Instead of looking at gaps and shortcomings, we are focusing on how we can make maximum use of the resources available and what arrangements can be made if the number of patients increases in the coming days. We keep communicating with the medical and paramedical staff about how to take necessary precautions and deal with patients and they should follow all the precautions themselves to stay safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-the-frontline-focus-on-making-maximum-use-of-available-resources-to-deal-with-current-situation-says-pmc-health-chief/story-m6HQsME0qMQL4Mzo3UTcQP.html
13-04-2020||Pune||Satara police seize Wadhawans’ luxury vehicles used for Mahabaleshwar trip||The five luxury vehicles, in which DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan travelled to their farmhouse in Mahabaleshwar during the coronavirus lockdown, were seized on Sunday and brought to Panchgani police station by the Satara police on the instructions of the Enforcement Directorate (ED).The Enforcement Directorate on Friday issued orders to Satara police to seize the five cars, including two Range Rovers and three Toyota Fortuner cars, owned by Wadhawan brothers, under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The two brothers are named as accused in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) FIR pertaining to swindling of money by Yes Bank former CEO Rana Kapoor and other accused. The duo is also being probed in the DHFL case.The ED had issued a public order to the Satara police directing it to seize the vehicle belonging to Kapil Wadhawan and registered under RKW Construction Facility Management and another company Golden Beach Infracon Private Limited. The Range Rovers are registered in Jharkand while the Fortuners have the home state registration numbers. The order further states that the vehicles are proceeds of crime of money laundering. “The Wadhawans have been quarantined at Xaviers High School hostel under the supervision of Bel Air Hospital. Their five cars have been seized as per the ED order,” said Tejaswini Satpute, Satara superintendent of police.The Wadhawans, with a group of 23 people including their immediate family and friends, flouted the lockdown and travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala on April 8. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said that the state government has initiated probe against principal secretary Amitabh Gupta’s role in allowing DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel despite the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/satara-police-seize-wadhawans-luxury-vehicles-used-for-mahabaleshwar-trip/story-K6mw4Hbx3pImJ0f0ci6aJP.html
13-04-2020||Pune||Eyes on the goal, Pune’s Sanika Deshpande plans to improve leg strength, stamina during the lockdown||Playing for Pune’s local club Deccan XI FC, who were the runners-up in last season’s Pune District Football Association’s (PDFA) women’s league, Sanika Deshpande has been dribbling with the ball since she was 8 years old. The teenager, who stays on Sinhgad road, has been a regular in the squad for five years, playing in several invitational tournaments in and around the city. She also played in the Indian Women’s League qualifiers at the Cooperage Stadium in Mumbai in November last year.After getting selected to represent Pune in the Inter-District Football Championships, Deshpande played in the sub-junior as well as the open category of the tournament. In May 2019, the midfielder helped the Pune team win the championship in the open category in Jalgaon. The Pune team went on to win the championship’s sub-junior category in January this year as well in Palghar. She is currently being coached by her father, Anil Deshpande, who is the head coach of the girls’ team of Deccan XI Football Club.Usual routine:With an aim to pursue a career in football or fitness, I have a meticulous routine. Before the lockdown was imposed, I woke up early at 6am and went to the gym for an hour or 90 minutes every day. After an intense workout, I cool off and grab a bite. Shortly after that, I go to college, KHS College, which goes on till late afternoon. I wrap my academic work and return home, catch a breather, and then go for my daily football practice in the evening from 6pm to 8pm at the Sevadasan ground on Karve road. The daily two-hour training sessions on the pitch include a combination of tactical training sessions and several exercises that help us improve our stamina, retain fitness and reduce our chances of contracting an injury on and off the pitch.Lockdown routine:It is challenging to maintain fitness levels when everything is shut. Working out at home is the only option, but it is still not as rigorous as the normal training regime, I follow. During the lockdown period, I dedicate 2 hours every day to a basic workout indoors which includes bodyweight exercises such as push-ups, pull-ups, and handstands. Since I am used to an intense workout regime, I also opt for HIIT (High-Intensity Interval Training) workout, interval training, and other exercises that help in strengthening my core.I use whatever I have at home to my advantage like I build my stamina and leg strength by going up and down the staircase. In the afternoon, I focus on academics and am in the process of completing all my pending college assignments before watching TV or playing some fun games with my brother in the evening. My father, who is the head coach of our team, has asked every player to keep working out during the lockdown and has given us all special indoor workouts.Gyms shutAs the gyms are shut, I am trying to learn some calisthenics to improve my overall strength. Currently, I am making sure that my leg strength is improving in this lockdown period and for that, I am doing a lot of leg strengthening exercises as well as some football drills like juggling, ball touch, to improve my overall football skills.HobbyI dedicate some time to art and make it a point that I draw something every day. Sometimes it helps me take my mind off a lot of things. I love the game of football, so my other hobby is football. I spend a lot of time with my football and keep on practicing drills like juggling and ball control. I hope to somehow improve my overall football skills even if I have to stay at home. Overall, I am making sure that I remain fit and healthy while pursuing my hobbies in this extremely tough and frustrating lockdown period. I follow the mantra - stay fit, stay healthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/eyes-on-the-goal-pune-s-sanika-deshpande-plans-to-improve-leg-strength-stamina-during-the-lockdown/story-2P4SbSmezWWWDXExu5ssyM.html
13-04-2020||World||China rejects reports that first Covid-19 case occurred in November||China on Monday rejected reports that the earliest case of Covid-19 in its territory occurred last November and that it had concealed the real situation regarding the pandemic, describing them as a distortion of facts.Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement: “Recently, certain Indian media ignored the facts that China had officially released and continued to blame China for concealing the real situation. These claims are fact-distorting and irresponsible.”Ji noted that the Wuhan Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in China’s central Hubei province detected cases of unknown pneumonia in late December 2019, and the Wuhan municipal health commission issued an urgent notification to medical institutions to appropriately treat patients.On January 7, Chinese President Xi Jinping issued instructions on an epidemic response while chairing a meeting of the standing committee of the political bureau of the central committee of the Communist Party of China, and on January 23, China took “unprecedented, decisive and strong measures” to shut down Wuhan’s outbound channels, she said.“During the fight against the epidemic, the Chinese government has always maintained an open and transparent attitude on timely releasing and sharing of epidemic information,” Ji said.Since January 3, China has regularly informed the World Health Organization (WHO) and other countries, including the US, about the outbreak. It has also held daily press conferences since January 27, she said.“Virus knows no national borders, and the epidemic distinguishes no races. Only with solidarity and by cooperation, can the international community prevail over the pandemic…At present, the Indian people are fighting against the epidemic under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. China will stand together with India to jointly overcome the epidemic at an early date,” Ji said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-rejects-reports-that-first-covid-19-case-occurred-in-november/story-NLhfyzHKgnyQ38YMGkZceK.html
13-04-2020||World||Trump declares he has power to ‘open up’ states, not governors||President Donald Trump declared Monday that he has the power to “open up” states and relax social-distancing practices adopted to combat the coronavirus outbreak, not governors.He didn’t elaborate on how he reached his conclusion. The Trump administration issued guidance March 16 recommending Americans isolate themselves from one another to curb the spread of the virus, days after many governors, municipal leaders, businesses and families had already adopted the practices themselves.It isn’t clear if the country would comply should Trump demand people return to work and school, particularly if the outbreak hasn’t yet abated.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“It is the decision of the president, for many good reasons,” Trump said in a subsequent tweet. He didn’t list any.Trump said he would make a decision “soon” on re-opening, “in conjunction with the governors and input from others.” He said last week he plans to name a panel of doctors and business people on Tuesday to advise him on restoring the U.S. economy following the outbreak.But the president’s relationship with governors during the outbreak has been complicated and oftentimes prickly. He has insisted that governors, not the federal government, bear primary responsibility for keeping their hospitals supplied and staving off the coronavirus. And he’s declined to criticize governors who have refused to issue “stay-at-home” orders to their citizens to curb the spread of the virus.“We have a thing called the Constitution, which I cherish, number one,” Trump said on April 4, when asked about the holdout governors, who are all Republicans. “Number two, those governors -- I know every one of them -- they’re doing a great job. They’re being very, very successful in what they’re doing. And as you know, I want the governors to be running things.”Governors have complained they’ve been forced to bid against the Federal Emergency Management Agency for supplies, and Democratic governors who have faulted the federal government’s response to the outbreak have suffered Trump’s wrath, enduring personal insults and criticism on Twitter and in his daily news conferences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-declares-he-has-power-to-open-up-states-not-governors/story-HEP5PBCwPPFfVo4CqQuruK.html
13-04-2020||World||After over 11,000 deaths, UK not yet past peak||The death toll in the United Kingdom rose by 717 to 11,329 on Monday, but foreign secretary Dominic Raab said the country is “not yet past the peak” of the coronavirus pandemic, as Prime Minister Boris Johnson tested negative after a week-long hospital stay.The number of cases in hospitals also rose to 88,621. The death figures relate only to those in hospitals and do not include those in retirement villages, care homes and hospices; together, the overall figure is expected to be higher than 11,329.Raab and senior health officials said at the daily Downing Street briefing that the government plan including social distancing “is working”, but they expect the figure to rise for one more week, before the graph flattening and then coming down.Johnson, who is recuperating in the prime minster’s country residence of Chequers in Buckinghamshire, tested negative for coronavirus, officials said, but is not yet engaging with official work, which has been delegated to Raab.Raab said the death figure was ‘grizzly’ but did not expect any changes to be made to current lockdown measures until officials can be confident of improvement reflected in data and conditions. Despite the bright warm weather, he wanted Britons to stay at home.“If we let up now the virus will only take advantage, spread faster and kill more people. Our plan is working. Please stick with it and we will get through this crisis together. We are still going through the peak stage,” Raab said.Ministers continued to face criticism over lack of person protection equipment in various hospitals, as the number of health professionals succumbing to the virus grows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-over-11-000-deaths-uk-not-yet-past-peak/story-km8K0aYARqBECaoqZ7lD8L.html
13-04-2020||World||Donald Trump’s oil deal: The inside story of how the price war ended||After a week-long marathon of calls between world leaders and video conferences featuring dozens of energy ministers, it was the moment the 2020 oil price war finally ended.From Villahermosa, a city near Mexico’s largest crude terminal, Energy Minister Rocio Nahle raised her voice. “Your Royal Highness, Mexico has already agreed. And now I would like to ask you: ‘Do you agree with these terms?’”In Riyadh, Saudi Energy Minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman nearly chuckled as he looked at a wall of video feeds showing his counterparts around the world. “I go with the consensus. I agree,” he replied.At that moment, the OPEC+ alliance sealed the largest ever coordinated production cut, removing about a 10th of global supply. The historic deal had almost been derailed by a fight between Saudi Arabia and Mexico’s populist government, forcing President Donald Trump to step in and broker a face-saving solution.Prince Abdulaziz declared himself sleepless and exhausted, but triumphant nonetheless.“We have demonstrated that OPEC+ is up, running, and alive,” he told Bloomberg News in an interview minutes after he clinched the agreement. “I’m more than happy.”For the past month, Saudi Arabia had pumped every possible barrel for sale at rock-bottom prices, punishing Russia for refusing to support deeper OPEC+ output cuts in early March. Now, Moscow and Riyadh will both reduce daily production by millions of barrels, spearheading a global agreement between almost all the world’s major oil producers to rein in output.But the deal will only dull the pain, not end the crisis.The market is likely to remain overwhelmed for months to come by the catastrophic collapse in demand caused by the lockdowns designed to slow the spread of the coronavirus through some of the world’s biggest economies.“The OPEC+ agreement will not prevent sharp inventory builds in coming months, and near-term oil prices in the physical market will likely remain under pressure,” said Martijn Rats, oil analyst at Morgan Stanley.Negative ReactionThe deal between the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies will remove nearly 10 million barrels a day from the market through deliberate cuts. In addition, the group is counting involuntary declines in the production of the U.S., Canada, Brazil and several other countries, as companies reduce drilling activity due to low prices and weak demand.OPEC+ officials, using some creative accounting that also includes output drops in Venezuela, Iran and Libya, which are exempt from making cuts, said that as much as 20 million barrels a day will over time leave the market -- 20% of global productionFor the time being, the world will need to be content with the 10 million barrels a day from OPEC+. Yet demand is down by about twice that amount, meaning the world’s oil tanks will keep filling day after day as long as planes stay grounded, businesses shuttered and billions of people remain at home.Oil traders don’t seem optimistic. By 9 a.m. in London, prices had slipped into negative territory, falling as much as 2.7% to $30.63 a barrel.Deal MakerThe biggest winner appears to be Trump, who refused to deliberately cut American oil production, but was still able to broker the final deal. His phone call with Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, followed by a three-way conference call with Russian President Vladimir Putin and King Salman of Saudi Arabia, came up with the proposal that resolved the Latin American nation’s objections to the agreement.Trump has taken time away from grappling with the world’s largest coronavirus outbreak and waded into oil politics with a surprising goal. He’s gone from welcoming the crude price collapse to worrying about losing the American energy industry. Fearing that job losses in Texas and other oil-rich states could hurt his re-election prospects, he convinced Putin and the Saudi monarch to end hostilities and make a compromise.“Trump views himself as a deal maker,” said Joe McMonigle, an energy consultant and former U.S. government oil official. So “Trump went to the oil market’s red phone.”The president sealed the historic deal by offering the Saudis something that exists only on paper. When Mexico refused a big output reduction, putting the whole agreement in danger, Trump assured OPEC+ that the U.S. would cut its own production on its neighbor’s behalf.Mexico would remove 100,000 barrels a day, and the U.S. would contribute an additional 300,000 barrels a day, Trump said at the White House. OPEC+ officials and others involved in the talks said those extra barrels simply didn’t exist. The decline in American production would be driven by prices, demand, and capacity in pipelines or tanks, not presidential press conferences.But ultimately his offer was enough.Price WarSunday’s agreement ended a period in which the OPEC+ alliance appeared to be dead, with former partners engaged in oil-trade warfare.It all started on March 6, when Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak walked out of OPEC’s headquarters in Vienna and told reporters that his country was ready to increase oil production in April. He had just rebuffed Saudi Arabia’s push for his country to cut output by a few hundred thousand barrels a day, to help counter what most saw as a modest demand slowdown due to the coronavirus. In return, the kingdom had rejected his proposal to continue the group’s existing curbs at their current level.Angered by Russia’s refusal to cut and Novak’s talk of higher production, Saudi Arabia embarked on a shock-and-awe price war. Riyadh offered oil refiners unprecedented discounts for its crude, cutting its official selling prices by the most in more than 30 years. The kingdom also announced it was boosting production to an all-time high above 12 million barrels a day for April, up 25% from February.When the market opened a few hours later, even the most bearish traders were shocked. The Sunday evening session is typically a sedate affair, mostly covered by traders in Asia, where it’s already Monday morning. But that night, every trader from Geneva to London and Houston was glued to their screens.When the selling started, benchmark Brent crude plunged more than 30% in seconds -- the biggest one-day drop since the 1990 to 1991 Gulf War.Month of ChaosWhat followed was the most chaotic month in the oil market’s history, threatening the stability of the petroleum-dependent nations from Nigeria to Iraq and upending the business plans of industry giants like Exxon Mobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc.Without fully realizing it, the Saudis had started a price war at the worst possible time. By early March, the coronavirus outbreak had spread well beyond Wuhan, infecting thousands of people from Iran to the U.S. Around the world, governments copied the lockdowns that China had already tried and tested. Country after country put their economies into deep freeze.With demand for jet fuel, gasoline and diesel sharply down, refineries cut production and reduced their crude purchases. The physical oil market started to resemble a closing-down sale. In one obscure corner of the U.S., oil even traded at negative prices, with producers paying consumers to take away their barrels.Brent crude, the North Sea blend used as a global benchmark, had briefly traded above $70 a barrel at the start of the year. On March 30, it plunged to $21.65, the lowest in nearly two decades.The most prominent victim was the U.S. shale industry. Drillers in Texas and other states had turned America into the world’s largest oil producer, creating millions of jobs. But fracking is an expensive way to pump crude and the industry had piled up tens of billions of dollars in debt.As prices tumbled, roughnecks, truck divers and engineers quickly lost their jobs. Whiting Petroleum Corp., once North Dakota’s biggest producer, filed for bankruptcy on April 1.Saudi SurgeAs Whiting was going bust, thousands of miles in Saudi Arabia engineers at Aramco were busy pushing their oil wells to the limit.At at exactly 11.29 a.m. on March 31, the giant video wall at the company’s operational nerve center flashed total production surpassing 12 million barrels a day for the first time in history. Employees celebrated by snapping pictures, arms raised in triumph, according to photographs seen by Bloomberg News.The next day Saudi output crept higher, reaching 12.111 million, then 12.171 million, according to other photographs of the control room. Finally, it hit a record of 12.323 million barrels a day -- enough to meet the combined pre-pandemic consumption of Japan, Germany, France, the U.K., Spain and Italy and still have some barrels to spare.The oil was being loaded onto an armada of tankers in the Persian Gulf and Red Sea, heading for markets that were already drowning in crude.‘Wiped Out’It was an untenable situation, threatening to fill the world’s oil tanks within a few months and send prices crashing to levels not seen since the 1990s. Trump was already putting pressure on Russia and Saudi Arabia to rebuild their alliance.“I never thought I’d be saying that maybe we have to have an oil increase, because we do. The price is so low,” Trump said in a Fox News interview. The president, who had made a political career bashing OPEC and advocating for low gasoline prices, was worried the U.S. industry would be “wiped out”.Saudi Arabia and Russian blamed each other for the crash. Putin accused Saudi Arabia of trying to destroy shale; the Saudis said Moscow had kicked the whole thing off. None of it cut any ice in Washington.“You are waging economic warfare on Texas,” Senator Ted Cruz told the Saudi ambassador in Washington in a private conference call.Recalling the conversation in a media interview afterward, Cruz said: “Their response is, ‘But Russia. But Russia.’ And I said, ‘But Russia garbage. Russia is our enemy, we know it. They behave like it and we treat them like it. You’re supposed to be our friend. And so don’t screw with us.”By then, both Saudi Arabia and Russia had little choice but to start talking. With consumption in free fall, it was only a question of time before they were forced to cut output, simply because there would be nowhere to put the oil.“We see a huge oversupply in the oil market,” said Fatih Birol, the head of the International Energy Agency.Trump TweetTrump spoke to both Putin and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, commonly known as MBS, proposing a global deal to cut production. He couldn’t help boasting about the talks before the deal was in place, announcing in a tweet on April 2 that he hoped Riyadh and Moscow would cut output by 10 million barrels a day, if not more.Brent crude jumped more than 45% in just a few seconds, crushing many bearish investors. Even when the market closed hours later, the benchmark was still up 21% -- the largest one-day increase ever.Unsurprisingly for a deal that includes dozens of countries in the OPEC+ coalition and the G-20, the final deal is a fudge. Saudi Arabia’s production will only be 1.2 million barrels a day lower than its average level before the price war. Mexico won special treatment and America’s cuts are just an estimate based on forecasts for drilling.The trajectory of oil prices will be more dependent on how fast the world leaves lockdown and the pace of the economic rebound. Yet the deal’s significance goes beyond numbers.There has been a tectonic shift in global oil politics. Putin, MBS and Trump, the leaders of the the world’s three largest producers, are dictating global petroleum supply. And America now accepts that low prices aren’t in its interest.“Trump, who has been a critic of OPEC for years, is the one who put it together,” said Daniel Yergin, the oil historian. “Of all the deals he’s done in his life, this has to be the biggest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-oil-deal-the-inside-story-of-how-the-price-war-ended/story-gPNQw4GUUnGvUTcKgSS6lN.html
13-04-2020||World||Pakistan ‘sleep walking’ into virus disaster, says opposition leader||Pakistan risks “sleep walking” into a coronavirus catastrophe where death tolls reach levels seen in the West and perilously under-resourced hospitals are pushed to the brink, an opposition leader told AFP on Monday.Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, the son of Pakistan’s first female leader Benazir Bhutto, said the country’s response to the pandemic so far had been characterised by federal foot-dragging over a comprehensive lockdown and an unwillingness to divert cash to the buckling health care system.Pakistan so far has recorded 93 deaths from a total of 5,230 cases, but experts worry the impoverished country of 215 million people -- many of whom live in cramped, multi-generational households -- is only at the start of the coronavirus curve.“There is definitely a false sense of security that we’ve seen from the start of this crisis,” Bhutto said in a video call from his Karachi office.“We have seen a desire to ignore science and facts and the examples of what has been happening around us internationally, which has hampered us taking the timely and necessary action.”Prime Minister Imran Khan has faced particular criticism after saying Pakistan could not afford a country-wide lockdown, citing the economic damage that would be unleashed.Pakistan now has a de facto lockdown after provinces acted independently to shutter schools and companies, but officials are under pressure to loosen restrictions as the economy suffers. Pakistan’s first COVID-19 cases were reported in the southern province of Sindh, governed by Bhutto’s Pakistan People’s Party (PPP), with officials there ordering a lockdown last month.Bhutto said provincial health advisors, academics and experts had recommended tougher measures across Pakistan.“We can bring the economy back to life, but we cannot bring people back to life,” he said.“If we just hope for the best and don’t prepare for the worst... then Pakistan is sleep walking into a disastrous situation and I genuinely fear for the consequences.” Bhutto said the situation in Pakistan could be worse than the US or western Europe given the country’s shortage of protective gear for medical staff, a lack of critical care beds and other problems with the underfunded health care system.The PPP was founded by Bhutto’s grandfather Zulfikar Ali Bhutto. His mother Benazir became prime minister twice and was running a third time when she was killed in a gun and bomb attack on December 27, 2007.For years Bhutto, 31, faced harsh criticism for his spotty grasp of the Urdu language and was lambasted for benefiting from dynastic politics. But he has become one of the opposition’s most recognisable faces -- known for his cool demeanour and lack of vitriol in what is traditionally a bare-knuckle political scene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-sleep-walking-into-virus-disaster-says-opposition-leader/story-HwLuqCyffLHfsghkbb6NtM.html
13-04-2020||World||US coronavirus outbreak could peak this week, CDC director says||The coronavirus outbreak could reach its peak in the United States this week, a top US health official said on Monday, pointing to signs of stabilization across the country.The United States, with the world’s third-largest population, has recorded more fatalities from COVID-19 than any other country, more than 22,000 as of Monday morning according to a Reuters tally.About 2,000 deaths were reported for each of the last four days in a row, the largest number of them in and around New York City. Experts say official statistics have understated the actual number of people who have succumbed to the respiratory disease, having excluded coronavirus-related deaths at home. “We are nearing the peak right now,” Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) told NBC’s “Today” show. “You’ll know when you’re at the peak when the next day is actually less than the day before.”Sweeping stay-at-home restrictions to curb the spread of the disease, in place for weeks in many areas of the country, have taken a painful toll on the economy, raising questions over how the country can sustain business closures and travel curbs.On Sunday, a Trump administration official indicated May 1 as a potential date for easing the restrictions while cautioning that it was still too early to say whether that goal would be met.Redfield refused to give a time frame for the re-opening of the US economy and praised social-distancing measures that he said helped curb the mortality rate.“There’s no doubt we have to reopen correctly,” Redfield said. “It’s going to be a step-by-step gradual process. It’s got to be data-driven.”Nancy Pelosi, speaker of the US House of Representatives, cautioned that the country was not prepared to end the shutdown.“We all desire an end to the shutdown orders so we can get Americans back to work and back to normal,” Pelosi said in a statement. “However, there is still not enough testing available to realistically allow that to happen.”This week Congress will work on further measures to soften the blow of the pandemic. Democrats want to add money for other anti-coronavirus efforts to a measure targeted at small businesses, including funding for rapid national testing and personal protective equipment.“It cannot wait,” Pelosi said.President Donald Trump retweeted a call to fire Dr. Anthony Fauci after the country’s top expert on infectious diseases said lives could have been saved if the country had shut down sooner during the novel coronavirus outbreak.The retweet fueled speculation Trump was running out of patience with the popular scientist and could fire him. The White House on Monday did not comment on Trump’s retweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/u-s-coronavirus-outbreak-could-peak-this-week-cdc-director-says/story-xvmtsgN4AQXG6aSioYbrhK.html
13-04-2020||World||Protect women from domestic violence during coronavirus lockdowns: Pope||Pope Francis said on Monday society had to stand behind women victims of domestic violence, as abuse increased around the world during coronavirus lockdowns.Francis praised women in frontline roles in helping society weather the crisis, mentioning doctors, nurses, police officers, prison guards and sales staff in stores selling essential goods.The pope, speaking on a religious and national holiday in Italy and other countries, also praised the many women at home helping children, the elderly and the disabled.But, speaking from his official library rather than from a window overlooking St. Peter’s Square, Francis said: “Sometimes they (women) risk being victims of violence in a cohabitation that they bear like a weight that is far too heavy.”“Let us pray for them, so the Lord grants them strength and that our communities support them along with their families,” he said.Domestic violence has risen as many countries imposed tougher restrictions on people leaving their homes to halt the spread of the coronavirus.Domestic violence programs across the United States have cited increases in calls for help. The YWCA of Northern New Jersey said domestic violence calls have risen by up to 24%.In Spain, calls to a helpline for victims of violence increased by 12.4% in the first two weeks of the lockdown compared to the same fortnight last year. Online consultations of the helpline’s website grew by 270%, the Equality Ministry said.Gun control advocates in the United States, where gun stores have been allowed to remain open, have said they feared increased ownership of firearms during the pandemic could lead to more domestic violence.In Italy, support groups said they were concerned that a sharp fall in official reports of domestic violence was a signal that women risked being even more exposed to control and aggression by a partner because victims have more difficulty communicating during a lockdown.Because of restrictions against gatherings, all of Francis’ Holy Week services that culminated on Easter Sunday were held without public participation in either St. Peter’s Basilica or St. Peter’s Square.Nearly 19,500 people have died of the coronavirus as of Sunday in Italy, the second-highest toll behind the United States.Francis said he was praying for all countries affected by the pandemic but particularly for those with many victims, mentioning the United States, Italy, Spain and France before stopping himself, saying “the list is long”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protect-women-from-domestic-violence-during-coronavirus-lockdowns-pope/story-R9nQf7DbahTSKzcMF0i7NP.html
13-04-2020||World||Pakistan Supreme Court orders removal of health advisor to PM over Covid-19||The Supreme Court of Pakistan on Monday asked the Imran Khan government to remove Special Assistant to Prime Minister on Health Dr Zafar Mirza from his post. Mirza is Pakistan’s focal person in the country’s national efforts to fight the Convid-19 pandemic.While hearing a suo motu case related to the situation arising out of the coronavirus crisis, the court expressed anger over the performance of Mirza in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic and ordered the federal government to remove him.A five-member bench of the apex court — headed by Chief Justice Gulzar Ahmed — was hearing the case.During the hearing, the chief justice, while expressing anger, said the top court is not satisfied with the performance of Zafar Mirza as health advisor.In the meantime, the centre and provinces in Pakistan continue to bicker over how best to tackle the pandemic. Sindh Chief Minister Murad Ali Shah on Monday said that he will request Prime Minister Imran Khan to extend the lockdown to limit the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.The chief minister reiterated while speaking to the media, that the only way to defeat the virus is through the combined efforts of the provincial and federal governments. Murad, however, expressed disappointment in the federal government’s earlier remarks of, “provinces can do whatever they want”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-supreme-court-orders-removal-of-health-advisor-to-pm-over-covid-19/story-YJedMvX9RzvypWNcauKJ1K.html
13-04-2020||World||Covid-19 vs UK: £7 billion at risk if Indian, other students stay away||Less than two months ago in February end, British education and other officials were hailing the spike in the number of UK student visas issued to Indians, but now despair that many will not arrive, come September, putting billions of pounds in income at risk.Unions and university officials have sought a rescue package from the Boris Johnson government to ensure the survival of centres of higher education; some were facing major financial challenges before the coronavirus hit the sector.According to the Institute for Fiscal Studies, nearly 270,000 international students were expected to start courses in UK universities this autumn, but recent reports from China – the largest non-EU group among international students – say many will stay away. There are similar indications from India,The fee income from international students was nearly £7 billion last year.The number of student visas granted to Indians in the year ending 2019 had almost doubled from the previous year (up 93 per cent to 37,540), the Home Office announced on February 27, spreading cheer among stake-holders.As the Home Office analysis said, “This was the largest number of grants to Indian students since the year ending September 2011”. There was a major drop of Indian students since 2012, when the post-study work visa was scrapped (it has now been revived).Indian and other international students typically pay at least three times the fees applicable to home and EU students, besides contributing to the British economy in accommodation, maintenance and travel costs.Universities UK, the umbrella organisation representing UK universities, says that in the current financial year (2019-20) the sector is facing losses of £790 million from accommodation, catering and conference income as well as additional spend to support students learning online.“In the next financial year (2020-21) the potential impact is extreme, with universities projecting a significant fall in international students and a potential rise in undergraduate home student deferrals”, it said in a paper sent to the Johnson government.Some universities have begun terminating short-term contracts of lecturers and researchers. The loss of income from international students is crucial to the sustenance of departments and academic jobs, particularly at the postgraduate level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vs-uk-7-billion-at-risk-if-indian-other-students-stay-away/story-dBCUSnFrSFoPOWVAtUJIPJ.html
13-04-2020||World||‘God is with us’: Many in Pakistan flout the coronavirus ban in mosques||Sabir Durrani says he offers prayers almost every day at a mosque in the central Pakistani city of Multan. He says that often a dozen or more men are in attendance - none of them wearing protective face masks.Durrani, 52, is among thousands of devout Muslims flouting Pakistan government orders issued late last month banning religious congregations of five or more people to stem the spread of the coronavirus. The disease has so far infected more than 5,300 people and killed 93 in the world’s second-most populous Muslim country.“Our prayer leader told us that the virus can’t infect us the way it does Western people,” Durrani told Reuters. “He said we wash our hands and we wash our face five times a day before we say our prayers, and the infidels don’t, so we need not worry. God is with us.”The Islamic lobby holds immense clout in Pakistan, a country of over 200 million people. Religious parties have not been successful in electoral politics but they are able to whip up large, often violent, crowds on matters pertaining to religion, such as in support of the country’s harsh blasphemy law.“Religion and prayers are an emotional issue for many people in Pakistan, and the government has to be sensitive to that,” Mirza Shahzad Akbar, a special assistant to Prime Minister Imran Khan, told Reuters.More than 60% of the coronavirus cases in Pakistan have so far been linked to Muslims returning from pilgrimages in the Middle East and followers of the Tablighi Jamaat, an orthodox proselytizing group.But the worry is of a big spike coming from the congregational prayers held in mosques, especially on Fridays, the Islamic sabbath. The numbers in attendance at prayers are likely to increase with the onset of the holy month of Ramadan within two weeks, and authorities are struggling to cope.While the Council of Islamic Ideology, a body that advises the government on religious issues, has called on clerics and the public to cooperate with government measures, several priests and local leaders have opposed the ban.A prominent leader of a religious party told a crowd of hundreds of people gathered for a funeral last week that government orders to limit congregations were unacceptable.“If you do this, we will be forced to think that mosques are being deserted on America’s instructions,” Mufti Kafayatullah told the crowd. “We’re ready to give our lives, but not ready to desert our mosques.”BLIND EYEIn Karachi, Pakistan’s largest city, police were attacked for a second straight week as they attempted to halt prayers at a mosque last Friday. A policewoman was injured in the clashes, and in the previous week, police fired shots in the air to quell an angry mob.In other cities, police seem to be turning a blind eye to some mosque gatherings.Last Friday, one of the top Twitter trends in Pakistan was “Muslims, the mosque is calling you”.In the capital, Islamabad, hundreds gathered on Friday without any hindrance at one of the city’s largest mosques, located just two miles (three km) from the seat of Pakistan’s government, including parliament and the prime minister’s secretariat.On March 27, authorities filed 88 cases against mosque administrations in Karachi and arrested 38 people for defying restrictions on Friday congregations, but charges were dropped a day later, and the people were released.“I think it’s partly appeasement and partly the fact that Pakistan’s governments and politics are locked permanently in an electoral framework in which they don’t want to lose support of the religious elite and religious proletariat,” Pakistani author and defence analyst Ayesha Siddiqa told Reuters.Akbar, the special assistant to the prime minister, said most mosques were cooperating with the government.He added however: “This is a sensitive matter, we don’t want to impose it using a stick. And even if we wanted to, there aren’t enough sticks to implement it across Pakistan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/god-is-with-us-many-in-pakistan-flout-the-coronavirus-ban-in-mosques/story-m8Wk1eWQjIPclLzIHvmysM.html
13-04-2020||World||Japan defends PM Shinzo Abe following his coronavirus video backlash||Japan’s government defended Prime Minister Shinzo Abe after his attempt to use social media to get more people to stay home during the pandemic drew accusations that he’s out of touch with the struggles citizens are facing.Abe uploaded a video on his Twitter Sunday taking part in a trend where users overlay their videos on those of singer Gen Hoshino, as he performs a song supporting social distancing that can be translated as “Dance at Home.” Pop stars have shared the screen to harmonize and families have uploaded clips of themselves bopping in the cramped spaces of their homes in postings aimed at boosting spirits.Abe’s minute-long version depicts a somewhat saturnine-looking prime minister at his residence holding his dog, drinking tea and channel surfing. The hashtag “Who do you think you are?” trended after the video was released, with users attacking Abe for being tone-deaf for seeming to be relaxing at home during a virus emergency he declared.The government’s chief spokesman, Yoshihide Suga, told reporters Monday that Abe sympathized with the feelings in Hoshino’s video, which is why he posted. “Social media is very effective to communicate to young people that they should stay at home. As far as can we confirm on Twitter, this post got a large reaction and received a record 350,000 likes,” Suga said.Even though Japan has had the fewest confirmed coronavirus infections among Group of Seven leading democracies, Abe has seen his support rate slipping in polls this month with many criticizing his government for being slow in its response. A Kyodo News poll on Monday showed the support rate dropping 5.1 percentage points from late March to hit 40.4%.The slip doesn’t bode well for Abe as he looks to set a date for elections that must be held by the autumn of 2021. Global leaders will likely be measured by how they responded to the crisis. In neighboring South Korea, President Moon Jae-in has seen his support surge to 56% due to an aggressive response that has won international praise, giving his beleaguered progressive party a boost as the country holds parliamentary elections on Wednesday.Abe’s message seemed intended to support those who can’t meet with friends or go out for food and drinks, something he referenced at his news conference last week announcing the state of emergency. For many, it seemed out of touch.“That’s the only hardship caused by coronavirus that he can think of,” a person with the Twitter handle of @mcym163 wrote. Japan’s biggest cities including Tokyo, Yokohama and Osaka have been under a state of emergency since last week where people are urged to stay home and many businesses to cut hours.“Is the leader of this country an aristocrat?” fumed another user, @fujitatakanori, in a tweet that was picked up on the front page of Nikkan Sports, a leading tabloid.Hoshino for his part moved quickly to distance himself from the prime minister. “Regarding the video uploaded by Shinzo Abe, just like the other videos uploaded by you all, there was no contact with myself or my office regarding it, including afterwards,” he said on Instagram.The video is the latest misstep in Abe’s start-stop campaign against the virus. Abrupt plans to distribute millions of cloth face masks to households met with derision on Twitter after it was announced before details of the stimulus package to stem the economic hit from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-defends-pm-shinzo-abe-following-his-coronavirus-video-backlash/story-Cw5APSXydMPAgVO6vxKH8M.html
13-04-2020||World||South Korea reports more recovered covid-19 patients testing positive again||South Korea reported on Monday that at least 116 people initially cleared of the new coronavirus had tested positive again, although officials suggested they would soon look at easing strict recommendations aimed at preventing new outbreaks.South Korea reported only 25 new cases overall on Monday, but the rise in “reactivated” patients has raised concerns as the country seeks to stamp out infections.Officials are still investigating the cause of the apparent relapses. But Jeong Eun-kyeong, director of the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC), has said the virus may have been reactivated rather than the patients being re-infected.Other experts said faulty tests may be playing a role, or remnants of the virus may still be in patients’ systems but not be infectious or of danger to the host or others.The 116 cases is more than double the 51 such cases South Korea reported a week earlier.South Korea plans to send 600,000 coronavirus testing kits to the United States on Tuesday in the first such shipment following a request from U.S. President Donald Trump, a Seoul official told Reuters on Monday.Government leaders, meanwhile, called on South Koreans to continue to follow guidelines and restrictions on social gatherings, but hinted that such measures could soon be eased.South Korea has called on residents to follow strict social distancing until at least April 19, but as cases have dropped and the weather has improved, a growing number of people have been flouting the guidelines.At a meeting on disaster management on Monday, Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun said the government would soon be looking to loosen the guidelines, which call for people to stay at home, avoid social gatherings of any type, and only go out for essential reasons.“Later this week, we plan to review our intensive social distancing campaign that we have carried out so far and discuss whether we will switch to routine safety measures” he said.Some local governments have imposed stricter measures, including closing bars and nightclubs, banning large demonstrations, and limiting church services.Chung cautioned that even when the restrictions are eased, the country will not return to life as before the outbreak.“We need a very cautious approach because any premature easing of social distancing could bring irreversible consequences, and have to ponder deeply about when and how we switch to the new system,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-reports-more-recovered-covid-19-patients-testing-positive-again/story-eSvKXFVyvEBFUIwS9aMIaO.html
13-04-2020||World||WHO says 70 coronavirus vaccines in the works, with 3 leading candidates||There are 70 coronavirus vaccines in development globally, with three candidates already being tested in human trials, according to the World Health Organization, as drugmakers race to find a cure for the deadly pathogen.The furthest along in the clinical process is an experimental vaccine developed by Hong Kong-listed CanSino Biologics Inc. and the Beijing Institute of Biotechnology, which is in phase 2. The other two being tested in humans are treatments developed separately by U.S. drugmakers Moderna Inc. and Inovio Pharmaceuticals Inc., according to a WHO document.Progress is occurring at unprecedented speed in developing vaccines as the infectious pathogen looks unlikely to be stamped out through containment measures alone. The drug industry is hoping to compress the time it takes to get a vaccine to market -- usually about 10 to 15 years -- to within the next year.Drugmakers big and small have jumped in to try to develop a vaccine, which would be the most effective way to contain the virus. Pharmaceutical giants like Pfizer Inc. and Sanofi have vaccine candidates in the preclinical stages, according to the WHO document.CanSino said last month it received Chinese regulatory approval to start human trials of its vaccine. Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Moderna -- which has never put out a product -- received regulatory approval to move quickly to human trials in March, skipping the years of animal trials that are the norm in developing vaccines. Inovio began its human trials last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-70-coronavirus-vaccines-in-the-works-with-3-leading-candidates/story-OM2B5FXLw692E8zMYBdrbP.html
13-04-2020||World||US sees 1,514 Covid-19 deaths in 24 hrs; expert says country could reopen in May||The US recorded 1,514 Covid-19 related deaths, lower than the previous day’s toll of 1,920, over the past 24 hours, Johns Hopkins University tally showed as of 8:30pm Sunday (0030 GMT Monday).The outbreak has now claimed the lives of at least 22,020 people in the US, the most of any country.The United States also leads the world by far in the number of confirmed infections, with 555,313 by the Baltimore-based university’s count.The country has been recording nearly 2,000 deaths a day from the coronavirus, disproportionately older people with weakened immune systems and ethnic minorities with less access to health care and teleworking.The US, which has 4.25% of the world’s population, accounts for almost a fifth of the world’s nearly 114,180 deaths from Covid-19 since the disease first emerged in China in December last year.‘Start reopening in May’Anthony Fauci, the US government’s top infectious diseases expert, said on Sunday that the country may be ready to start gradually reopening next month, as signs grew that the coronavirus pandemic was peaking.Fauci, the veteran pandemic expert, said in an interview to CNN that parts of the country could begin easing restrictions in May. But Fauci was cautious as well.“I think it could probably start at least in some ways maybe next month,” Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told CNN.“We are hoping by the end of the month we can look around and say, OK, is there any element here that we can safely and cautiously start pulling back on? If so, do it. If not, then just continue to hunker down,” Fauci said.Also read: What you need to know todayUS President Donald Trump had earlier wanted the world’s largest economy to be “raring to go” by Easter Sunday, but most of the country remained at a standstill and churches took celebrations online to halt the spread of the virus that has killed more than 22,000 people in the US.Trump has cast the decision on when to ease the lockdown as the biggest of his presidency as he faces competing pressures from public health experts and businesses along with some conservative allies who want a swift return to normality.Fauci said that regions would be ready at different times rather than the US turning back on like a “light switch.”Stephen Hahn, the commissioner of the US Food and Drug Administration, told ABC he was “hopeful” about reopening on May 1. “I think it’s too early to be able to tell that,” he added.‘Need to be smart’Lockdown decisions, unlike in many western countries, are primarily up to local governments, not the president, and leaders of a number of hard-hit, densely populated states have vowed to act as long as necessary.“We want to reopen as soon as possible. The caveat is we need to be smart in the way we reopen,” New York Governor Andrew Cuomo told reporters.Also read: 3 Indian Americans showing signs of recovery after transfused with plasma from recovered Covid-19 patientsNeighbouring New Jersey’s governor, fellow Democrat Phil Murphy, said that an economic recovery depended on a “full health-care recovery.”If “we start to get back on our feet too soon, I fear, based on the data we’re looking at, we could be throwing gasoline on the fire,” Murphy told CBS.Trump, for his part, wrote on Twitter Sunday: “We are winning, and will win, the war on the Invisible Enemy!”Also read: Virus airborne up to 4 metres, health staff at high riskWorst-hit New York recorded another 758 coronavirus deaths, Cuomo said.“You’re not seeing a great decline in the numbers, but you’re seeing a flattening,” he said.Fauci similarly said he was “cautiously optimistic” as admissions into hospitals and intensive care had begun to decline.‘Fake News’The New York Times, in an extensive article published Sunday, described Trump as failing to act quickly in part due to confidence in his gut instincts and his distrust of civil servants he brands as a conspiratorial “deep state.”Trump slammed the paper’s story Sunday evening with his favourite insult: “Fake News!”“The @nytimes story is a Fake, just like the ‘paper’ itself,” he tweeted.“I was criticized for moving too fast when I issued the China Ban, long before most others wanted to do so,” he wrote, referring to the ban travel ban on the Asian power.Fauci, who has advised six successive presidents, acknowledged when asked about the article that the US could have saved lives by shutting down public spaces when the disease’s seriousness became clear early in the year.“But there was a lot of pushback about shutting things down back then,” Fauci told CNN, without naming Trump.Trump soon afterwards posted an interview in which Fauci said that the US “early on did not get correct information.”Trump last week zeroed in on the World Health Organization (WHO) to explain early difficulties, saying the UN body was overly reliant on China when cases first emerged in Wuhan.Trump had been hoping to campaign on a strong economy as he seeks re-election in November.Instead, some 17 million people have lost their jobs in a matter of weeks and his presumptive Democratic rival, Joe Biden, has been hammering him over his virus response.There are 1,846,963 confirmed cases across the world and 114,185 people have been killed, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker on Monday morning.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-records-1-514-covid-19-deaths-in-24-hours-expert-says-country-could-reopen-in-may/story-eRZVQUOYTswssI75JaFTJK.html
13-04-2020||World||Covid-19: 3 big reasons why so many have died in New York||The United States is hit hard by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. About 5,45,000 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the US as of Sunday, and roughly 21,600 have died of the highly contagious illness.New York has one of the world’s highest death tolls; the city has seen 6,898 virus-related deaths so far.So why is New York so badly hit? Here’s exploring some of the reasons:Density: America’s financial capital has 8.6 million inhabitants. There are 10,000 people per square kilometre, making it the densest city in the US. Millions of commuters brush up against each other on its packed subway system every day, while keeping distance on its sometimes narrow sidewalks can be difficult.Tourism: New York gets more than 60 million tourists a year and is entry point to America for many travellers, meaning anyone carrying the virus is likely to start infecting others there first. American geneticists estimate that it started spreading there from Europe in February, before New York’s first confirmed case on March 1.Poverty: The Big Apple is also characterised by massive socio-economic inequality. Overcrowded, deprived areas - particularly in the Bronx and Queens where many people already suffer health problems and lack medical care - have experienced the highest rate of infections. The United States has been recording nearly 2,000 deaths a day from the coronavirus. Worst-hit New York recorded another 758 coronavirus deaths in the last 24 hours, governor Andrew Cuomo said.The United States, which has 4.25 percent of the world’s population, accounts for almost a fifth of the world’s nearly 110,000 deaths from Covid-19 since the disease first emerged in China late last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-3-big-reasons-why-so-many-have-died-in-new-york/story-AIWaKzj7qXrp9APBDCNPWL.html
13-04-2020||World||Turkey’s Erdogan refuses minister’s resignation over pandemic response||Turkey’s President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Sunday refused the resignation of his interior minister over his handling of an abrupt nationwide lockdown that led to panic buying.Suleyman Soylu’s resignation had not been accepted, said a statement from Erdogan. “He is going to continue to carry out his functions,” he added.Soylu came in for fierce criticism after a 48-hour nationwide shutdown to counter the spread of the coronavirus was announced on Friday night with just two hours’ notice, sparking panic-buying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkey-s-erdogan-refuses-minister-s-resignation-over-pandemic-response/story-SQ1A3Oao0UO5ItsVUYii7N.html
13-04-2020||World||Nearly 29% Americans believe Covid-19 was grown in a lab: Study||Coronavirus cases across the globe are inching toward the 2 million-mark while more than one lakh people have lost their lives to the deadly contagion worldwide.What started in the Chinese city of Wuhan has now spread across the globe, infecting hundreds and thousands across various continents, bringing some of the biggest economies to a halt.There’s very little known about the virus or its origin. There are no proven vaccines or medication against the same. A study conducted by the Pew Research Centre suggests that most Americans believe that Covid-19 was lab-grown.Nearly three in ten Americans or a quarter of the American population, as many as 29% of those surveyed, believe that novel coronavirus was grown in a lab, the survey indicated.43% of Americans believe that the virus came about naturally.The findings were obtained after conducting a survey between March 10 to 16.According to Johns Hopkins University, the United States recorded 1,514 coronavirus fatalities over the past 24 hours. However, the number of fatalities was lower than the previous day’s toll of 1,920.The outbreak has now claimed at least 22,020 lives in the US, the most of any country.US President Donald Trump has lashed out at leading American newspaper The New York Times (NYT), accusing it of carrying fake report on his administration’s Covid-19 response.“The @nytimes story is a Fake, just like the “paper” itself. I was criticized for moving too fast when I issued the China Ban, long before most others wanted to do so. @SecAzar told me nothing until later, and Peter Navarro memo was same as Ban (see his statements). Fake News!” he tweeted on Monday morning.In India, 620 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The overall coronavirus tally breached the 9,000-mark with 9,152 total cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-nearly-29-americans-believe-covid-19-was-grown-in-a-lab-study/story-AuTRPnAkuy4JkAq16XHIcL.html
13-04-2020||World||‘Fake news’: Trump’s counter to NYT report on his response to Covid-19||US President Donald Trump has lashed out at leading American newspaper The New York Times (NYT), accusing it of carrying fake report on his administration’s Covid-19 response.The NYT report said that President Trump was warned about the potential for a pandemic but he repeatedly played down the seriousness of the virus and focused instead on controlling the message.“The @nytimes story is a Fake, just like the “paper” itself. I was criticized for moving too fast when I issued the China Ban, long before most others wanted to do so. @SecAzar told me nothing until later, and Peter Navarro memo was same as Ban (see his statements). Fake News!” he tweeted on Monday morning. The @nytimes story is a Fake, just like the "paper" itself. I was criticized for moving too fast when I issued the China Ban, long before most others wanted to do so. @SecAzar told me nothing until later, and Peter Navarro memo was same as Ban (see his statements). Fake News!“I am working hard to expose the corruption and dishonesty in the Lamestream Media. That part is easy, the hard part is WHY?” Trump said in his other tweet.The lengthy investigative report said that there were warnings from the intelligence community, national security aides and government health officials about an impending pandemic and its consequences but Trump played down the crisis.“An examination reveals the president was warned about the potential for a pandemic but that internal divisions, lack of planning and his faith in his own instincts led to a halting response,” the NYT report said.Trump’s views were “coloured” by long-running disputes inside the administration over how to deal with China and his own suspicion of the motivations of officials inside what he viewed as the “Deep State”, the report claimed. It further said that recommendations from public health officials often competed with economic and political considerations in internal debates, slowing the path toward belated decisions.The US government’s top infectious diseases expert Anthony Fauci acknowledged when asked about the article that the US could have saved lives by shutting down public spaces when the disease’s seriousness became clear early in the year.“But there was a lot of pushback about shutting things down back then,” Fauci told CNN, without naming Trump.Trump soon afterward posted an interview in which Fauci said that the United States “early on did not get correct information.”The United States, which has 4.25 per cent of the world’s population, accounts for almost a fifth of the world’s nearly 1,10,000 deaths from Covid-19 since the disease first emerged in China late last year. Worst-hit New York recorded another 758 coronavirus deaths, governor Andrew Cuomo said.The United States has been recording nearly 2,000 deaths a day from the coronavirus, said news agency AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fake-news-trump-s-counter-to-nyt-report-on-his-response-to-covid-19/story-WVHqexxufcNcn891ZscB7H.html
13-04-2020||World||Top oil producers agree on record output cuts amid coronavirus crisis||Top oil-producing countries agreed Sunday to record output cuts in order to boost plummeting oil prices due to the new coronavirus crisis and a Russia-Saudi price war.OPEC producers, dominated by Saudi Arabia, and allies led by Russia met via videoconference for an hour Sunday in a last-ditch effort to cement an accord struck early Friday that hinged on Mexico’s agreement.Click here for Covid-19 full coverageIn a compromise, Mexico came onboard Sunday to an agreement to cut 9.7 million barrels per day from May, according to its Energy Minister Rocio Nahle, down slightly from 10 million barrels per day envisioned earlier.Kuwait Oil Minister Khaled al-Fadhel tweeted that, following extensive efforts “we announce completing the historical agreement”.Saudi Energy Minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, who chaired the meeting together with his Russian and Algerian counterparts, also confirmed that the discussions “ended with consensus”.‘Great deal for all’US President Donald Trump welcomed a “great deal for all”, saying on Twitter it would “save hundreds of thousands of energy jobs in the United States”.He added he “would like to thank and congratulate” Russian President Vladimir Putin and Saudi Crown Prince and de facto leader Mohammed bin Salman, both of whom he had spoken to.Initial reticence from Mexico to introduce output cuts had led to a standoff that cast doubt on efforts to bolster oil prices, pushed to near two-decade lows.Oil prices have slumped since the beginning of the year due to the COVID-19 pandemic that has sapped demand as countries around the world have put their populations under lockdown.Compounding the problem, key players Russia and Saudi Arabia had engaged in a price war, ramping up output in a bid to hold on to market share and undercut US shale producers.‘Temporary relief’ Rystad Energy analyst Per Magnus Nysveen said Sunday’s agreement provided “at least a temporary relief” as fuel consumption was expected to fall globally by 27 million barrels per day in April and 20 million barrels per day in May.His colleague Bjornar Tonhaugen said, however, that even though the deal made “the single largest output cut in history”, prices were still expected to see “renewed downwards pressure”.“The oil market will see enormous stock builds in April as the deal is only in effect from 1 May, while gradual shut ins and production declines will already happen during the current month,” he said.Top oil producers struggled to finalise production cuts during a virtual summit held by G20 energy ministers on Friday, despite Trump’s mediation efforts to end the standoff with Mexico.The OPEC-led agreement foresees deep output cuts in May and June followed by a gradual reduction in cuts until April 2022.Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak was quoted by Russian news agency TASS as saying he expected oil markets not to recover before “end of the year, in the best case”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-oil-producers-agree-on-record-output-cuts/story-9lUwQE5IvebSlv3kIRbFtM.html
13-04-2020||World||Covid-19 fatalities in Britain cross 10,000||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson expressed his gratitude to the staff of the National Health Service (NHS) for saving his life when his experience with the coronavirus could have “gone either way” as the UK on Sunday became the fourth European country to surpass 10,000 virus-related deaths.The UK became the fourth European country after Italy, Spain and France to reach the grim milestone of 10,000 deaths from Covid-19.The government said another 737 people who tested positive had died, taking the total number of virus deaths recorded in the UK to 10,612. The figure reported on Sunday represented a second straight daily decline in the number of reported deaths.Earlier, Johnson was moved from St Thomas’ Hospital in London to the country house of Chequers in Buckinghamshire to rest and recuperate from Covid-19 even as a senior government adviser admitted Britain could have the worst death rate in Europe.Jeremy Farrar, a member of the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, told the BBC, “The numbers in the UK have continued to go up. I do hope we’re coming close to the number of new infections reducing… and the number of deaths plateauing and starting to come down. And yes, the UK is likely to be certainly one of the worst, if not the worst affected country in Europe.”In his first statement after emerging from ICU, Johnson thanked doctors, saying, “I can’t thank them enough. I owe them my life.”A Downing Street spokesman later said, “The PM has been discharged from hospital to continue his recovery, at Chequers. On the advice of his medical team, the PM will not be immediately returning to work.”The UK parliament is due to reopen virtually on April 21. In an optimistic Easter message to the country, Queen Elizabeth said, “Coronavirus will not overcome us…We need Easter as much as ever…As dark as death can be - particularly for those suffering with grief - light and life are greater.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-fatalities-in-britain-cross-10-000/story-OBDwMvvLmgXyo3MRDe82xK.html
13-04-2020||World||Imran Khan urges world community to grant debt relief as Pak’s coronavirus cases reach 5,230||Prime Minister Imran Khan on Sunday urged the global community to launch an initiative to give debt relief to developing countries that are fighting the novel coronavirus, as Pakistan reported nearly 450 fresh cases, bringing the total number of the COVID-19 patients to 5,230.In a video message, Khan said that highly indebted countries are facing a “lack of fiscal space” that was inhibiting their efforts to prevent the coronavirus from spreading and, at the same time, providing relief to people.Click here for full Covid-19 coveragee said a global pandemic cannot be contained without strong, coordinated and well-crafted global response.“The Global Initiative on Debt Relief will bring together stakeholders on a platform to promote coordinated health and economic response,” he said.Noting that COVID-19 posed unprecedented health and economic challenges, Khan underlined that a global recession worse than the Great Depression was certain.He noted that during the past week, various announcements have been made by multilateral actors such as the UN, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, including an initial relief packages of USD 1.4 billion by the IMF and USD 1 billion by the World Bank.Khan invited the UN Secretary General to work with him in advancing the objectives of a coordinated response.“The proposed Global Initiative aims to lay ground for urgent debt relief to the developing countries, at their request, and without onerous conditionalities,” he said.While proposing the Initiative, Khan highlighted that his Government had provided USD 8 billion stimulus package to help the most vulnerable people in Pakistan.Khan entrusted the Foreign Minister and Adviser on Finance to reach out to their respective counterparts for the “Global Initiative on Debt Relief” with the objectives of relieving developing countries of the financial challenge from the COVID-19 pandemic and realizing sustainable development.His appeal came as the Ministry of National Health Services reported 399 fresh coronavirus cases, bringing the total number of the COVID-19 patients in the country to 5,183. The nation-wide breakdown of the patients showed that Punjab has 2,464 cases, Sindh 1,411, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 744, Balochistan 228, Gilgit-Baltistan 224 Islamabad 119 and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir 40. The ministry also said that 14 more people have died due to COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of fatalities to 86.It said that 1,026 patients have recovered so far while 37 were reported to be in critical condition. The data showed that so far 61,801 tested were conducted, including 2,805 during the last one day.Prime Minister’s Advisor on Health Dr Zafar Mirza said that coronavirus was a “preventable problem” and could be curbed if proper measures were taken, as he urged people to observe social distancing and ensure hand hygiene.He also said that half of the total coronavirus patients were infected due to local transmission. The other half were those who came from abroad.Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on Social Protection and Poverty Alleviation Dr Sania Nishtar told the media that cash distribution was going on and so far over 1.774 million families benefitted from Ehsaas programme to give cash to the poor.The steady rise in the new cases has been registered despite more than three-week of lockdown in the country which is going to end on Tuesday, but officials said that a decision will be made on Monday whether to increase it or not.There is high possibility that it would be extended as Mirza said that the low number of cases could spike if lockdown was completely lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-urges-world-community-to-grant-debt-relief-as-pak-s-coronavirus-cases-reach-5-230/story-byNpGwlc1DsiYtHWOhxqNI.html
13-04-2020||World||US records 1,514 virus deaths in past 24 hours: Johns Hopkins||The United States recorded 1,514 deaths related to the coronavirus pandemic over the past 24 hours, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University as of 8:30 pm Sunday (0030 GMT Monday).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe number of fatalities was lower than the previous day’s toll of 1,920.The outbreak has now claimed the lives of at least 22,020 people in the US, the most of any country.The US also leads the world by far in the number of confirmed infections, with 555,313 by the Baltimore-based university’s count.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-records-1-514-virus-deaths-in-past-24-hours-johns-hopkins/story-dhoJZEDVbO94kGYghTiTrJ.html
13-04-2020||World||Iraqi couple gets police help to wed amid curfew||Iraqi student Ahmed Khaled al-Kaabi, 23, proposed to the love of his life last year.The couple’s dream was to have a huge celebration with family and friends in the southern holy city of Najaf.But in the wake of the new coronavirus, those hopes were dashed when a government-ordered curfew banned large public gatherings and wedding halls were shuttered.“I didn’t expect my wedding to be this way. I was hoping for a party and that we would visit the imam,” said Ruqaya Rahim, the new bride, referring to the religious official who leads prayers in the mosque. “But we were prevented from doing that.” Najaf has been among the Iraqi cities hardest hit by the pandemic, accounting for a little more than 20% of Iraq’s total cases. At least five people have died amid 257 confirmed cases in the province, according to Health Ministry figures.That’s a small fraction of the 70 people who have died nationwide since the first virus case was recorded in Iraq in February. Iraq now has nearly 1,300 confirmed virus cases.Unwilling to postpone the wedding, al-Kaabi came up with a different plan.He asked the local security forces to help him make the wedding happen. The police responded by providing the groom with vehicles, complete with blasting music.They transported al-Kaabi’s bride to the family home for a small celebration of just six people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iraqi-couple-gets-police-help-to-wed-amid-curfew/story-hX80WzD68jquwXhuKO0AtN.html
13-04-2020||World||China vows improvements for Africans after coronavirus discrimination claims||Under strong international pressure, China on Sunday vowed to improve the treatment of Africans in the southern city of Guangzhou following accusations of discrimination linked to the coronavirus pandemic, and said it rejected all “racist and discriminatory” remarks.Africans in the industrial centre of 15 million say they have become targets of suspicion and subjected to forced evictions, arbitrary quarantines and mass coronavirus testing, particularly as Beijing steps up its fight against imported infections.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe African Union expressed its “extreme concern” about the situation on Saturday, calling on Beijing to take immediate corrective measures.The United States, meanwhile, denounced what it called “xenophobia towards Africans by Chinese authorities.”A recent cluster of coronavirus cases linked to the Nigerian community in Guangzhou, southern China’s largest city, sparked the alleged discrimination by locals and virus-prevention officials.Several Africans told AFP they had been forcibly evicted from their homes and turned away by hotels. “The Chinese government has been attaching great importance to the life and health of foreign nationals in China,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said in a statement.“The Guangdong (provincial) authorities attach great importance to some African countries’ concerns and are working promptly to improve their working method,” he added.Among the measures Zhao announced were non-discriminatory health management services and hotels for foreigners who are required to undergo medical observation, to be offered at reduced rates for those in need.He said officials in Guangdong rejected “all racist and discriminatory remarks.” The first reports of heightened discrimination came after local authorities said at least eight people diagnosed with the illness had spent time in the city’s Yuexiu district, known as “Little Africa”.Five were Nigerian nationals who faced widespread anger after reports surfaced that they had broken a mandatory quarantine and been to restaurants and other public places.China has made massive investments in Africa over the past 20 years and maintains positive relations with most countries there.“China-Africa friendship is unbreakable as it is deeply rooted in this land,” Zhao said.China has largely stemmed its coronavirus epidemic, but remains on alert over the threat of reinfection from individuals arriving from abroad who could cause a second wave of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-vows-improvements-for-africans-after-coronavirus-discrimination-claims/story-1pokSY0yqGq5yLMMDrNI0H.html
13-04-2020||World||UK may have worst death rate in Europe as toll mounts||Recovering from coronavirus after moving out of the intensive care unit, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Sunday he owed his life to doctors, as a senior government advisor admitted the UK could have the worst death rate in Europe.With Saturday figures putting the death toll at 9,875, the weekend is set to see the figure cross 10,000. The government’s medical advisors believe that if the eventual figure is below 20,000, “it will have done well”.In his first statement after emerging from ICU, Johnson thanked doctors in the St Thomas’ Hospital: “I can’t thank them enough. I owe them my life.” The UK parliament is due to reopen virtually on April 21.Jeremy Farrar, director of the Wellcome Trust and member of the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies said on Sunday that the UK is likely to see the worst death rate in Europe.He told BBC: “The numbers in the UK have continued to go up. I do hope we’re coming close to the number of new infections reducing … and the number of deaths plateauing and starting to come down”.“And yes, the UK is likely to be certainly one of the worst, if not the worst affected country in Europe”.Farrar added that a second or third wave of the virus “was probably inevitable” and treatment and a vaccine was “our only true exit strategy”. A vaccine could be available by autumn but it would take longer to ramp up manufacturing to the scale required to vaccinate many millions.“I would hope we would get (that) done in 12 months but that is in itself an unprecedented ambition,” he said.As medical professionals continued to complain of lack of personal protection equipment while treating patients, new details of those contracting and dying from the virus include pharmacist Pooja Sharma, who worked at the Eastbourne General Hospital in east Sussex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-may-have-worst-death-rate-in-europe-as-toll-mounts/story-YNNBX00QCHWtcnQ2Ed2QDL.html
13-04-2020||India||Total positive Covid-19 cases reach 1,510 in Delhi||The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the national capital reached 1,510 on Monday, while the deaths stand at 28. As many as 356 new coronavirus positive cases were reported in Delhi today, including 325 positive cases-Under Special Operations, and four deaths.So far, 30 Covid-19 infected patients have been recorded fully in the national capital.India’s count of positive Covid-19 cases has risen to 9,352, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-positive-covid-19-cases-reach-1-510-in-delhi/story-QAe8pEL7N3IpynnNoofX1O.html
13-04-2020||India||Doctor in Shillong becomes Meghalaya’s first to test positive for Covid-19||A doctor in Shillong tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday making him the first patient in Meghalaya, officials said.With this all seven states in north east now have one or more positive cases. Nagaland recorded its first positive case on Sunday.According to officials in Shillong, the patient is a 69-year old doctor who works at a private hospital.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Health authorities in Shillong have decided to turn the hospital into a quarantine camp and taken measures to test all patients, doctors and staff working there.More details are awaited.The Northeast region now has a total of 38 positive cases with Assam recording the highest number at 30 positive patients, Manipur and Tripura have 2 cases each and Mizoram, Nagaland, Meghalaya and Arunachal Pradesh one case each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-in-shillong-becomes-meghalaya-s-first-to-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-WsoZot6iksuQct594AgoJM.html
13-04-2020||India||Ambedkar Jayanti 2020: Remembering BR Ambedkar on his 129th birth anniversary||It was on April 14 in the year 1891 when the champion of Dalit rights, the principal architect of the Indian Constitution Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar was born.Also known as Babasaheb Ambedkar, BR Ambedkar was born on 14 April 1891 in present-day Madhya Pradesh’s Mhow. Every year, Ambedkar’s birth anniversary is celebrated to honour his countless contributions in the making of the present-day independent India.Ambedkar Jayanti is also known as Bhim Jayanti and is celebrated as a public holiday across India since 2015.Ambedkar led a crusade for the upliftment and empowerment of Dalits in the country.He earned doctorates in economics from premier institutes like the Columbia University and the London School of Economics. He was a scholar in disciplines like law, economics and political science.Babasaheb became a key advocate and campaigner for India’s independence from the British rule. He published scores of journals and advocated for Dalits rights.He also made significant contributions toward the establishment of the state of India, drafting of the Constitution and giving ideas that served as the foundation of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).In 1956, Ambedkar converted to Buddhism.Ambedkar suffered from diabetes and was bed-ridden for a brief time in 1954. The following year, his health worsened. Ambedkar completed the final manuscript of his book on Buddhism ‘The Buddha and His Dhamma’ in December 1956. Three days later, on 6 December, he passed away in his sleep at his home in Delhi.BR Ambedkar was conferred the country’s highest civilian honor, Bharat Ratna, posthumously in 1990.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambedkar-jayanti-2020-remembering-br-ambedkar-on-his-129th-birth-anniversary/story-6SgcGVejKfpQjs1QaytFJP.html
13-04-2020||India||Nomads face the heat amid lockdown in J&K, Himachal Pradesh||The Covid-19 lockdown has delayed the seasonal migration of the nomadic tribes of Gujjars and Bakerwals in Jammu and Kashmir and neighbouring Himachal Pradesh by a fortnight, putting their lives and livestock at risk.By March-end, the tribes are headed for greener pastures and cooler climes of Kishtwar, Kashmir and Ladakh as summer approaches the plains. It takes them about 45 days to make it to their destination with their livestock, comprising sheep, goats, buffaloes, cows, donkeys, horses, mules and camels.Choudhary Mohammed Iqbal Phambra, 64, a Gujjar from Mansar in Udhampur district, says, “In this lockdown, we neither have access to veterinarians nor medicines. Fodder is in short supply. Further delay can be fatal for the cattle.”FACING A BACKLASHThe Gujjars say the increase in Covid-19 cases in Kashmir could make them unwelcome visitors. “People there doubt that we are carrying the infection from the plains. We fear a confrontation,” he says.The Gujjars of neighbouring Himachal Pradesh say there is already a backlash against the community after the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi that led to a spike in coronavirus cases across the country.Mohammad Aslam, an assistant professor at Akal University, Bathinda, says, “Gujjars are not associated with the Tablighi Jamaat but have become a target due to the hate being spread on social media. The entire community is being blamed.” SEEKING SUPPORTA Bakerwal leader, Haji Mohammed Khalid, 78, from Pouni in Reasi says, “Our sheep and goats can’t bear the heat. They suffer from high fever that can be fatal. Though we have heard that the J&K administration has cleared the migration but it hasn’t started. Still, it’s not too late if the government facilitates our migration by providing tarpaulins and ration besides ensuring access to vets and medicines.”Tribal Research and Cultural Foundation, J&K, founder Javaid Rahi says the administration should formulate a comprehensive plan after consulting local tribal leaders in view of the lockdown.Principal secretary, animal husbandry, Navin Kumar Choudhary says, “All deputy commissioners have been asked to allow the migration in batches. The process has started.”Another Gujjar leader, Mohammed Asif, 54, from Kathua, says: “We urge the officials to distribute copies of the permission for our movement to avoid harassment from the police.”UP AGAINST A DIVIDEIn Himachal, the Muslim Gujjar population is concentrated in Chamba district. The community migrates to the plains of Kangra district and Gurdaspur and Mukerian in the Shivalik foothills in Punjab to return to Chamba in summer.But this time the lockdown has hit them hard. Fakardeen, a Gujjar from Belj village of Chamba, and his family are based in Indora in Kangra. “People have stopped buying milk from us. There is a shortage of fodder,” he says.“The situation is worse in adjoining Punjab. People are threatening and forcing us to leave the plains after the recent incident in Delhi. There are no buyers for milk and khoya with most shops closed due to the lockdown,” says Ghulam Mohammad.Another Gujjar from Chamba, Hussain Ali, says, “The barter system in the villages of Chamba has collapsed. There is a silent boycott.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nomads-face-the-heat-amid-lockdown-in-j-k-himachal-pradesh/story-4YsaLXPBKUPQmR5cowHsRJ.html
13-04-2020||India||For Dharavi’s sanitation problems, K VijayRaghavan pitches for some frugal solutions||The country’s top scientist’s team has come up with a ‘do it yourself’ hand wash station that could be used in densely-populated neighborhoods such as Dharavi to raise the sanitation bar. This one is operated by foot and can be assembled by community volunteers and authorities using affordable and locally available material even during the lockdown’s supply-chain challenges.These foot-operated hand wash stations not only reduce the chance of transmission of disease by eliminating direct contact with potentially high-infection areas but also reduce the amount of water used to wash hands, the office of Principal Scientific Adviser K VijayRaghavan said in a statement on Monday.“Our densely populated places, Dharavi is but one example that needs special attention. The manual, put together by the team at the PSA’s office, brings out how frugal but effective tools can have disproportionate positive impact,” K VijayRaghavan said. He urged community leaders, NGOs and corporate houses to take up to implement such solutions.Mumbai’s Dharavi, Asia’s biggest slum cluster, has already reported 49 Covid-19 cases. Five of them have died. Given how the residents of Dharavi are short on space and basic amenities, there has been a lurking concern that the highly contagious disease could spread rapidly prompting the state to bring in hundreds of reserve police personnel to enforce the lockdown and social distancing norms.The sprawl of shanties spread across 240-hectare is home to 8,50,000 people. At a population density of 66,000 people per square kilometre, it is one of Mumbai’s most congested spaces.A set of guidelines issued by VijayRaghavan’s office on Monday said some basic steps would, with precautions and measures, help control the spread of Covid-19 in such densely populated areas where toilets, washing or bathing facilities are shared.The statement by VijayRaghavan’s office said installing permanent foot-operated stations in public and community toilets encourage people to wash their hands and, yet reduce water use. Chlorinating the water dispensed at such stations would add additional effectiveness and should be considered, it said.The guidelines also outline good toilet practices to maintain sanitation and hygiene in communities. It also underscores simple measures such as the need to always wear face-covers and footwear in the toilet, washing hands immediately after use and maintaining social-distancing. Disinfectants to keep public areas and homes clean and sanitised have also been detailed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-top-scientist-comes-up-with-a-simple-hand-wash-station-for-dharavi/story-cQRLJGzPM73YhDkWpNchuK.html
13-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Covid-19 infections cross 9,000 but no new cases in 25 districts for 14 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 infections cross 9,000 but no new cases in 25 districts for 14 daysEven as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise in India, the government on Monday pointed out that no news cases have been reported from 25 districts in 15 states where people have been affected by coronavirus.The total number of infections in the country rose 9152 by Monday afternoon.Read more. Private Covid-19 tests free only for poor: Supreme Court amends its orderThe Supreme Court has amended its verdict delivered last week that forced private laboratories to offer free Covid-19 testing to everyone. On Monday, the two-judge bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat ordered that only people who could not afford Rs 4,500 for the test should be tested free by private laboratories. Read more. India’s ‘strong demarche’ to Pakistan over death of 3 civilians in shellingIndia on Monday lodged a strong protest with Pakistan over the killing of three civilians, including a minor, in unprovoked cross-border shelling by Pakistani forces, people familiar with developments said. An eight-year-old boy and a woman were among the three people killed when Pakistani troops shelled several civilian areas in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. Read more. Quarantining Tablighi Jamaat members helped contain Covid-19: Delhi top copDelhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Monday said the decision to take Tablighi Jamaat members from its headquarters (Markaz) in the capital’s Nizamuddin area directly to quarantine facilities helped in containing the spread Covid-19. Read more. Covid-19: UP board to promote students of classes 6 to 9 and class 11 to next levelThe Uttar Pradesh secondary education department on Monday announced to promote all students of class 6, 7, 8, 9 and 11 for academic session 2019-20 to the next level to keep the session regular, an official said. The official directed officials to ensure all schools must adhere to this to fight back the current situation emerged due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Read more. ‘Training, reading and streaming to deal with free time’It was on March 7 or 8, during the Six Red National Snooker Tournament in Ahmedabad, that our inboxes got the message: the world body had deferred all events till June 30. There we were talking about travel plans for the high-profile World Matchplay Billiards in Leeds—at the venue where I won the world title in 2018—in April when things ground to a halt. Read more. Ramayan actor who played Raavan gets emotional seeing this scene. WatchThe iconic show Ramayan by Ramanand Sagar, which was released back in 1987, is on its rerun during the ongoing lockdown. The revival of the age-old show has sparked all sorts of emotions among people. Amid these, there’s a particular video of actor Arvind Trivedi, who played the role of Raavan in the mythological show, which is now being shared by many. Read more. Saif Ali Khan on holding Sara Ali Khan’s hand through Love Aaj Kal failure: ‘I don’t think it’s needed’Actor Saif Ali Khan was asked how he reacted when daughter Sara Ali Khan’s recent film, Love Aaj Kal, was criticised by fans. Saif told journalist Anupama Chopra that it was a mix of holding her hand through it, and letting her come to terms with it herself. Read more. Slapping lockdown blues away: Slap Kings is the top downloaded game in MarchClearly, the lockdown is getting to everyone. While we juggle daily chores and work, frustrations are peaking and there are very limited ways to deal with them. Of course, you can work out and use up that energy. You can also slap it away. Read more. Covid-19 curfew: We’re at god’s mercy, cry homeless in ChandigarhPeople in Chandigarh shelter homes are packed like sardines ignoring norms of social distancing. Most of them are below poverty line patients suffering from Cancer, kidney failure, etc. All of them came to PGIMER, Chandigarh to get their treatment done. Owing to lockdown, they are unable to go back to their home states. While some are from Himachal, Punjab & Haryana, others are from Bihar & UP. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-covid-19-infections-cross-9-000-but-no-new-cases-in-25-districts-for-14-days-and-all-the-latest-news/story-wBuARcdaFS1XVJKdZnGCOP.html
13-04-2020||India||4-month-old tests positive for Covid-19 in UP’s Basti||GORAKHPUR: A four-month-old baby from eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP)’s Basti district tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, an official said. The case is believed to have a connection with a 25-year-old grocer from Basti, who was the first Covid-19 related fatality from UP on March 31. Basti district has reported 14 Covid-19 positive cases to date. “According to test reports, obtained from Baba Raghav Das (BRD) Medical College in Gorakhpur, a four-month-old baby has tested Covid-19 positive. His parents are under quarantine, as their test reports are still awaited,” said Ashutosh Niranjan, district magistrate, Basti. The baby is a resident of Milat Nagar, one of the two hotspots in Basti district.On Sunday, four new Covid-19 positive cases -- linked to the grocer -- came to light. “Four swab samples tested Covid-19 positive at BRD Medical College. The tests are being conducted under the supervision of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” said Dr Fakhriar Hussain, additional chief medical officer (ACMO), Gorakhpur, and the nodal officer for Covid-19 cases in the district.The grocer had no known travel history. He was suffering for renal and lung disorders and was undergoing treatment at a local hospital in Basti district for the past three months. He was admitted to BRD Medical College on March 30 in a serious condition and he died at the hospital the following morning. His swab samples tested Covid-19 positive after his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-month-old-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-up-s-basti/story-Hcn7FJg01cwflIx8y0KPiJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Maintain social distancing during Ramzan, says Naqvi||NEW DELHI: Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Monday urged the Muslim community to follow social distancing norms and strictly adhere to lockdown guidelines, enforced since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, during the holy month of Ramzan, starting later in April.In a statement, Naqvi said prayers and rituals during Ramzan such as breaking the fast should be done indoors instead of congregating in mosques and other public places.Naqvi told HT that he would reach out to the state Waqf board members, custodians of various mosques and ulemas to drive home the message of adhering to the lockdown guidelines and would urge them to impress upon their community members the necessity of breaking the chain of the Covid-19 pandemic.Naqvi said that on behalf of the Central Waqf Council, of which he is the chairperson, messages, urging the community members to desist from congregating, have been issued.There are 700,000 registered mosques, imambaras, and dargahs that come under the jurisdiction of the Central Waqf Council.Religious activities and festivities in temples, mosques, churches, gurdwaras and other places of worship have been cancelled, as restrictions have been imposed on public gatherings due to the ongoing lockdown that was set to end on April 14.Even though the government has not yet made public its decision on extending lockdown, there are suggestions that the government should continue with the curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maintain-social-distancing-during-ramzan-says-naqvi/story-LoKCNH4GRIExvIZvZUk42K.html
13-04-2020||India||Lockdown needs smart upgrade to avoid misery to people, tweets Rahul Gandhi||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation Tuesday morning, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus needs a smart upgrade that would allow businesses to gradually reopen. In a tweet, he said a blanket lockdown has brought misery to millions.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“The one-size-fit-all lockdown has brought untold misery & suffering to millions of farmers, migrant labourers, daily wagers & business owners. It needs a “smart” upgrade, using mass testing to isolate virus hotspots & allowing businesses in other areas to gradually reopen,” Gandhi tweeted. The one-size-fit-all lockdown has brought untold misery & suffering to millions of farmers, migrant labourers, daily wagers & business owners. It needs a "smart" upgrade, using mass testing to isolate virus hotspots & allowing businesses in other areas to gradually reopen.The 21-day national lockdown announced by PM Modi on March 24 evening ends on Tuesday midnight.In his address to the nation on Tuesday morning, he is expected to announce an extension of the lockdown with some modifications.At a video conference on Saturday, most chief ministers had urged the PM to extend the lockdown. Since Friday, more than half dozen states and union territories have already extended the lockdown till April 30.Till Monday evening, India reported 9,352 positive cases of coronavirus and more than 300 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-needs-smart-upgrade-to-avoid-misery-to-people-tweets-rahul-gandhi/story-Anv17i2bIcSyi6qEQ0lHUL.html
13-04-2020||India||Govt submits fresh application seeking green nod for new Parliament building, revises cost||The Centre has sent a revised application for environment clearance for the new Parliament building to the environment ministry after the issue was deferred last month by the expert appraisal committee (EAC) on infrastructure. In the application, reviewed by the Hindustan Times, the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs’ construction arm, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), said the project cost for the new Parliament building has increased from Rs 776 crore to Rs 922 crore “due to changes in specifications which have been approved after the application submission”.The EAC is scheduled to take up the issue on April 22. The renovation of the existing Parliament building will now include a “condition survey” to assess the structure of the building, structural strengthening and renovation of interiors and utilities, according to the new application. “There will be no adverse impact due to construction activities on existing structures and suitable precautions will be accordingly made…There are several ASI regulated archaeological sites present within the study area. However, none of them will be impacted due to the project activities since their regulated boundaries are outside the project site,” it said, addressing concerns raised over the project. “Transportation of raw material will cause impacts for the short-term only. Barricading will be provided all around the construction site. Air pollution will be minimised by water sprinklers and by covering the vehicles during transport,” the application further said.Trucks used for transport will be “thoroughly checked for emission parameters” and properly maintained, and transportation of raw materials will be avoided during peak hours to reduce traffic load, it added.Hindustan Times had reported on March 9 the Centre’s original application for environmental clearance for the new Parliament complex had been deferred by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC). The expert appraisal committee (EAC) on infrastructure under the ministry met on February 25 to review the CPWD’s proposal seeking green clearance for the new Parliament building.The EAC cited pending court cases related to the project as one of the reasons for deferring the application. It also noted the project would provide a “larger Parliament building for the nation for better functioning of the legislature” but added CPWD needs to meet a slew of conditions before the proposal could be reconsidered.This also comes at a time when almost all opposition parties have urged Prime Mnister Narendra Modi to shelve the project and instead spend the money on advancing the fight against Covid-19.The Centre had on March 20 notified the change in land use for more than 86 acres in Lutyens’ Delhi that currently house some of India’s landmark buildings such as the Parliament, Rashtrapati Bhavan, and North Block and South Block to expedite completion of the ₹20,000-crore Central Vista redevelopment project. The land use change was notified even as a petition challenging the project was pending in the Supreme Court. In March, the apex court transferred all writ petitions filed in the Delhi high court challenging the Central Vista project to itself.A fresh writ petition was filed in April in the Supreme Court to quash the Centre’s notification seeking the land use change. The petition, reviewed by Hindustan Times, alleges “it can be deduced that under the guise of redeveloping Central Vista the real intention is to monetise the invaluable commercial component that will emerge as a result of ‘redevelopment’”.“Most ironically, the very tenets required in the tender New Master Plan was flouted in the tendering processes which was opaque, non- transparent, and completed within a period of 45 days, leaving the citizens of India and Delhi bewildered at the blitz of awarding a tender for Rs 20,000 crores,” the petition states.The Centre had set November 2021 as the deadline for completing the Central Visa project. Work on the new Parliament complex was to be completed by March 2022 and the common Central Secretariat by March 2024. The plan could face delays due to the Covid-19 lockdown as the project was scheduled to be tendered in April. Officials involved in the project, however, say the lockdown won’t disrupt plans as most of the work for the detailed project report has been completed. “CPWD and the ministry, as well as all the on-board consultants, are able to effectively work digitally through this lockdown period. The design of the Parliament building sufficient for issuing tenders was already complete. The detailed design was to run concurrent with the selection of the contractor. This will go through as planned since work on the tenders is ongoing, so that it can be issued post-lockdown,” the official said requesting not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-submits-new-application-seeking-green-nod-for-new-parliament-building-revises-cost/story-xbG0lorJHuLEeEkZuvlccN.html
13-04-2020||India||How a govt-industry joint venture is helping firms during Covid-19 lockdown||New DelhiOn day five of the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, a supplier of frozen fruits and vegetables in Karnataka was worried about the logistics of procuring produce from 100-odd farmers who were losing Rs 5 lakh a day because of supply disruption.Invest India, a government and industry joint venture, approached the state government and obtained approvals for the supplier’s company to transport the perishables and protect the livelihood of the farmers.Invest India has similarly facilitated several firms during the lockdown. Recently, it helped an online meat delivery outlet obtain approvals to operate a processing centre and 15 distribution centres to supply essential food items within Maharashtra, a newsletter of Invest India said. It also helped several units start manufacturing medical testing kits and masks, it said.With the help of consultancy firms such as EY, Invest India is helping the industry to resolve problems pertaining to logistics during the lockdown, people associated with the national investment promotion and facilitation agency said.Since its launch on March 21, its “Business Immunity Platform” (BIP) has received more than 2,828 queries and 2,375 of them have been resolved, according to the latest BIP newsletter. Most queries (30%) were related to logistics support, it said.“EY is associated with Invest India since 2016 as consultants on various aspects related to investors’ query handling, knowledge support, vetting of investible projects for the India Investment Grid etc,” said Adil Zaidi, partner for government and transaction advisory services at EY India.. “With the Covid-19 outbreak and the consequent lockdown, we are now also helping the organisation on several immediate initiatives such as Invest India’s business immunity platform and its rapid query response team of 150 people, which has been instituted to help industries and investors in procurement of raw materials, logistical support and regulatory approvals during this challenging period.”Deepak Bagla, managing director and CEO of Invest India, said it had launched the BIP to bring facilitation to the doorstep. “It is bringing together key government stakeholders, industry champions and logistics providers to identify and fill demand-supply shortages in the supplies required to combat Covid-19,” he said.The agency has roped in global consultants – EY, PwC, KPMG, Bain & Company, Boston Consulting Group (BCG), Primus Partners and Mirae Asset Management – to create a strategic and “ready to implement” action plan for India’s economic revival by analysing quantitative and qualitative metrics across states, districts and sectors.“Our services are available to all stakeholders – the Union government, state governments, industries and investors,” Bagla said.One of the consultants engaged by the platform said on condition of anonymity that most global firms are working on a pro bono basis and preparing a strategy to lift the lockdown in phases. The newsletter mentioned above said the seven consultants are part of a business reconstruction team that is drafting phase one of the economic revival plan.“The plan will be submitted to the government as an input. We are continuously providing our inputs to the government through the ministry of commerce and industry,” the consultant said.Queries sent to the commerce and industry ministry, KPMG, PwC, Bain & Company, BCG, Primus Partners and Mirae Asset Management did not elicit any response.Formed in 2009 for promotion of foreign investment, Invest India is a public-private venture with a 49% government stake, while 51% shareholding is equally held by industry associations – the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom). The 49% government stake is held by the commerce ministry and 19 states. The industry secretary is Invest India’s non-executive chairman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-a-govt-industry-joint-venture-is-helping-firms-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-ZhxRdRdFnwBXfq5HccWDMP.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Road map to ensure smooth functioning of govt officials in works||Amid suggestions that the nationwide lockdown be extended, authorities are framing a road map to ensure both work and preparedness to tackle the coronavirus disease aren’t hampered for the next two weeks, according to government officials. The central government is yet to announce its decision on whether the Covid-19 curbs will be extended, but there are suggestions that the ongoing, three-week lockdown be continued. Senior officials of the personnel, pensions and grievances ministry met minister Jitendra Singh on Monday to review the projects undertaken by the ministry during the lockdown and formulate a comprehensive strategy to ensure efficiency and precautions against the pandemic.This may include extending the virtual private network (VPN) providing a secure line of communication to all officials and issuing curfew passes to those living in containment zones, government functionaries who did not want to be named said on Monday. The DoPT guidelines apply to all departments and ministries of the central government. The move came two days after the central government informally conveyed to senior officials that ministers and officers of the rank of joint secretary and above should return to work from Monday.“The objective is not to bring people to offices, it is to avoid overcrowding,” said a senior official who was present at the meeting.“Take today for instance, the Central Secretariat is overcrowded, there are nearly 150 cars at Shastri Bhawan and 100 in North Block. We have to maintain social distancing to fight this pandemic.” In its bid to overcome overcrowding, officials are considering extending the secure VPN, until now being accessed by deputy secretaries and above, to under secretaries and section officers. One–third of officials, based on a roster decided by heads of departments, will come to work while others will continue to work from home unless called in. “This will help officials to work from home,” said the senior official cited above. “E-office facilities will become paramount in the coming days.”The official added, “Extra caution and care will be exercised while dealing with high-risk officials, such as those with heart problems and diabetes, while they are at work.” The ministry will decide the protocol for using e-office from home, said a second official. “We want to foster an electronic platform-based functioning dispensation,” this official said. “A citizen-central public delivery system will have to be implemented.” The ministry is also considering options such as providing scanners to those working from home. “This is the initial stage,” said the second official. “Most of our departments internally are working online and from home, you need a laptop and wi-fi, but we will evaluate if more equipment is needed.”A proposal to provide curfew passes to “essential staff” living in containment zones has been mooted. “We need to see how people living in screened areas will be able to travel, arranging curfew passes for them is another consideration,” said the first official. A third official said government transport will be provided for those without cars. “Those who don’t have their own vehicles travelled using the department’s cars today, for example,” he said. “A similar model will be worked out.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Tuesday morning and is expected to announce a decision on the three-week, sweeping lockdown that was imposed on March 25 to stop the spread of Covid-19. States such as Telangana, Maharahstra, Odisha and West Bengal have already extended the lockdown till April 30The ministry is also considering long-term solutions in case the Covid-19 crisis spills over into May. These will include strengthening electronic hardware capacities and software to enhance agility and flexibility in the ministry’s functioning. “The thinking that emerged is that instead of treating this as a crisis situation, we should use it as an opportunity to ensure robustness of the ministry,” said DARPG secretary K Shivaji. “We have to see how this opportunity can help us improve productivity.” Jitendra Singh reviewed the status of grievance complaints with the DARPG at the meeting, according to a statement issued by the ministry. As of April 12, the government has addressed 7,000 Covid-19-related public grievances, with an average disposal time of 1.57 days. Total grievances registered with the ministry are more than 21,000. The ministries and departments with maximum disposal of grievances are external affairs ministry (1,625 grievances), finance ministry (1,043 grievances) and labour ministry (751 grievances). Peak disposals of 1,315 grievances a day were achieved on April 8 and 9. More than 71,000 people have enrolled on the e-learning platform iGOT to combat Covid-19 after it was launched last week for doctors, nurses, paramedics, hygiene workers, technicians, auxiliary nursing midwives, central and state government officers, civil defence officials, various police organisations, National Cadet Corps (NCC), Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS), National Service Scheme (NSS), Indian Red Cross Society, Bharat Scouts and Guides (BSG) and other volunteers. Nearly 27,000 candidates have completed the course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-road-map-to-ensure-smooth-functioning-of-govt-officials-in-works/story-xB5Mzdvv4banYNPfckMszM.html
13-04-2020||India||Woman separated from newborn son after testing positive for Covid-19||A 22-year-old woman who delivered a boy in a state-run hospital in Kolkata on March 11, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday evening following which she was separated from her baby, officials said.The mother and the child have now been kept in separate isolation wards. The child’s samples would be sent for tests on Tuesday, hospital authorities said. Both the mother and the child were doing fine. “The women delivered a male child on March 11. Later she complained of fever. We sent her samples for Covid-19 tests. She has tested positive. We have kept them in separate isolation wards. We will be sending the child’s samples for tests,” said Indranil Biswas, medical superintendent and vice-principal of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Following this, the state health department issued a detailed advisory on Monday on how to take care of pregnant women.ASHA and ANM workers have been asked to trace all pregnant women, especially high risk pregnancies, to avoid any complications. All medical colleges have been directed to set up separate OTs for pregnant women infected with the virus or suspected of having Covid-19. Kangaroo mothers have been asked to maintain proper respiratory hygiene.Hospital authorities said that the labour and surgery room where the woman was kept and had to undergo a cesarean section, have been closed down for two days for fumigation and proper sanitization. The other patients (pregnant women) in the ward have also been shifted to isolation wards. Around 12 samples would also be sent for tests.“Both the mother and the child are doing absolutely fine. Some of the doctors and nurses have already been tested. They have been found to be negative. All our medical staff are properly equipped with masks, PPEs and gloves and maintain strict protocols. Samples of a few other medical staff have also been sent for tests,” said a top official of the hospital.Meanwhile a private hospital in Kolkata had to be closed down for fumigation after a patient was detected with Covid-19. Earlier two state run hospitals had to close down some their wards after patients treated in those wards tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-separated-from-newborn-son-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19/story-s32aZrrnNxeCbRDMFfKmtI.html
13-04-2020||India||Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi urges Muslims to avoid congregating during Ramzan||Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Monday urged the Muslim community to follow the social distancing protocol and adhere to the lockdown guidelines during the holy month of Ramzan starting later in April.In a statement, Naqvi asked the people to pray and practice rituals such as breaking the fast inside the safety of their homes instead of congregating in mosques and other public places.Naqvi told Hindustan Times on Monday that he would reach out to the State Waqf Board members, custodians of various mosques and Ulemas to drive home the message of adhering to the lockdown guidelines and also stress the importance of breaking the chain of coronavirus pandemic.Naqvi said on behalf of the Central Waqf Council, of which he is the chairperson, messages urging the community members to desist from congregating have been issued.There are seven lakh registered mosques and Imambaras and dargahs under the Central Waqf Council. In the wake of restrictions imposed on public meetings during the lockdown, religious activities and festivities in temples, mosques, churches and gurdwaras have been cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-urges-muslims-to-avoid-congregating-during-ramzan/story-MAl1EYXioq3YSVRP0UZXZI.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh extend lockdown till April 30||Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh decided on Monday to extend the ongoing 21-day lockdown, which was set to end on Tuesday, till April 30 to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Mizoram government took the decision to extend the lockdown after a cabinet meeting and another meeting with political parties, NGOs and officials.“Lockdown will be extended in the state of Mizoram till 30th of this month i.e. April, 2020. However, area wise moderation will be enforced as per task forces committee regulations,” Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga tweeted.The Arunachal Pradesh cabinet, too, decided to extend the lockdown till the end of this month with certain exemptions.“The cabinet has taken a decision to extend the lockdown till April 30. We will take a further decision later on how to handle the situation post April 30,” chief secretary Naresh Kumar told journalists in Itanagar.He added that activities permitted during the first phase of lockdown will be allowed to operate as usual and all offices in district level will start functioning from April 15.“Agriculture, horticulture activities and tea gardens will be allowed to operate provided they maintain social distancing and other safety precautions. Some industries will also be allowed to operate on a case to case basis,” Kumar said.Though the central government has not made public its decision yet, there have been suggestions that the lockdown be extended across. Now, all eyes are on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday morning. At a video-conference on Saturday, chief ministers urged PM Modi to extend the lockdown to contain coronavirus. Several states, including Maharashtra and Odisha, have already extended the lockdown till at least the end of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-mizoram-arunachal-pradesh-extend-lockdown-till-april-30/story-PMbSfc4ZQwMz9pdrscwrJM.html
13-04-2020||India||Curfew in pockets of Nainital after tension over cleric’s samples for Covid-19 test||A day after a large number of residents of Bhanbulpura, a Muslim-dominated area in Haldwani town of Nainital district engaged in conflict with the police over collection of samples of a mosque cleric for Covid-19 testing, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat ordered imposition of curfew in the area on Monday. Taking ‘serious note’ of the incident, Rawat while ordering curfew in the area said, “The government has been appealing innumerable times to the people to co-operate with the administration in containing the pandemic. However, on Sunday when thousands of residents gathered ignoring the appeal, we had to take this decision as we will take every possible action to keep the situation under control.” On Sunday, health department staff who has been going door-to-door in the area to collect samples for Covid-19 infection had gone to a local mosque to collect a sample from a mosque cleric staying there. The cleric, however, had refused to give his samples after which locals in large numbers gathered there in his support. Soon, the police reached the area to help the health workers during which the locals came to a face-off with the police only to be sent back to their homes with a stern warning.The police conducted a flag march in the area. Bhanbulpura had been earlier sealed for non-essential movement of residents by the administration after five people mainly Jamaatis tested positive there. Addressing the media, CM Rawat also informed about the status of the Covid-19 positive patients and said, “In the last 100 hours no new case has come up in the state but the state is fully prepared for future threats.”He said, “So far seven of the total 35 patients have recovered. Another two or three are also expected to be negative in their next test. But we cannot deny threats in the future on this pandemic because the symptoms of the virus are uncertain. People should be very careful and take precautions by covering their face.” There are 35 patients in the state so far out of whom 26 are Jamaatis and two who had come in contact with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curfew-in-pockets-of-nainital-after-tension-over-cleric-s-samples-for-covid-19-test/story-tFwkWBcpvNFQowJVkeT5gL.html
13-04-2020||India||Quarantining Tablighi Jamaat members helped contain Covid-19: Delhi top cop||Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Monday said the decision to take Tablighi Jamaat members from its headquarters (Markaz) in the capital’s Nizamuddin area directly to quarantine facilities helped in containing the spread Covid-19.“We have quarantined the corona carriers of Tablighi Jamaat. Majority of people were directly taken to quarantine center from Markaz. This helped in containing Covid-19. We have also registered a case in this matter,” ANI quoted Shrivastava as saying.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Earlier this month, Covid-19 cases in Delhi spiked after hundreds of many Tablighi Jamaat members who attended a large congregation in Nizamuddin tested positive.On Monday, Delhi’s count of Covid-19 positive cases stood at 1,176. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said 746 coronavirus cases in the national capital are from Markaz area in Nizamuddin which had emerged as a hotspot at the beginning of the month.“There are 1,102 Covid-19 positive patients in the hospitals including 50 who are in ICU and six on ventilator support,” Jain told ANI.The Delhi government has now designated 43 localities in the city as containment zones to check the spread of coronavirus. The containment zones have been sealed under the government’s Operation SHIELD that seeks to stop Covid-19 transmission.The Delhi government launched a massive sanitisation drive in several of these containment zones on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quarantining-tablighi-jamaat-members-helped-contain-covid-19-delhi-top-cop/story-IbtgZLAZ11XF13dsvmGhTM.html
13-04-2020||India||Jamaat brought collective shame and Islamophobia, Muslims say||Jehirul Islam, a coronavirus disease patient, made a final call on April 10 from his hospital bed in Maharashtra’s Akola to his family in Assam. He sounded grim, fearing something he imagined to be far worse than dying of Covid-19. The next day, hospital staff found him dead, his throat slit, in an apparent suicide.“He was worried he won’t be able to make it back home and that, if he were to die, his body would be cremated, rather than buried in a Muslim cemetery,” his brother Moinul Islam said from Singimari, a village in central Assam’s Nagaon district.Two suicides have been driven by stigma, rumours and slurs directed toward India’s 200-million Muslims.To some Muslims, the war on coronavirus has begun to look like a war on the community itself. The community finds itself blamed for the spread of the coronavirus. This followed a global religious congregation in New Delhi in mid-March, held by Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic movement of preachers, which met in defiance of official restrictions.The gathering of nearly 2,500 delegates, some from Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Kyrgyzstan, led to a dramatic spike in Covid-19 cases in the country, with Indian attendees presumably infected by the foreigners then going on to infect people across the country. At one point the congregants or their contacts accounted for a third of the total cases.Fears of cremation of Muslims, based on rumours, were unfounded. “The government’s guidelines state that Muslim Covid-19 victims should be buried at a cemetery closest to the place where the patient died,” Maharashtra minister Aslam Shaikh said .The religious event led to outrage among both Muslims and non-Muslims. However, Muslims then began to be accused on social media sites of deliberately spreading the virus as part of a “jihad”.The hashtag “coronajihad” was circulated 300,000 times, according to Equality Labs, a digital advocacy group, quoted by Time magazine. Ordinary Muslims say the Jamaatis were “irresponsible and condemnable”, but the incident has given rise to reprisals.There have also been several reports of them misbehaving in quarantine, including at Delhi’s LNJP hospital where the police had to be called in.In Delhi’s Bawana, a mob attacked Mehboob Ali, who had attended a similar Islamic gathering in Madhya Pradesh, leading to three arrests, according to the Delhi Police.On April 4, Mohammed Dilshad, who had a connection to Tablighi Jamaat, hanged himself in Himachal Pradesh’s Una Bangarh village, allegedly because of social boycott.In Assam’s Nalbari district, Hindu shopkeepers refuse to serve people from a Muslim village, according to Rehmat Ali, a farmer of the area.In another instance of Islamophobia, an official of the State Foreigners’ Tribunal in Assam on April 7 wrote a letter to the state’s health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma that shocked Muslims.In it, Kamalesh Gupta, the official, said he and his colleagues had made donations to the state’s coronavirus fund. However, he urged that “help may not be extended” to Muslims linked to Tablighi Jamaat, who he labelled “jihadi”, a synonym for terrorists. Crucially, officials like Gupta are tasked with deciding the fate of people stripped of citizenship in the state on suspicion of being illegal foreign migrants.It is true that the Tablighi Jamaat congregation led to a steep spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. A senior health ministry official, Lav Agarwal, addressing reporters, said on April 5 that the number of days it would have taken for India’s coronavirus cases to double had quickened to 4.1 days from 7.1 due to the congregation.“The Jamaat people should have deferred their meet. They have brought miseries on the community,” said Maulana Asghar Ali, the imam of a mosque in Delhi’s Kotla Mubarakpur.The government seems to have been slack too, said Naved Hamid Moemin, the chief of All India Majlis-e-Mushwarat, a Muslim advocacy organisation. “The police made no effort to separate foreigners from Indian preachers at the gathering despite serving a notice on them,” Moemin said.Last week, the Union home ministry issued an advisory on preventing “social stigma” attached to Covid-19 patients or their communities. It said “certain communities and areas are being labelled purely based on false reports”, adding that such prejudices need to be “countered urgently”. The federal health advisory urged officials to “never spread the names or identity of those affected”.However, in Assam, health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma publicly released names of all of the state’s 29 patients -- one Hindu and the rest Muslims. The minister, addressing reporters, said: “Generally, we do not reveal the names of patients suffering from diseases like HIV. Yet, the Covid patients’ names are being released with an honest intention of making people aware and stopping the spread of Covid-19.”There’s also an argument for releasing the names -- it helps those who may have come in contact with them knwo that they could be infected.Maulana Mahmood Madni, a former Rajya Sabha MP and leader of the Jamiat Ulama-e-Hind, India’s oldest Muslim faith-based outfit founded in 1919, said he had urged all mosques and Muslims to follow official lockdown guidelines.“The shame over what Tablighi Jamaat did is collective and so is the religious hatred that followed,” said S Irfan Habib, a Delhi-based historian.The police have registered a criminal case against Maulana Saad, the leader of Tablighi Jamaat, who made an egregious sermon posted on YouTube. In it, he urged Muslims to flock to mosques and said social distancing was “nonsense”. Saad has since gone into hiding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamaat-brought-collective-shame-and-islamophobia-muslims-say/story-ermZoPYGGZ8HBMNeErSnvM.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Uttarakhand gets first swab collection booth||Haridwar: Uttarakhand got its first model coronavirus disease (Covid-19) booth on Monday to collect swab samples of suspected patients. The booth is on the lines of similar facilities that have been made available to other states such as Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Jharkhand. The cost-effective booth has been installed at Rishikul Government Ayurvedic Hospital in Haridwar. It hardly takes a minute to collect swab samples to conduct Covid-19 test, said Haridwar municipal corporation commissioner Narendra Singh Bhandari. “The outer body of the kiosk is made of aluminium. The kiosk will be sanitised each time a pathologist or a laboratory technician collects the swab samples of a patient. This is the most foolproof way to collect swab samples of a patient suspected to have been infected by SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19,” said Bhandari. “The kiosk comes equipped with personal protective equipment (PPE) units such as gloves and hand sanitisers for medical personnel collecting the swab samples and also fitted with exhaust fans. Gloves are regularly changed and disinfected,” a civic body official said.Dr Saroj Naithani, chief medical officer (CMO), Haridwar, said such kiosks would come in handy in conducting tests in Covid-19 hotspots. “They don’t need separate PPE kits, which save both time and money,” Dr Naithani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-uttarakhand-gets-first-swab-collection-booth/story-A8OZ8gzTf399R1janXZ5zH.html
13-04-2020||India||Private Covid-19 tests free only for poor: Supreme Court amends its order||The Supreme Court has amended its verdict delivered last week that forced private laboratories to offer free Covid-19 testing to everyone. On Monday, the two-judge bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat ordered that only people who could not afford Rs 4,500 for the test should be tested free by private laboratories.In the first instance, the court said people eligible under the Ayushman Bharat scheme wouldn’t have to pay for it. The judges also asked the Centre to notify other categories of economically weaker sections who could be tested without a charge.“The government.... may consider as to whether any other categories of weaker sections of the society e.g. workers belonging to low income groups in the informal sectors, beneficiaries of Direct Benefit Transfer, etc, apart from those covered under Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Aroogya Yojana are also eligible for the benefit of free testing and issue appropriate guidelines in the above regard also within a period of one week,” the court said.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicIn either cases, the private laboratories may not have to bear the financial burden of the free testing. It allowed the government to come out with guidelines to reimburse the expenditure incurred by private labs on free tests.On April 8, the judges had ordered free tests on a petition filed by a lawyer Shashank Deo Sudhi, who had underlined that people were forced to turn to private laboratories because government hospitals were packed to capacity.Also Read: Covid-19 infections cross 9,000 but no new cases in 25 districts for 14 daysThe judges had then agreed with this argument and delivered its verdict.The two-judge bench, however, decided to hear the case after a Delhi-based doctor argued that the burden would discourage private laboratories and reduce the country’s capacity to conduct tests.Also Read: Jamaat brought collective shame and Islamophobia, Muslims say“Even the present capacity of the labs, both government and private, appears to be woefully insufficient to obtain accurate data and control the pandemic”, he stated.The Centre’s Indian Council of Medical Research, which had once appealed to laboratories to test people without a charge, had also asked the top court to modify its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-covid-19-tests-free-only-for-poor-supreme-court-amends-its-order/story-coTM8c4qrCUmKyf4ztKlYI.html
13-04-2020||India||Telangana lockdown: Blood banks run dry as donations dip||Blood banks across Telangana are running dry because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown, which started on March 25 for three weeks initially and then extended for another two weeks, to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Regular blood donors are missing in action, as their movements have been severely restricted due to the lockdown. The authorities at the Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM), the state government’s nodal agency for blood donations, said no voluntary blood donation camps are being conducted by the government-run blood banks since the lockdown was enforced.The state government has also issued an advisory to the private blood banks and hospitals not to collect blood from any donors for now over fears of infection due to the viral outbreak.“The IPM has been designated as a centralised stand-alone blood donation centre. Additional staff has been deployed to supervise the collection of blood,” Dr Shankar, director, IPM director, said.Chiranjeevi Blood Bank at Jubilee Hills, which was started by popular Telugu film actor and former Union minister K Chiranjeevi, wears an empty look, as donors are staying away because of the lockdown. “One or two enthusiastic donors are turning up daily, as a replacement for the blood required for their relatives,” said an executive working with Chiranjeevi Blood Bank, requesting anonymity.The IPM collects about 100 to 115 units per day, Dr Shankar said, adding they are being processed into component because of Covid-19 pandemic. The medical and health department authorities have requested the police to allow voluntary donors to visit the IPM for blood donation.“A voluntary donor would get a text message on h/his mobile about the date and time slot allotted to h/him for blood donation. The donor can show the message to the police to get a clearance for unrestricted movement on roads,” the IPM official said.The IPM authorities are taking all precautions while accepting blood from donors. They are processing the request after verifying the donor’s recent travel history and whether s/he has had suffered from cold, fever or cough and s/he met any Covid-19 patient or any other person with similar symptoms.Besides the IPM, the Indian Red Cross Society has also been authorised to collect blood from donors. “There’s a severe scarcity of blood in the state because of the lockdown. The crisis is acute in districts such as Warangal, Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda and Khammam,” S Narasimha Reddy, convenor, Indian Red Cross Society, said.Fortunately, accident cases have drastically come down because of the ongoing lockdown, which, in turn, has led to a sharp drop in the demand for blood, he said. “The IPM and we’re supplying blood to hospitals in Hyderabad. We’re collecting blood from military personnel, enthusiastic youth and also the police,” Reddy said.Patients suffering from Thalassemia, which requires blood transmission twice a month, have been hit the hardest because of the acute crisis “There are around 1,723 registered Thalassemia patients. We’re trying to arrange blood for these patients,” Indian Red Cross Society authorities said.On Sunday and Monday, scores of software engineers working as volunteers for Security for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC) donated blood at IPM and Indian Red Cross Society’s blood banks. “Around 200 volunteers and several policemen, including Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjannar, donated blood on Sunday. Another 300 software employees and their friends donated blood on Monday,” Krishna Yedula, general secretary, SCSC, said.“If anybody wants to donate blood, the police will provide a pick-and-drop facility from h/his home to Indian Red Cross Society,” Sajjannar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-lockdown-blood-banks-run-dry-as-donations-dip/story-wWtaHT26ol5MHxzcgl7deI.html
13-04-2020||India||Visas of foreigners residing in India due to Covid-19 restrictions extended till April 30: MHA||The Home Ministry said on Monday that it had granted consular services on gratis basis to foreigners residing in India due to travel restrictions in the context of COVID-19 outbreak and visas of those which were to expire between February 1 and April 30 have have been extended till April 30.“In order to remove confusion in the public, it is to inform that Union Ministry for Home Affairs (MHA) on March 28 had granted consular services on gratis basis to foreign nationals, presently residing in India due to travel restrictions in context of COVID-19 outbreak till April 30,” MHA said in a release.“Regular visa, e-visa or stay stipulation of such foreigners stranded in India due to travel restrictions by Indian Authorities and whose visas have expired/would be expiring between 01.02.2020 (midnight) and 30.04.2020 (midnight) would be extended till April 30 (midnight) on gratis basis, after online application by foreigners,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visas-of-foreigners-residing-in-india-due-to-covid-19-restrictions-extended-till-april-30-mha/story-n4H2G6IJcMhgvlc3FOnNbL.html
13-04-2020||India||25 districts in 15 states stave off Covid-19 for 14 days||Twenty five districts in 15 states have not have reported any new Covid1-9 cases in the last 14 days even as the total number of infections in the country crossed 9,000, the government said Monday.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.All these places had reported positive cases of coronavirus earlier. In the list, Karnataka has the most number of districts at four. Following is the list of the 25 districts:1. Gondia in Maharashtra, 2. Rajnandgaon, Durg, Bilaspur in Chattisgarh3 .Davangiri,Kodagu,Tumkuru,Udupi in Karnataka , 4. South Goa in Goa, 5. Wayanad and Kottayam in Kerala, 6. West Imphal in Manipur,7. Rajouri in J&K,8. Aizwal West in Mizoram,9. Mahe in Puducherry,10. SBS Nagar in Punjab,11. Patna, Nalanda and Munger in Bihar,12. Pratapgarh in Rajasthan,13. Panipat,Rohtak,Sirsa in Haryana ,14. Pauri Garhwal in Uttrakhand ,15. Bhadradari Kothagudem in Telangana’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-districts-in-15-states-stave-off-covid-19-for-14-days/story-opKBMmV56h6kXekQ4gcEjK.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 42 evacuees from Iran test positive at army quarantine facilities in Rajasthan||As the country records a daily rise in Covid-19 cases, 42 people, all evacuees from Iran, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus at the Indian Army’s two quarantine facilities in Rajasthan, two government officials said on Monday on condition of anonymity.Figures released by Rajasthan government on Sunday show that a total of 52 evacuees --- 25 lodged in a facility at Jodhpur and the remaining 27 housed in the one at Jaisalmer --- are among the 796 people who have tested positive for the disease.However, the two officials cited above said that 51 people housed in the two quarantine centres had tested positive and nine of them had been cured, bringing down number of cases to 42.Evacuees from Iran arrived in Rajasthan in batches between March 15 and March 29. Those who have tested positive are being treated at tertiary care hospitals in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.While the army is an important institutional pillar in the country’s fight against the pandemic, the force is also taking aggressive steps to tackle the spread of the disease within its ranks. Two soldiers, including an army doctor, tested positive for Covid-19 last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/42-evacuees-from-iran-test-positive-at-army-quarantine-facilities-in-rajasthan/story-2DgvKbjkUFPrZ7t7MUNlwJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Former Karnataka CM Kumaraswamy to go ahead with son’s wedding amid lockdown||The family of former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy has decided to go ahead with the marriage of his son Nikhil on April 17 amid the ongoing lockdown. Nikhil Kumaraswamy has acted in a couple of movies in the lead role and is also the president of Yuva Janata Dal (Secular) whose national president is former prime minister H D Deve Gowda.Deve Gowda is Nikhil’s grandfather. Nikhil had contested and lost the May 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Mandya seat.Kumaraswamy himself indicated the decision of the family to go ahead with a simple marriage ceremony on Friday. The event will take place at the bride Revathi’s residence in the presence of just about 50 close family members. The bride is the grand niece of former Congress minister Krishnappa, one of the richest politicians in the state.Earlier, before the lockdown the Kumaraswamy family was planning a big event at a customised marriage mandap on the Bangalore – Mysore highway. Nearly five lakh people were expected to attend the event primarily from the Ramanagara and Chennapatna constituency represented in the assembly by Kumaraswamy and his wife Anitha. The former CM indicated that as and when the situation permits they may hold a public event so that constituents and well wishers could bless the couple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-karnataka-cm-kumaraswamy-to-go-ahead-with-son-s-wedding-amid-lockdown/story-retQa6JNp6EcMe0casO14J.html
13-04-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi welcomes Modi’s move to give free rations to food security act beneficiaries||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to provide five kilograms of free rations to beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and suggested more measures to counter the impact of the Covid-19 lockdown.In a fresh letter to Modi, she welcomed the provision of free rations in addition to entitlements under the NFSA during April-June, saying the Covid-19 crisis has pushed many relatively food secure families into insecurity and poverty. She also listed her suggestions to overcome the impact of the lockdown on livelihoods.“Lakhs of vulnerable people across the country face chronic food insecurity due to the lockdown. This is tragic given that India has large buffer stock of food grains precisely for exigencies like the current pandemic,” Gandhi said. This was the Congress chief’s sixth letter to the prime minister since March 23 on different issues related to the pandemic.“I welcome your decision to provide free of cost, 5kg grain/person in addition to the entitlements under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) from April-June, 2020. However, given the adverse impact of the lockdown and its prolonged impact of people’s livelihoods, I write to you to consider a few suggestions,” she wrote.First, the provision of 10 kg of grains per person to NFSA beneficiaries must be extended by another three months till September, Gandhi said, adding food entitlements should be provided for free in view of the chronic economic distress faced by beneficiaries. Second, the 10 kg of grains per person should also be provided for free for six months to those without ration cards but facing food insecurity. “I would like to bring to your notice that all migrant labour who have been facing acute distress may not be holding NFSA cards. In addition, many deserving people have been excluded from the NFSA lists,” she wrote.Gandhi said the crisis has pushed many relatively food secure families into food insecurity and poverty, and insisted that population increases since 2011 were not considered for determining each state’s entitlement under NFSA.“These measures are critical to safeguard people against food inflation, at a juncture where supply chain disruptions are causing price rise.”Gandhi said the release of food grains to states will help create storage space for Food Corporation of India (FCI) to ramp up rabi season procurement of wheat and rice. “In our fight against the pandemic we must ensure that no one faces hunger,” she added.In her previous five letters, Gandhi talked about problems faced by construction and rural workers, apart from migrant labour, and demanded financial packages for them. She also sought the suspension of the Rs 20,000-crore “central vista” project and transferring all money under the PM-CARES fund to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PM-NRF) to fight the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-welcomes-modi-s-move-to-give-free-rations-to-food-security-act-beneficiaries/story-XGukUpi8EoO9pHlmdKi8nO.html
13-04-2020||India||‘Stay where you are’: SC tells Indians stranded abroad||The three-member Supreme Court (SC) bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, and Justices LN Rao and MM Shantanagouder, while hearing two separate public interest litigations (PILs) on the evacuation of students stuck in the United Kingdom (UK) because of the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), observed on Monday that “there are 50,000 students stuck there. How will you get them back?” “The numbers are many. Stay where you are. People in other countries cannot be brought back,” the bench said.Advocate Madhurima Mridul has filed one of the PILs, while CM Jayarajan filed the other. The SC adjourned the hearing of both these PILs by four weeks after the petitioners refused to withdraw them claiming the government needs to put in place a mechanism to ensure the safety of stranded Indian students in the UK.The British authorities had issued around 20,000 education visas to Indian students last year.A similar plea for the evacuation of stranded Indian workers from the Persian Gulf countries was also adjourned by four weeks.EVACUATION FROM US, IRANThe SC bench decided to hear on April 20 the petitions demanding the evacuation of Indian students from the United States (US) and Indian fishermen stuck in Iran due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Senior advocate Vibha Dutta Makhija has filed the plea regarding stranded Indian students in the US. The petition stated that the visas of most of these students would expire by Tuesday (April 15) and they were liable to be declared aliens by the US authorities.The Centre told the SC that in this scenario, countries across the world are extending visas. The apex court asked the Centre to submit a status report regarding stranded Indian students in the US, and will hear the matter on April 20.On a separate petition filed on behalf of Indian fishermen stuck in Iran, the Solicitor General, Tushar Mehta, sought a copy of the plea, which will also be heard on April 20.The petition claimed that around 860 Indian fishermen, mostly from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Gujarat, are stranded on the shores of Bandar-e-Moqam and Lavan Island in Iran’s Hormozgan province.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stay-where-you-are-sc-tells-indians-stranded-abroad/story-cYXoDU9KvPd41kH2aWpyGK.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19 infections cross 9,000 but no new cases in 25 districts for 14 days||Even as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise in India, the government on Monday pointed out that no news cases have been reported from 25 districts in 15 states where people have been affected by coronavirus. “No new cases have been detected in the last 14 days in 25 districts across 15 states which had earlier reported coronavirus cases,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry said at the daily briefing.The total number of infections in the country rose 9152 by Monday afternoon.“There have been 796 COVID-19 cases, 35 deaths reported in the last 24 hours,” Agarwal said.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Maharashtar continues to be the worst affected with 1,985 positive cases, followed by Delhi at 1,154 and Tamil Nadu with 1,043.He said the Core Strategy Group on Coovid-19 is working on molecular surveillance, rapid and economical diagnostics and new drugs.The government also said that there are enough testing kits as the pace of testing is being raised. “Till yesterday we conducted 2,06,212 Covid-19 tests. There is no need to worry. We have enough stock to conduct tests for six weeks,” said Raman Gangakhedkar, ICMR’s top scientist.Gangakhedkar also said the first consignment of Covid-19 testing kits from China will arrive on Tuesday. India has recently stepped up testing with the government authorising dozens of private labs to carry out tests. But even as the number of testing facilities has increased, there are also fears of false testing posing a danger to the fight against Covid-19. The World Health Organisation (WHO) had earlier said that more testing was the only way to know the actual scale of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-infections-cross-9-000-but-no-new-cases-in-25-districts-for-14-days/story-OKJFkUfsKWe4hgFtRiGtUI.html
13-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra issues notification extending lockdown till April 30 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra issues notification extending lockdown till April 30The Maharashtra government issued a notification on Monday extending the lockdown in the state till April 30. The restrictions were set to end at midnight of April 14.Officials said the rising numbers of cases has forced the state government to extend lockdown till April 30. Read more. PM Modi meetings on Covid-19 lockdown in last lap, decision at 10 am tomorrowThe Prime Minister’s Office, which has been in the middle of the decision-making process during the Covid-19 lockdown, is holding one of the last rounds of meetings to finalise the modalities for the second phase of the graded lockdown that will be announced by PM Narendra Modi at 10 am tomorrow. Read more. Now, odd-even rule in Delhi’s wholesale markets to fight Covid-19Traders in Delhi’s crowded wholesale vegetable and fruit markets will have to follow the odd-even rule to maintain social distancing to break the chain of coronavirus infections, minister Gopal Rai has said. The minister had called a meeting of officials of all the wholesale markets on Monday to discuss ways to ensure social distancing in these areas as the national capital reported 1205 coronavirus disease cases and 24 deaths. Read more. ‘An invisible assasin’: RBI on Covid-19 effect on economyThe impact of the novel coronavirus outbreak on the Indian economy would depend on the depth, duration and diffusion of the crisis, the Reserve Bank of India said in the minutes of its emergency monetary policy committee (MPC) meeting in March. Read more. Ram Vilas Paswan’s son Chirag Paswan turns stylist for dad. Video can inspire you to do the sameChirag Paswan, Lok Janshakti Party chief and Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s son, recently took to Twitter to share a video which showcases some family bonding time. He also added that he is using the lockdown period to learn about new skills and create some beautiful memories too. Read more. Google Assistant helpline number launched for food, night shelters in IndiaGoogle India has been working with the central and state government to help people locate food and night shelters in India. Google also rolled out a Google Assistant helpline number for Vodafone Idea users who are on 2G and feature phones, or don’t have access to the internet. Read more. This is how good samaritans are helping Delhi survive in lockdown“We get calls from people who request for food telling us that they haven’t had even a morsel to eat in two days,” says Manisha Bhatia, president of the Abhinandan Educational and Welfare Society. Scores of daily wagers and migrant labourers have been facing a challenging time due to the lockdown, and are in dire need of food, masks and medicines. Read more. Gautam Gambhir names ‘apt replacement’ of MS Dhoni in India’s T20 sideStating that MS Dhoni’s chances of making it to the Indian team for T20 World Cup later this year will be slim if IPL doesn’t happen, former India opener Gautam Gambhir named an ‘apt’ replacement for the former India skipper. Lauding KL Rahul for his recent laurels both with the bat and with the gloves behind the stumps, Gambhir said the right-hander can be the one to replace Dhoni in the Indian T20 side. Read more. Sonakshi Sinha seeks police help after Vivek Agnihotri shares pic of her at shoot, he says dig not at herWith the nation under lockdown to control the spread of the deadly coronavirus pandemic, all shoots have come to a standstill. Actor Sonakshi Sinha was therefore shocked when filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri slammed her for shooting in these times, sharing a news report carrying a picture of her stepping out of a studio in Mumbai. “Who shoots in such times?” he tweeted. Read more. Behind the shocking video of Punjab cop’s hand being cutA policeman’s hand was chopped off with a sword after he and his colleagues were attacked by a group of Nihangs in Punjab on Sunday. Assistant sub-inspector Harjit Singh was rushed to the hospital and his hand was reattached after plastic surgery. Hindustan Times spoke to SSP Mandeep Singh who said that the hand which helps cannot be cut down. The cop added that Nihangs shouldn’t be vilified as criminal elements were involved in the attack. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-issues-notification-extending-lockdown-till-april-30-and-all-the-latest-news/story-Bpj7wz2oBQhiKkGHmM9B8J.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Week after its introduction, Railways ditches disinfection tunnels||Less than a week after the Central Railways (CR) set up a disinfection chamber at a loco shed in Bhusaval and also directed its staff not to install such (disinfection) tunnels at other railway junctions it has been decided to abandon the idea.The enclosures have nozzles that spray mist made up of a mixture of appropriate disinfectants (including sodium hypochlorite solution) diluted in water for 3-5 seconds from head to toe supposedly killing viruses. The mist is sprayed in quick intervals that ensures a person does not get wet. The technique is also used to clean large vehicles or products, and these chambers can also be set up at the back of large vans.But health experts were sceptical of the idea.“We were informed that this disinfection process might be harmful for people passing through. The tunnel was immediately shut down in Bhusaval, and an internal advisory has been issued that no such tunnels will be developed again,” said Sunil Udasi, chief public relations officer, CR that set up the tunnel within two days at a cost of Rs. 10,000. On April 11, the director of public health, Chennai, banned the use of such techniques in Tamil Nadu. “Disinfection tunnels will create a false sense of security and people may be diverted from washing their hands. In addition, spraying of alcohol, chlorine, lysol on human beings is not only harmful but also ineffective,” read a circular by Chennai’s public health services. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) insecticide department said they will not be installing disinfection tunnels in any of the containment zones in Mumbai. “These tunnels or chambers are not advisable. Spraying disinfectants needs a minimum contact time of 10 minutes and it is not good for the clothes or skin. This is the reason BMC has not gone for any such tunnels within its jurisdiction,” said Rajan Naringrekar, insecticide officer, BMC.Poddar Hospital in Worli, has set up a disinfection chamber. “Everything is being managed by the BMC. This was the first disinfection chamber located at any hospital in the city using 2% sodium hypochlorite solution. We do not know how effective this is,” said Narsu Patil, manager, Poddar Hospital. Similar chambers have also been set up at the Vashi Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) and Vashi police station.The Mumbai police have five disinfection vans at each of the city’s administrative regions. “Based on the concentration of disinfectants and health impact, we will soon take a call on whether to discontinue this,” said Pranay Ashok, deputy commissioner of police (operations).Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government is planning to install more such tunnels across market places, government buildings and railways stations with the help of the Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai.“Tunnels that have sprung up at various locations have been designed without any scientific basis. Techniques used previously for pesticide spraying purposes are being modified to spray humans during the outbreak. This will not work,” said Professor Aniruddha Pandit, ICT vice chancellor. “There are World Health Organisation guidelines that mandate permissible exposure and intake of such tunnels, and it is perfectly acceptable.”ICT plans to inaugurate its prototype tunnel on its campus at Matunga on Tuesday. “Based on its success, we will consider placing the technology at other locations. We have a capacity to make one tunnel every three to four days,” said Pandit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-week-after-its-introduction-railways-ditches-disinfection-tunnels/story-2EK6rKyDS7NEr5cafRvODJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Assam mulls cash help for residents stranded outside state||The Assam government decided on Monday to provide financial aid to residents of the state stranded across India due to the lockdown imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Assam health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the assistance will be provided to those from poor and lower-middle class families who are employed outside the state or had gone to other places for short visits.“We have been getting lot of queries regarding people who are facing hardships because of the lockdown. Since it seems the lockdown will get extended, we decided to reach out to them,” he said.Sarma added that there is no record of how many such people from the state could be stranded outside at present. He surmised that the figure could be anywhere between 50,000 to 400,000.Those in need will have to give a missed call to a helpline number (9615471547) to get assistance. Once that is done, a person seeking help will get a voice mail and an SMS giving a link to update their details and bank information.No decision has been taken yet on what amount would be provided as assistance. Sarma said the figure will be decided in the next few days based on the number of calls received.Till now, 21 persons from Assam stranded abroad have been given $1000 each. The next instalment of the same amount will be released on April 25. The assistance is being given to those who went on short trips, and not to those working or studying abroad.Assam has also helped cancer, kidney, heart and liver transplant patients from the state who went for treatment to places across India and are stuck there. These 213 patients got an interim relief of Rs 25,000 each.Till now, Assam has recorded 30 positive cases. While 29 patients are recovering in hospitals across the state, one patient died last week at the Silchar Medical College Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-assam-mulls-cash-help-for-residents-stranded-outside-state/story-zWDqax6pB4Z6rXYKp70PDJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Door-to-door supply of liquor in garb of vegetables and ration, police on alert||While people are vying for essential goods queuing up during easing of lockdown, liquor supply is being made door-to-door in the garb of selling vegetables or ration-related consumer goods in various colonies here.Initially, the police also took such complaints lightly but after several cases of seizure of vehicles ferrying illegal country-made and foreign-made liquor came into light, the administration started looking into the matter seriously.This illegal trade got exposed on Saturday evening when during a checking drive, a scooty driver and a pillion rider fell on the road while trying to hastily turn back his two-wheeler seeing the police personnel at one of the city’s major intersections in suburban Jwalapur, Durga square. To the surprise of the cops and passersby, a whole casket of liquor bottles fell over the road which was hidden under the garb of vegetables.Before the police personnel arrived, the two-wheeler riders fled from the spot. But the liquor bottles spread all over the road exposed the modus operandi of the smugglers who are still operating in the restrictive lockdown phase.Meanwhile, in an impromptu raid at Pathri, six persons with thirty litres of country-made liquor were arrested. At Toda Kalyanpur village in Roorkee, police seized 70 quarter bottles of country-made liquor from two persons who were spotted selling the liquor to prospective customers.According to Jwalapur police station house officer, Yogesh Singh Dev, the police has started checking suspected vehicles and patrolling is also being carried out in inner lanes to rein in the violators.A checking drive is also being conducted in rural segments of the district where country-made liquor is being made. This has resulted in police seizing and destroying 9,000 litres of illegally brewed liquor known as ‘lahan’ and related distilling equipment at the outskirts of Pathri based Dinarpur and Shahdevpur village.On social media, some locals recently brought to notice a government authorized liquor shop selling liquor behind closed doors. The police and excise department denied any such claims.On this, excise inspector Laxman Singh Bisht said that after the lockdown, the stock and sales data record of all the liquor shops will be analysed. He said that department personnel are also ensuring that such shops remain closed as per the government and district administration orders in the view of the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/door-to-door-supply-of-liquor-in-garb-of-vegetables-and-ration-police-on-alert/story-t92BMuEygR0v82jvbLm0AP.html
13-04-2020||India||Tamil Nadu joins growing list of states to extend lockdown till April 30||Tamil Nadu became the latest entrant on Monday to join the growing list of states extending the lockdown period. The southern state decided to prolong the lockdown till April 30.The announcement was made by chief minister K Palaniswami, underlining that the move was in accordance with the recommendations of medical and public health experts.Palaniswami, pointing out that he favoured prolonging the curbs till the end of this month in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi held on Saturday, said several other State chief ministers too batted for extending the restrictions.Karnataka, Telangana, Maharashtra, Punjab, Odisha have already decided to extend the lockdown period till the end of this month.Prime Minister Modi is set to address the nation tomorrow as the three-week lockdown announced to stem the spread of the deadly coronavirus disease draws to a close. The country has so far reported 308 deaths related to the coronavirus disease, 35 in the last 24 hours, and 620 new Covid-19 cases taking the numbers to 9152, according to the Union health ministry data.Among the states, Maharashtra is the worst hit with 2064 coronavirus cases even as the government readies to hold meetings to discuss ways to implement its plan for the second phase of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-joins-growing-list-of-states-to-extend-lockdown-till-april-30/story-0tZJuFEjzp7U1KN8qaBzvO.html
13-04-2020||India||Maharashtra issues notification extending lockdown till April 30||Mumbai: The Maharashtra government issued a notification on Monday extending the lockdown in the state till April 30. The restrictions were set to end at midnight of April 14.“It is expedient to take measures further to contain the spread of coronavirus, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 the state government directs that the lockdown orders shall now be extended up to and inclusive of April 30, 2020,” said the notification issued by the chief secretary, Ajoy Mehta.The state imposed a lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from the midnight of March 23. The lockdown orders were revised twice, and the final order was issued on March 25.Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 infections and fatalities across the country. The count also crossed 2,000 mark on Monday after 82 new cases were recorded since last night. The state’s tally stands at 2064 cases and toll at 149.Officials said the rising numbers of cases has forced the state government to extend lockdown till April 30.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray declared on Saturday to extend the lockdown till April 30. He has also said the state may have to extend some restrictions even further if people did not co-operate.However, the state is also considering announcing certain relaxations for areas where there are no cases. The decision is likely to come after a meeting involving the chief minister on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-issues-notification-extending-lockdown-till-april-30/story-YWLKvcrjWozSKOyc2G9XiM.html
13-04-2020||India||SPO killed, another injured in terrorist attack in J&K’s Kishtwar||A special police officer was killed and another injured on Monday in an attack by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’’s Kishtwar district, officials said.The terrorists attacked the patrol party of Jammu and Kashmir police in Dachan area of Kishtwar with an axe and killed Khurshid Iqbal and injured Vishal Singh, they said.Singh has been critically injured and taken to a hospital.According to officials, the terrorists also snatched the weapons of the policemen before fleeing. The area has been cordoned off and a search operation has been launched to trace the terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spo-killed-another-injured-in-terrorist-attack-in-j-k-s-kishtwar/story-gYElI3QnPNMYsbWbKBnTSM.html
13-04-2020||India||Assam to give financial aid to those stranded outside due to lockdown||The Assam government on Monday decided to provide financial aid to those people from the state stranded across India due to the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus. Assam health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that the assistance will be provided to those from poor and lower-middle class families who are employed outside the state or had gone for short visits.“We have been getting lot of queries regarding people who are facing hardships because of the lockdown. Since now it seems the lockdown will get extended, we decided to reach out to them,” he said.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Sarma added that there is no record of how many such people from the state could be stranded outside at present. He surmised that the figure could be anywhere between 50,000 to 4 lakh.Those in need will have to give a missed call to 9615471547 to get assistance. Once that is done they will a get voice mail and an SMS giving a link to update their details and bank information.No decision has been taken yet on what amount would be provided as assistance. Sarma said that the figure will be decided in the next few days based on the number of calls received.Till now 21 people from Assam stranded abroad have been given $1000 each. Next instalment of same amount will be released on April 25. The assistance is being given to those who went on short trips and not to those working or studying abroad.The Assam government has also provided Rs 25,000 as interim financial help to each of the 213 cancer, kidney, heart and liver transplant patients from the state who went for treatment to different places in the country and got stranded due to the lockdown. Till now Assam has recorded 30 Covid-19 positive cases. While 29 patients are recovering in hospitals across the state, one patient died last week at the Silchar Medical College Hospital.Sarma said that till Monday tests had been conducted on 3209 samples out of which 3070 cases were negative, 30 cases positive and results awaited for 109 samples.As on Monday Assam had 85,582 PPE kits, 91,000 N95 masks and 50.64 lakh, triple layer masks. The government has decided to give 3 triple-layer masks each to tea-garden workers who have joined duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-give-financial-aid-to-those-stranded-outside-due-to-lockdown/story-EhtEADDGbApItHK2UVjREP.html
13-04-2020||India||Now, odd-even rule in Delhi’s wholesale markets to fight Covid-19||Traders in Delhi’s crowded wholesale vegetable and fruit markets will have to follow the odd-even rule to maintain social distancing to break the chain of coronavirus infections, minister Gopal Rai has said.Delhi’s development minister Gopal Rai had called a meeting of officials of all the wholesale markets on Monday to discuss ways to ensure social distancing in these areas as the national capital reported 1205 coronavirus disease cases and 24 deaths.Rai said traders will sell fruits and vegetables on alternate days under the odd-even scheme, which was the Delhi government’s flagship road rationing scheme to check air pollution by controlling the number of vehicles on the road.Also read: PM to address nation at 10 am tomorrow, expected to outline lockdown decisionThe minister also said vegetables will be sold from 6am to 11am and fruits from 2pm to 6pm in all the wholesale markets in the national capital, news agency PTI reported.Gopal Rai said while speaking to the agency that the Delhi government has formed four special task forces to ensure effective social distancing in these markets, some of which have densely places sheds.Several such rearrangements have been worked out at the Azadpur, Keshopur, Najafgarh and Mehrauli markets. While the first two have been subjected to staggered timings, the others have been relocated to more spacious zones.Watch | Woman throws her five children into river after argument with husbandThe Delhi government on Saturday directed the relocation of the Mehrauli vegetable mandi to Mehrauli bus terminal. The wholesale market was shifted to its new location by Sunday morning, where the local police had designated areas for vendors, ensuring a safe distance from one another. Markings were also made for the general public, to ensure six-foot gaps among them.The Azadpur mandi, the largest wholesale fruit and vegetable market in the country, has already implemented the odd-even rule and staggered its sale time from Monday.The decisions came amid reports that social distancing rules were not being followed at the mandi, spread over 80 acres.Adil Ahmad Khan, the chairperson of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Azadpur, said there are 22 big sheds under which hundreds of traders sell vegetables and a huge number of people visit the market every day.“Under the odd-even rules, we will allow all the 22 sheds to operate according to their numbers. For instance, on even date, even-numbered sheds such as 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 will be allowed to function,” Khan had said.Traders, Khan said, can bring only one truck inside the Azadpur mandi. Until now, a trader could take three to four trucks inside the mandi, shrinking the space for others.Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tweeted a couple of pictures on Monday morning that showed people at the market standing in queues in designated spots—circles drawn on the ground.“Social distancing at Azadpur Mandi,” Sisodia tweeted in Hindi.As the number of Covid-19 cases has been rising in the Capital, the Delhi government has ramped up measures to fight the Covid-19 outbreak, including identifying 43 hotspots where strict containment measures have been put in place. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government was focusing on zones designated “red” and “orange” to isolate and control the outbreak.Kejriwal has said the government will keep adding containment zones wherever new patients of the highly contagious disease are detected. He has also said that sanitisation and disinfection drives will be scaled up from Monday in the containment zones created across the city and “high-risk” areas ascertained by the health department.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-odd-even-rule-in-delhi-s-wholesale-markets-to-fight-covid-19/story-CwFepbmzZqeiq2aB3MzZ1M.html
13-04-2020||India||Varanasi landlord faces action for renting flat to Chinese tourist||A landlord who rented his flat to a Chinese tourist but did not inform authorities as is mandatory under the Foreigners’ Registration Act now faces possible action for failing to comply with regulations amid the coronavirus pandemic, police said.Zhou Juhua (31), a native of Hunan in China has been living in a flat in an apartment complex in in Varanasi’s Saket Nagar Colony since March 22. Police said that Zhou arrived in Varanasi in the last week of January and stayed in a hotel in the Dashashwamedh Ghat area till March 21. Through her tourist guide, the woman contacted Sambhav Chaturvedi, a flat owner for taking an apartment on rent. Chaturvedi did not submit the details of the foreigner to the foreigners’ registration authorities within 24 hours of her arrival at his premises. He said he gave the flat on rent to her after her guide narrated her problems. The landlord said he could not inform the police because he is stuck in Patna due to the lockdown.Station officer Lanka, Bharat Bhushan Tiwari said the local intelligence unit (LIU) informed them about the Chinese woman on Monday following which the police went for an inspection.“The Chinese woman has been found living in the flat. She is still there. The flat owner didn’t inform authorities that he gave his flat on rent to a Chinese woman. Action would be taken against the flat owner as per instruction by senior officers,” he said.An intelligence officer who did not wish to be named said that a case would be registered against the flat owner. Police said the woman’s visa is still valid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varanasi-landlord-faces-action-for-renting-flat-to-chinese-tourist/story-a8tSxJBkQAR5HtBvzgDEGK.html
13-04-2020||India||Ambedkar Jayanti 2020: This Bhim Jayanti, ‘feed the needy’, distribute ration and masks||Every year, on April 14, India celebrates the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar. Champion of Dalit rights and principal architect of the Constitution of India, Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar was born on April 14, 1891, in present-day Madhya Pradesh’s Mhow. This year, on Babasaheb’s 129th birth anniversary, political leaders have asked the countrymen to help the poor and those hit by the coronavirus pandemic and pay their tributes to the legend while following Covid-19 lockdown measures.  “Feed the needy”Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda urged all BJP karyakartas to pay tribute to BR Ambedkar on his birth anniversary by helping the needy amid the coronavirus crisis. He asked all party workers and state unit heads to distribute ration kits and face covers as the nation struggles to fight the battle against coronavirus. “Distribute ration kits to every home in at least two poor settlements under the ‘Feed the Needy’ programme and face covers under the ‘Wear Face Cover Stay Safe’ programme in each mandal of a state. Do ensure to follow public hygiene and social distancing norms,” the BJP president said in his message.Nadda also asked party leaders and workers to run awareness campaigns in every poor settlement on good health practices to stay free of coronavirus and build a healthy society.Pay floral tributes in officeIn the view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ordered all ministers and officials to individually pay floral tributes in their office.“I have directed all ministers to offer floral tributes to Ambedkar in their offices and people should do the same,” he said.Help the poor amid Covid-19 crisisBSP chief Mayawati has appealed to party workers to follow lockdown restrictions and pay their ributes in their homes because of the spread of coronavirus.The BSP supremo described Ambedkar as “a symbol of humanistic thought and sacrifice,” in a tweet. “A symbol of humanistic thought and sacrifice, Babasaheb Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar is a source of motivation for his followers especially BSP workers. But in the current Corona pandemic scenario, it is an appeal to all to follow restrictions imposed by the government, and celebrate the anniversary in their homes and pay tributes.”In another tweet, she asked party workers to deliberate upon the condition of the poor and harassment of Ambedkar’s followers during the pandemic.“Sabhi ki bhojan”The Uttar Pradesh unit of the Communist Party of India (CPI) said it will commemorate Ambedkar Jayanti as ‘sabhi ko bhojan, sabhi tak ilaaj diwas’, demanding food and medical treatment for all.“The birth anniversary of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar on April 14 will be observed as ‘sabhi ko bhojan, sabhi tak ilaaj diwas’ (food and medical treatment to all) by party workers and supporters along with their family members, neighbours and close friends, while adhering to social distancing,” CPI’s state secretary Girish said in a statement.Ambedkar Jayanti is also known as Bhim Jayanti and is celebrated as a public holiday across India since 2015.BR Ambedkar was conferred the Bharat Ratna posthumously on March 31, 1990.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambedkar-jayanti-2020-this-bhim-jayanti-feed-the-needy-distribute-ration-and-masks-leaders-urge/story-UTUDZ6nMqXVDx59il3cigJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Radio stations spread positivity during times of Covid-19 with light Twitter banter||At a time when the whole world is battling the deadly coronavirus, radio brands have forgotten their rivalry on market share, revenues and other business metrics to come together and bring stories around Covid-19.All the major radio brands of the country have started conversation on Twitter which is aimed at highlighting the united spirit of the country, and will talk about the healthcare workers, police officials and other essential service providers who are risking their lives to serve others in these troubling times.The conversation was started by HT Media’s Fever FM. “Hey Man! Still Khush?” said Fever FM’s post in which Radio Mirchi was also tagged.Radio Mirchi replied, “Safe and khush? Aur aap? Abhi bhi baap?”Ishq FM, owned by Living Media Group, joined in with a tweet, “What’s up guys? Doing the ishq without us o what?”“Don’t be envious @IshqFM we are all in this together, we are one world!” Radio One replied.“Hey, hey, Ishq Ka Fever, Mirchi bhi aur One bhi? Nasha toh hona hi hain,” came a reply from Radio Nasha. Making sure there is no ‘bukhaar’ only entertainment!The initiative has been planned to bring positivity at a time when the entire country is under the grip of coronavirus, and has seen hundreds of death.A recent research had said that the radio has emerged as trusted source of information during the Covid-19 pandemic.According to AZ Research PPL, 82 per cent people have been tuning in to radio during Covid-19, with FM channels emerging as the second most credible source of information for the masses. As per the research, radio has a credibility score of 6.27, second only to the internet which is at 6.44 and TV at 5.74.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/radio-stations-spread-positivity-during-times-of-covid-19-with-light-twitter-banter/story-YG55ZasEvbK8z0hSKeCO8H.html
13-04-2020||India||Earthquake measuring 2.7 hits Delhi for 2nd day in a row||An earthquake measuring 2.7 on the Richter scale hit Delhi for the second day in a row. No reports of damage have emerged so far. The Delhi residents are observing the three-week nationwide lockdown, which ends tomorrow, to combat the coronavirus pandemic.The Sunday’s earthquake measured 3.5 on Richter scale with epicentre at Sonia Vihar in the national capital, according to the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) under the ministry of earth sciences.According to experts, the reason people felt strong tremors here is also because the depth of the earthquake is moderate (not very deep), the epicentre is in Delhi and there is very little ambient noise or vibrations induced by traffic movement.According to a statement by NCS, Delhi experienced last perceptible earthquake of magnitude 3.5 on April 24 in 2018 and prior to that earthquake of magnitude 3.8 occurred on September 7, 2011 near the Delhi-Haryana border. Delhi had also recorded low magnitude earthquake with epicentre within Delhi in 2007. Another similar earthquake was recorded in Delhi on April 28, 2001 of 3.4 magnitude, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-the-2nd-day-in-a-row-earthquake-jolts-delhi/story-slzlFJ8q6gdrgneypuBxuL.html
13-04-2020||India||PM to address nation at 10 am tomorrow, expected to outline lockdown decision||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on the prevailing coronavirus situation in the country on Tuesday, April 14. The Prime Minister is likely to give a final word on the coronavirus lockdown which will enter its final day tomorrow. The Prime Minister announced the 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown on March 25 to break the chain of Covid-19 infections in the country. Prime Minister @narendramodi will address the nation at 10 AM on 14th April 2020.In a meeting with chief ministers last week, the Prime Minister was urged by heads of all states to extend the lockdown by at least a fortnight. Though a final word on the lockdown extension is awaited from the Prime Minister, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had already hinted on the matter in a tweet on Saturday.“PM has taken correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India’s position is better than many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost. To consolidate, it is imp to extend it,” the Kejriwal’s tweet read. PM has taken correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India’s position is better than many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost. To consolidate, it is imp to extend itStates like Telangana, Maharahstra, Odisha and West Bengal have already extended the lockdown till April 30. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik-led Odisha government was the first state to extend the lockdown beyond April 14.Some ministries have suggested reopening of production units and restarting work in the agriculture sector provided all the mandatory guidelines for sanitation and social distancing are followed.The union home ministry which has been issuing guidelines to be followed by all sectors on Monday reiterated that all offices except those in the defence, central armed police forces, essential services such as power, CNG, postal services etc will remain closed.Offices that have been kept out of the purview of the lockdown include utilities, sanitation, municipal bodies, police, home guards and civil defence. Hospitals, veterinary hospitals and all related medical establishments including manufacture and distribution units are allowed to remain functional.During the 3-week lockdown, the government undertook a slew of measures to ensure that citizens do not bear the brunt of the lockdown. Relief packages and disbursement of cash was announced for various sections of the society under many government schemes.Commercial and private establishments are closed unless these are shops that provide food, groceries fruits and vegetables and dairy products. Banks, ATMs, petrol pumps power generation and transmission services are also allowed to function during the lockdown. On Monday, the total number of coronavirus tally in the country crossed the 9,000-mark with 9,152 cases. According to the Ministry of Health, India now has 7,987 active Covid-19 cases while as many as 856 patients have recovered or discharged. The coronavirus death toll in the country stands at 308. In Maharashtra, the total number of coronavirus cases breached the 2,000-mark while the national capital inched towards the 1,500-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-address-the-nation-on-april-14/story-2ImNO2emAR20kTGhOZgNWJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Maharashtra minister in quarantine after coming in contact with Covid-19 patient||Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad has decided to go under self-quarantine, after coming in contact with a police officer who tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19.Awhad is an MLA from Mumbra-Kalwa assembly constituency which is under complete lockdown due to the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases. Hence, as a precautionary measure Awhad decided to self-quarantine himself for few days.“The final reports are yet to arrive, it is suspected that Awhad’s bodyguards are also at high risk. He has decided to self-quarantine after the police officer was tested positive. He had come in contact with the police officer,” said Sandeep Malvi, PRO, Thane Municipal Corporation.Awhad was unavailable for comment. He is the first minister in Maharashtra to quarantine self.Awhad had recently urged citizens of his constituency to stay indoors or else it could prove fatal.Moreover, a reporter and cameraman from a regional channel in Thane has also been tested positive on Monday. Total coronavirus positive cases in Thane is 51 till now.Eighty-two more cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Maharashtra on Monday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 2064.According to Maharashtra Health Department, out of the 82 new cases of Covid-19, three are from Pune, 59 from Mumbai, 12 from Malegaon, five from Thane, one from Vasai Virar, and two from Palghar.India’s tally of positive COVID-19 cases rose to 9,152 following an increase of 796 cases in the last 24 hours, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-minister-in-quarantine-after-coming-in-contact-with-covid-19-patient/story-sCSFZNBcdlzkQH0gGOxYwJ.html
13-04-2020||India||‘Markaz has impeccable record’: Lawyer explains Tablighi chief’s self-quarantine||Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi is an Advocate-on-Record practicing at the Supreme Court. He has been practicing law for 15 years and is now representing the Tablighi Jamaat, which is at the centre of a massive controversy for defying prohibitory orders and becoming human carriers as a result of the congregation at the Markaz in Nizamuddin.Ayyubi has previously been the counsel in various high profile cases including that of Assam NRC.Recently, on his petition, the apex court issued notices to all State/UT governments to respond to the plea seeking establishment of community kitchens across the country. In an extensive conversation with IANS he details what exactly happened at the Markaz. Excerpts:The allegation against Tablighi Jamaat is a serious one that they held this congregation despite prohibitory orders and now the Chief Maulana Saad is not coming out to join investigations?The congregation of TJ existed much prior to the issuance of any prohibitory orders. Pursuant to the orders, steps were taken by Markaz to disband and disperse the congregation. The people got stranded in Markaz as they belonged to places outside Delhi. They cant go back to their homes due to the sudden lockdown announced by the Delhi government and subsequently by the central government. Rail services were shut down and eventually domestic flights were also stopped, thus eliminating any possibility for the participants to return.It is wrong to say that Maulana Saad has not joined investigation. Police authorities have sought information from him in terms of Section 91 of the CrPC. He has duly submitted the requisite information to them, very much complying with such notice and with the investigation. The investigation is underway, therefore nothing much can be said at this stage. Is he running away from the law?Markaz Nizamuddin has an impeccable record of abiding by the law, and assisting the authorities whenever needed.Maulana Saad is a responsible citizen and head of this global movement, therefore, such a question does not arise. He is in self quarantine as advised by his Doctor. The Police authorities know this and are following the medical protocol.As I have said, the notice seeking information has been duly replied to as well.Many foreign TJ members have been booked in Uttar Pradesh for flouting visa norms, what legal recourse will you take?Earlier it was said that visas of around 900 foreigners TJ members is revoked and accordingly they will be deported back to their countries. But now it has come to light that FIRs are being registered against foreign TJ members and they are being sent to jail like in Bahraich, UP. We are trying to get in touch with the authorities so that legal aid can be provided to such foreigners.There are many suggestions that markaz chief should come out and speak on the issue to offer clarity?People can give suggestions as they like, but a movement like TJ operates in a certain way. People outside the Muslim community aren’t familiar with Markaz Nizamuddin and they want to know about it but it should also be respected that TJ has never been associated with the media, it has never sought any publicity, and has not used media or TVchannels ever in its history and has remained apolitical.That’s how they have conducted themselves over the last century and perhaps may want to continue that way only.There are reports in public domain that many members of TJ have been involved in terror activities in various parts of the globe? What do you have to say on this?This allegation is completely misplaced and mischievous. Markaz Nizamuddin has been around since 1926 and serves as the global headquarters of Tablighi Jamaat, which is a purely apolitical socio-religious movement. Volunteers and participants from across the world come to the Markaz to learn about Islamic teachings with emphasis on building a good moral character so that as Muslims they refrain from all that’s evil and espouse all that’s good.The effort started as a response to the moral degeneration of Muslims, and over the last century has benefited millions of Muslims, enabling them to lead a life of responsibility and respect across the globe.Therefore any connection with such inhuman activities like terror is contrary to the very purpose for which TJ exits. This is a global movement, and security agencies in India and across the world are fully aware of its existence and how it works. TJ is perhaps the largest social reform movement in the world, and is respected for the extraordinary effort they have undertaken.Do you think media has been biased towards you while reporting on the Markaz issue.At the time when humanity is facing its biggest challenge, it is sad and unfortunate that an immature section of the media portrayed the Markaz issue in a very biased and dishonest manner. Nevertheless police authorities have now started taking action against fake news. Since this is a global movement which is respected worldwide we should not do anything which may bring bad name to our great country.For instance, there are repeated reports of Maulana Saad allegedly being away from law, when in fact, he has replied to the notice given by the police, despite being under quarantine. However, the latter aspect has not been reported equally when compared to the former. Media reportage on any issue must take into account all facts and must in any case not give the slightest reason for sensationalize any issue. Unfortunately, certain sections of media have failed on that front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/markaz-has-impeccable-record-lawyer-explains-tablighi-chief-s-self-quarantine/story-UCu4f02dbcJtAScYTHvBlL.html
13-04-2020||India||Travel nod to Wadhawans: Shiv Sena trains guns at former chief minister Fadnavis||The Shiv Sena on Monday targeted former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis over the controversy involving permission given to DHFL scam accused Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel during 21-day lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19.In an editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena said that IPS officer Amitabh Gupta, who gave permission to Wadhawans to travel to a hill station amid lockdown, was appointed in the state Home department by Fadnavis.“He must have trusted the efficiency of Gupta before appointing him into the Home department. It is now clear and self-explanatory who has been actually behind Gupta’s decision and on whose instructions he would have put the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government into a crisis,” the editorial in Saamana said.“It is the same officer (Gupta), appointed by previous chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who has created trouble for the state government by favouring the Wadhawan family,” it further said.The Sena editorial also called it part of a “conspiracy”, which could not succeed.After Gupta allegedly gave the Wadhawans a letter which facilitated their travel to Mahabaleshwar hill station in Satara district last week, Fadnavis had said, “It is not possible a senior IPS officer would do such gross mistake knowing the consequences on his own.”Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, accused in Deewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL) scam, are under the scanner in the Yes Bank and Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank scams.The CBI registered an offence against the Wadhawan brothers, Yes Bank’s then Managing Director and CEO Rana Kapoor and others on March 7.Since then Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan were absconding, news agency PTI quoted a CBI official as saying.The Wadhawan family travelled to Mahabaleshwar, bypassing sealed district borders aided by a letter given by Gupta on his letterhead as the principal secretary (special), Home department.The letter issued by Gupta stated, “This is to just inform you that following are known to me as they are my family friends and travelling from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar for family emergency. Particulars of the cars are as given below.” The letter signed by Gupta concluded, “Hence you are here by informed through this letter to cooperate with them to reach their destination.” The letter also had the number of five vehicles and 23 names from the family and friends.Gupta has been sent on complusory leave, and the state government has initiated a probe in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travel-nod-to-wadhawans-shiv-sena-trains-guns-at-former-chief-minister-fadnavis/story-4cg54AxVdefTu4DXr41LfP.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: AIIMS shuts down sanitisation unit citing lack of scientific evidence||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) authorities in the national capital have shut down a personal sanitisation unit, which was installed outside the hospital’s emergency department four days ago for disinfecting its frontline staff combating the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, because of lack of scientific evidence on its effectiveness.“The unit is in place. But its use has been temporarily stopped. We’ve found out that the sodium hypochlorite solution used in sprays isn’t effective for disinfection and, at times, can cause itching,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent. AIIMS.He suggested more effective ways to fight the infection for the hospital staff such as coughing into their elbows while taking care of non-Covid-19 patients and using personal protective equipment (PPE) units such as masks, gloves and overalls while screening those suffering from the viral outbreak. If the trial run of the personal sanitisation unit was satisfactory, the hospital authorities would have installed more such units in other areas, especially at the trauma centre that has been converted into a full-fledged facility exclusively treating Covid-19 patients. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) developed the disinfectant chamber of the personal sanitisation unit and its utility is being evaluated by the hospital authorities.Each unit is in the form of a small chamber that can be used for disinfection of people in areas of controlled entry and exit such as hospitals, shopping malls, commercial complexes, and other critical installations. The decontamination starts by using a foot pedal at the entry. Upon entering the chamber, an electrically operated pump creates a disinfectant mist of hypo sodium chloride released through at least 20 nozzles. The mist spray is calibrated for a 25-second operation and stops automatically. People undergoing disinfection will need to keep their eyes shut inside the chamber.The dimensions of the enclosure are around eight feet in length, four feet in width and about eight feet high, and is equipped with a drainage mechanism and a roof-mounted and bottom tanks that have a cumulative capacity of 700 litres. A unit requires a refill after it has disinfected about 650 people, and up to 100 of them can avail of it in an hour. Each unit costs about Rs 1.48 lakh“The DRDO authorities gave us a single unit, as we wanted to get a sense of how well it works. It is exclusively meant for the hospital staff, who are part of the Covid-19 management,” Dr Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-shuts-down-sanitisation-unit-citing-lack-of-scientific-evidence/story-mnciou1yNHK1TpyHHTD7fM.html
13-04-2020||India||Over 32 crore poor got Rs29,352 crore in cash aid since March 26: Govt||New Delhi: The government has disbursed Rs 29,352 crore in the bank accounts of 32.32 crore beneficiaries since the launch of a welfare scheme by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26 to protect the poor from the impact of Covid-19 lockdown.The Rs 1.7-lakh crore welfare package under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) has already provided financial support to 19.86 crore women under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), a finance ministry statement said.About Rs 9,930 crore has reached 97% PMJDY accounts of women, it said.PMJDY is a national mission for financial inclusion that was launched on August 28, 2014 to provide universal access to banking facilities, such as a zero balance account, to the poor.According to PMJDY’s website, there are 38.08 crore accounts under the scheme with total deposits of Rs 119,707 crore as of April 1.Sitharaman had announced financial aid of Rs 500 a month for 20 crore women with Jan Dhan accounts for three months so that they can run their households during the lockdown.“The robust digital payment infrastructure has enabled the prompt transfer of cash payment under the PMGKY. About 93% of the 8 crore farmers have already received Rs 14,846 crore cash assistance under the PM-KISAN,” a finance ministry spokesperson said.While launching the Rs 1.7-lakh crore package on March 26, Sitharaman had announced the Rs 2,000 instalment of PM-KISAN would be “front-loaded” and given immediately.The Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) programme, launched on December 1, 2018, provides Rs 6,000 a year as cash support to all farmer families across the country in three equal instalments.The spokesperson said the government has transferred Rs 1,405 crore into the bank accounts of 2.82 crore widows, senior citizens and physically challenged as of April 13.The welfare package had promised Rs 1,000 as ex-gratia payment to economically poor widows, citizens above the age of 60, and the physically challenged under the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP). The amount will be given in two instalments.NSAP is a centrally sponsored scheme that provides financial aid to the elderly, widows and persons with disabilities in the form of social pensions.As announced by Sitharaman, the government has so far disbursed financial support to 2.17 crore building and other construction workers involving Rs 3,071 crore, the spokesperson said.Announcing the scheme on March 26, Sitharaman had said there is already a fund for the welfare of construction and other workers. This had, at the moment, Rs 31,000 crore and 35 million workers were registered under it. “We have given directions to state governments to utilise the funds to provide assistance to construction workers to protect them,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/about-32-crore-poor-have-got-rs28-256-crore-in-cash-aid-since-march-26-govt/story-4AMsxRWFUGJDFl2meAxbQK.html
13-04-2020||India||2 dead,1 injured in chemical plant blast in Maharashtra’s Tarapur||Two workers were killed and another was injured after a huge blast at a surfactant unit in a chemical zone in Tarapur of Maharashtra’s Palghar, police said.Pradip Kasbe, an inspector at the Boisar MIDC police station, said the dead workers have been identified as Vijay Sawant, a 44-year-old resident of Pastal in Boisar, and Sameer Khoja, 48, from Palghar.Runal Thakur, 35, was admitted in a hospital in Boisar, Kasbe said.The blast took place at Galaxy Surfactants, located in Plot M 3 of Tarapur chemical zone, at 11:30am in the reactor where the raw material for surfactants was being manufactured.The unit has 250 staff and the management had sought permission from the collector of Palghar to allow 105 workers and management personnel to work at the factory. The sound of the blast could be heard in the 5-km periphery of the unit in Nandgaon and Murbhe villages, Kasbe said. Two fire tenders from MIDC Fire Brigade have controlled the fire due to the blast, he added. This is the first accident during the national lockdown in an industrial unit manufacturing essential products in Palghar district.The collector had given permission to start industries which manufacture medical products like masks, hand wash, sanitisers and other personal care and hygiene items essential for people to use to fight the coronavirus outbreak. Galaxy Surfactants was one such unit allowed to operate and Monday was the first day of its operation, said Kasbe. “We are in the process of filing an accidental death report (ADR) and the post mortem report is awaited. We will file an FIR only after we receive a report from the director of industrial safety and health (DISH), Vasai,” Kasbe said.Police are investigating the accident, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blast-in-sanitiser-unit-in-tarapur-chemical-zone/story-LStl3b1jks15OaOTOsSyWI.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Maharashtra breaches 2,000 mark with 82 new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 2064 cases of Covid-19 with 82 new infections, including 59 in Mumbai, the state’s health department said, even as the government will hold meetings to discuss ways to implement its plan for the second phase of lockdown.Other than the 59 Covid-19 patients in Mumbai, there were 12 in Malegaon, five in Thane, three in Pimpri Chinchwad, two in Palghar and one in Vasai virar -1 according to officials.No deaths were reported from anywhere, they said, on the 20th day of the nationwide lockdown to break the chain of infections.The state had crossed 1000 cases last Tuesday but reported more than 100 per day the past nine days, including three days that saw more than 200 cases.Amid the rising number of coronavirus infections, the state government will hold high-level meetings on Monday to discuss the plan to divide the districts into green, orange and red zones and allow industrial activities in areas that have no cases.The state may relax the restrictions in the second phase in eight districts with no patients till date once the Centre clarified its stand on their implementation.Also read: Life after lockdown: What government plans to do post-April 14Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already announced that the lockdown period will be extended by two week after a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday.Thackeray had last week hinted at relaxing the restrictions in some parts.The lockdown, which was scheduled to end on Tuesday, has now been extended till April 30 and the CM has warned to extend it further if the people don’t follow the restrictions strictly. Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, which are earmarked as red zones are expected to see restrictions tightened and the area with no or fewer numbers of patients may get have more relaxed rules.The movements in these densely-populated areas are going to the restricted further with the help of more security forces.Also read: Ministers back in offices as Centre debates lockdown decisionGadchiroli, Chandrapur, Wardha, Bhandara, Nanded, Solapur, Parbhani and Nandurbar district have no Covid-19 patients and are likely to be earmarked at green zones and may relaxation in restrictions.The industrial units with a minimum number of employees and the capacity to implement social distancing are likely to be allowed to open their shutters. The industrial activities are expected to be allowed only these districts in green zones, the state’s health minister Rajesh Tope has hinted. Under the orange zone which will have districts with less than 15 positive patients, there may be a relaxation on activities for essential services.India on Monday recorded 308 deaths related to the coronavirus disease, 35 in the last 24 hours, and 620 new Covid-19 cases taking the tally across the country to 9152, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-maharashtra-breaches-2-000-mark-with-82-new-covid-19-cases/story-oI8AfKb5nphejnTzq5C2hI.html
13-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times| Life after lockdown: What government plans to do post-April 14 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion curated for you. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Life after lockdown: What government plans to do post-April 14India is planning to restart some economic activity after April 14 to help offset the economic damage of a nationwide coronavirus lockdown, even as it weighs extending the stringent measure.Read full story here.In Covid-19 testing push, ICMR may collect samples from areas with zero infectionAs the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India nears 10,000, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is considering pooled testing of people with symptoms in areas from where no SARS-Cov-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) infections have been reported, in a move that will widen testing significantly and highlight the actual spread of the disease in India.Read full story here.Covid-19: 14 villages in Uttar Pradesh sealed because of one manThe district administration in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun has put 14 villages under quarantine after a man tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19.Read full story here.Anil Kapoor’s wife Sunita went on a solo honeymoon, said yes to the actor only when he could afford a cookAnil Kapoor and wife Sunita have been together for over 46 years, which includes 10 years of courtship and 35 years of marriage. The two are very different from each other and that seems to only bring them together. Their unshakable bond is what makes their love story unique.Read full story here.TikTok crosses 1 billion installs on Google Play StoreTikTok crossed 1 billion downloads on both Android and iOS last year in February. The short video app has now crossed 1 billion installs on Google Play Store alone. TikTok has been witnessing a surge due to the lockdown, and it’s leading to major milestones for the app.Read full story here.Superheroes are real, this video shows their real identities. WatchIf anyone tells you superheroes aren’t real, here’s a video you can show them to prove they in fact are. The video shows the real identity of some superheroes and once you watch the video, you too will believe they’re walking among us.Read full story here.Watch: Uttarakhand cops’ unique punishment for foreigners violating lockdown10 foreign nationals were found violating lockdown norms in Uttarakhand’s Rishikesh. Uttarakhand police adopted a unique method to punish the violators. Violators were asked to write an apology note repeatedly for 500 times. Police official said that the foreigners thought they were out in the open during the relaxation period. Watch video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-life-after-lockdown-what-government-plans-to-do-post-april-14-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hd9lVaLWVngJQ7ACvTsIkJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra may discuss plans to ease curbs in some areas today||The Maharashtra government has started chalking out its plan about how to implement the extended statewide lockdown till April 30 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak by dividing the districts in three distinctive zones --- red, orange and green -- and begin industrial activities in those that have not reported a single positive case to date. The state government may relax the lockdown restrictions in the second phase in eight Covid-19-free districts, officials said.The plan will be finalised after a meeting to be held later on Monday. On Monday morning, Maharashtra reported 82 new Covid-19 positive cases, as the total count rose to 2,064. Of them, Mumbai alone has reported 1,357. Of the 82 new cases, Mumbai has reported 59, Malegaon 12, Thane five, Pimpri-Chinchwad three, Palghar two and Vasai Virar one. The state has also reported 149 Covid-19 related deaths so far.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray hinted last week at relaxing the restrictions in some parts of the state. Thackeray also warned that the lockdown could be extended further if people don’t strictly follow the restrictions. The restrictions in densely populated urban centres such as Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, which are earmarked as red zones, as they have reported over 15 Covid-19 cases, are expected to be further tightened. The state government has tweaked its strategy for the containment zones in these districts, as the movements in these areas are going to be restricted further after the deployment of additional security forces. The districts that have been earmarked as green zones, where no Covid-19 positive case has been reported, are likely to get more relaxations as far as lockdown is concerned. Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Wardha, Bhandara, Nanded, Solapur, Parbhani, and Nandurbar are part of the green zones in the state.State health minister Rajesh Tope has hinted that industrial units can resume their operations in these eight districts, which fall under the category of green zones, if they scale down their workforce in a bid to maintain social distancing norms. While the districts earmarked as orange zones, which have reported less than 15 Covid-19 positive cases, are likely to see a relaxation in the supply of essential services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-may-discuss-plans-to-ease-curbs-in-some-areas-today/story-Li30W16C1G9Z40tqtl0bdM.html
13-04-2020||India||Meet Chandmal Jingar, a Covid-19 warrior from Rajasthan’s Bhilwara||For nearly 10 days, Chandmal Jingar had no contact with his family while he worked as a nurse at the Covid-19 ward of the district hospital in Bhilwara, often skipping meals as he cared for people infected by the coronavirus.Jingar,41, sang songs and cracked jokes to keep everyone’s morale high as he looked after the patients in the hospital located in an area hit hard by the coronavirus.When his wife and children told him to get himself shifted to some other ward in the hospital, Jingar assured his family there was no need to worry and it was the duty of every health worker to take responsibility for serving the people. Sharing his experiences at the Covid-19 ward, Jingar said it was on the evening of March 17 that a doctor from Bhilwara district was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital with symptoms of being infected by the coronavirus. Three days later, he tested positive and a special Covid-19 ward was created in the hospital. The number of patients had increased by this time.“By March 20, fear and panic about the virus had gripped the city as the number of positive case reached about 20 in a few days. Before the Covid-19 ward, my duty was in the OT,” he said.“On March 20, I met the nursing superintendent and requested him to shift me to the Covid-19 ward. The reason behind the request was that to fight any disease, you need to boost confidence and positivity among patients and I was sure I could do that.”From March 22, Jingar started working in the Covid-19 ward, with his shift lasting from 7.30am to 4pm. “At 7am, I would reach the hospital. The first thing I did was wash my hands, wear gloves and then the personal protective equipment (PPE) kit.“By 7.30am, I would enter the ward, take readings of the patients and give them medicines according to the doctor’s recommendation. I would ensure every single thing inside was sanitised and cleaned at regular intervals,” he said.After 4pm, Jingar would remove the PPE kit, put it in a solution of hypochlorite, and later it would be decomposed. After duty, he would go to a nursing hostel where he lived with other colleagues in quarantine.In the evenings, Jingar would talk to his family, including his wife Geeta, a teacher in a government school, his 14-year-old son Vaibhav and his 8-year-old daughter Pratibha.“Initially, my kids were afraid but later they started boosting my confidence as they got to know their dad is a corona warrior and is serving the people,” Jingar said.The morale of the staff of the Covid-19 ward was affected when two elderly patients died on consecutive days because of multiple organ failure, even though the cause of their death wasn’t Covid-19.“After the deaths, a few of my colleagues and I would sing songs, crack jokes and talk about spiritual things to make the ambiance of the ward positive. One of our videos went viral, which lightened the environment of the ward and helped us in changing the mindset of the patients,” said Jingar.Within a few days the positive cases tested negative. “Now, we have only one patient in the Covid-19 ward, which was once the epicentre of positive patients. I am sure this patient will also turn negative,” he said.“Anyone who is detected for Covid-19 shouldn’t panic as it can be overcome through a combination of medicines, precaution and will power,” he said.On April 1, Jingar went to meet his family after getting permission from his seniors, and he returned to his duties at the Covid-19 ward three days later.Rajasthan’s Bhilwara district was one of the first Covid-19 clusters to be identified in the country and was placed under total lockdown by the state government to contain the spread of coronavirus.From being a hot spot, Bhilwara, about 250km south of state capital Jaipur, is now being talked about for its “ruthless containment” model and administrations elsewhere are following the steps taken by the district’s authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-chandmal-jingar-one-of-the-covid-19-warriors-of-bhilwara/story-SNQcc3i4zb9WWeo8hF4c8H.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: 14 villages in Uttar Pradesh sealed because of one man||The district administration in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun has put 14 villages under quarantine after a man tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19.The man from Andhra Pradesh was staying in a mosque in Bhavanipur Khali area of the district, reported news agency PTI. He tested positive on Saturday.He had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month, PTI further reported.“After the man tested positive for corona, the district administration has sealed 14 villages in the radius of three kilometres from the village where he was staying. Fourteen villages have been quarantined,” news agency PTI quoted District magistrate Kumar Prashant as saying.Watch | Woman throws her five children into river after argument with husbandMeanwhile, 30 more Covid-19 cases were reported in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra on Monday, taking the tally of cases in the district to 134. Of the 134 cases, at least 60 people are from Tablighi Jamaat, District Magistrate Prabhu N Singh said.As per the website of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of positive cases of coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh are 483 as of now, while five people have died due to the disease. And 46 are cured, discharged or migrated.The total number of Covid-19 positive cases across India reached 9,152 on Monday, said the health ministry. It further said that the death toll due to the pandemic rose to 308 after 35 new fatalities were reported.Of the total 308 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 149 fatalities, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 36, Gujarat at 25 and Delhi at 24. Punjab and Tamil Nadu have registered 11 deaths each, while Telengana reported nine fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-14-villages-in-uttar-pradesh-sealed-because-of-one-man/story-g6NfDNe5SH3hnFvvCPo5nL.html
13-04-2020||India||Rajasthan government to amend prisoners parole rules to release inmates||The Rajasthan Government is soon going to amend the Rajasthan Prisoners on Parole Rules, 1958, in order to release inmates who have been granted parole in the past.On March 23, the Supreme Court told the states to form a committee under the chairman of State Legal Services Authority and including principal secretary of the home department and director-general of jails, to decide on prisoners who could be released on parole or interim bail to decongest jails. According to the apex court’s order, prisoners facing a sentence of seven years or less, or undertrials facing trial in offences that are punishable with a sentence of seven years or less may be considered for a release.Director-General, prisons, NRK Reddy said that following the orders of the Supreme Court, the high power committee had a meeting on Wednesday. “In order to implement the decision of the top court, the government is going to amend the parole rules and is planning to add provisions of extraordinary parole so that the inmates who have been granted parole in the past could be released on parole again,” the prisons department chief told.Reddy added that according to Rajasthan Prisoners on Parole Rules, 1958, a prisoner who has completed with remission, if any, one-fourth of his sentence and subject to good conduct in the Jail, may be released on first parole for 20 days including days of journey to home and back, and for 30 days on second parole provided his behaviour has been good during first parole and for 40 days on third parole provided his behaviour has been good during the second parole.“Once the rules are amended, those who have been given parole three times in the past and whose behaviour was good, can be given parole for four weeks. We have prepared a list of 1300 such people. However, the decision to give parole will be taken by the government,” the DG, prisons said.Reddy further said that the jails are not overcrowded. “Our occupancy rate is only 91.47%. In March, around 2,000 inmates were shifted to other jails where occupancy is low so that social distancing could be maintained”. Also, Rajasthan High Court, in suo moto versus State DB Civil Writ Petition, had ordered the registrar judicial to not list bails, appeals, applications for suspension of sentence in appeals and revisions in the category of “extreme urgent matters”.In the past also, the prisons department had taken multiple steps to contain the spread of coronavirus as a result of which till April 9, no inmate was found positive.The prisons department had done 100% screening of the inmates and also interviewed them to know their travel history.The department had also created two new wards and one isolation ward. Every inmate coming from outside is initially kept in the new ward where he is kept under observation of doctors for three days and after clearance, they are sent to their normal wards. Also, the isolation ward is kept for suspects.All meetings between prisoners and their relatives in the jails have been stopped to avoid any spread of novel coronavirus. If necessary, a mobile or landline phone would be made available to needy prisoners, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-government-to-amend-prisoners-parole-rules-to-release-inmates/story-Gip0f6ijCHskzMwaX6IiKI.html
13-04-2020||India||New Covid-19 case, linked to Tablighi Jamaat, in Assam’s Dhubri takes state tally to 30||One more person from Assam’s Dhubri, who is linked to the Tablighi Jamaat’s March events in Delhi, has tested positive for Covid-19, the state’ health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Monday.Assam has recorded 30 coronavirus disease cases till date and one patient, a 65-year-old from Hailakandi, died last Friday at Silchar Medical College Hospital.“Another person from Dhubri, connected with Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin Markaz, has been found COVID-19 positive. The total number of COVID-19 patients in Assam now stands at 30,” Sarma tweeted.  Alert ~ Another person from Dhubri, connected with #TablighiJamaat meet at #NizamuddinMarkaz, has been found #COVID19 positive. The total number of #Covid patients in #Assam now stands at 30.Update at 9.15 am / April 13 #AssamCovidCountHe had also said that the nine patients are being treated at the Mahendra Mohan Choudhury Hospital in Guwahati.“Visited hospital to meet doctors and enquire about how patients have been responding to treatment. I reiterate my gratitude to doctors, nursing & support staff at hospitals,” the minister tweeted.The number of coronavirus cases across the country rose to 9152, including 7987 active patients, 856 cured or discharged and 308 fatalities, the Union ministry of health said on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-19-case-linked-to-tablighi-jamaat-in-assam-s-dhubri-takes-state-tally-to-30/story-KTB8L6FHWWZaBc3N90HFrK.html
13-04-2020||India||In Covid-19 testing push, ICMR may collect samples from areas with zero infection||As the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India nears 10,000, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is considering pooled testing of people with symptoms in areas from where no SARS-Cov-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) infections have been reported, in a move that will widen testing significantly and highlight the actual spread of the disease in India.Click here for full Covid-19 coveragePooling of samples involves testing them in batches. When a pooled sample tests positive, then individual samples are assessed. Research shows that this method can be used to do up to three times as many tests with the same number of kits — an important consideration given India’s population.There are around 450 districts (out of a total of around 730) which have not reported any Covid-19 cases. The plan is to test people with symptoms (cough, fever) using both RT-PCR and rapid antibody testing. The regions will be selected on the basis of data available through their integrated disease surveillance programme network, and also the new mobile application, ArogyaSetu, which has started generating relevant data on the disease pattern, according to a health ministry official.“Pooled testing is a good surveillance tool and can be used to test symptomatic people in non-Covid areas to confirm if the areas are actually Covid-19 free. It has not happened yet but is being considered as one of the options to get an idea on the disease spread. The idea is already there, testing will only confirm it,” this person added on condition of anonymity.India is yet to get the rapid test kits it ordered from China, so the plan will be put into effect with RT-PCR tests.Once the rapid test kits arrive -- these antibody test results are available in 30 minutes as opposed to the RT-PCR tests which take about five hours -- they will be used. In addition to the order for 500,000 kits that has already been placed, ICMR has raised a tender on April 11 for 4.5 million more rapid testing kits to be delivered in batches. The plan is to have the first batch in by May 1 and the final batch latest by May 31.The major issue that India is facing with rapid test kits is their quality as most come from China; after many kits failed quality tests, the Chinese government restricted exports, allowing only five to six companies to sell them.“Quality control is important as there is no point in getting a product and then realising it is of no use. The products from China have to be cleared by their local regulator and we will also conduct tests on batches to check their accuracy on a random basis,” said an ICMR official who asked not to be named.In addition, local manufacturer HLL Lifecare has also started manufacturing the rapid test kits. It is making 20,000 a day at its Manesar facility starting Monday.The ICMR tender, which HT has reviewed, says, “If the item is proposed to be imported from China, NMPA (National Medical Product Administration), China, approval for the said item/company is mandatory… ICMR reserves the right to ensure random “Lot-testing” or “Pre-shipment testing” of supplied items for quality. On negative findings, the consignment will be rejected outrightly. Any supply not found acceptable shall be returned...”Experts in the field, however, say that ICMR is already late.“They should have started at least a month ago; even if they didn’t have rapid test kits, they should have gone ahead with the RT-PCR tests. We had to test more to know better,” said a senior epidemiologist, who asked not to be identified.Meanwhile, ICMR is also working on increasing the number of laboratories that can test, and is in the process of upgrading laboratories of both private and government medical colleges so that these can also be utilized for Covid-19 testing. It is currently in the process of identifying college laboratories that can be upgraded with the help of some mentoring by advanced labs already doing Covid-19 testing.“ICMR has taken cognizance of the need to expeditiously expand COVID-19 testing facilities in all parts of the country… efforts are being made for proactive search of potential laboratories which could be enabled for COVID-19 testing…,” says an ICMR document seen by HT .ICMR has identified 14 institutes of national eminence, such as All India Institutes of Medical Sciences; Armed Forces Medical College, Pune; National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences, Bengaluru; JIPMER in Puducherry; King Goerge Medical University, Lucknow; and Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences to mentor colleges.The mentor labs will form teams to conduct a comprehensive review of the college laboratories. The mentors will see what facilities these laboratories have and what they need to be able to do Covid-19 testing. At least 400 such laboratories have been identified by the government for assessment.“It is a good idea as there are some states with good infrastructure, and their labs can be taken up almost immediately. For those states that don’t have good medical colleges, the government can help set up/upgrade lab based on Covid-19 testing requirement. The good thing is labs can be created or upgraded in a short span of time, so we can increase the capabilities of the testing labs,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, community medicine expert, Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-covid-19-testing-push-ismr-may-collect-samples-from-areas-with-zero-infection/story-BJZYr6SeWTDqoBsGQzRbsK.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Election Commissioners forgo 30% salary for a year||The three election commissioners of India decided on Monday to forego 30% of their salary for a year in the wake of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, following the example of the president, vice-president, prime minister, the Union council of ministers and members of Parliament. The decision was taken at a meeting held between chief election commissioner Sunil Arora and election commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra. Chandra said they decided to volunteer to take a salary cut in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. “This is a voluntary and unanimous decision,” he said.The Election Commission of India, a constitutional body, took the decision after the number of active cases in India shot up to 7,987 with 308 deaths as of Monday. “The prime minister, president and vice-president have led by example, we are following in their footsteps,” Chandra added.The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 6 cleared an ordinance to slash salaries of parliamentarians and ministers by 30% for one year in the wake of the coronavirus crisis. Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters that day that President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu and governors had also offered to take the 30 percent cut in salaries.The Cabinet also decided to suspend the MP local area development scheme for two years and transfer the money into the government’s consolidated fund. The money under MPLADS is around Rs 7,900 crore for two years: 2020-21 and 2021-22.Various state governments have already decided on salary cuts and other measures in the fight against the coronavirus. The Kerala government has decided to cut a month’s salary of all its staffers to raise funds for the state disaster relief fund.Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa has given up a year’s salary to help the state fight the Covid-19 crisis. Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan too announced a cut in salaries of government employees . Maharashtra, which is bearing the brunt of the coronavirus crisis, has decided to pay the salaries in instalments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-election-commissioners-forego-one-third-of-salary/story-ceILpakNhcAcQDewayPfTP.html
13-04-2020||India||Life after lockdown: What government plans to do post-April 14||India is planning to restart some economic activity after April 14 to help offset the economic damage of a nationwide coronavirus lockdown, even as it weighs extending the stringent measure.Top government officials told Hindustan Times that while the decision on the lockdown is work in progress, the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been very clear that it should not sequester millions of people from 161 districts that do not have a single case of coronavirus disease. Not even a suspected case.The officials pointed to health ministry data that indicated the four worst-affected states are Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan. These four states account for nearly half of India’s Covid-19 cases.It is in this context, one official explained, that the government is looking at a graded response to lifting the lockdown, depending on the Covid-19 cases in the district and the state.According to top government officials, around 100-odd districts are severely hit by the coronavirus disease and hence there was a need to seal these hotspots. In districts that have isolated instances of Covid-19 cases, many of the restrictions could be lifted to allow economic activity.In its decision, the Centre will also account for the stand taken by the states such as Delhi, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu that have spoken in favour of a two-week extension. For instance, in Delhi, the state administration feels they need two weeks to unearth all the contacts of the Tablighi Jamaat.Given that health is a state subject, the government may consider the demands of the chief ministers for extension.“But it will be a nuanced approach,” a senior government functionary aware of the developments, told HT.Even in these states, he explained, the game plan would be to have containment zones with no movement while allowing economic activity to pick up outside these hotspots with social distancing and masks.The 21-day lockdown of India’s more than 1.3 billion people is due to end on Tuesday, but the government is widely expected to extend it until the end of the month, with the number of coronavirus cases rising to 9,152 and the domestic death toll reaching 308, on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/life-after-lockdown-what-government-plans-to-do-post-april-14/story-aLpUVbpYx6OirTzPA4b2OM.html
13-04-2020||India||Ministers back in offices as Centre debates lockdown decision||A day before the 21-day lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 ends, some government staff resumed office after an order by the Centre.The Sports Authority of India (SAI) is one such government department where senior officials and other essential staff resumed operations after more than a fortnight of working remotely due to the Covid-19 pandemic, reported news agency PTI.Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Monday visited SAI’s headquarters in New Delhi wearing a mask and sanitised his hands before entering the premises.“The ministry has started its office with minimum staff because work has to go on. We are ensuring strict compliance of rules like social distancing, wearing masks and temperature checks,” PTI quoted Rijiju as saying.All ministers were on Saturday asked to resume office from Monday along with joint secretary level officers and one-third of their essential staff.The Union home ministry, meanwhile, has been asked to look into the possibility of letting a select group of industries resume production to revive economic activity and provide liquidity in the hands of the people.The recommendation, made by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), said the home ministry should expand the list of activities that are permitted once the Centre decides how to move on the Covid-19 lockdown. It came up with a list of 12 categories of industries that should be allowed to resume production in the first instance.PM Modi hasn’t indicated his mind on the subject yet but stressed at his video conference with chief ministers that the government would need to strike a balance between “jaan” (lives) and “jahan” (the outside world). It was interpreted to imply that the restrictions will continue in some form to preserve lives but with relaxations to resume economic activity and preserve livelihoods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-govt-staff-resumes-work-as-centre-yet-to-decide-on-lockdown-extension/story-sSkmJKvo0tecJPkr4Vw0MK.html
13-04-2020||India||Telangana Health Minister comes to the aid of pregnant woman who couldn’t afford hospital delivery||Telangana government came to the rescue of a pregnant woman who needed medical attention but was unable to afford the treatment.The woman was treated at a government hospital in Huzurabad after the state Health Minister Eatala Rajender intervened.As per the minister, the woman is a native of Ongole in Andhra Pradesh and lives with her parents in Kothapally village of Karimnagar District of Telangana, to earn a livelihood.The woman used to regularly visit a private hospital in Karimnagar for checkups. She approached the hospital in a critical condition as her delivery date was due but the hospital management allegedly asked for Rs 2 lakh.The family decided to return to their native place as they were unable to afford the amount. But they got stuck in Telangana due to the lockdown and that is when the minister intervened after the family brought the matter to his notice.The minister ordered the doctors at Huzurabad government hospital to admit her and provide the best possible treatment.The woman later delivered a healthy baby at the hospital and is in a stable condition.“I would like to thank Eatela Rajendra for acting immediately and sending me to this hospital, and the doctors’ team which saved me and my baby,” said the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/south/telangana-health-minister-comes-to-the-aid-of-pregnant-woman-who-couldn-t-afford-hospital-delivery/story-RdXw37bsWo8fESn0hg6z7K.html
13-04-2020||India||Once a Maoist, he now stitches 90 masks a day to combat Covid-19||Life has come a full circle for Madakam Lakha, who would stitch uniforms for the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) commanders such as Ramanna --- he died last December --- and Madvi Hidma in the remote jungles of South Sukma in Chhattisgarh till he surrendered eight months ago. Now, he is devoting all his energy in sewing masks to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Lakha (38), a resident of Bhimapuram village under Jagargonda police station surrendered in August 2019, is lodged in Sukma Police Line, which is located about 400km away from the state capital Raipur.Follow live updates on coronavirus “Lakha came to know about the shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) units such as masks a few days ago and started stitching them inside Sukma Police Line. He’s making up to 90 masks a day that are being distributed by the police among the local tribal people,” Sundarraj Patilingam, Inspector General of Police (IG) in South Bastar Range, said.“Lakha joined the Maoists in 1998 as a member of Bal Sanhgam (child soldiers). Earlier, he used to stitch the Maoist commanders’ clothes, but after he surrendered he’s helping the police,” the IG said.Lakha, who hails from the Muriya tribe, a sub-tribe of the Gond, from the state’s Sukma district, feels privileged that he got the opportunity to stitch masks for the local tribal people amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “It’s a matter of great personal satisfaction for me that I’m contributing in my humble way in this battle against Covid-19. I wanted to utilise my stitching skills to good use to help the local tribal people,” Lakha said. Shalabh Sinha, superintendent of police (SP), Sukma, said that Lakha has been a goldmine of information about the Maoists. “Lakha comes from that inaccessible part of Sukma, which is the core of Maoists’ activities in Bastar. He’s helping us with invaluable inputs and also interpreting the local tribal dialects for us,” the SP said.Besides, Lakha holds the key for the police because of his access to the ultra-Left party’s top brass in Chhattisgarh. “He’s an asset for us because he has stitched clothes for Maoist commanders such as Ramanna and Madvi Hidma,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-he-maoist-he-now-stitches-90-masks-a-day-to-combat-covid-19/story-8uc1Z03IhevGwcQWbxgkhO.html
13-04-2020||India||20 days, 20 steps: A look at government’s measures against Covid-19 amid lockdown||On Monday, India entered the 20th day of the nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 25. The 21-day lockdown was put in place to contain the spread of novel coronavirus in the country.The 3-week lockdown was introduced to break the chain of Covid-19 infection across the country and ‘flatten the curve’. The lockdown will come to an end on April 14, if not extended further.In the past three weeks, the government has taken a slew of measures to ensure that the lockdown remains in place and is followed by all citizens. Many steps have been taken to make sure that people from different walks of society don’t feel the pinch of the lockdown. On day 20 of the lockdown, here’s taking a look at 20 steps taken by the government amid the coronavirus crisis:1. The government recently introduced the Aarogya Setu mobile application to educate citizens about novel coronavirus and help them make informed decisions amid the crisis.2. On Sunday, an oil ministry spokesperson said that poor households using 5kg cooking gas cylinders will be entitled to eight free refills in three months as a relief from the disruptions due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The number of free refills will be limited to three for beneficiaries using 14.2kg cylinders.3. The government said it plans to set up a chain of 20 lakh retail shops called ‘Suraksha Stores’ across India which will provide daily essentials to citizens while maintaining stringent safety norms, news agency PTI reported.4. Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Sunday launched a web portal to monitor and record the initiative by the ministry to combat Covid-19 with Knowledge, Technology and Innovation (YUKTI).5. Under its Ujjawala scheme, the government is providing free LPG refills for the next three months to over 8.3 crore poor women.6. Earlier this week, the finance ministry announced that it will make an immediate release of Rs 18,000 crore in tax refunds to individuals and businesses.7. The government decided to double the collateral-free loan amount for women in self-help groups to Rs 20 lakh.8. Under the PM-KISAN scheme, the finance ministry said that over 6 crore farmers have been benefited amid the lockdown. Rs 13,855 crore have gone towards payment of the first instalment of PM-KISAN.9. Wages under MGNREGA to be hiked to Rs 202 from Rs 182. The move would bring in Rs 2,000 in addition to workers.10. Last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a relief package worth Rs 1.70 lakh crore in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.11. Under a special provision, the government had announced that individuals could now withdraw three months salary from Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) account amid the coronavirus crisis. The EPF withdrawals have been exempt from service charge.12. Under the National Social Assistance Programme, Rs 1,400 crore has been disbursed to about 2.82 crore old age people, widows and disabled people.13.The last date for filing income tax returns for the financial year 2018-19 has been extended to June 30, 2020. The interest rate on delayed income tax payment has been decreased to 9% from 12%.14. Over 2 crore construction workers received financial support worth Rs 3,066 crore under the Building and Construction Workers’ Fund.15. The deadline for filing GST returns for March, April, May has been extended to June 30, 2020. There will be no interest or penalty on late fee for delayed returns for companies with turnover up to Rs 5 crore.16. Nearly 20 crore women Jan Dhan account holders received Rs 500 each in their account. The total disbursement under the head was 9,930 crore, the finance ministry said.17. Deadline for linking Aadhaar with PAN card has also been extended from March 31 to June 30, 2020.18. The government has also released around Rs 30,000 crore in assistance to various sections of the society.19. The government said it will release 12 million MT of food grain during the April-June quarter under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana amid the Covid-19 crisis.20. The government is also providing medical insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per person to health workers fighting the coronavirus pandemic.On Monday, the total number of coronavirus tally in the country crossed the 9,000-mark with 9,152 cases. According to the Ministry of Health, India now has 7,987 active Covid-19 cases while as many as 856 patients have recovered or discharged. The coronavirus death toll in the country stands at 308.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-days-20-steps-a-look-at-government-s-measures-against-covid-19-amid-lockdown/story-aUNOgQ9Om2dxQt9WAyEaGI.html
13-04-2020||India||‘Will never forget their sacrifice’: PM Modi remembers Jallianwala Bagh massacre martyrs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tribute to those killed in the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre, saying ‘we will never forget their courage and sacrifice’. “I bow to those martyrs who were killed mercilessly in Jallianwala Bagh on this day. We will never forget their courage and sacrifice. Their valour will inspire Indians for the years to come,” the PM said in a tweet while sharing an earlier photo of his visit to the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial in Amritsar.  I bow to those martyrs who were killed mercilessly in Jallianwala Bagh on this day. We will never forget their courage and sacrifice. Their valour will inspire Indians for the years to come. pic.twitter.com/JgDwAoWkAyThe Jallianwala Bagh massacre refers to the incident at the public garden in Amritsar on April 13, 1919, when General Dyer ordered British soldiers to fire at unarmed civilians, leading to the death of more than 400 people.Prime Minister Modi had visited the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial in 2015.Earlier last month, the National Archives of India inaugurated an exhibition titled ‘Jallianwala Bagh’, which put on display rare documents and reports related to the 1919 event||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-never-forget-their-sacrifice-pm-modi-remembers-jallianwala-bagh-massacre-martyrs/story-uHGujolq3ffnVMkVWeFtSK.html
13-04-2020||India||PM Modi greets citizens on Baisakhi, Odiya New Year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday wished the people on the occasion of Baisakhi and the Odia New Year, also known as Maha Bishuba Pana Sankranti.“Many wishes to the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Baisakhi. This festival associated with new aspirations should infuse new energy and new enthusiasm in everyone’s life,” the PM tweeted.Baisakhi marks the Sikh New Year and is a spring harvest festival celebrated in Punjab and other parts of north India.The country is currently under a three-week nationwide lockdown, which ends on April 14, to stem the spread of highly contagious coronavirus infection. However, some states - Odisha, Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana - have already extended the lockdown till April 30.“Happy #OdiaNewYear and Maha Bishuba Pana Sankranti. May the coming year bring happiness and good health in everyone’s lives,” said the PM in another tweet.On Maha Bishuba Pana Sankranti, people consume ‘pana’, a traditional sweet and sour drink made with raw mango and sugar.Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who was the first to extend lockdown in his state, also wished citizens on the occasion and pledged to fight coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-citizens-on-baisakhi-maha-bishuba-pana-sankranti/story-8zqR2JuLmIaUQ4g4IdDN9N.html
13-04-2020||India||Amid Covid-19 lockdown Assam, Meghalaya to open liquor shops from today||Two states in the northeast—Assam and Meghalaya—have decided to allow liquor shops to open from Monday amid the ongoing lockdown to break the chain of coronavirus infections.In an order issued on Sunday, the Assam excise department allowed liquor shops, wholesale warehouses, bottling plants, distilleries and breweries to open from Monday. Bars will, however, remain closed.The order stated that liquor shops will remain open from 10am to 5pm on permitted days provided the licensees ensure the maintenance of one-metre distance between customers, cough etiquette and other guidelines issued by the health department.Also read: Bootleggers resort to innovative ways to smuggle liquor into Delhi-NCRThe shops have been asked to operate with “bare minimum staff” and provide hand sanitisers to customers and staff while handling bottles and cash.Wholesale warehouses, bottling plants, breweries and distillers will have to operate with not more than 50% of their regular staff and workers. They will also have to arrange for staff to stay within the premises or a nearby place.“Since the lockdown started, manufacture and sale of illicit country liquor have increased manifold. There was a possibility of people dying from consumption of illicit liquor if authorised shops were not allowed to open,” a senior official said on condition of anonymity.On average, Assam earns nearly Rs 250 crore as revenue from the sale of liquor and in the past two weeks, the state has lost over Rs 100 crore in earnings. The official quoted above emphasised that financial consideration was not the reason for opening liquor shops.Assam’s decision followed an order issued by the Meghalaya government earlier on Sunday which allowed liquor shops to open from Monday for the next five days. Officials in Assam said there was a possibility of liquor being shipped to the state from neighbouring Meghalaya.Meghalaya excise department has allowed liquor shops in the state to open from 9am to 4pm from Monday till Friday while maintaining social distancing and cough etiquettes.“Home delivery of liquor will be allowed in the areas without wine shops for which modalities could be worked out by the respective deputy commissioners,” the order read.While Assam has recorded 29 Covid-19 cases and one death, Meghalaya is yet to record any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-lockdown-assam-meghalaya-to-open-liquor-shops-from-today/story-j2r0CrTuSJjGo5O8cnrbfP.html
13-04-2020||India||Veteran Congres leader MV Rajasekharan dies at 91||Veteran Congress leader and former Union minister M V Rajasekharan passed away at a hospital in Bengaluru on Monday after prolonged illness, family sources said. He was 91.The Congress leader was ailing from old-age-related diseases. He is survived by his wife Girija Rajasekharan, two sons and two daughters.An agriculturist and rural development consultant, the Congress leader was born on September 12, 1928, at Maralawadi in Ramanagara district.Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Rajashekharan, who had served as an MLC, MP and Union minister, was a politician with simplicity, humility and great maturity.“Shri Rajashekharan, son in law of former Chief Minister S Njalingappa, was an authority on rural economy and had set up an institute to make studies on rural development,” Yediyurappa said.“He represented Kanakapura constituency in Lok Sabha. He was known for value-based politics and had served as the Union minister of state of planning and statistics,” the chief minister added.Yediyurappa prayed for his soul to rest in peace, and strength to his family and followers to bear this loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-congres-leader-mv-rajasekharan-dies-at-91/story-aGuiIGEGfLuc6i8o1sb43H.html
13-04-2020||India||Nagaland records first Covid-19 positive case; patient admitted in Assam||Nagaland recorded its first case of Covid-19 with a patient admitted in Assam’s Guwahati testing positive for the coronavirus on Sunday. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted late on Sunday night that the patient, who was referred to Guwahati from a private hospital in Dimapur in Nagaland, was found positive.“A private hospital in Dimapur, Nagaland referred a patient to Guwahati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) after he was found with symptoms of Covid-19. He has tested positive and is undergoing treatment,” Sarma tweeted.According to health officials in Assam, the patient is a resident of Dimapur and was referred directly from Nagaland. He was first admitted in a private hospital in Dimapur and when he showed symptoms for Covid-19 he was sent to GMCH.Nagaland’s health minister S Pangnyu Phom also took to Twitter to confirm the first Covid-19 positive case in the state.“Unfortunately one person from Dimapur has tested positive for Covid-19 and is under treatment at GMCH at Guwahati. Anyone who came in contact with the person will be immediately quarantined, also certain locations will be sealed for general safety,” he tweeted. Nagaland doesn’t have a testing laboratory for Covid-19 yet, but samples collected in the state are sent to Assam for tests. It is not known why the patient was allowed to travel to Assam.Till Sunday, 74 samples collected from suspected Covid-19 patients in Nagaland had been tested.Meghalaya now remains the only state in the northeast which is yet to record any Covid-19 positive case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-records-first-covid-19-positive-case-patient-admitted-in-assam/story-iAbL2JYPPjxvLIVKI9H6eO.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Teenager takes friend to apartment in suitcase||In a curious incident at an apartment complex in the city on Sunday, a teenaged student was caught while trying to sneak in his friend to his apartment by stuffing him inside a suitcase, police sources said.The student resorted to the bizarre attempt, frustrated at the apartment association denying permission to any outsider into the complex in view of the coronavirus scare.His valiant effort, however, turned futile as the occupants in the complex grew suspicious about some movement inside the huge suitcase as he was dragging it in.They made him open the suitcase there itself and were shocked to see his friend emerging out of it. Immediately, the residents called up the police, who came and took the two to the station. Later, the parents of both the students were summoned to the station.No case has been registered in this connection, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-teenager-takes-friend-to-apartment-in-suitcase/story-Rx9k2FLZuUwCoLYgzU4n8L.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Concern in Guwahati locality after arrival of 5 foreigners||Arrival of five foreign nationals at a locality in Assam’ Guwahati raised concerns among residents on Sunday night over fears of contracting coronavirus.The foreigners - three French, one Italian and one Spanish - had entered Assam from Manipur and had checked into a guest house in the Beltola area of the city.As soon as local residents came to know about it, they informed the Hatigaon police station. The police rushed a team to the spot and took them to the station and conducted their health check-up.Additional DGP (Law and Order) Assam Police, GP Singh, took to Twitter to inform that the foreign nationals reached Guwahati from Manipur and are on their way to Delhi.Urging the public not to panic, he added that the foreigners had completed their quarantine period in Manipur and they have approval from the external affairs ministry to travel to Delhi via Assam.“3 French, 1 Italian, 1 Spanish nationals have reached Guwahati, Assam from Manipur enroute Delhi. They have approval of ministry of external affairs to travel from Manipur to Delhi via Siliguri (West Bengal). They have completed their quarantine in Manipur. There’s no need to panic,” he tweeted.According to reports, the foreign tourists had entered India via the Moreh border with Myanmar in Manipur prior to start of the 21-day lockdown.Sources said that Assam Police will take the foreigners by road to the Srirampur border with West Bengal and will hand them over to authorities of the neighbouring state.The total number of Covid-19 infected people reached 9,152 in India on Monday after 620 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The health ministry said that 35 more people died of the disease in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-concern-in-guwahati-locality-after-arrival-of-5-foreigners/story-6fjWIPrOmUWg9xRzXRErGO.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Cases in Maharashtra near 2500, Delhi breaches 1200-mark||On Monday, the total number of coronavirus tally in the country crossed the 9,000-mark with 9,152 cases. According to the Ministry of Health, India now has 7,987 active Covid-19 cases while as many as 856 patients have recovered or discharged. The coronavirus death toll in the country stands at 308. In Maharashtra, the total number of coronavirus cases breached the 2,000-mark while the national capital inched towards the 1,500-mark.Here’s a look at the statewise tally of coronavirus active cases, fatalities and recovered patients. MaharashtraWith 1,985 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 149 deaths so far while 217 patients have recovered.DelhiDelhi closely follows with the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. As many as 1,154 people have tested positive of coronavirus in the national capital. 24 people have died from the infection while 27 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.Tamil NaduThe southern state has the third-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country which now stand at a whopping 1075. Tamil Nadu has seen 50 recoveries and 11 Covid-19 deaths.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 804 on Monday. The state has reported 3 fatalities. 21 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 532 positive cases of coronavirus. 36 people have died from Covid-19 here.Telangana504 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 43 people have made a recovery from the virus while 9 people have died from Covid-19.Uttar Pradesh483 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 46 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 5 have died from the infection here.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 516 coronavirus cases and 44 recoveries so far. 25 people have died from the infection in the state.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 427 positive Covid-19 patients and 11 cases of recovery. 7 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 376 coronavirus cases on Monday. Kerala has witnessed two deaths due to Covid-19 while 179 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 232 Covid-19 cases and 6 deaths. 57 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 245. 4 people have died from the infection while 6 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 185 and 151 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 11 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 29 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 5 in Punjab.152 people have been affected by the Sars-CoV-2 virus in West Bengal. There have been 7 deaths and 29 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 54 Covid-19 positive patients, 12 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 64 people have tested positive for coronavirus, one has died while 19 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 29 Covid-19 cases, one person has died. Uttarakhand has 35 coronavirus patients, five patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 21 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 7 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 11 coronavirus cases, 10 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 31 cases of coronavirus and 10 people have recovered. Ladakh has 15 patients, 10 people have recovered. Goa has reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, five patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 32 cases, one patient has died and 13 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported 7 cases, one has recovered. Jharkhand has 19 Covid-19 cases, 2 patients have died. Two coronavirus cases have been reported in Manipur, one has recovered. Tripura also has two Covid-19 patients. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram.Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland have not reported any Covid-19 case yet.India on Monday entered the 20th day of the 21-day coronavirus lockdown which will come to an end on April 14 if not extended. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-cases-in-maharashtra-near-2500-delhi-breaches-1200-mark/story-0sJFuywPzNaq4XQas0EGzJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: US could start reopening in May, top pandemic advisor says||The United States may be ready to start gradually reopening next month, the government’s top infectious diseases expert said Sunday, as signs grew that the coronavirus pandemic was peaking.President Donald Trump had earlier wanted the world’s largest economy to be “raring to go” by Easter Sunday, but most of the country remained at a standstill and churches took celebrations online to halt the spread of the virus that has killed more than 22,000 people in the US.Trump has cast the decision on when to ease the lockdown as the biggest of his presidency as he faces competing pressures from public health experts and businesses along with some conservative allies who want a swift return to normality.Anthony Fauci, the veteran pandemic expert who has quietly sought action to stem infections, said in a televised interview that parts of the country could begin easing restrictions in May -- but was cautious.“I think it could probably start at least in some ways maybe next month,” Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, told CNN.“We are hoping by the end of the month we can look around and say, OK, is there any element here that we can safely and cautiously start pulling back on?” Fauci said.“If so, do it. If not, then just continue to hunker down.”Fauci said that regions would be ready at different times rather than the United States turning back on like a “light switch.”Stephen Hahn, commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, told ABC he was “hopeful” about a reopening on May 1 but added: “I think it’s too early to be able to tell that.”Unlike in many Western countries, lockdown decisions are primarily up to local governments, not the president, and leaders of a number of hard-hit, densely populated states have vowed to act as long as necessary.“We want to reopen as soon as possible,” New York Governor Andrew Cuomo told reporters. “The caveat is we need to be smart in the way we reopen.”Neighboring New Jersey’s governor, fellow Democrat Phil Murphy, said that an economic recovery depended on a “full health-care recovery.”If “we start to get back on our feet too soon, I fear, based on the data we’re looking at, we could be throwing gasoline on the fire,” Murphy told CBS.Trump, for his part, wrote on Twitter Sunday: “We are winning, and will win, the war on the Invisible Enemy!”‘Cautiously optimistic’The United States has been recording nearly 2,000 deaths a day from the coronavirus, disproportionately older people with weakened immune systems and ethnic minorities with less access to health care and teleworking.Worst-hit New York recorded another 758 coronavirus deaths, Cuomo said.“You’re not seeing a great decline in the numbers, but you’re seeing a flattening,” he said.Fauci similarly said he was “cautiously optimistic” as admissions into hospitals and intensive care had begun to decline.The United States, which has 4.25 percent of the world’s population, accounts for almost a fifth of the world’s nearly 110,000 deaths from COVID-19 since the disease first emerged in China late last year.The New York Times, in an extensive article published Sunday, described Trump as failing to act quickly in part due to confidence in his gut instincts and his distrust of civil servants he brands as a conspiratorial “deep state.”Trump slammed the paper’s story Sunday evening with his favorite insult: “Fake News!”“The @nytimes story is a Fake, just like the ‘paper’ itself,” he tweeted.“I was criticized for moving too fast when I issued the China Ban, long before most others wanted to do so,” he wrote, referring to the ban travel ban on the Asian power.Fauci, who has advised six successive presidents, acknowledged when asked about the article that the US could have saved lives by shutting down public spaces when the disease’s seriousness became clear early in the year.“But there was a lot of pushback about shutting things down back then,” Fauci told CNN, without naming Trump.Trump soon afterward posted an interview in which Fauci said that the United States “early on did not get correct information.”Trump last week zeroed in on the World Health Organization to explain early difficulties, saying the UN body was overly reliant on China when cases first emerged in Wuhan.Trump had been hoping to campaign on a strong economy as he seeks re-election in November.Instead, some 17 million people have lost their jobs in a matter of weeks and his presumptive Democratic rival, Joe Biden, has been hammering him over his virus response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-us-could-start-reopening-in-may-top-pandemic-advisor-says/story-gTzEBuDJtV2y3yhLntHBqJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: India crosses 9,000-mark, records 620 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours||India on Monday recorded 308 deaths related to the coronavirus disease, 35 in the last 24 hours, and 620 new Covid-19 cases taking the tally across the country to 9152, according to the Union health ministry data.The health ministry’s website showed, at 8am, there were 7987 active cases, 857 people were cured, discharged or had migrated, two days before the national lockdown is about to end. India’s worst-hit state, Maharashtra, has 2351 coronavirus cases, including 217 people who have been cured and 149 fatalities as of Monday. The state had crossed 1000 cases just last Tuesday, but the past nine days reported more than 100 per day, including three days that saw more than 200 cases. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn the national capital of Delhi, there have been 1205 coronavirus disease cases and out of which 24 people have died and 27 have been discharged from hospitals.Tamil Nadu is on the second spot with 1136 Covid-19 cases. There have been 11 deaths in the southern state and 50 people have recovered. The government has also said it is well prepared to handle a surge in the Covid-19 cases and has over a hundred thousand isolation beds across the 601 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals, Lav Agarwal, health ministry’s joint secretary, said they there were focusing on strengthening infrastructure and surveillance as part of the strategy to manage positive cases.“If you ask what is our strategy in managing positive cases, then I would say infrastructure and manpower strengthening, and surveillance. The number of available beds [105,980] in proportion to the number of required beds has been far higher, our analysis shows, so there is no need to fear about the adequate availability of beds,” Agarwal said at a media briefing on Sunday.After several states put in a request to extend the strict restrictions under the lockdown beyond the 21-day period, the Centre has said it will take into account their suggestions.There are 1,846,963 confirmed cases across the world and 114,185 people have been killed, according to the Johns Hopkins University’s coronavirus tracker on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-india-crosses-9-000-mark-records-620-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours/story-DeNF30wFURhKW5fN3ASvNK.html
13-04-2020||India||Tiger sightings increase in the Sunderban with lockdown but no tourists to see them||With no hustle and bustle of tourists because of the pan-India coronavirus lockdown, tiger sightings in the Sunderbans – the only mangrove forest where tigers live – have increased in the delta, forest officials said.“Before the lockdown, when tourists were allowed, we used to get reports of tiger sightings on not more than two days in a week. But since the lockdown started, patrolling teams are spotting tigers almost five to six days every week. On some days, reports of multiple tiger sightings from different areas of the tiger reserve are also coming from the forest guards,” said Sudhir Das, director of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve.Even though there are around 90 tigers living in the Indian part of the Sunderban, that spreads over 4200 sq km, the impenetrable forest makes it almost impossible to spot tigers. The big cats can only be spotted when they cross the rivers and innumerable creeks that criss-cross the delta.“One has to be really lucky to spot a tiger in the Sunderban and that’s what makes tiger-sightings in the delta a real feast for the eyes. But now that there are no tourists and disturbance is almost zero, more and more tigers are coming out of the forests, swimming across rivers and creeks to move from one island to another. Sightings have increased over the past few days since the lockdown began,” said Ravi Kant Sinha, chief wildlife warden of the state.More than two lakh tourists, hundreds of honey collectors and fishermen enter the Sunderban Tiger Reserve, which forms a part of the entire forest, every year with permits. But because of the threat of coronavirus, entry of visitors to Sunderban and other national parks and sanctuaries in West Bengal was suspended from March 17. The pan India lockdown started on March 25.“Even though tourist activities and entry of other people have been completely stopped, forest teams are patrolling. Patrolling on boats, the only means of patrolling the delta, have been increased to look out for tigers that show signs of Covid-19, such as breathlessness. The BSF and police have also been asked to keep a watch,” said Sinha.Earlier this month, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had directed all tiger range states to observe tigers with Covid-19 symptoms like dry cough or laboured breathing. The advisory came after a tiger at the Bronx zoo in New York was detected with coronavirus. It was the first instance of a tiger being infected with the deadly disease.The Sunderban is the world’s largest delta and spreads over India and Bangladesh. The Indian part has one national park and five sanctuaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-sightings-increase-in-the-sunderban-with-lockdown-but-no-tourists-to-see-them-amid-covid-19/story-c0dWqJe7k1efUzTRV6F0VL.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19 impacts dental surgeries, patients forced to suffer in pain||It has been more than a fortnight since 38-year-old Ravinder Singh has been suffering from an acute pain due to the cavity in his two molars. Singh needs root canal treatment (RCT) or endodontic therapy to get rid of his toothache. However, Singh may have to bear his sufferings till the stemming of the Covid-19, a contagious disease caused by the coronavirus as endodontists are forced not to make any physical therapy fearing the virus’s spreading.“I have been taking antibiotics for last two weeks, as prescribed by my dentist, but there is no relief from the pain. Sometimes, the pain becomes too severe and I can’t sleep. I am imploring my dentist to extract my both teeth if RCT is not possible at this time, but he too seems helpless. I am also fearing for my health as taking antibiotics on daily basis is dangerous for heart,” said Singh, who is a businessman and a resident of Palasaur village in Punjab’ Tarn Taran district.Due to the coronavirus outbreak, most of the dentists are not opening their clinics. They are preferring providing phone consultation and antibiotic prescriptions to their patients. The endodontists feel that giving physical therapy until the virus is fully supressed is not possible.The endodontists further say that besides the availability of effective disinfectants, one PPE kit is required for every patient while conducting endodontic therapy, that too, in emergency cases. They, however, are also in trepidation that using separate kits and disinfectants in their clinics are not enough to arrest the spreading of the infection. With this, dental patients, including those who need emergency therapy, are forced to suffer. “I am receiving frequent calls from my patients who need RCT-like therapies. Some want their teeth be extracted due to severe pain. But we are not supposed to treat them physically. We are not caring about ourselves, but for the patients, and to check the spreading of the virus. According to guidelines of the World Health Organization (WHO), coronavirus infection spreads from mouth, nose and eyes. If we start giving physical therapy to our patients, it would be a catastrophic. Suppose a coronavirus patient comes to us for the treatment, he or she can infect the whole clinic, and the infection would spread to other patients. The main problem occurs when viral particles are aerosolised during the dental care,” said dentist Sher Singh, who has been practicing endodontics for last 15 years in Tarn Taran.He further said, “As the government has been saying, patient in emergency should be treated by using precautions, but, it is also not possible. We can’t treat emergency patients too. We need separate PPE for every patient. Besides, effective disinfectants will be required for disinfecting the clinic. However, there is already a shortage of PPE in the market.”Dr Sanjeev Sharma, general secretary of Indian Dental Association in Amritsar, said, “We have asked all dentists not to open their clinic, but continue giving free consultation to the patients on phone. There is no solution of giving physical therapy to dental patents until the virus is fully contained. When physical therapy, like teeth cutting, extraction and RCT, is given to the patient, droplets from their mouth and nose fly in the air that will be very dangerous. The small dentists are also suffering financially, but we are forced to do so.”He said some quacks are still constantly giving physical therapy to the dental patients, and it should be stopped immediately. Dr Pankaj, medical officer (dental) at Patti Civil hospital in Tarn Taran, said the machine being used by dentists can also spread infection. “Except severe emergency, we are avoiding giving physical treatments to patients. Even wearing of PPE kits can’t stop the spreading of coronavirus disease during dental care,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-impacts-dental-surgeries-patients-forced-to-suffer-in-pain/story-O7C5iMFVYNG9SOITJ04teK.html
13-04-2020||India||‘Be positive, use will power’: 59-year-old Bengal coronavirus survivor’s mantra||When Dharamnath Singh and nine of his family members tested positive for the coronavirus disease, his world came crashing down.The 59-year-old had already lost his sister-in-law, the first victim in north Bengal, to the respiratory illness that makes people like him more susceptible.Ten members of the family tested positive soon after Singh’s 44-year-old sister-in-law died on March 30, a day after testing positive for Covid-19. She had gone to Chennai alone on March 7 and returned with her daughter on March 19 in a Chennai-Bagdogra flight. On March 20, she visited a local doctor with a cough and high fever before being admitted in the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) where she died. Also read: Masks made mandatory at all public places in BengalThe head of a business family in Kalimpong town and nine others were brought to Siliguri and admitted to NBMCH and later shifted to a private nursing home that the government has taken over for treatment of Covid-19 patients.“When I and other members of the family tested positive, I initially thought the world had come to an end. I soon realised that the virus has to be defeated and for that we need determination. I am home now and free again,” Singh said while speaking to HT.“Instead of being afraid of the virus people should stick to discipline and social distancing. The virus can be defeated with sheer determination and will power,” he said.However, the head of a business family in Kalimpong town fought the deadly virus alongside Kavya, his three-year-old granddaughter, and walked out the nursing home with the child on Saturday afternoon.Diabetes, kidney transplantAfter spending 12 days at NBMCH and later at the nursing home, Singh and his granddaughter tested negative to Covid-19 in three back-to-back tests.“Positive thinking, determination, will power, discipline and social distancing are the mantras in the war against the coronavirus,” Singh said.He had undergone a kidney transplant in 2006 and suffers from high blood sugar, a condition that makes many people, especially senior citizens, succumb to co-morbidity. In fact, the West Bengal government is reluctant to attribute these deaths to Covid-19 alone.‘Be positive’Julie, Kavya’s mother and Singh’s older daughter-in-law, also returned home on Saturday. She was not infected but had to stay with the child.“Initially we were scared. Had we remained scared and did nothing to bring out the positive energy from within we would not have come out of the nursing home so soon,” Julie said.“One should not be afraid. If you are afraid it becomes difficult to fight a crisis. There are doctors, and even common people, to help you,” she said.“Kavya was always in a playful mood during the treatment,” she added.Also read: What you need to know todaySingh has the same attitude and some advice.“One must be firm, keep social distance and have lukewarm water regularly to defeat the virus. If you have the symptoms, please don’t hide it. Tell others and go for treatment. There are people to help you. One can recover in 15 to 20 days,” he said.“Though they tested positive, members of my family did not have the typical symptoms,” said Singh.“We are extremely happy that the eldest amongst us and who underwent kidney transplant has been released. This sends out a positive message when people are looking at coronavirus as a killer,” said Bijay, Singh’s younger son who also underwent treatment at the nursing home. On Saturday, the entire team of doctors and nurses who attended to the family, was present when Singh and Kavya left for their home in Kalimpong. This was the first time that patients were released in north Bengal after treatment.Bijay, his mother, uncle and the family’s maid were discharged Sunday evening after their subsequent tests came negative.In Kalimpong, 46 people, including another member of the family, are in still quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-positive-use-will-power-59-year-old-bengal-coronavirus-survivor-s-mantra/story-j4uTZhMXm9MjapUddX2t5K.html
13-04-2020||India||India aims for balance, a grim milestone for the UK: Covid-19 news today||India intensified its efforts on Sunday to draft a policy striking a balance between lives and livelihood in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, while formulating guidelines to demarcate zones with different levels of restrictions and restart certain economic activities after April 14, when the three-week sweeping lockdown is set to end. Meanwhile, the UK became the fourth European country after Italy, Spain and France to reach the grim milestone of 10,000 deaths from Covid-19, and reports said the Donald Trump administration in the US acted casually on early warnings about the pandemic.Coronavirus in India: Ministries pitch plan to balance lives, livelihoodA day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of striking a balance between lives and the world, the government intensified its effort to find the policy mix to implement this framework. This included the process of finalising guidelines to demarcate zones with different levels of restrictions, and restarting certain economic activities once the three-week lockdown ends on April 14.Read MoreCoronavirus in India: More red zones as Capital extends Covid clampdownDelhi added 10 new containment areas to arrest coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, which climbed to 1,154 – the national capital reported 85 fresh infections and five deaths on Sunday – even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government was focusing on zones designated “red” and “orange” to isolate and control the outbreak.Read MoreSome cheer: India’s coronavirus recovery count hits 1,000 As the coronavirus spreads across the country, a figure that not many have paid attention to is that of the number of people who have recovered from the highly infectious Sars-Cov-2. In India alone, over 1,000 people around the country have been cured, while across the globe at least 410,000 people have recovered.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know today As India nears the 10,000 cases mark — Covid-19 infections touched 9,191 on Sunday, and there have been 326 deaths so far — it is clear that the virus is still following its own trajectory in India. Many scientists expected that this would change at some point. It hasn’t .Read MoreRed, yellow, green: Zones may be coded to lift coronavirus curbsStates across the country plan to divide their respective regions into red, yellow and green zones based on high, limited and no cases of Covid-19 for easing the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic and submit their plans to the Centre for framing a uniform policy for the next phase of curbs expected to start from Wednesday, multiple officials said on Sunday.Read MoreStates bank on testing, tracking and containment As the government weighs steps to eventually ease the nationwide lockdown in a phased manner, certain successful models from across the country could prove to be a useful guide, according to experts watching the Covid-19 situation. A health ministry document on containment areas issued last week gave a glimpse of what post-lockdown restrictions may look like in the worst-hit areas.The states have adopted different strategies but some of them are seen to have potential to be replicated nationally. Read MoreNihang men chop off cop’s hand after defying restrictionsA policeman’s hand was chopped off with a sword and six of his colleagues were injured in an attack by a group of Nihangs at a vegetable market in Punjab’s Patiala, the state police said on Sunday.Read More India well-prepared to handle surge in Covid-19 cases, says health ministryIndia is well-prepared to handle a surge in Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, with over a hundred thousand isolation beds available across the 601 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals, the Union health ministry said on Sunday, adding that at present only 1,671 patients needed hospitalisation.Read MoreIndia’s GDP growth may range between 1.5 and 4%: World BankIndia’s economic growth is likely to range between 1.5% and 4% in FY21, depending on the severity of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and the duration of the ongoing nationwide lockdown, the World Bank said on Sunday.Read MoreCentre raps states over hurdles in smooth supply of essentials The Centre on Sunday asked the states to ensure smooth interstate and intrastate transportation of goods, amid concerns of shortage of supply.Read MoreDischarge mechanism in focus after false Covid-19 negativesScientists have called for urgently revisiting the discharge protocol for Covid-19 patients after recent international studies showed people can test positive for the virus even after two consecutive negative results.Read MoreCoronavirus airborne up to 4 metres, health staff at high riskThe virus that causes Covid-19 can be airborne for up to four metres, according to a study of patients in hospital wards and intensive care units (ICUs) in China’s Wuhan, where it was first detected by the end of last year.Read MoreCovid-19 fatalities in Britain cross 10,000British Prime Minister Boris Johnson expressed his gratitude to the staff of the National Health Service (NHS) for saving his life when his experience with the coronavirus could have “gone either way” as the UK on Sunday became the fourth European country to surpass 10,000 virus-related deaths.Read MoreCovid-19 US toll grows, as do media accounts of Donald Trump’s missteps As the United States went from one coronavirus death on February 29 to more than 20,600 Sunday, media accounts are growing of the Trump administration’s response beset by unheeded warnings, delays and the president’s own reluctance to acknowledge the seriousness of the crisis.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-aims-for-balance-a-grim-milestone-for-the-uk-covid-19-news-today/story-Q4I9INP5gdUk2wS1KqqsoK.html
13-04-2020||India||Mercury soars as several districts record over 40° C||The maximum temperatures have started rising with many districts in central and west India recording over 40 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.Delhi on Sunday recorded a high of 37.2 degrees Celsius, one notch above the normal for this time of the year, the IMD said. Weathermen said that the national capital could also record 40 degrees C next week.Heat wave conditions are likely to develop in Saurashtra and Kutch in Gujarat, according to the IMD’s Sunday bulletin. Heat wave is also likely to develop over southwest Madhya Pradesh and northwest Vidarbha on April 14 and 15, the IMD said.“Many places have started recording above normal temperatures now. This is mainly because there is no intense weather system or a western disturbance which brings rain. Maximum temperatures across the country are likely to rise even further next week,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.The IMD said maximum temperatures were above normal by 3.1 to 5 degrees C at a few places in Saurashtra, Kutch, Jammu and Kashmir, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura and Nagaland; by 1.6 to 3 degrees above normal over parts of Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, a few places of east Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, coastal Karnataka, Odisha, Goa and West Bengal.The maximum temperature in Srinagar on Saturday was 24.4 degrees C, 4 degrees above normal, while Shimla recorded a maximum temperature of 24 degrees C, 4 degrees above normal. Many towns and cities have started recording maximum temperatures of over 40 degrees Celsius. According to the IMD, Ahmedabad recorded the maximum temperature at 42 degrees C, 3 degrees above normal, Bhuj at 42.5 degrees C, Gwalior at 40 degrees, 1.6 degrees above normal and Akola at 42 degrees C, 1.3 degrees above normal.“There is an anti-cyclone (which causes calm weather) over Gujarat. The temperature hasn’t risen much over northwest India, because of western disturbances that are affecting the region. But central India, parts of Gujarat, Odisha, Telengana, which are in heat wave zone, have started recording higher temperatures. They have clear skies and less wind,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at national weather forecasting centre. Jenamani said that Delhi could also record 40 degrees C next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-soars-as-several-districts-record-over-40-c/story-GbITiK2HvtZR6Q0IZBPuYL.html
13-04-2020||India||Pakistan firing kills 3 civilians, hurts 4 others in Kupwara||Three civilians, including a child and a woman, were killed in two villages on Sunday when Pakistani forces resorted to ceasefire violation in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. Several houses were also damaged when shells landed in Reddi Chowkibal and Tumna villages, officials said, adding that it is the first time when shells fired from across the Line of Control (LoC) landed deep inside Kupwara villages. The shelling, which continued for two hours, has left villagers scared as they had to run for the cover. Defence spokesman Colonel Rajesh Kalia blamed Pakistan for ceasefire violation in Keran sector of Kupwara. “Unprovoked ceasefire violation was initiated by Pakistan in Keran sector at 5pm. Pakistan targeted civilian population in Kupwara near LoC, resulting in the killing of three innocent civilians, including one woman and a child,’’ he said.Indian troops retaliated by targeting Pakistani posts. A senior police officer said that rescue operation is underway and the police and army teams have reached the villages where shells landed. Four civilians were also injured in the shelling, the officer said.The army’s one of the biggest camps is located in Chowkibal. A few days ago, from this place only Indian troops had targeted Pakistani pickets by using artillery shelling. However, the shells fired from Pakistan used to land near the villages close to LoC. On Thursday, the army had blamed Pakistan for ceasefire violation and said in retaliation, Indian troops targeted the terrorist launch pads and ammunition dumps across the LoC.For the past several months, the army has been using heavy artillery to respond to the ceasefire violation from the Pakistani side.There was an exchange of heavy artillery and mortars from both the sides on Friday morning which continued for three to four hours. The army in Kupwara fired artillery shells towards the PoK from Chowkibal and Panzgam villages.The ceasefire violation took place in the same area where army and militants got engaged in a gunbattle in which five militants, three are believed to be locals from south Kashmir, were killed earlier this week. Five soldiers, all elite paracommandos, were also killed while trying to neutralizing the militants. Since then there has been tension in the area, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-firing-kills-3-civilians-hurts-4-others-in-kupwara/story-YEAtReIUrgPL45A3v7DQKP.html
13-04-2020||India||Textile ministry steps up procurement of PPE||The textile ministry has procured 130,000 coverall suits from Indian producers amid a shortage of the protective gear being used by health care workers while treating coronavirus disease patients. According to officials familiar with the matter, the producers have reached a daily production capacity of 22,000 units. Since domestic production of the PPE suits began last month, 33 Indian producers have passed the quality tests laid down under norms stipulated by the WHO. Earlier, the country relied on international players for the for the suits.“This is a significant achievement considering that we had started from nowhere a month back, and the fabric had to be developed in the country for the first time. We hope to touch 50,000 units daily in the coming week, which will stabilise the supply chain,” said a senior textile ministry official, on condition of anonymity. The daily production capacity for the suits has been steadily growing with new producers making the cut. It was 16,000 units on April 10, as many as 15,700 on April 9 and 11,500 on April 8, said officials. Officials said that an additional two lakh PPE suits have come in from China through Indian donors. South India Textile Research Association officials said that the number of producers writing to them for approvals has risen. However, some of the untested producers were selling the units to private players, prompting the ministry to lay down new norms under which all PPE units will have a Unique Certification Code and tamper-proof stickers in indelible ink, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/textile-ministry-steps-up-procurement-of-ppe/story-yPbBOjTJSkj6RdMYRdKXAP.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: US to begin random anti-body testing to gauge undetected community spread||The United States’ National Institutes of Health (NIH) is testing 10,000 random people who had not tested for Covid-19 for the presence of antibodies to assess how many have had disease but went undiagnosed, and gauge the extent of “undetected community spread”.“This study will give us a clearer picture of the true magnitude of the Covid-19 pandemic in the US by telling us how many people in different communities have been infected without knowing it, because they had a very mild, undocumented illness or did not access testing while they were sick. These crucial data will help us measure the impact of our public health efforts now and guide our Covid-19 response moving forward,” said Anthony S Fauci, director, National Institute of Allergic and Infectious Diseases, which is under the NIH.Antibody testing could also give important clues for managing the disease in India. “It will not tell us who is currently infected. It will tell us who has been infected in the past. Generally, antibodies are developed five to seven days after contracting the infection. Such testing tells us how widespread the infection is in the community, how large is the proportion of asymptomatic patients is, and whether mild symptoms are more common or severe. Such tests are required to understand the virus. It is a surveillance tool and is cheaper than reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR, which detects active infection)” said Dr Tarun Bhatnagar, epidemiologist, Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology. India plans to start rapid antibody testing of all people in hot spots areas showing at least week-old symptoms.The test involves analysing blood for two types of antibodies -- anti-SARS-CoV-2, and the proteins IgG and IgM. In blood samples found to contain antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, researchers will evaluate the person’s immune response for insights on why they had mild disease.Countries like Germany, Italy, UK and now US are considering issuing immunity passports to certify a person has recovered and doesn’t have the potential to infect others as an exit strategy from lockdowns. Dr. Fauci on Friday said the US government is planning to issue immunity cards and that a large number of antibody tests will be available in the market in the coming weeks. “Antibody is just an indicator that you had the infection. You may still have to do an RT-PCR test to check if the person still has active infection. It will be too risky to allow people to go back to work without determining if there is active infection,” said Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research, Indian Institute of Science. He added that antibody testing is one of the best tools to assess community transmission. “That’s what South Korea did. They conducted mass scale antibody tests to plan and contain the disease in affected areas. India will do the same in coming weeks. “South Korea has been running thousands of antibody tests everyday to contain the disease, but on Fridayofficials reported that 91 patients thought to have recovered tested positive again. This is why Singh stressed that antibody tests cannot be used for a final call on whether restrictions can be lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-us-to-begin-random-anti-body-testing-to-gauge-undetected-community-spread/story-Ikiy8d7LKEmJLY7CaKWtnI.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||As India nears the 10,000 cases mark — Covid-19 infections touched 9,191 on Sunday, and there have been 326 deaths so far — it is clear that the virus is still following its own trajectory in India. Many scientists expected that this would change at some point. It hasn’t (and to celebrate, this column is going to be repetitive, but with fresh numbers).Click here for Covid-19 updatesTill March 23, there were 499 Covid-19 cases in India. The number rose to 2,543 till April 2. On April 12, the count stood at 9,191. The death toll rose from 10 to 72 to 326 in this period.Consider the US. Till March 8, there were 541 cases in the US. The number rose to 9,296 till March 18 and 124,256 till March 28. On Sunday, the count was 545,830. The death toll rose from 22 to 150 and then 2,222. On Sunday, it stood at 21,474.Or Italy. Till February 27, the number of cases in Italy was 593. This rose to 5,061 till March 7 and 26,062 till March 17. The death toll rose from 17 to 233 to 2,503 in this period. On Sunday, the count was a total of 156,363 cases and 19,899 deaths.There is no need to get into the math — the Indian curve is a lot shallower, in terms of both infections and deaths. One explanation is that India is not testing as much as some of these countries have done.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageItaly has tested 15,935 per million of its population; the US 8,138; and India 137. To be sure, both the US and Italy were laggards in testing to begin with, and then aggressively ramped up as they realised the danger posed by the pandemic.All the numbers, other than the India tally as of Sunday evening are from the website worldometers.infoThe latest Indian numbers are from HT’s dashboard.It is a fact that India has tested far too few people (the numbers will increase once the rapid test kits arrive). This could mean that there are a lot of infected people out there. Many of them may be symptomatic, but at least some will require hospitalisation, advanced care, perhaps in critical care units, and, some of them may even die. Anecdotally at least, there’s no sudden surge in non-Covid mortalities in India that suggests that the disease is silently stalking people in the country’s hinterland.Clearly, India’s trajectory is mystifying and needs deeper scientific research. This column has previously pointed to at least three themes being studied by scientists — the impact of temperature and humidity on Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19; the strain of the virus; and the relationship, if any, between immunity to the coronavirus disease and the BCG vaccine.The coverage of the vaccine is almost universal in India, and Indian children have been given it since the late 1940s. There’s more anecdotal evidence about the seeming immunity of those given the BCG vaccine to Covid-19. Spain (163,027 infections 16,606 deaths and 7,593 per million tested) gives the vaccine to children in only one region. The vaccine is universally given in Portugal (15,987 infections, 470 deaths, and 15,966 tests per million). The results of a large experiment involving frontline health care workers in Australia are awaited (they have been given the BCG vaccine).The findings will be closely studied — especially in India, where the government is working to find a way to protect lives as well as livelihoods affected by the ongoing lockdown.That won’t be easy — a quarter of India’s cases are from its two most important cities from the perspective of business, Delhi and Mumbai. Gurugram, home to the local HQs of many Fortune 500 companies, has several hot spots too. It will be a while before it is business as usual in all three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today-april-13-2020/story-aAvHRTDucRBtQtGMckHW3L.html
13-04-2020||India||HT Salutes: This man skipped his child’s first birthday to sell essential medicines||In his 15 years of running a pharmacy, Shamim Ahmed has missed many anniversaries and family functions because of the nature of his job. This year, he decided to keep his shop shut for a day and made plans to celebrate his daughter’s first birthday on April 2.A venue was booked and caterers were hired to arrange a party that would be the biggest their neighbourhood had seen. Ahmed and his wife had been planning the party since January. As the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spread across the world and reached India, the plans fell apart. “We still thought that as a backup plan, we’ll have a dinner together as a family, but who was to know that even that plan would not materialise,” Ahmed, who owns AK Pharma Solutions,in south Delhi’s Gautam Nagar, says. On April 2, when his only daughter turned one year old, Ahmed spent his entire day in his pharmacy selling face masks, gloves and essential drugs to his customers. Most of the day, he was on his phone tracking the movement of a delivery person who had to drop in with some essential medicines that Ahmed’s pharmacy was short on.The rush of customers, in fact, forced him to keep his shop open for hours beyond the closing time of 10 pm. He says that by the time he reached home, carefully keeping his clothes and shoes aside for washing, and cleaned himself up to meet his daughter, she was already asleep. “I know she will not remember any of this, and we will get a chance to spend many birthdays in life. This is when people need me the most and I cannot think only about myself and my family at such a crucial time,” the 37-year-old says. To ensure the safety of his staff, he has only kept one employee to help him in the pharmacy and given the rest time off with pay until the lockdown ends,He is also been maintaining a distance from his family to save them from any kind of infection. He sleeps in a separate room and ensures that he does not sit too close to his daughter. “Two people were found coronavirus-positive in this neighbourhood and that has created panic. I know I cannot close my shop and sit at home, but I do fear for my family’s safety. So, the best way to do that {ensure their safety} is to take precautions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-this-man-skipped-his-child-s-first-birthday-to-sell-essential-medicines/story-ag58RvEqqpHJVbv7rofFIO.html
13-04-2020||India||HT Salutes: This nurse travels 30 kms to look after Covid patients||“It is our duty, how can we be scared? We will keep coming to the hospital and ensure that all of the patients are healthy and comfortable till the last patient has gone home,” she said. She is one of the 1,000 healthcare workers engaged in the care of Covid-19 patients at the city’s biggest isolation facility in Lok Nayak hospital.At present, the standalone Covid-19 hospital has 602 positive and suspected patients admitted. It is gearing up to create space for 2,000 such patients.Every day she travels almost 30km from her home in Rohini to report for duty at 8am.She comes to the hospital and changes into a brown salwar kameez, her uniform. When she has to go into the Covid-19 ward, she wears the personal protective equipment (PPE) – a full body suit, head cover, gloves, goggles, and shoe covers.The rising temperatures will only make her job more difficult. “Earlier the hospital was planning on longer shifts, but we have stuck to three eight-hour shifts. It is very hot, making it difficult to stay in so many layers of the PPE. Plus, we cannot switch on the air-conditioning as it might lead to the virus circulating across the hospital. As the temperature rises it is going to be more difficult,” she said.She recounts the incident in the Covid-19 ward when the first batch of about 80 suspected Covid-19 cases were brought from the airport to the hospital.“They were irritable because they had not anticipated the 14-day quarantine. And, at the time, we did not know we would have so many patients. The hospital was in the process of purchasing things like buckets, soaps, toothbrush and paste, packs of biscuits for all of them, but it was taking time. I remember, we all pooled in money and got some of the supplies from shops nearby to ensure they faced no problems,” said Kain.She heads the team of nurses that take care of the Covid-19 patients. “Not only do I have to ensure that all the patients are comfortable and looked after, I also have to make sure my nurses are safe. I have to ensure that when they are staying away from their families, they have a good place to live in and get nutritious food,” she said. The staff working inside the Covid-19 wards work for 14 days at a stretch before remaining in quarantine for the next 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-this-nurse-travels-30-kms-to-look-after-covid-patients/story-MNjoFkXY4Ge2jzhZBuASRI.html
13-04-2020||India||HT Salutes: ‘Proud to be chosen... Whatever you do, strive to be the best’||After four hours of picking up piles of garbage bags and sorting waste, 47-year-old Dhani Ram, a sanitation worker with East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), takes a break to smoke a bidi. He sits on the side of a pavement, unties his plastic cap, removes his mask, and the struggles to pull off his gloves. “It takes a while to remove all this. Even my glasses get foggy inside this suit. We are not used to so much protection,” Ram laughed.A contractual sanitation workers with the municipality for over seven years now, apart from his normal routine, Ram has now been tasked to handle biomedical waste from hospitals and the houses of people who have been home quarantined by the administration.Every other day, Ram and another colleague get dressed in their protective gear and head out to collect the waste from marked houses and hospitals in the vicinity. Their instructions are that the bags of garbage kept outside these places are to be picked up, put in a sack, sealed, and in no circumstances should this waste or other discarded masks that they find be handled without gloves. With more people working from home because of a nationwide lockdown, his work has increased. When the municipalities started stepping up action in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 infections in the city, EDMC officials tasked private contractors to employ their “best workers” to pick up waste from the houses that have been quarantined. “I am proud that I was chosen. I believe in giving my best at whatever job I do. If you’re a doctor be the best doctor, if you’re a garbage collector, be the best one,” he said, showing pictures on his mobile phone of an award got from EDMC last year for being among the best at his job.As Ram finishes his smoke, he shows a small tear on his plastic overalls, which he has stuck together with a tape. He needs to handle his suit with care because a new one is only given out once every three days.Talking about incidents of violence against some front-line workers across the country, Ram says that it upsets him to see that people can nurture anger against those who are risking their own lives to control the infection. “Last week, a young boy crossed me when I was walking towards my vehicle, he smiled at me and said ‘thank you’,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-salutes-proud-to-be-chosen-whatever-you-do-strive-to-be-the-best/story-UtF0qww6tm1Ph1aYcG45sN.html
13-04-2020||India||Expect aid from Centre for basic requirements: Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar spoke to R Sukumar about the impact of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Haryana’s economy, the need to test more people, the migrant movement, restarting business activity, the Tablighi Jamaat cases, and the return to normalcy. Edited excerpts:Even as Haryana’s economy is considered very robust, how will the ongoing lockdown impact the state’s economy and its fundamentals?We are staring at Rs 4,000 crore revenue loss in April, which was Rs 2,300 crore in March. We have committed liabilities such as payment of debt, interest on loan, advances, salary, pension etc. When there is a shortage in revenue, we can apply the brakes on capital expenditure, but not on committed expenditure. We will have to make payments. We need about Rs 4,000 crore per month and we are expecting to anyhow generate just Rs 1,000 crore revenue. Hence, the way forward is to take a loan. Central assistance or grants is another way out. We made arrangements in first month, but if this continues, it will be very difficult to manage. On Saturday, during the video conference with the Prime Minister, chief ministers urged PM that there should be a system in place to help all the states to tide over this fiscal crisis. We will certainly find a way out.What type of help you are expecting from the Centre?I am expecting help from the Centre in the form of grants so that we can meet out basic requirements. The percentage of the debt should be increased from the existing 3%. The rules concerning raising loans should be relaxed. If it is done, we can go for the loan instead of depending on the Centre for monetary help. We have to make arrangements for Rs 4,000 crore per month till the lockdown. If we get Rs 1,000 crore revenue receipts, we need Rs 3,000 crore. This can be in the shape of debt, in the shape of a grant, or in the shape of a special package. It depends.What are your expectations. When will the economic activity start?As the Prime Minister has indicated, we will have to move towards economic activity also, while taking utmost care of lockdown and social distancing. We must have a plan in place. While four districts in the National Capital Region (NCR) -- Palwal, Nuh, Gurugram, Faridabad -- will be categorised as the Covid “hot spots” or “red zones’’, meaning highly vulnerable, all the remaining 18 other districts will be partially or completely put in the two different categories of orange or green zones. A lockdown will be enforced in Red Zone. In the green zone, small and medium industry will be allowed to start operations, provided the entrepreneur give us an undertaking to fulfil the guidelines in letter and spirit. We want small industry to start its operations at lower capacity first. We will issue directions in this connection very shortly to help industry come out of this crisis.Out of 22 districts, cases are coming from four districts. What’s your lockdown release plan?We have declared the four districts hot spots. Naturally, other districts where there are no cases will fall in the green zone. We will take commitment from all industrialists to maintain social distancing while starting the factories. We will form social distancing plan committees up to block level.So far, there have been 4,000 tests. How and when will the state increase its testing?Two days ago, we have increased the number of testing labs. Earlier, we had just two labs, now permission has been given to five private labs. Now we have eight labs functioning and two or three more labs will start testing in a week or so. Thus, our target is to go for more than a 1,000 tests a day in dozen-odd labs in the days to come. Rapid antibody testing is on the cards. We have placed orders for more than 100,000 testing kits.Are you buying them from China?No, no... we have placed order within the state. The states have exemption to buy such equipments on their own. We have kept Rs 500 crore as reserve for purchasing equipment etc. for the coronavirus battle. We have collected roughly Rs 150 crore as corona relief fund from people and employees. I am expecting Rs 150 crore more donations for this fund.By what time will the rapid testing kits be delivered?I am expecting delivery within a weekThis is the harvesting season, and so what are your plans? How will you manage social distancing and procurement simultaneously?Last year, there were over 400 procurement centres. Now we have identified about 1,850 purchase centre across the state. School building, warehousing godowns, premises of rice shellers etc will be converted to purchase centres. Commission agents are on board. Mustard procurement will start on April 15, and wheat from April 20. We will stagger the procurement. Until last year, most of the procurement operations used to be over in 25 days; now we will stagger the procurement operations to two months. After starting on April 20, it will continue till June 20. We will regulate the arrival of farmers to mandis. In order to regulate and stagger the procurement, the Market Committee will issue online e-gate passes to allow the entry of the agricultural produce. The passes will be issued only to registered and verified farmers on “Meri Fasal Mera Byora” portal. The farmers will be allowed to visit Mandi in two time slots from 8am to 2pm and from 2:30pm to 6pm. The Rabi procurement season (wheat, mustard and gram) will start from April 15 and continue till June 30. Wheat procurement will start from April 20.At a macro level, what type of impact will this crisis have on the economy?Huge impact. First, the temporary jobs -- like those of daily wagers and jobs given through the outsourcing -- will be affected. Tourism will suffer a lot. There will be a dip in demand of luxurious goods, there will be a setback to tourism -- all these things will definitely happen. While one sector will revive, another sector will continue to take a hit and struggle. When this type of crisis takes place, we will have to make people aware about their responsibilities. We will have to shun the ‘I, me and mine’ attitude. After the lockdown is over, we have to educate people that we are for the state and for the country. People will have to change their outlook/approach towards work.We will have to strengthen our health services. There is uncertainty in every sphere of life.Apart from health, which are other areas you plan to focus on? What all do you plan to change/improve to run the state effectively in the post-lockdown scenario?First, we have to strengthen the administrative system. How to run the administration even during social distancing is the challenge. To face this challenge, we are strengthening our online systems like running the administrative via videoconference etc.The exchange of information needs to be accelerated and increased. We are working on creating 25,000 administrative units up to the block level having a minimum 200 houses and 1,000 population. District administration will play a major role in this. The objective is to ensure live contact with these 25,000 administrative units from the state to small units in village.The big target is to ensure food for all, jobs for daily wagers and ensure administration and health remain effective.How did Haryana handle the migrant labourers crisis?Initially, there was a crisis for two days on March 29 and 30. Thousands of persons were on the roads. How to deal with this migration of labourers was a major challenge. We set up camps immediately along the roads and slowly they started returning. People even returned from Delhi back to Haryana. Later, we sealed our borders. At present, we have about 200 camps in which 15,500 migrant labourers are staying as of today.Initially the number of camps had gone beyond 570. Once the number of migrant labourers staying in these camps had touched 55,000 for two days.Migrants labourers who reached different parts of UP are in quarantine and are not getting the nod to reach their villages.When will this crisis be over? Labour is required -- will these labourers come back? Definitely, once the confidence of people start increasing, they will come. Everybody wants employment and transfer of population in such a big country for the purpose of jobs has happened earlier, and will continue again. Things will not come to a grinding halt. Normalcy must return. It will happen in a phased manner. Labourer wants jobs and the industrialists want manpower.When will things return to normal?This is a question that I think nobody in the world has an answer to, given the kind of situation that has been prevailing. America is in the grip of this disease due to a rising trend of the virus. We are not sure what China has done to flatten the curve. In every country, this is on the rising trend. But comparisons are natural. And when we compare Haryana, we are on a safer side. Unfortunately most of the cases in Haryana are of the Tablighi missionaries.Have you traced all the people of Tablighi Jamaat?There are some who are yet to come forward. Till two days ago, we had given opportunity to all of them to report. After that, we have registered cases against some of them who were caught; we had to act tough. We may again give them another chance to surrender. We don’t know if those who are yet to be traced are within the state or have managed to go out of the state.There is a need of complete coordination at all levels. Your thoughtsI think across the country all of us are working unitedly and by removing their political barriers to fight this corona disease. we are one at every place...In Haryana, all the political parties are united in this fight. This crisis is not targeting one individual. This virus is posing risk to the entire humanity. Therefore, all of us with a dogged determination must fight it out from our respective place by resolving to maintain social distancing and following the lockdown norms.I am confident of winning this battle. In Haryana the catchphrase is “Corona Haryana se harega, bharat se bhagega (Coronavirus will lose to Haryana, run away from India)”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expect-aid-from-centre-for-basic-requirements-manohar-lal-khattar/story-O1PNg9cagTVkVCZhtd23PL.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in India: Ministries pitch plan to balance lives, livelihood||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of striking a balance between lives and the world, the government intensified its effort to find the policy mix to implement this framework. This included the process of finalising guidelines to demarcate zones with different levels of restrictions, and restarting certain economic activities once the three-week lockdown ends on April 14. Two Union ministers, a chief minister, two Niti Aayog officials, and two government bureaucrats who are a part of empowered committees dealing with various elements of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) said that the lockdown after Wednesday will be more calibrated than in the first phase. The commerce ministry has also offered a specific road map, in a note to the home ministry, on sectors that can be opened up now and relaxations that should be introduced once a decision on the lockdown is taken. The letter was seen and reviewed by HT. It also mentioned that there have been a “lot of problems” in the movement of people and vehicles in sectors allowed by the government; this was followed up by a home ministry note to state governments, reiterating the need to enable movement which has been permitted. The letter also proposed restarting big companies such as textiles, automobiles and electronic manufacturing with proper sanitation and distancing norms in place in sectors. It suggested restricting their capacities to 20-25% in a single shift to start with. It proposed allowing companies and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) with export commitments to operate with minimal manpower and necessary movement of material; resumption of housing construction activities provided labour stayed at the site; and listed out a range of industries such as heavy electrical items, fertiliser plants, all types of food and beverages plants, among others, which should be allowed to function on a single-shift basis. To be sure, this detailed note is just a proposal — and is at the level of an intra-government communication so far. No decision has been taken or announced on it.India’s case tally stood at 9,191 on Sunday, including 326 deaths -- a rise of 811 positive cases since Saturday night.A Union minister familiar with the decision-making process in government said that a decision on the lockdown, however, is likely to be announced only on April 14, after a high-level meeting. Summarising the government’s broad approach, Vinod Paul, member of Niti Aayog and co-chair of the empowered committee for Covid-19 response in India, said that there were three things to keep in mind when the lockdown eventually ends. The first, he said, was the realisation for each citizen that life was going to be different till a drug or a vaccine was found. “So we would have to continue with a new norm of social distancing in every phase of our life.” The second factor was that the government would have to ensure that its hospitals and testing facilities were geared up to be more efficient. And the third factor was balancing “how much economic activity and vocational activity should be opened up without compromising the spread of the disease”.One element of this balance appears to be the proposal to demarcate the country into three zones — red, orange and green, depending on the incidence of coronavirus cases in the specific geography. A bureaucrat, who is a member of an empowered committee, explained that red zones will define areas which have a high number of cases — they will include affected districts and containment zones, and the lockdown here will remain in place and enforced strictly. Orange zones will be buffer areas which will see some relaxation but will be closely monitored; and green zones will include areas which have seen no incidence of the disease and where restrictions may be lifted substantially. In a separate interview, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar confirmed that this option is close to being implemented. “As the Prime Minister has indicated, we will have to move towards economic activity also, while taking utmost care of lockdown and social distancing.” Giving the example of his state, Khattar said this meant that four districts — Palwal, Nuh, Gurugram, Faridabad — will be categorised as “Covid hot spots” or “red zones”. He underlined: “Lockdown will be enforced in red zone. In the green zone, small and medium industry will be allowed to start operations, provided the entrepreneur gives us an undertaking to fulfil the guidelines in letter and spirit. We want small industries to start their operations at a somewhat lower capacity first. We will issue directions in this connection very shortly.”This push for resumption of partial economic activity was also reflected in a letter to the home ministry by the secretary of department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) in the commerce ministry, Guruprasad Mohapatra, on Saturday. It proposed opening certain activities with “reasonable safeguards” once a final decision regarding “extension and nature of lockdown” is taken by the Union government. According to the proposal, the industries that would be allowed to operate must ensure a single entry points for workers, sufficient space for ensuring social distancing, use of separate transport for ferrying workers or stay arrangements in factory premises and high quality regular sanitisation of the premises. The local authorities must ensure strict observance of these conditions, it said.It also asked the home ministry to reiterate and allow the free movement of individuals and material for sectors that have already been permitted to operate, claiming that a “lot of problems were being faced in this regard”. Late in the evening on Saturday, the home secretary wrote to all chief secretaries reiterating the need to ensure intra and interstate transport of vehicles carrying cargo, movement of workers in essential services, functioning of cold storages and warehouses, among other measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministries-pitch-plan-to-balance-lives-livelihood/story-MiAikhBvf4jFDzmOnFeXpK.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in India: More red zones as Capital extends Covid clampdown||Delhi added 10 new containment areas to arrest coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, which climbed to 1,154 – the national capital reported 85 fresh infections and five deaths on Sunday – even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government was focusing on zones designated “red” and “orange” to isolate and control the outbreak.The new containment zones were located in East of Kailash — a lane in E Block, Kailash Hills and Shera Mohalla in Garhi village — apart from two in Abu Fazal Enclave, two in Madanpur Khadar and two in Jaitpur Extension-II in the south-east Delhi district; and Mahavir Enclave near Dwarka in south-west Delhi.With the new containment zones, Delhi has demarcated 43 such areas so far. While there is a 21-day lockdown in place across the country, these places are under firmer restrictions, with buildings, housing societies and even entire neighbourhoods sequestered under heavy police presence. People are not allowed to step out of their houses and authorities are delivering essentials to their homes. Kejriwal said the Delhi government was treating the containment areas as “red zones”. The increase in infections in Delhi has largely been driven by the detection of hundreds of patients who attended a congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat, a Muslim missionary group, in Nizamuddin last month. Of the 85 fresh cases on Sunday, 35 were identified “under special operations”. Starting Saturday, the Delhi government’s daily health bulletins were not giving specific details on the cases linked to the Nizamuddin cluster. Officials, however, said the “special operations” cases, 746 so far, included those present at the Jamaat gatherings and their contacts.“Over the last few days, [Covid-19] cases have been rising and I am worried about them. We are taking all steps to control the disease,” Kejriwal said during a digital news briefing. The chief minister said that large-scale sanitation drives will be conducted in the red zones and other high-risk zones labelled “orange” on the basis of advice from experts.Shortly after the CM said his government planned to announce several new containment zones, the Delhi government released an updated list. The south-east Delhi district now has the highest number of containment zones (12), overtaking the count in east Delhi, which previously had the most such zones at nine.“The case in East of Kailash E block is of a woman doctor who got infected while treating a patient. She was admitted to a private hospital almost 10-12 days back. There is another case from Kailash Hills. We were told that the person had travelled abroad,” said RK Rathore, chairman of Federation of East of Kailash residents’ welfare associations.According to a Delhi government official, one confirmed case was reported in Shera Mohalla in Garhi, an urbanised village in the locality. As it is a densely populated area, the government has decided to seal it so that the neighbourhood can be screened for people who may have come in contact with infected people, the official said on condition of anonymity.Chief minister Kejriwal said the government will keep adding containment zones wherever new patients of the highly contagious disease are detected. He said the Delhi government’s “Operation SHIELD” was effective in Delhi’s Dilshad Garden, where no new cases were reported in 10 days. SHIELD stands for sealing, home quarantine, isolation, essential supplies, local sanitation and door-to-door health checks.“Both red zones and orange zones will witness heightened sanitation and disinfection drive,” he added.An official said on condition of anonymity that buffer zones – areas immediately surrounding the containment clusters – were currently being considered as orange zones. The definition of orange zones may be expanded to include areas with high population density, he indicated.In a tweet, deputy CM Manish Sisodia said: “So far, 43 areas have been sealed under Operation SHIELD of the Delhi government. Beware of the virus. Step out only if necessary. But wear a mask, maintain distance from others and keep washing your hands.”In Jaitpur Extension, two areas were sealed after two people tested positive recently. In Madanpur Khadar, one case each was confirmed in Kachhi Colony and Mahela Mohalla.In south-west Delhi’s Mahavir Enclave that was sealed on Sunday, a nurse working with a hospital that has a Covid-19 isolation ward tested positive last week. On Saturday, her two children and a neighbour were also confirmed to have the disease, said Rahul Singh, district magistrate (south-west).“It’s a densely populated pocket... The risk of transmission is very high. We tested as many as 70 people in the containment area today [Sunday] but the results are awaited,” he added.Delhi recorded five fresh deaths from Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the death toll to 24, according to the Delhi government’s data.Four of the five people who died on Sunday were admitted to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and another one to the Safdarjung Hospital. Two people who died – both residents of Turkman Gate – were in their early 40s. The other three were a 52-year-old man who lived near Bada Hindu Rao, a 78-year-old man from Inderpuri, and a 58-year-old man from Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh.There were 85 new cases, nearly half the number of cases recorded a day ago. The highest single-day tally so far was 183 on Friday last week. According to the official data, reports of 984 suspected cases were awaited as of Sunday evening.Another staffer at the Delhi State Cancer Institute, which has become a hot spot for Covid-19, tested positive on Sunday, taking the total number of cases at the facility to 23.The Delhi government has decided to convert the 200-bed Guru Nanak Eye Centre into a Covid-19 hospital attached to Lok Nayak Hospital, the biggest Covid-19 hospital in the Capital.A Delhi police sub-inspector, posted at the trauma centre of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), also tested positive for the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-red-zones-as-capital-extends-covid-clampdown/story-Cz5xWmNTbKuXbJIsHsiZHL.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: Kerala on track to curtail spread but says too early to lower guard||The low mortality, high recovery rates and a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases indicate Kerala is moving towards flattening the curve, the state government said on Sunday while adding it was too early to lower its guard. The state reported just two more cases on Sunday as its tally went up to 376. Officials said 36 patients have been discharged over the last one week and the number of those discharged is almost double of the new cases. Kerala, which reported the first Covid-19 case in India in January, was the worst hit state by the pandemic in March before Maharastra pushed it to the second spot. Eight states apart from Maharashtra have since reported more cases than Kerala. According to state health ministry data, at least 62 cases were detected since March 5 while the number of patients discharged in the corresponding period is 124. After Kottayam , Idukki district is now free of Covid-19 after all 10 patients were discharged. Now 500 people are under observation in their homes in Idukki and none of them have shown any symptoms of the disease over the last two weeks, said the district administration.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan underlined it is too early to say the worst is over and asked the state machinery to remain vigilant. He asked the health ministry to make use of the lean period to step up medical infrastructure. “Statistics show we have a good grip on the disease and things will turn in our favour soon. But the time is not to lower our guard. If some lapses take place, things will go topsy-turvy...we have examples of some developed countries before us,” he said. Health and finance ministers K K Shailaja and Thomas Issac echoed Vijayan.Public health expert Dr B Ramankutty said it is a new virus and nobody has any idea about its behaviour. “No doubt, the state has got some control over cases. It is too early to say the state is on the verge of flattening the curve. It has to continue its surveillance and increase its medical infrastructure,” he said . Indian Medical Association office bearer Dr Sreejith N Kumar said the lockdown has had desired effects. “It has proved again social distancing is the best medicine. This is the time for some homework. In Kerala, each sector will have to devise plans on how to phase out the lockdown and work in the changed scenario. But of course zero case scenario is too far,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-on-track-to-curtail-spread-but-says-too-early-to-lower-guard/story-GTOSPHhhHE1SFXSbfTdFYL.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: India well-prepared to handle surge in covid cases, says health ministry||India is well-prepared to handle a surge in Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, with over a hundred thousand isolation beds available across the 601 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals, the Union health ministry said on Sunday, adding that at present only 1,671 patients needed hospitalisation. Health ministry joint secretary, Lav Agarwal, said they there were focusing on strengthening infrastructure and surveillance as part of the strategy to manage positive cases. “If you ask what is our strategy in managing positive cases, then I would say infrastructure and manpower strengthening, and surveillance. The number of available beds [105,980 ] in proportion to the number of required beds has been far higher, our analysis shows, so there is no need to fear about the adequate availability of beds,” Agarwal said at a media briefing.Apart from the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, some prominent hospitals in the country such as the All India institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi and Safdarjung Hospital have separate beds and blocks for those suffering from Covid-19, the government has said. “About 80% cases with no or mild symptoms can be housed in Covid-19 care facilities equipped with all basic medical care required, and about 15% [cases] with moderate symptoms will be admitted to Covid-19 health facilities that will have oxygen support. Patients with serious symptoms will be kept in Covid-19 hospitals that are equipped with ventilators and advanced Intensive Care Units. The previous two facilities will be linked to a hospital, and will have an ambulance to transport a patient in case the symptoms turn severe,” said Agarwal.The government is also looking to make use of the private and government medical colleges’ laboratories to increase the country’s testing capacity, according to Agarwal.“They have the laboratories to do the molecular testing, if given a little training and resources, these labs can be utilised for testing purposes,” said Dr Sanjeev Bagai, chairman and managing director, Nephron Clinic.Ten institute of national repute such as AIIMS, Delhi and Bengaluru’s National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences have been identified to mentor these medical colleges, the health ministry said.“AIIMS, Delhi has been conducting webinars on a regular basis to train doctors, nurses, paramedics and our field staff involved in Covid-19 management. The training programme can be scaled up to include these medical colleges as well so that these can also be utilized in disease management and testing,” said Agarwal.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the country’s apex biomedical research organisation, has tested 1,86, 906 samples for Covid-19 since January 24, with a positive percentage of 4.3%.“If you look at last five days, 15,750 samples on an average were tested per day [across the country], with an average of 584 positive cases. There are 151 government laboratories and 68 private labs performing tests,” said Dr Manoj Murhekar, director, National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai.India does not have a Covid-19 vaccine candidate as of now but at least 40 vaccine-related research projects are currently on across the globe. “There is no news of any successful attempt as of now. These trials haven’t reached the next level,” he added.Dispelling doubts on shortage of Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a drug that has shown some promise against Covid-19, in the country, Agarwal said that there was no dearth of HCQ and it was being exported to 13 countries, including the US, in the first batch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-well-prepared-to-handle-surge-in-cases-health-ministry/story-M6qPPV8vcc9MjnylveTgVJ.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Virus airborne up to 4 metres, health staff at high risk||The virus that causes Covid-19 can be airborne for up to four metres, according to a study of patients in hospital wards and intensive care units (ICUs) in China’s Wuhan, where it was first detected by the end of last year. Infection rates are high among health care workers despite the use of personal protection equipment (PPE) such as gloves, masks and coveralls. While the presence of the genetic material of the virus in the environment does not indicate it is viable (alive outside a living host) and infective, the study, published in Emerging Infectious Diseases, a journal of the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), offers important clues on how infection spreads and how health care workers can be protected.The RNA genetic material of Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, was found suspended in the air in hospital wards and ICUs four metres away from patients, which is four times more than distance recommended for protection against infection by the World Health Organization (WHO).The viral concentration was highest in ICUs, but it was also heavily concentrated on the floors of the wards, with “half of the samples from the soles of the ICU medical staff shoes tested positive. Therefore, the soles of medical staff shoes might function as carriers” ,said the study.High levels of the virus were also found on frequently touched surfaces, such as door knobs, trash cans, bed rails, and the computer mouse. “Overall, we found that the air and object surfaces in Covid-19 wards were widely contaminated by Sars-CoV-2. These findings can be used to improve safety practices,” said the authors.Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests were used for nucleic acid (genetic material, which includes DNA and RNA) amplification to detect Sars-Cov-2 from environmental samples.“Yes, (finding) RNA is not equal to a viable virus, but the study highlights the need for PPE and need for care. Good personal protection for health care workers is the key to success, else morale will be down and care will be compromised,” said Dr. Anurag Agrawal, director, Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology, Delhi.“RT-PCR is very effective in diagnosing viral infection, but using it to detecting RNA in the environment is not a scientific way of measuring transmission because nucleic acid traces are not indicative of virus viability. RNA by itself is not transmissible and infective. The outer wall of the virus, which is what it uses to enter human cells, gets destroyed pretty quickly from sterilisation and environment exposure,” said Dr. T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore.Earlier this month, a high-level US scientific panel said contended that the virus is airborne and can be stay suspended in air in the ultra fine mist that is produced when people breathe or speak, which prompted several governments, including India, to make it mandatory for everyone to wear masks in public places. The earlier guidelines said masks should only be worn by the sick, health care workers and people with symptoms of cough, fever and respiratory distress.In a scientific brief in March 27, WHO said aerosol transmission “may be possible in specific circumstances and settings that generate aerosols”, such as when severely ill patients are intubated with a breathing tube for ventilator support, but added that an analysis of more than 75,000 coronavirus cases in China revealed no cases of airborne transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-airborne-up-to-4m-health-staff-at-high-risk/story-qiQdXlGmxzuQFAfxziPBqM.html
13-04-2020||India||Centre raps states over hurdles in smooth supply of essentials||The Centre on Sunday asked the states to ensure smooth interstate and intrastate transportation of goods, amid concerns of shortage of supply. In a letter, home secretary Ajay Bhalla pulled up states for not adhering to previous guidelines and advisories enabling the movement of both essential and non-essential goods. “It has come to the notice of this ministry that in some parts of the country, guidelines and clarification are not being implemented in letter and spirit. Specifically, trucks carrying essential and non-essential goods are being detained. Workers needed for operation for operation of manufacturing units of essential goods and other exempted categories are not getting authorization/passes for movement,” the letter said.Click here for full coverage of Covid-19The restrictions on activities, specifically permitted by the home ministry, have the potential of creating shortages of essential commodities. The letter said empty goods carriers should also be allowed on their way to pick up goods or return after a delivery. Units involved in manufacture of essential items should be allowed to function without any hindrance. The letter also said that godowns and cold storages should be allowed to function during the lockdown. Tens of thousands of trucks have been left stranded across state borders since the lockdown took effect on March 25. The government has issued several advisories to state chief secretaries to ensure that smooth movement of goods takes place, seeking to avoid shortages.On Saturday, HT had reported that the Centre had reached out to transporters to resolve problems being faced by stranded truck drivers, so that essential supplies could reach their destinations. Transporters have also sought safeguards, including ₹50 lakh in insurance cover for those engaged in the supply chain and free medical treatment for those who test positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-raps-states-over-hurdles-in-smooth-supply-of-essentials/story-EegQP1sJjsxhDZHrAHQapN.html
13-04-2020||India||Red, yellow, green: Zones may be coded to lift coronavirus curbs||States across the country plan to divide their respective regions into red, yellow and green zones based on high, limited and no cases of Covid-19 for easing the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic and submit their plans to the Centre for framing a uniform policy for the next phase of curbs expected to start from Wednesday, multiple officials said on Sunday.The national lockdown is due to end on Tuesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has indicated the restrictions will continue in some form to save lives through enforcement of social distancing but with some relaxations to resume economic activity and preserve livelihoods. National guidelines are expected on what activities can be allowed and areas to be exempted from the extended lockdown.The officials cited above said they were working on details of activities that can be allowed in green and orange zones. To provide relief to migrant workers stranded in different states, the state governments are working on allowing operation of certain small and medium enterprises in green and orange zones. Carpenters, plumbers, and barbers are expected to be allowed to resume work but with social distancing norms in place. There is a proposal to allow those factories to reopen, where employees work and stay with strict social distancing norms and proper sanitization.“We cannot keep businesses shut and choke the economy. From lockdown, we can go to lock-in by having lesser people,” said a Maharashtra government official who did not want to be named. “It is not always a conveyor belt system in production and component processing can be segregated, while integration can happen in one place. All options are being studied.”All states are likely to allow crop harvest from April 15. States like Punjab will provide on-farm procurement facilities while Madhya Pradesh is creating block level markets, where only 10 to 15 farmers will be allowed to sell their produce. Telangana and Andhra Pradesh plan to buy maximum produce from farmers through district authorities.“Procurement of harvested crops will start at the local level for which special markets should be created,” said Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday told officials that farmers should be encouraged to sell their produce at their farms or villages and travels to markets should be minimized.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope the state could be divided into red, orange and green zones depending on the number of cases. Districts, where there are no cases, will come under the green zone, those with up to 15 cases will fall under the orange zone, and districts having over 15 cases under red zone, he said.Tope said Mumbai city, Mumbai suburban, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Aurangabad, Pune, Sangli, Nashik, Ahmednagar and Raigad districts would fall under the red zone. Districts like Amravati, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, Satara, Osmanabad, Hingoli, Jalna, Washim, Beed, Dhule, Gondhiya and Yavatmal would be in yellow zones and the rest in green.A final decision will be taken after the Centre’s advisory, a state government official said.In Rajasthan, a task force has suggested withdrawal of the lockdown in a phased manner with districts having no Covid-19 cases being exempted first. The 12-member task force, headed by additional chief secretary DB Gupta, submitted a report to chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday.“Lockdown should not be withdrawn in one go, but in phases based on the number of cases geographically,” said an official familiar with the matter. The panel had recommended four categories–high risk, medium risk, low risk and districts with no cases.Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur announced the state will be divided into a red zone, four orange and green zones and a final exit plan will be initiated when the coronavirus curve flattens. He added the red zone will be completed isolated from the rest of the state but essential goods would be allowed. Thakur said all horticultural activities will be allowed in orange and green zones but inter-state travel will remain banned for some time.In Karnataka, around 14,000 fishermen from the state’s coastal districts resumed fishing, officials said on Sunday.Representatives of most states on Saturday agreed to extend the lockdown till April end and suggested easing of lockdown norms in districts having no Covid-19 cases with strict inter-district travel restrictions during a video conference with Modi.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-yellow-green-zones-may-be-coded-to-lift-curbs/story-YcySk4BNvWgrQqlKBSugHP.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus Update: Jaipur’s Ramganj emerges as new Rajasthan Covid-19 hotspot||Rajasthan reported 96 positive coronavirus disease cases on Sunday. Of these, 35 were reported from Ramganj, a densely populated locality in Japiur, which has emerged as hotspot for the infectious disease. Health officials have, however, said that the spike is due to aggressive testing being done to identify the magnitude of the problem. Ramganj, with a population of 2.6 lakh, has been put under a curfew, along with 11 other police station areas in the city. Door-to-door screening is being performed here to monitor the situation. Alok Vyas, a social worker, said the numbers were rising at an alarming rate due to which the people were anxious. “Initially when curfew was imposed, people took it casually and did not adhere strictly. But now the administration is also very strict and people have become more disciplined,” he said.The health department has set up six centres for people to get tested. The residents, however, have alleged people are not getting a regular supply of essentials. A resident, Prabhakar Sharma, said, “We are not getting ration nor have any government vans come to our area.”He said that milk is available only in the mornings at the government dairy and only a couple of medicine shops were open in the neighbourhood.The first person to test positive for Covid-19 in the area was a 45-year-old man who returned from Oman on March 12. He was asked to home quarantine himself, but he continued to meet people. He tested positive on March 26.Health minister Raghu Sharma said the Bhilwara model to prevent community spread of the virus could not be followed in Ramganj because of its population density, so the government has come up with the cluster model for Ramganj in which random sampling is being done.Additional chief secretary, health, Rohit Kumar Singh said the high numbers should not worry anyone. “Ramganj is reporting large number of positive cases because of very aggressive testing. It is part of our strategy to identify the real magnitude of the problem,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramganj-emerges-as-new-raj-hot-spot/story-6KRiEiyAai6spqWxvY54gM.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus: NCERT devises plan to teach kids at home||The National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT) has for the first time designed a four-week alternative academic calendar for primary school students, which includes an assignment for maintaining a diary about the Covid-19 lockdown, as they stay indoors because of the measures put in place to ensure social distancing to check the spread of the pandemic. The students have also been asked to use spoons and bowls, coronavirus charts and graphs to learn about numbers, millions and trillions as they continue learning at home.The calendar of the NCERT, which designs the school curriculum, explains how kitchen equipment and other similar things can be used to teach children subjects like maths and even environment studies. For teaching numbers to students of class 1, the calendar, a copy of which HT has seen, suggests that parents can ask their children to take out as many bowls, spoons, and plates and ask them to count the objects. They can also count the number of chairs in a room, family members etc. Similarly, a class 3 students can learn about shapes using utensils besides making posters about the dos and don’ts recommended during the coronavirus outbreak.The calendar suggests the children may be asked to record surprise voice or written messages for their friends or family members. The messages can be about anything like how they feel, what new things they did or learned during the lockdown, the around 100-page document suggests. It adds the children may be asked to observe kitchen activities and be encouraged to observe and list the activities and processes taking place.The document suggests class 4 students can learn about measurements by comparing heights of their family members and estimating, for instance, whether a cupboard can be taken inside a room through a door. It adds, for learning languages, children can try tongue twisters like “tiny Tim tells time”. The document also suggests children may be encouraged to observe and list food items like cereals, pulses, spices and to help with chores.For class 5 students, the document says they can find charts about the number of coronavirus patients across the world to learn about Indian and international number systems and terminology like lakh, crore, millions, trillions, etc. Other exercises suggested in the calendar include writing about how one’s family is contributing to society and taking care of plants, birds, and animals during the lockdown period. The document suggests discussions with family members on TV programmes children watch after approval.NCERT chief Hrushikesh Senapati said the document has been created because of the extraordinary circumstances. “There definitely is a lot of good material online. But our effort here has been to encourage engagement of children when they are at home through the involvement of parents and under the guidance of teachers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncert-devises-plan-to-teach-kids-at-home/story-A6RjCSKnVcdWsT0AATsX3H.html
13-04-2020||India||Coronavirus in India: States bank on testing, tracking and containment||As the government weighs steps to eventually ease the nationwide lockdown in a phased manner, certain successful models from across the country could prove to be a useful guide, according to experts watching the Covid-19 situation.The government could go by the strategy of converting the so-called red zones into yellow and then green. Red zones are Covid-19 hot spots, yellow are ones where the case count sees a quick decline and green are where no cases exist. The Centre has asked states to adopt containment strategies as per local conditions, which include hard lockdowns, aggressive scanning of areas and rapid testing, all aimed to scale down the zones to green.A health ministry document on containment areas issued last week gave a glimpse of what post-lockdown restrictions may look like in the worst-hit areas. “The cluster containment strategy would be to contain the disease within a defined geographic area by early detection of cases, breaking the change of transmission and thus preventing its spread to new areas,” the document said.The strategy builds on experience from the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic, with that virus affecting bigger cities and well-connected towns much more than rural areas.“This suggests that while the spread of Covid-19 in our population could be high, it’s unlikely that it will be uniformly affecting all parts of the country,” the document said. “This calls for a differential approach to different regions of the country, while mounting a strong containment effort in hot spots.”The states have adopted different strategies but some of them are seen to have potential to be replicated nationally. Here are some:Aggressive screeningMumbai (Maharashtra): Mumbai has 381 containment zones – highest for any city in India – the result of aggressive screening of close to a million people. The city plans to start pool testing around containment zones to intensify the screening process and identify possible community transmission.In pool testing, multiple swab samples are tested together through the RTPCR (real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test to quickly identify Covid-19 areas. If the test is negative, it means that all persons, whose swabs were tested together, are negative. In case of it being positive, individual tests of all persons are done.Till Sunday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had traced 40,000 high and low-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive persons and managed to identify 620 cases through contact-tracing measures, up from 29,755 tracked till April 12. A total of 474 flying squads have so far screened close to a million persons for symptoms of Covid-19, officials said.Effective trackingPathanamthitta (Kerala): With a track, trace and treat approach, a hilly district in central Kerala, Pathanamthitta, tasted success within a month. It was one of the early hot pots of the country with 16 positive cases in March first week and now it has eight out of the state’s tally of 364. The district was the first to identify red, yellow and green zones. At one point, the district had 20,000 people under observation and their number came down to 6,477, according to district programme manager Dr Ebey Sushan.The district introduced flow charts tracking every movement of patients and geo-fencing people in quarantine. It set up an exclusive Covid hospital and banned the entry of pilgrims at Sabarimala hill temple.District collector PB Nooh, said: “We literally chased the contacts of imported cases (those who came from abroad) and quarantined as early as possible. Initial slip-ups in identifying and quarantining were plugged properly.” By Sunday, the district had moved into the yellow zone.Ruthless containmentBhilwara (Rajasthan): The containment happened in three phases: the first task was to isolate the district, second was screening strategy in city and rural areas and third was quarantine and isolation wards, said Rajendra Bhatt, district collector. The first case was reported on March 19. Within days, cases increased to 28 and of them, 24 were cured.For isolating the district, curfew was imposed on March 20 and continued till April 2. From April 3 to 13, even essential purchases were prohibited and door-to-door supply was done. Disinfection of the containment zone and buffer areas, all ambulances and police vehicles was done daily.A total of 3,072 teams of health workers screened 1,071,325 people in Bhilwara city, and 1,937 teams screened 2,239,134 people in the rural areas....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-bank-on-testing-tracking-containment/story-ex3swDm5tFBqzKc0G8C15M.html
13-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand’s specially-abled lend helping hand to migrants amid Covid-19 lockdown||Uttarakhand’s hearing and speech impaired people have come forward to the aid of stranded immigrants and daily wagers amid the lockdown, helping in day-to-day relief works being carried out by the administration and as well as their groups.Under the aegis of Devbhoomi Hearing and Speech Impaired Association, more than a dozen people, for the past nine days, are collecting ration and essential items from their association members.Named ‘Maa Ganga Ki Rasoi’ (mother Ganga’s kitchen), these specially-abled persons come together early mornings at the makeshift kitchen to collect and pack ration and other essentials in boxes.Initially, food was also cooked, but the association members decided on ration kits as the better option, as the same can be delivered at the doorstep of poor and given to the needy who live in distant areas.Sandeep Arora, the president of the Devbhoomi association, through a written communique, said that when he saw migrant labourers, domestic helps, rickshaw pullers and wandering seers queuing up to get food after the lockdown in the state on March 22, he decided to help them to the best of his capacity.“We communicated through mobile text chats and internet with our members across the district and state who expressed a willingness to contribute to this initiative. During lockdown relaxation hours (7am-1pm), we carry out food ration collection and distribution work. Domestic helps, daily wage labourers, rickshaw drivers, wandering seers and slum dwellers are our prime focus,” said Sandeep Arora, who has also compiled poems on fighting the coronavirus scare.These specially-abled people also helped a group of 15 stranded vendors, of Bahraich area in Uttar Pradesh, who sold ‘prasad’ (holy offerings) near Mata Mansa Devi Shrine a week before the lockdown.“Today we have been provided 25 kilograms of wheat, 10 kg rice, mustard oil and related items by the association members. We are thankful to such people, who despite facing difficulties, are helping us. They have also taken our numbers so that we can inform them about our ration requirements,” said Jitendra Maurya, one of the vendors.The association members have already started generating more resources by using social media, apprehensive of an extension to the lockdown.“After our social work was highlighted in local media, we have also been receiving calls and communications from people who want help us. We are committed to providing food ration to the needy till April 30, even if we have to cut short our personal and family requirements,” said Har Deep Singh Chawla, a social activist associated with the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-s-specially-abled-lend-helping-hand-to-migrants/story-Y1aJA2nwmxTdjpTN2H5YUP.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid lockdown mars Bohag Bihu celebrations in Assam||The Assam government has asked the public to follow the Covid-19 lockdown guidelines by staying indoors and directed Bohag Bihu committees to restrict their celebrations of the week-long festivities beginning Monday to just ceremonial hoisting of flags.Bohag Bihu, or Rongali Bihu, is Assam’s biggest festival and marks the onset of spring and the beginning of the Assamese new year and involves feasting.The Bihu celebrations start with Goru Bihu when cattle are bathed and worshipped. Most rituals will be restricted with the social distancing norms in place to check the spread of Covid-19.“I request all Bihu committees to conclude this year’s programme by hoisting flags in presence of not more than 5 persons,” Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.Bihu is marked by preparing of sweets and delicacies called pitha and laru and making of gamochas (traditional towels) in handlooms, which are distributed among loved ones. Month-long cultural programmes are held to mark the festivities across the state.The first day of the new year as per the Assamese calendar (Tuesday) is marked as Manuh (human) Bihu when younger people touch feet of elders in their families to seek their blessings.In Guwahati, 26 committees announced the cancellation of Bihu cultural programmes on March 20 five days before the national lockdown was implemented.All Assam Students Union (AASU), which has been holding Mukoli Bihu (open Bihu) in Guwahati since 1982, has decided to do away with the event this year. It will not hoist the Bihu flag either to mark the festivities.“Let us all resolve this Bohag to fight the menace of coronavirus unitedly. Let us maintain all rules and safety measures. Only then we will be able to win this battle,” AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi said.Assam has recorded 29 Covid-19 cases till date. A 65-year-old person died of the disease on Friday at Silchar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-lockdown-mars-bohag-bihu-celebrations-in-assam/story-sWaIbItDx2o4JGUQLGkA6J.html
13-04-2020||India||UP woman throws her 5 kids into river, jumps in. Then she changes her mind||A woman reportedly threw her five children, including a three-year-old boy, into the Ganges near Jahagira Ghat in Bhadohi district on Sunday following an altercation with her husband. All children are feared drowned, police said.Police said that Mridul aka Munna, a resident of Jahagira village, had an altercation with her wife Manju who reportedly asked him for money to meet domestic expenses. After sometime, she along with her five children went to the ghat and allegedly pushed the children into the river, before jumping herself.While the children- Shiv Shankar (8), Keshav Prasad (3) and Puja aka Saraswati (6) and two others aged 10 and 12- are all believed to have drowned, the mother is alleged to have changed her mind after jumping into the river and swam back to the shore. She sat on the bank of the river after the incident. Watch: Woman throws her five children into river after argument with husband Some locals, who were working in the nearby fields, rushed to rescue the children but didn’t succeed. District magistrate Bhadohi Rajendra Prasad and superintendent of police Rambadan Singh soon reached the spot and engaged two teams of divers to look for the children.The DM confirmed that it was due to the quarrel with her husband that the woman took the decision to throw her five children into the river.According to some locals, the mental condition of the woman was not sound, but her husband claimed that she was mentally fit. He said he couldn’t understand why his wife had to take such an extreme step.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-woman-throws-five-children-into-ganga-after-fight-with-husband/story-euPyWuSQe3g5drAI2x3jPL.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Noida apartment owners start ‘Roti Bank’ for poor||In order to help the homeless and the poor, homeowners in Noida started a ‘Roti Bank’ on Sunday by collecting two rotis each from an apartment in several complexes in sector 78 and 79.After this, the home-made rotis were sent to the nearby Noida Authority’s kitchen in nearby Sorkha village and then delivered to migrant daily workers and needy living in the city.Apartment owners of Sector 78’s three housing complexes--- Antriksh Golf View 1, Golf View 2, Assotech Windsor Court --- and Sportswood in sector 79 have started this “Roti Bank”.“We have requested via WhatsApp groups and other social networking sites that every family will make two rotis extra at home only in the evening daily for next two weeks. Each apartment owner will hand over the rotis to security guard at the gate in a packet. And then the authority representative will collect these packets daily in the evening,” said Brijesh Singh, an apartment owner. Antriksh Golf View projects have at least 1500 families, Assotech 500 families and Sportswood 600. Volunteers hope all families come forward to donate.“We hope we will be successful in helping as many people we can and other society residents will also follow us,” said a volunteer, requesting anonymity.The Noida authority is running five community kitchens in Shani temple sector 14A, Harola sector 5, Bhangel, Sorkha and Mamura for the poor. Social groups are coming forward in large numbers to help needy get regular food across the city. We will continue serving food as per government orders,” said Ritu Maheshwari, the chief executive officer of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-noida-apartment-owners-start-roti-bank-for-poor/story-akTYnI14r3BAQAM5rwoLIP.html
13-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Govt to develop platform to monitor HCQ availability amid reports of supply crunch||The central government’s department of pharmaceuticals is developing a platform driven by information technology (IT) to monitor the availability of anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine after allegations of supply crunch in several places, according to officials.But industry players said there is no shortage of hydroxychloroquine, which is used as a prophylaxis (a treatment to prevent a disease) for people at high risk of contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). They added that reports of shortages could be attributed to a popular brand running out of stock because of hoarding by patients.Hydroxychloroquine pills are prescribed to non-Covid-19 patients with conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis.Acting on the complaints, the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), which functions under the pharmaceuticals department (ministry of chemicals and fertilizers), is working on developing the IT-driven platform to monitor hydroxychloroquine at all distribution channels starting from customs to warehouses to distributors and finally retailers.NPPA and the Drugs Controller of India, which is under the health ministry, have approached all stakeholders to ensure information on the supply of the medicine is uploaded and updated on the platform on a regular basis. This will help officials keep tabs on the medicine’s availability and address gaps as and when they surface.“…it is informed that all sellers of drugs are requested to register first in the platform to create master data, and then upload details…It is to ensure availability of these drugs to all needy people,” read a message from the drugs controller’s office to those involved in the supply chain. HT has seen the communication.Basant Goel, the president of Retailers and Distributors Chemist Association (RDCA), said there is a particular brand that is facing supply shortage though others are available in the market.“The initial shortage was reported because, when there was no restriction on the sale of hydroxychloroquine, people started hoarding a popular brand. But now we will be getting more supplies. Also, the sale of hydroxychloroquine is restricted by the government, and you need to have a valid prescription to buy it,” he said.On March 26, the Union health ministry restricted the over-the-counter sale of hydroxychloroquine. It is now available only on prescription. While health ministry says all departments are taking extra steps to ensure the supply of hydroxychloroquine, the external affairs maintains that only the surplus stock is being exported after the recent relaxations of rules.“We have adequate manufacturing capacity, today, in the country and have sufficient supply to meet both domestic and export demand,” the Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance said in a statement on Sunday, adding that companies are ramping up production to ensure an uninterrupted supply for domestic and export markets.India has recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine for asymptomatic (not showing symptoms of the disease) health care workers treating suspected or confirmed Covid-19 patients, and asymptomatic household contacts who live in close proximity with patients. The medicine, along with antibiotic Azithromycin, is given to Covid-19 patients in intensive care units.The government has warned people against the indiscriminate use of hydroxychloroquine, which can have severe side effects in people with a history of heart and kidney ailments, among other underlying conditions.Last week, the government relaxed restrictions on the export of the medicine as several countries, including the US and Brazil, sought supplies from India, which is hydroxychloroquine’s largest producer.According to government data, against the projected requirement of 10 million tablets (including those for health workers dealing with Covid-19 patients, ICU cases and high-risk contacts), the availability is 32.8 million tablets a day. In addition, there is a buffer stock of about 20-30 million tablets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-platform-to-monitor-hydroxychloroquine-stock/story-6iEx1EJEepFtJxA45SpJsK.html
13-04-2020||India||Woman leaves Patna hospital after doctors prescribe Covid-19 test||A 72-year-old woman from Siwan suspected to be infected with coronavirus left the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) Saturday evening quietly after doctors prescribed her test for the virus, officials said.Raisa Begum, 72, a resident of Sultanpur village in Siwan, who was admitted to the hospital suffering from kidney-related ailment, gave authorities the slip even before they could collect her sample for test.Siwan accounts for 29 of the 64 coronavirus cases reported so far in Bihar.Follow coronavirus updates here. “She was in the process of being shifted from the Tata Ward (exclusively for women) to the quarantine section for coronavirus suspects, when she left the hospital against medical advice,” said PMCH principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary.“We could not take her sample for Covid-19 test,” he added. Nose and oral swab are taken for test through real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) methodology, which is the confirmatory test for coronavirus.“Presuming that she will test positive and will have to stay in hospital isolation for a minimum of 14 days, the woman left the hospital against medical advice,” said another doctor requesting anonymity.The patient was admitted to the PMCH on April 9. The hospital administration had lodged a police complaint, said Dr Choudhary.“We received a complaint from the hospital administration that a 72-year-old woman left the hospital against medical advice last night. We have registered a case and are investigating it,” said Amit Kumar, in-charge of the PMCH police outpost on the hospital campus.Sources said the woman had switched off her phone, which her relatives had mentioned at the time of admission at the hospital.When this reporter asked the principal if it was a lapse of the hospital administration in shifting a coronavirus suspect, Dr Choudhary parried the question, saying, “Please talk to the superintendent for further details in the case.” Repeated efforts to contact PMCH medical superintendent Dr Bimal Karak proved futile, as he did not respond to phone calls or text message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-leaves-patna-hospital-after-doctors-prescribe-covid-19-test/story-ociYSsfq0GYvJgOJ4HkBEL.html
13-04-2020||India||2 more deaths in Pune, toll goes up to 31||Two more Covid-19 related deaths were reported from Pune on Sunday, taking the toll due to the coronavirus disease to 31 in the Maharashtra city.News agency ANI cited health officials in Pune as saying that the two who died had tested positive for Covid-19 and also had co-morbidity. Thirty-one people, including two residents of Thane and Ahmednagar, have died in Pune till now.Also read: With 134 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra nears 2000-markMumbai and Pune have reported 91% of the Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra of which 61% of them are from Mumbai and 20% from Pune, Rajesh Tope, the state’s health minister, had said on Saturday. Maharashtra had recorded 17 deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday, 12 of which were recorded in Mumbai, the largest single-day toll recorded in the city so far. Maharashtra had recorded a mortality rate of 7% and Mumbai 6.6% on Saturday.The number of Covid-19 related deaths recorded in the state was 127, with 76 fatalities in Mumbai, till Saturday.On Sunday, Maharashtra, the worst-hit state in the country, had 1895 Covid-19 patients after the state recorded 134 new cases since Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-deaths-in-pune-toll-goes-up-to-31/story-MtOqGV7A9zh0uRBfPIH2xH.html
13-04-2020||India||Cats or dogs can spread only love, not coronavirus, say prominent personalities||Eminent personalities, including BJP leader Maneka Gandhi, have appealed to people to take care of cats and dogs and not fall for rumours of them being vectors of novel coronavirus. “Cats cannot give or get coronavirus. If you have seen some nonsensical thing on television that a tiger in one zoo has got it. Remember this a cat is not a tiger. There is no relationship. It is same as comparing dogs to wolves,” Gandhi, who is also an animal rights activist, said in a video message on Twitter. The BJP MP’s reaction comes after several incidents of attacks on cats and dogs were reported due to misinformation that they can be vectors of Covid-19. Asserting that a cat cannot be compared to a tiger which reportedly contracted the coronavirus in a zoo in New York, the former Union Minister said there is no relationship between the two. “Your cats are completely safe to be around so allow people to feed them. Allow them to be in every colony. They are a great asset,” she said. Wrestler and philanthropist Sangram Singh said it is absolutely incorrect that cats and dogs spead coronavirus. “Pets can spread only one thing and that is love. So please take care of your pets and also ensure street animals are taken care of,” he said in a video message. Mukesh Batra, Founder and Chief Managing Director, Batra’s Positive Health Clinic Private Limited said the new coronavirus does not spread from pets. “In fact, it is the love you get from them that will keep you going in these times,” Batra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cats-or-dogs-can-spread-only-love-not-coronavirus-say-prominent-personalities/story-OTGhoPfoc7lYWiMFp0hLXM.html
13-04-2020||Today's||How do you ask a country under lockdown for its comments | Opinion||On March 12th this year, the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, MOEFCC, posted a Draft Environmental Impact Assessment Notification, 2020. As is the norm, it gave the public 60 days to respond with objections and comments.On March 24th, 2020, India announced a country-wide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID19, and perhaps, the death of lakhs of Indians. Life changed across the country. Very few Indians work from home, as the tragic walk-homes of lakhs of Indians showed.I’m narrating this to put the EIA Notification in context. How do you ask a country under lockdown for comments? How can civilians battling war, even spectators of war, possibly respond when the killer might be at their doorstep? The EIA process impacts lakhs of our countrymen. They are in no position to think, discuss and comment. Perhaps most objections usually come from urban elite or well-organized NGOs. Many might respond. But they aren’t the only Indians. We’ve got to ensure that when we ask for public opinion, the public is able to offer it to us. Which farmers’ organization, to take only one example, can possibly reply under the current circumstances? It’s likely that the MOEFCC didn’t expect this situation-frankly very few could have imagined this. Now that we are all in the midst of it, there is only one way ahead. Extend the period for comments for 60 days after the lockdown is over across India. That would be the democratic and fair step forward.(The writer is the founder and director of Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-do-you-ask-a-country-under-lockdown-for-its-comments-opinion/story-aTJa9T6aNlIzsd0fTdud0M.html
13-04-2020||Today's||Covid-19 endgame: How India could move from lockdowns to disease control||We are nearly three weeks into a lockdown that has been driven by epidemiological projections of the human toll of Covid-19, and scenes of overrun hospital systems in Europe and the US. The lockdown has likely saved thousands of lives from Covid-19 but has extracted an enormous economic and human toll. Is there an end in sight? Will the disease come back if we lift lockdowns? If so, are we simply condemned to lurch from one lockdown to another? How do we balance lives lost through Covid with others that will be lost from poverty, starvation and other diseases?What we should do really depends on our end goal. A first goal could be to try to eliminate the disease from India through an extended lockdown. However, even if the country were to do its best at containment and contact tracing, achieving this would be unlikely. Also, it would require that we keep international borders closed indefinitely. An alternative goal could be to contain the number of infections until the middle of 2021 which is the earliest that a vaccine or effective, validated treatment is expected to be available. Currently, the evidence on chloroquine is simply too weak to be relied upon, and other treatment options are still in early stages of evaluation. Keeping infections down for a year will require multiple lockdowns of the kind we have just been through and could wreak havoc on livelihoods.A more feasible option is to achieve herd immunity – a concept which predicts that all of India would be protected as long as at least 65% of the population has experienced the infection, even if without symptoms or in its mildest form. The 65% figure is based on a well-validated mathematical formula where herd immunity is 1-1/R0, where R0 (R naught) or the reproductive number of the disease is 2.8. Once that figure is reached, then even those that have not experienced the infection would be protected.How does one get to a herd immunity level of 65% without endangering the elderly population that is most at risk? If we were simply to lift the lockdown in an uncontrolled manner, we would return to the threat of large epidemic peaks that could overwhelm the health system. India’s biggest asset in this situation is its demography. Sixty-five per cent of our population is under the age of 35 and only 6% is above the age of 65. In comparison, 22% of Italy and 10% of China is in the older, higher risk age group. The bulk of infections in younger individuals are mild and asymptomatic. Exposure to this group at a pace that is controlled would allow for smaller epidemic peaks.In order to achieve this, first, we need to vastly expand our testing using both RT-PCR and antibody testing. This would allow us to keep containment and lockdown options for communities and hot spots where infections are spreading too quickly and to proactively identify critical care needs. Second, we should maintain physical distancing of at least six feet and universal cloth/simple masking in public spaces. Implementation may not be perfect but even an imperfect brake on the spread can help. Third, we should ban gatherings of more than 25 people. That means no movies, malls, or large gatherings at weddings, public functions, religious gatherings, and rallies. Companies should be encouraged to maintain teleworking to the extent possible. Alongside this, we need to widely test the population for antibodies. Put simply, an antibody tests reveals whether or not we have been exposed to the virus. If we have been exposed, we likely have immunity and cannot spread the disease. We should test widely for antibodies and those that have Covid-19 antibodies can be allowed to be close to the elderly, to get on planes and travel without restrictions. Each person’s antibody status (green or red) can be tied to their Aadhar and would determine the degree of freedom the person would have in moving around.All of our measures to slow down the spread of disease without a lockdown may be not sufficient to protect the elderly and at-risk population, and we should be vigilant about preventing deaths. We should encourage those over 65 years or at risk because of other illnesses (diabetes, heart disease) to self-quarantine to the extent possible and strictly enforce mask barriers and distancing. The availability of PCR-based testing that allows us to identify the virus in a patient is limited. If we can prioritise RT-PCR for the above-65 and at-risk population, and focus on early identification of cases that would progress to severity, it would avert a lot of the potential severe cases or mortality. Finally, we should continue to proactively prepare the system for peak hospitalisations with sufficient health care personnel and bed capacity positioned in places with the greatest number of projected cases. The government’s idea of building critical care units in railway coaches is an excellent one since it allows resources to be moved quickly to places of greatest need. Other, out-of-the-box solutions are needed to get to the hundreds of thousands of additional beds and associated medical personnel and equipment that are needed across the country. Even with these plans, we may face higher rates of severe disease than in other countries with young populations because we are all exposed to worse air quality and have higher rates of uncontrolled hypertension and diabetes. Early identification of those with these risk factors and providing each person with a Covid-19 risk score based on their risk factors (including smoking) could help us prioritise those that need testing. Our current lockdown has bought us a few weeks of time. We do not need to extend the lockdown but do need to religiously maintain our physical distancing and mask wearing. According to our most recent models, the lockdown only pushes out the peak by about a month if there is no substantial change in behavior, but with the policies described earlier, we could both push out the peak into early July and flatten the curve substantially, which would allow our health system to manage the peak of infections. Dividing the country into zones may not be helpful – the virus does not recognise human borders, and moreover, leaving zones with little or no exposure may come back to hurt us in the future when the rest of the country has reached herd immunity. Our plan for dealing with Covid-19 really depends on what our end goal is, and we cannot continue to live our lives under the threat of Covid-19 indefinitely. Our choices are limited. India has been an early mover in tackling the spread of disease, both in terms of shutting borders and in initiating a lockdown. We should leverage the dividend from our lockdown and our demography to determine our path. We will all need to collaborate in reducing transmission and while the physical lockdown should end, we cannot return to normalcy until we are done with this virus.If the young can protect the elderly and at-risk, India could be the first major economy to emerge from the shadow of Covid.(Ramanan Laxminarayan is director at the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy, and a senior research scholar at Princeton University. Views expressed are personal.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/reaching-65-herd-immunity-may-help-push-the-peak-flatten-the-curve-opinion/story-gkII82JMtKOELevAQT5iDL.html
13-04-2020||Editorials||Challenges of a partial lockdown||On Saturday, the secretary of the department for promotion of industry and internal trade in the ministry of commerce wrote a letter to the home ministry. While the note focused on a possible road map to resume economic activity, one key concern it flagged was the need to allow the “free movement of all vehicles and manpower” for activities permitted so far, since there had been a “lot of problems” on this front. On Sunday, the home ministry followed up by sending a note to all state governments. It pointed out that in parts of the country, trucks were still being detained; workers needed for the manufacturing of essential items were not getting authorisation to move; there were problems in inter-state movement of personnel and goods; and operation of cold stores and warehouses were being impeded — and asked all states to make the necessary corrections.The intra-government communication is an illustration of the gap that exists between policy framed at the top, and implementation on the ground. It is revealing that the commerce ministry is complaining to the home ministry, which in turn, is telling the states to improve their record, two-and-a-half weeks into the lockdown. This shows that for this duration, many industries, businesses, individuals — all eligible to move under the rules — were facing obstacles. But more critically, it shows the implementation challenges that lie ahead. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to speak on Tuesday, and outline the contours of the next phase of restrictions to tackle the pandemic. It is likely that the government will adopt a model of a differential lockdown — where some sectors and districts will be allowed to function. This, then, will require extremely nuanced implementation on the ground. State governments, municipal and district authorities, and most important, personnel of the security forces must understand the new guidelines well and implement them in letter and spirit. They have to be humane, sensitive, and awake to the needs of individuals and businesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/challenges-of-a-partial-lockdown/story-S7jkzGhnjFjBMKXn0QrCyH.html
13-04-2020||Editorials||What the pandemic means for Europe||Another international crisis, another poor show by Europe. No government or multilateral institution has covered itself in glory in the current coronavirus pandemic. Even by these low standards, the response of the European Union (EU) and its member-states has been remarkably inept. Existing protocols on sharing medical supplies during a health crisis were ignored. Freedom of movement principles so beloved of Brussels was hastily abandoned. There was a eurozone crisis redux over “coronabonds,” with frugal northern Europeans fearing they would end up paying for the fiscal irresponsibility of southerners. There was a palpable sense of virus-ravaged Italy and Spain having to fend for themselves, with China providing the only outside assistance. Yet, the idea that a united Europe will be one of the victims of the pandemic is an exaggeration. The EU is not responsible for medical crises because the member-states never came up with a common health policy. Euroscepticism has risen, but mostly in Italy, and has been partly offset by the poor example set by Brexit Britain. The supplies provided by China, much of it paid for and subsequently shown to be defective, have been surpassed by what European governments have given to each other. The European Central Bank has spearheaded a swathe of financial relief efforts, including for developing countries. Much will be forgiven if a post-crisis Brussels uses the opportunity to expand the ambit of the EU’s policy action. New Delhi will be among the capitals that will hope Europe can restore some of its credibility. India and the EU have made progress in their relations, moving beyond seemingly endless trade and human rights disputes, and starting to recognise that they have common strategic concerns that must be prioritised. The hope is that these strands can be picked up again after the virus is defeated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/what-the-pandemic-means-for-europe/story-ASrCmNFG4E24oCEYZKVGjO.html
