23-04-2020||News||When your private space is actually a public space||Last week, I called up Nagaraj. Until the lockdown came about, Nagaraj used to come regularly at 6 am and clean our car. Besides wanting to know how to transfer his month’s wages to him, I was keen to know how he was. Nagaraj told me that conditions were tough; getting food and other essentials was difficult, and there was no work. But that was still bearable, he said. His real misery was that he had to spend 24 hours a day, everyday, cooped up with the five other members of his family in one room. I could almost hear him cry, talking about it. That’s when it struck me that while the lockdown is hard for everyone, the ones who are miserable, in a different way, are the urban poor. What’s new, you may ask? But just think about how precious it is for every individual to have a little private space, even if for a limited time.For the urban upper-and middle-class, it’s not too bad. Most people today stay in a flat. Families are not too large either — a couple and one or two kids (though some are larger, with parents/in-laws/ relatives living together as well). But there is still some place in the flat to hide oneself for some time; the tiny balcony, the small entrance-way or even the storeroom. So, in some sense, they can sneak in a private moment. And then there is the building complex to stroll around in. There is some corner, some terrace, some stairwell, some scooter or car park, to find a quiet space. In rural India, it’s even easier. Just step out to the field or orchard at the back, behind a large tree or on a quiet path. But it’s the urban lower-middle-class and poor who face the maximum brunt of this aspect of the lockdown. For people such as Nagaraj, being stuck with five other people — sure, family members — in a single room the whole day and night is suffocating. Even when you step outside the slum, where do you go? There are people all around who know you, and who you feel are looking at you. After some time, everyone is irritating you, and you are irritating everyone. Almost as bad are the conditions for young working men or women who stay in dormitories or paying guest accommodation, five or six in a room. Earlier, they would go for work for most of the day, hang out at a mall or shopping area, and come and spend just a little time in their rooms. Now they are stuck 24*7. And while it was fun initially to spend time with the roommates who you may not have really known, after a bit, you just want to get out.Fortunately for these people, mobile smartphones give partial relief — the ability to drift off into a different virtual space. (mobile phones were originally named “mobile” because before they came on the scene, you were mobile and phone lines were fixed. Now you are “fixed”, under lockdown, and the phone makes you virtually mobile). But how long do you stare at a small screen, play games or watch movies while wondering if others are staring at you (while you’re not looking)?For most of urban India, and that’s hundreds of millions of people, the only private place is a public place. It’s the busy street you walk down, anonymously; the crowded bus or train you sit or stand in, anonymously; the market place you meander through, anonymously; or the road you navigate your motorbike on, anonymously. And that’s pretty much it. What makes it private is not that there are no people, but that there is no one who knows you. Just that small vital space for that precious time where you can be to yourself, by yourself, for yourself — while everyone around you just does whatever they want and are part of the blurred background.As the lockdown continues and could extend again, either continuously or intermittently, society needs to find ways to help people find privacy. Lockdown systems have to take this into account to reduce the misery, and not just the economic plight, of people most affected. Technology can help, such as by automatically permitting to move around on a rotational basis, while being safe so that social distancing is maintained. That way, people can find a quiet space for a short time, at least. In the long-term, we need to think even more about our public places in urban areas, and how we can make them more hygienic, more comfortable, and more inspiring, recognising that for most urban Indians, it’s not really a public place, it’s your most private place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/when-your-private-space-is-actually-a-public-space/story-vY9wmLiiPZ5rjj33lPh1mO.html
23-04-2020||News||Protect India’s brave health workers||Two medical doctors, Zakiya Syed and Trupti Katdare, who were pelted with stones by a mob in a dense settlement in Indore, returned to the spot a day later along with their team of health workers to screen people for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “I am injured, but not scared at all. This won’t deter me from doing my duty,” said the intrepid coronavirus warrior, Dr Syed.Responding with alacrity to the strike call by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) against such attacks on health workers, the Union government, on Wednesday, approved an ordinance to amend, and strengthen, the Indian Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, making offence against doctors and nurses cognisable, non-bailable and carrying imprisonment terms from six months to seven years. Earlier, distressed with a series of such attacks in hospitals and testing zones, the IMA called for a two-day strike by the doctors on April 22 and 23. It was only after the assurance of the Union home minister that the strike was called off. Corona warriors, at the vanguard of our battle against the pandemic, have a stupendous job at hand. In hospitals, they are treating the patients, while outside, they are screening possible Covid-19 cases — putting their lives on the line. A number of them have already contracted the coronavirus. As per available reports, 1,700 health workers in China were infected with the coronavirus. Across the world, many doctors and nurses have died combating the disease. Prime Minister Narendra Modi rightly reserved the highest praise for India’s doctors, nurses and other health care workers by calling them frontline soldiers. And yet, distressing reports of doctors and health workers being attacked on duty kept pouring in. Even the international media took note and mentioned that such attacks have been witnessed from Australia to the Philippines, but none with the severity as seen in India. Will a tough law act as a deterrent? Yes, if an enabling environment is created, through supplementary measures for its implementation. Two issues — the paucity of policemen, and more important, the speed of response — are critical. Hence some further measures are imperative.First, hospitals need to be secured firmly. Instead of deploying scarce policemen in hospitals, the government should appoint special police officers (SPOs) for each hospital. The provision for appointing SPOs is given in Section 17 of the Police Act, which can be invoked at a time of emergency to make up for the shortage of police personnel. Each hospital, however, has several private security guards, who can be appointed as SPOs. Once declared SPOs, they have the powers of the police and can work in the same fashion. In case of attacks on doctors and nurses, they can immediately take action. One liaison officer from the local police station can be designated for each hospital for coordination. This will raise the morale and confidence of the doctors, and bring order to the proceedings in the hospitals. The SPOs will have to be given personal protective equipment (PPE) and arm bands for acting without fear in times of need. An honorarium can be fixed for them for the time they perform duties as SPOs.In rural areas, the village kotwals should be made SPOs. Odisha’s chief minister has already taken a historic decision of giving powers of a collector to sarpanches to enforce the quarantine measures. Empowering panchayats and local bodies will help fight the epidemic better and other states should follow Odisha’s model.Second, doctors have demanded security at home and while commuting to work and back. A few overzealous resident welfare association (RWA) office-bearers have displayed hostility towards the resident doctors treating Covid-19 patients, while some have been attacked outside hospitals. Arrangements must be made for such health workers who require temporary accommodation and transport. Some hotels have already volunteered to host them at their venues. More guest houses and public venues need to be requisitioned to accommodate all those who desire these facilities. In addition, a team of police, municipal and revenue officials should caution and rein in these RWA officials against any moves to oust the doctors from society premises and, if necessary, take stern action. Such doctors should also be given helplines to contact in case of need.Third, the demand of the doctors for high-risk allowance during this unprecedented period should be accepted. The Delhi government has announced Rs 1 crore compensation for the family of a fallen corona warrior, which includes not only doctors but policemen and others who are battling the pandemic. Such a move should be emulated by other states too. Fourth, a clear message needs to go from the state governments against those attacking the lifesavers. To tackle the problem of attacks in clusters, where health teams go for check-ups, the National Security Act can also be used. The Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh governments have used it in case of attacks on doctors and policemen in Indore and Moradabad respectively. Figures of arrests under the above Acts are compiled at the state and central level daily. These statistics need to be projected in the vernacular media daily to show the government’s intent and deter trouble-makers. Fifth, states have to brace for a future scenario when the lockdown is eased in a phased manner and hotspots have to be contained and monitored. Extensive screening will have to be resorted to. Clusters to be covered should be approached by teams of municipal, police and revenue officials to dispel any rumour about the methodology of testing or the state of quarantine centres. Each police station has a list of opinion leaders of the areas and they should be used for such exercises.  And finally, the authorities will need to closely monitor social media, since it is often the site of hate speeches and rumours. Some of their accounts will require forcible closure and action against some to give the right message to the social media users.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/protect-india-s-brave-health-workers/story-neotzn2lprIIntB7Eu6uNP.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Cancer patient among six new cases detected in Haryana, tally now 270||With six more positive cases, the Covid-19 count climbed to 270 in Haryana on Thursday.While four cases were reported from Gurugram, a 58-year-old cancer patient and his wife were found positive in a Rohtak village. Two of the Gurugram patients are said to have contracted the virus from an infected person, while other two are employees of a private hospital. Rohtak PGIMS spokesperson on Thursday evening said a 35-year-old Uttar Pradesh resident had tested positive for coronavirus. He said the patient was working as a carpenter at a factory in Rohtak’s Sampla before the announcement of lockdown.“The man was admitted to PGIMS on Thursday afternoon. His family members have been isolated at the civil hospital in Rohtak. Their samples will be taken tomorrow,” he added.Meanwhile, as per the latest health bulletin, 12 more persons — seven from Nuh, two from Faridabad and one each from Kurukshetra, Palwal and Panipat — were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of cured patients so far to 170. Now, there are 97 active Covid-19 cases in the state. With this, the recovery rate in Haryana climbed to 63%. The Covid-19 positive rate in the state is 1.53%.Fear looms large in Kakrana village Concerns of Rohtak’s Kakrana villagers are mounting following the emergence of two Covid-19 cases in their area. Rohtak civil surgeon Anil Birla said they had collected samples of the 58-year-old cancer patient from Kakrana village, who was earlier tested positive for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Delhi, along with his 51-year-old wife. Their samples again tested positive at the PGIMS laboratory, he added. “The retired MTNL employee had gone for his chemotherapy session at a private hospital in Delhi. Following the virus detection, he approached the district health department on Wednesday and revealed his case history,” he said, adding that they have also collected samples of 13 people belonging to Kakrana village, which has a population around 5,500. (With inputs from Sunil Rahar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cancer-patient-among-six-new-cases-detected-in-haryana-tally-now-270/story-greovvNwWe0112F2uzLpnJ.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Abhay Chautala alleges flaws in wheat procurement, cites his own case||Indian National Lok Dal leader Abhay Chautala on Thursday alleged irregularities in the ongoing procurement of mustard and wheat in Haryana.Briefing mediapersons, the Ellenabad legislator said that he was a member of the group formed by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to discuss various issues pertaining to Covid-19 as well as the mustard and wheat procurement. The group comprises representatives from all political parties.“I had suggested that mustard and wheat be lifted from villages either by the government or commission agents. Farmers have been suffering from day one as they are being asked to bring their produce to the mandis but on doing so are being told to go back ,” he alleged.Citing his own example and showing an official list of farmers which had his name as well, he said that he got a message that he could bring 5.2 quintals of wheat from his farms.“I have 76 acres of agricultural land with an average produce of 20 quintals wheat per acre. Shockingly, I have been asked to sell only about five quintals,” he said.After already having suffered because of such messages during mustard procurement, the farmers urged the government not to follow the same system in the procurement of wheat, yet the government is being adamant, he said.‘WILL NOT VISIT MANDIs’Stating that he had visited grain markets to get the stock of situation, Abhay said that he would not go to mandis henceforth, as many farmers gathered wherever he visited.“Since such gatherings could be problematic for the farmers, I have decided to not visit mandis from now onwards,” he said, adding that his decision was not taken under any pressure from the government. 3.58 lakh MT wheat bought on Day 4The procurement agencies in Haryana on Thursday purchased about 3.58 lakh MT of wheat from 42,357 farmers across the state. Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal, said about 9.07 lakh MT of wheat has been procured in the last four days from nearly 1.11 lakh farmers. He added that 23,907 MT of mustard was also procured from 8,321 farmers on Thursday. The total mustard procurement has been about 2 lakh MT in last eight days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/abhay-chautala-alleges-flaws-in-wheat-procurement-cites-his-own-case/story-OgvlnIzNHYpU2rkBgF97cL.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Half of Haryana population is eligible for free ration||Almost half of Haryana’s total population, currently unable to step out of their homes due to the lockdown, is entitled for free of cost and sufficient quantity of ration, especially wheat and wheat flour.In the wake of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), massive exercise is underway to transport and distribute more than 12 lakh wheat bags (100kg each) among 132 lakh people (29 lakh ration card holders) through the fair price shops across Haryana within April.Also, the target is to distribute nearly 21 lakh bottles of mustard oil, 1,125 MT sugar and 2,700 MT daal among the ration card holders for free in April, according to senior officials of the food and civil supplies department.In March, Haryana had distributed over 60,000 MT wheat (44,375 MT wheat and 16,117 MT fortified atta) under the public distribution system (PDS).Government sources say that in April, the target is to distribute not only 60,000 MT wheat as a part of state quota, but also additional 60,000 MT wheat that the Centre will supply every month till June.As per the 2011 census, the total population of Haryana was 254 lakh. And, as per the food and civil supplies department, Haryana has 32 lakh green ration card holders (136 lakh people) in above poverty line (APL) category and 132 lakh people (29 lakh ration card holders) who are covered under different categories like Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and below poverty line (BPL) and other priority household.“Till Thursday, 94% wheat from regular state quota had been distributed among the ration card holders free of cost,” an official said.“We have also distributed about 65% wheat the Centre has allocated under the Covid-19 quota for April. We have to finish this quota by April 30.”Government sources say the Centre has promised to provide 60,000 MT additional wheat under Covid-19 quota (over and above regular quota) without any charge in April, May and June. However, the state will have to bear handling and transportation cost that is about ₹175 crore and include the cost of sugar and mustard oil.According to Anil Kumar, Karnal district food and supplies controller, 42,000 quintal atta and 42,000 quintal wheat has been distributed in April. “This is almost two times more than the fixed quota of March,” he added.FREE OF COST, LITERALLY!The 2.56 lakh pink ration card holders (11 lakh units/person) under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana every month get fixed 35kg atta per family, 2lt mustard oil, 1kg sugar, 1kg daal, 1kg salt. During the lockdown, AAY families will now also get additional 5kg wheat per person. For example, A family of five is entitled to 25kg additional wheat.The state has issued 8.49 lakh yellow ration cards under the BPL category covering 39 lakh people who are given 5kg per person per month atta, besides 2lt mustard oil, 1kg sugar, 1kg daal and 1kg salt per card.“Apart from their regular quota, the BPL families due to Covid-19 are also entitled to 5kg wheat per person per month,” an official said.The third category is of 18.31 lakh other priority household Khakhi card holders comprising near 82 lakh people, who apart from their regular quota of 5kg per person atta and 1kg daal, are being given additional 5kg wheat per person during the lockdown.In Ambala, Karnal, Hisar, Rohtak and Yamunanagar districts, fortified wheat atta is being distributed among the beneficiaries. “But under the Covid-19 quota of additional 5kg wheat per person, we are supplying wheat only in these five districts,” said another official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/half-of-haryana-population-is-eligible-for-free-ration/story-Su3itmGbw90UOHmfLpycfL.html
23-04-2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 free but on toes, Bareilly collects pool samples of vendors||Though declared corona-free by the UP government on April 17, the district administration of Bareilly is not willing to take any chance.The health department has deployed a mobile medical unit in crowded localities of the city to collect “pool” samples for random Covid-19 testing of vegetable and fruit vendors, hawkers, chemists, etc.Six members of a family had tested positive in the city for corona but they have all recovered after treatment and have been discharged from hospital, leaving the district with no active corona case as of now.However, the neighbouring Budaun district still has 13 corona positive cases, who are presently in hospital.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla said, “The mobile medical unit will be stationed in crowded areas of the city. We will collect nasal and throat swab samples from fruit and vegetable vendors, hawkers, chemists and grocery store owners on a voluntary basis. These people are exempted from lockdown norms as they provide essential services, and thus interact with the maximum number of people. The aim is to check if they have come in contact with any corona positive patient.”District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The mobile medical unit visited Mandi Samiti and railway hospital on Wednesday and collected seven samples whose reports are awaited. Already, around 30-40 of the vendors and chemists who have been given lockdown passes, have approached the district medical team for their samples to be collected and tested.”Meanwhile, reports of 31 suspects tested on Tuesday arrived on Wednesday and all of them turned negative.”According to officials, the mobile medical unit will collect pool samples. One pool contains at least 10 samples.If a pool tests negative for Covid-19, it means all 10 people whose samples were in the pool are Corona negative. However, if a pool is found positive, all 10 persons have to undergo individual tests for Covid-19.The health department on Wednesday had also collected 22 pool samples from journalists working in the area and 45 individual samples from suspects. All of these will be sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) for testing on Thursday. Officials said 47 teams had conducted door-to-door survey in the buffer zone around the house of the family of six that tested positive and screened 3,440 houses on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/covid-19-free-but-on-toes-bareilly-collects-pool-samples-of-vendors/story-e0FOdw9awtOZzEKUwxrffO.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ordinance to protect health staff: Haryana designates DIG-rank official as nodal officer||Haryana government on Thursday designated a DIG-rank official as the state nodal officer and all police commissioners and superintendents of police as the district nodal officers for the implementation of the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, to stringently handle the attacks on the health workers and those in the field helping in fight against Covid-19.Additional chief secretary (home) Vijai Vardhan said in a release that as per the said ordinance, any act of committing or abetment of violence by any person against any healthcare person serving during an epidemic or loss to any property during an epidemic had been made a cognisable and non-bailable offence punishable under the said ordinance.He said the district nodal officers have been directed to regularly submit reports to the state nodal officer, who will then submit an action taken report in consultation with the director general of police to the state home department.It may be recalled that adopting the zero-tolerance approach to ensure the safety and security of doctors and health workers working 24x7 to fight the Covid-19 battle, the central government has amended the Epidemic Act under which the violators would be liable to serve imprisonment for a term which would not be less than six months and may extend up to a period of seven years and with a penalty of anywhere between ₹1 lakh and ₹5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ordinance-to-protect-health-staff-haryana-designates-dig-rank-official-as-nodal-officer/story-k5cWeK7u8HS7j7KZSrdESN.html
23-04-2020||City||At 93, Karnal’s Vidyavanti joins fight against Covid with her 7 decades old sewing machine||A nonagenarian in Karnal has joined the fight against Covid-19 and become a source of inspiration for many. Everyday, 93-year-old Vidyavanti sits behind her sewing machine and churns out masks to be distributed among the poor and underprivileged. Vidyavanti and her seven decades old machine have become a household name in Karnal as her videos are being shared widely by local YouTubers to encourage people to do their bit.“I had bought this sewing machine by selling some of my ornaments in 1947. Back then, I was quite famous for my stitching skills,” said the grandmother of three, who had come from Pakistan after the Partition. “With my son and grandchildren, I have stitched hundreds of masks for the people, who are unable to buy them or get them due to shortage,” she said. Never since the Partition have I seen such a mayhem, said Vidyavanti, referring to the rising death toll due to the pandemic. She, however, appreciated the “timely measures” taken by the government to plug the virus spread. Her two granddaughters, a grandson and her son, who works for Bharatiya Vikas Parisad, also lend her a helping hand, while an NGO, Seva Bharti Foundation, provides them raw material at free of cost to prepare masks.Vidyavanti’s granddaughter Nupur, who is pursuing her graduation from Chandigarh, said, “My grandmother inspires many. She always gave us the strength we needed and now, she is giving her valuable contribution to the country by stitching masks,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/at-93-karnal-s-vidyavanti-joins-fight-against-covid-with-her-7-decades-old-sewing-machine/story-E9sX5k507uSNrACprRezSI.html
23-04-2020||Lucknow||BJP MLA gets notice after audio clip mocking PM appeal goes viral||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has served a show-cause notice on its lawmaker from Sitapur (sadar) Rakesh Rathore over a viral audio in which the MLA in a telephonic conversation with another party leader was heard making fun of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to clap for frontline corona warriors.The MLA has been asked to explain his conduct within a week.The showcause notice, sent by UP BJP general secretary Vidyasagar Sonker, has specifically called for a written explanation from the lawmaker.Modi, on March 19, had urged the people to express gratitude for the emergency service workers by clapping or ringing bells at 5 pm on March 22.Subsequently, he had in another appeal urged masses to light diyas (earthen lamps) for 9 minutes at 9 pm on April 5 to mark country’s fight against the corona virus.Couple of days back, Rathore, in a telephonic conversation with another BJP leader was heard mocking Modi’s appeal.“Go on, keep creating noise by banging utensils .. go on clap as you will soon just be able to clap and won’t be good for anything else,” the MLA was heard saying in the video.The conversation was leaked and quickly went viral with the main opposition Samajwadi Party spokesman IP Singh citing the viral audio as proof of rising resentment within the BJP.“This audio is self explanatory and in fact if elections were to be held in UP today we would know how much support the BJP really has been left with,” said IP Singh.Rathore, who had studied till intermediate is a ‘teli’ which is a sub-caste of the larger OBC group. He wasn’t available for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-mla-gets-notice-after-audio-clip-mocking-pm-appeal-goes-viral/story-E3r3I3yoF4rlvUcGdyvuON.html
23-04-2020||City||Fazilka admn dissuades Rajasthan farmers from entering Punjab mandis||Battling to retain the green zone tag amid coronavirus pandemic, the Fazilka district administration is reaching out to Rajasthan farmers via WhatsApp to dissuade them from entering the Punjab mandis and selling wheat here.Every year farmers from Rajsthan’s Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh contribute about 8% of the total wheat procured in Fazilka. This year, by Thursday, 1.18 lakh MT wheat has been purchased at the mandis in Fazilka and sources say that the peak harvesting in the semi-arid belt is expected from next week.Official sources said that scores of farmers from Rajasthan are fully dependent on Punjab mandis and purchase centres due to organised procurement and better pricing.But amid Covid-19 outbreak, the district authorities are trying to keep the Rajasthan farmers away from local mandis.Deputy commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said this year Fazilka expects to procure 9 lakh metric tonne food grains. “The administration has no choice but to prohibit arrival of farmers from outside Fazilka. Mandis near Abohar remain preferred for Rajasthan farmers due to proximity to their respective villages,” he added.“We are taking assistance of community leaders and district journalists to spread the message about not allowing farmers from outside t enter local mandis across the state border,” said Sandhu.Located along Indian-Pakistan border, Fazilka is among three Punjab districts with no Covid-19 positive case so far.“The inter-state border has been sealed and police have been instructed to ensure that farmers from Rajasthan do not cross the border. Panchayats are assisting to keep an eye on any unwanted movement,” the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fazilka-admn-dissuades-rajasthan-farmers-from-entering-punjab-mandis/story-rSjAkZLEAII4chyMpgK4uI.html
23-04-2020||City||10 isolation coaches are ready to accommodate patients in Ambala||A mock drill was conducted by departments concerned at Ambala cantonment railway station on Thursday in the 12 modified coaches that arrived in Ambala this week from Jagadhari workshop in Yamunanagar.The railways, earlier this month, had decided to modify existing train coaches into isolation wards due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Accordingly, ten isolation coaches plus two service coaches have been set up at the Ambala station. Each isolation coach has a capacity to accommodate 16 patients at once. While one service coach is kept reserved for medical and ancillary staff, the other will be used for donning and doffing process.Divisional railway manager Gurinder Mohan Singh said, “Railways is making efforts to ensure unabated supply/transportation of essential goods. Apart from that, the division is materialising existing resources to extend assistance against coronavirus.”As reported earlier, in these coaches, the middle berth of each ward has been removed for better occupation and the lower portion of compartment is plugged with plyboards for better flooring. Each ward has been provided with bottle holders, electric points for medical instruments and air curtains. There is a provision of 415 volt of external supply as well.The railways has converted four available toilets into two bathrooms. Hand shower, buckets and mugs have been provided in each bathroom. The railways had said that coaches will be sanitised regularly and proper arrangements regarding the meals, security and medical facilities will be made. The staff attending the coaches will also be equipped with personal protective equipment kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/10-isolation-coaches-are-ready-to-accommodate-patients-in-ambala/story-yA4QaZyDGBAD21pQeT3wEL.html
23-04-2020||City||2 arrested in Mumbai for attack on Arnab Goswami||The NM Joshi Marg police on Wednesday evening arrested two persons in their late 20s for allegedly attacking Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami and his wife in Lower Parel, while they were driving home from their studios. Goswami and his wife escaped unhurt in the attack.In his complaint, Goswami said the attack took place around 12:15 am. “Two men on a motorcycle overtook my car and tried to identify who was driving. They then blocked the path of my car with their two-wheeler. The pillion rider hit the right side window several times and after realising that the car windows were up, the pillion rider removed a liquid bottle from his pocket and threw liquid on the driver’s side of the car where I was sitting,” Goswami alleged in his complaint. Goswami, in his complaint, pointed fingers at the Congress and mentioned a tweet by party leader Alka Lamba “just three hours after the attack”.The arrested accused —Pratik Kumar Shamsunder Mishra and Arun Dilip Borade —are residents of Sion. Abhinash Kumar, DCP (zone 3), said, “Both the accused were arrested immediately after the incident with the help of security personnel who were with Goswami.” The accused will be in custody till April 27, said Kumar.Congress leaders have filed FIRs against Goswami across the country for blaming Sonia Gandhi in the Palghar lynching incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-arrested-in-mumbai-for-attack-on-arnab-goswami/story-oPSJ4rUXjv8X9kUlTZ499L.html
23-04-2020||City||Punjab to slow procurement to avoid glut, match grain movement||Chandigarh: To avoid a glut in grain markets and to coordinate the pace of procurement, lifting and movement of food grain out of the state, the Punjab government on Thursday decided to slow the pace of procurement by at least one-third, with issue of fewer curfew passes to farmers. The availability of labour for all these tasks has been an important input into the decision. “From Sunday, we will issue 60,000 passes a day to farmers for bringing their produce to mandis for procurement,” said additional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna, who heads the state committee on wheat harvest and procurement. He added that he was satisfied with the pace of procurement, but the movement of grain from the state to other consuming states was also a priority.On Wednesday, 10,000 labourers across the state were engaged with 50 goods trains that were in the state to take away rice and wheat for distribution in consuming states. The demand for food grain has picked up after the Centre announced its PM Garib Kalyan Yojana, which has decided to double the allocation for the poor, free of cost. For Punjab, updated figures of procurement till Thursday, its ninth day, show that of the total expected arrival of 135 lakh tonne wheat, around 29.4 lakh tonne or 20% had arrived in grain markets. Due to labour shortage, however, lifting from mandis has suffered with 13 lakh tonne yet to be lifted.State food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said a steady pace of crop arrival had been maintained at between 4.5 lakh tonne and 6 lakh tonne a day on average, but this would be slowed to streamline the backlog in lifting and the grain outflow from the state. The mandi board, a subsidiary of the agriculture department which regulates mandis for procurement, has decided to issue 90,000 passes to farmers on Friday and Saturday, with 60,000 from Sunday. PAYMENT AWAITED: FARMERSBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president BS Rajewal said four state procurement agencies were yet to make any payment to farmers, with only the Food Corporation of India, a central agency, paying up. Minister Ashu, however, contradicted this by saying, “We have released Rs 686 crore to arhtiyas and I expect they are making payment to farmers. As per norms, the agency is to pay the arhtiya in 72 hours, who is supposed to pay the farmer within 48 hours of receiving the payment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-to-slow-procurement-to-avoid-glut-match-grain-movement/story-aEuMmfQTTvtVWSDClBvi0J.html
23-04-2020||City||Patiala senior deputy mayor flouts home-quarantine norms||While the state government is tightening it noose on violators, Congress’ senior deputy mayor from Patiala Yoginder Singh Yogi flouted the norms by distributing ration while on home-quarantine, on Thursday evening.He was tested positive for the virus on April 15 and was put on home-quarantine along with two of his family members till April 29. However, on Thursday, Yogi and his followers were spotted distributing at least 300 packets of ration.Moreover, no social distancing norms were followed while distributing the packs at ward number 48. Videos and photographs of the incident are being circulated after Yogi himself released a press note and picture of the event.Yogi could not be contacted for a comment on the issue despite repeated attempts.The press release read: “With the blessings of Preneet Kaur and Jaya Inder Kaur, we distributed 300 bags of ration sent by CM Captain Amarinder Singh. DC and MC commissioner of Patiala were cooperative during the drive.”“I have asked the civil surgeon to look into the matter and prepare a detailed report. Required action will be taken accordingly,” said deputy commissioner Kumar Amit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-senior-deputy-mayor-flouts-home-quarantine-norms/story-z44KgfELCHWCw7vNJhUxCP.html
23-04-2020||City||Fear looms large in Rohtak’s Kakrana village||Concerns of Rohtak’s Kakrana villagers are mounting following the emergence of two Covid-19 cases in their area. Rohtak civil surgeon Anil Birla said they had collected samples of the 58-year-old cancer patient from Kakrana village, who was earlier tested positive for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Delhi, along with his 51-year-old wife. Their samples again tested positive at the PGIMS laboratory, he added. “The retired MTNL employee had gone for his chemotherapy session at a private hospital in Delhi. Following the virus detection, he approached the district health department on Wednesday and revealed his case history,” he said, adding that they have also collected samples of 13 people belonging to Kakrana village, which has a population around 5,500. Kakrana sarpanch Harbhawan said the residents have confined themselves to their homes. “We are not sure how would people bring fodder for their animals. Even the threshing of wheat crop is yet to be done. All streets have been, meanwhile, sanitised three times today,” he added.Rohtak deputy commissioner RS Verma, who reached the village to take stock of the situation, said they have declared the village as containment zone and area within its 7km radius as buffer zone. “Fifteen teams of doctors, health workers and nurses have been engaged to conduct door-to-door checkups. Policemen have been deployed on the outskirts as well as within the village perimeter. No outsider, except administration officials, would be allowed to enter the village,” the DC added.On being asked about crop procurement of Kakrana farmers, DC Verma said they will ensure lifting of wheat and mustard once the infected couple gets cured.Their son, his family isolated in RewariAfter the Kakrana couple tested positive for coronavirus, the Rewari health department isolated their son, who is a lecturer at a government polytechnic college in a Rewari village , his wife and their son. “The quarter where they lived on the campus has been sealed and their samples have been taken. The trio was sent to isolation ward of the local civil hospital. The lecturer was deployed on magisterial duty on Rajasthan border at Dharuhera. His close contacts have been asked to go into quarantine,” an official privy to the development said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fear-looms-large-in-rohtak-s-kakrana-village/story-8tsiDLYzGIeSOCi18Dlc8K.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Hotels to house cops, dedicated testing facility in the works||The Delhi Police has reserved 927 rooms in 67 hotels for policemen , including those in quarantine, and is working on creating a dedicated Covid-19 testing facility for policemen at a police station , likely in north-east Delhi as it balances the three objectives of keeping its people safe, dealing with cases in its ranks, and going about its daily responsibilities. Around 550 policemen are currently staying in these hotel rooms. Till Thursday night, there were 28 positive Covid-19 cases among police personnel and at least 500 were in home-quarantine.A senior police officer who asked not to be named said that three categories of police personnel live in such hotels. “The first group is policemen who live in containment zones or have houses out of Delhi. They are important field officers and cannot return to those locked down areas after work, so they are living in hotels. Another group is those who are quarantined and are being monitored. The third category is that of people in isolation. Some hotels have given us their premises for free, while we are paying the others. Rooms vacated by personnel who have completed the isolation period are being taken up by others, after sanitisation.”The third group(isolation) are of those police officers who worked closely with the 28 police personnel who have tested positive. They have not shown any symptoms of Covid-19 disease. The police are on the front lines of the fight against Covid-19 — managing containment zones, conducting checks, ensuring social distancing, even feeding the hungry.A second officer said on condition of anonymity that booking separate facilities for the police is important because many junior personnel, carrying ranks of constables, head constables and assistant sub-inspectors, live in barracks inside police stations.In Chandni Mahal, the police station had to be sealed after two constables, who lived in the barracks, tested positive for Covid-19. With Chandni Mahal emerging as one of the biggest containment zones in the city, the local police personnel are currently working out of the nearby Jama Masjid police station.Special commissioner of police, Robin Hibu, confirmed that the police has made arrangements in hotels for the junior constabulary, keeping in mind their safety as well as that of their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hotels-to-house-cops-dedicated-testing-facility-in-the-works/story-yOXCvyeCuBmJ1LNusGoj2J.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government should allow liquor shops to open to earn revenue: Raj Thackeray||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray has asked the state to open liquor shops to generate revenue for the cash-strapped government.Raj, in a letter to his cousin and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, stressed that the state should not be caught in “moral issues” and must ensure the opening of liquor shops, as it was uncertain how long the lockdown would continue.“At such times, by keeping open the wine shops, the state will start getting some revenue. However, opening the wine shops does not mean we are catering to the needs of alcohol consumers. The only purpose behind this step will be to start the process of income flow into the shrinking revenue of the state,” he wrote in the letter.Raj justified his stance stating that the Maharashtra government generates duty from liquor worth ₹1,250 crore every month, which translates into ₹14,000 crore annually, but due to the ongoing lockdown, it has already lost a substantial amount. He said that the state should not be caught in moral issues as there is no liquor ban in the state. Raj signed off the letter by saying the state should seriously consider his plea to become economically reliant in such an environment.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has condemned the stance taken by the MNS. “Right now the priority should be food for the poor, medical care, as well as ensuring that migrants are sent home safely. Instead, Raj Thackeray like always focuses on non issues like now on liquor, which is very sad,” rued Priti Sharma Menon, national spokesperson, AAP.Earlier, actor Rishi Kapoor had also demanded that wine shops be kept open in view of the “depression and uncertainty” all around and also outlined that the government desperately needs money.Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Shiv Sena Raj Thackeray has demanded the opening of liquor shops to generate revenue for the cash strapped state government. Raj Thackeray in his letter to his cousin and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray stressed that the state should not be caught in moral issues and should ensure the opening of liquor shops.Raj said that it was uncertain how long this lockdown will continue. “In such times, by keeping open the wine shops, the state will start getting a bit of revenue. By keeping the wine shops open does not mean we are catering to the needs or looking after alcohol consumers. The only reason behind this is to start the process of income flow into the shrinking revenue of the state,” said Raj.Raj justified his stance stating that the Maharashtra government generates duty from liquor worth ₹1,250 crore monthly, which translates into ₹14,000 crore annually, and has already lost a substantial amount. He said that the state should not be caught in moral issues as there is no liquor ban in the state. Raj signed off the letter by saying the state should seriously consider his plea to become economically reliant in such an environment.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) condemned the stance taken by the MNS. “Right now the priority should be food and medical care for the poor, as well as to ensure that migrants are sent home safely. Instead, Raj Thackeray, like always, focuses on non-issues. Now it is about liquor which is very sad,” rued AAP national spokesperson Priti Sharma Menon.Earlier, actor Rishi Kapoor had also demanded that wine shops be kept open in view of the “depression and uncertainty” all around and outlined that government desperately needs money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-should-open-liquor-shops-to-earn-revenue-raj-thackeray/story-SY6f2jl8BVJ7jiW37k1CvJ.html
23-04-2020||City||‘Will boost our morale’: Medical fraternity welcomes legal shield||Chandigarh: Medical fraternity from across Punjab and Chandigarh has hailed the Union government’s decision to make violence against healthcare personnel fighting coronavirus a non-bailable offence. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved an ordinance making acts of violence and harassment against healthcare personnel deployed in combating COVID-19 a non-bailable offence with maximum punishment of seven years imprisonment and ₹5 lakh fine, meeting a key demand of health professionals in the wake of recent attacks on them.Dr Jagat Ram, director of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, said: “It will surely boost the morale of the healthcare workers who were disappointed by the violence against the people of their ilk in the front line. The government has taken a step in the right direction and the PGIMER appreciates the concern shown towards us. It is for the betterment of society.”The ordinance will also be invoked if healthcare personnel face harassment from their landlords or neighbours over suspicion that they may carry the coronavirus infection due to the nature of their work. “By bringing the ordinance, the central government has provided a big relief to the doctors and other health workers. Doctors have been abused, beaten up, denied entry to their houses. The IMA whole-heatedly welcome this move and requests the state government to issue strict directions to police to implement the new provision,” said Punjab IMA president Dr Navjot Dahiya.Echoing similar sentiments, director endocrinology, Fortis Hospital Mohali, Dr KP Singh, said the community will suffer if the people in the front line are not treated in the way they deserve. “Healthcare workers deserve to be protected so that they can render their duties in the best possible way. The aim of the medical professionals is to save lives and people on the forefront should not feel insure in such testing times,” he said.Senior director and chief operating officer of Max Hospital Mohali, Col Harinder Singh Chahal (retd), said the ordinance has given a lot of confidence to the medical fraternity. “The healthcare workers are duty-bound to serve without discrimination, for which the cooperation and support from society is a fundamental need. During the pandemic, we have had incidents where they were harassed and even assaulted. The government has done the right thing by bringing in stringent punishment to those who perpetrate this outrage,” he said.Principal of Government Medical College, Amritsar, Dr Sujata Sharma, said: “The doctors and health care staff are risking their lives and instead of appreciation, at times, they are assaulted. The ordinance approved by the President is a welcome move as it will provide security and to the medical professionals.”Principal of Patiala’s Government Medical College, Dr Harjinder Singh, said the new legal provision will go a long way in boosting the morale of the medical professionals. “The stringent law will surely help curb attacks on medical professionals. However, it will be challenging to implement the legal provisions. The foremost thing is to ensure that the patients should be aware about not only the rights of medical professionals, but complexities and challenges we face in carrying out the medical procedures. Results will be much better if the communication gap between doctors and patients is minimised.”Dr Vitull Gupta, a health activist from Bathinda, was of the view that the legal shield should be made a permanent feature and not just for the pandemic period. “The Epidemic Diseases (amendment) Ordinance 2020 is half-baked as provisions will last only till the pandemic crisis is on. There is a need to introduce a central Act to safeguard doctors and paramedical staff under all situations. In case of an attack on the medical staff, the state should be a complainant and the victimised doctor could be the witness in the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-boost-our-morale-medical-fraternity-welcomes-legal-shield/story-8LJaPegKkrW0KW9UnClm5N.html
23-04-2020||City||Soil, concrete chip off Patripool bridge||A small portion of soil and concrete on the foundation of Patripool rail overbridge in Kalyan fell on Thursday evening, prompting the Kalyan traffic police to barricade a portion of the bridge for safety measures.Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) has started work of the bridge parallel to the existing bridge after the 104-year-old Patripool bridge was dismantled in November 2018.“The on-duty traffic cops spotted the erosion of soil below the foundation of the bridge’s retaining wall. All the ongoing work at the site has been stopped for safety reasons. The MSRDC engineers have been alerted about it. The ongoing work of the new bridge might be the reason for the eroding of the soil,” said Bharat Patil, ward officer, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation.The traffic police immediately barricaded a portion of the bridge.“We barricaded around 20-foot area of the bridge so that vehicles steer clear of the portion. Although there are fewer vehicles plying on the road, we will take safety measure till engineers fix the portion of the bridge,” said Sukhdev Patil, senior traffic police inspector, Kalyan.An official from the MSRDC said, “We will check what caused the erosion and take measures to ensure safety at the bridge construction site.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/soil-concrete-chip-off-patripool-bridge/story-ZZZPC20PN6BPA9MqtZXluN.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar extends deferment of outstanding dues payment||Haryana chief minister(CM) Manohar Lal Khattar has announced extension of deferment in payment of all outstanding dues as on March 15, 2020 and thereafter, towards all departments, boards, corporations and authorities till May 15, 2020.An official said on Thursday that besides extension, the CM has also announced 50% waiver of interest on all such dues; waiver of rent on buildings and shops belonging to government, Panchayati Raj Institutions and urban local bodies for this period; and 25 % waiver of fixed charges for industrial and commercial electricity consumers.He announced the treatment of this period as frozen period in all government contracts and a life insurance cover of ₹10 lakh for various employees working in containment zones and for all accredited and recognised journalists upto June 30, 2020.He also clarified that the benefit of life cover of ₹50 lakh against Covid-19 announced by the government of India, would be given to all doctors, nurses and group C and group D employees posted in Covid isolation wards, intensive care units and operation theatres across the state.He said that all registered farmers, arhtiyas, labourers and employees, whether regular, part-time or contractual, of all procurement agencies engaged in the procurement process in mandis will also get the benefit of an insurance cover of ₹10 lakh till June 30, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/khattar-extends-deferment-of-outstanding-dues-payment/story-iEYBiqXQbGZs42ElXDvbYI.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Juhu ward sees 41 cases in 24 hours||The K-West ward, which covers Andheri West, Irla, Juhu, Oshiwara and parts of Jogeshwari, has reported 41 cases within 24 hours, taking the tally to 264, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s data on Wednesday. The ward is among the top four worst-hit wards after Worli-Lower Parel, Byculla and Kurla. There were 123 positive patients on April 17. So far, 32 patients have been cured and discharged. Anand Nagar and Gandhi Nagar are among the seven hotspots.Ranjeet Dhakane, deputy municipal commissioner of K-West ward, said, “A majority of the hotpsots are in slum areas. We are setting up more fever clinics and ensuring food and medicine supplies reach the homes in containment zones and hotspots. A door-to-door survey is being carried out to identify people at high risk and quarantine them within three hours. We recently had a meeting with the police to implement strict lockdown measures across the ward.”G-South ward (Worli-Lower Parel) crossed the 500-mark in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, followed by E-ward (Byculla-Mumbai Central) with 368 cases and L ward (Kurla-Sakinaka) that has reported 267 cases so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/juhu-ward-sees-41-cases-in-24-hours/story-tHLnsfloDAKoDn5Zd9UeAK.html
23-04-2020||Lucknow||Taken to community health centre for screening, 12 migrants run away in Bareilly||Twelve migrants from various districts of Uttar Pradesh, who were taken to the community health centre (CHC) at Barkhera in Bareilly for medical screening, fled from the hospital campus in the absence of any police surveillance on Tuesday. The matter came to light on Wednesday night, said officials. The migrants, from Palia Mafi village under Barkhera police station, had returned home from their places of work elsewhere. When villagers of Palia Mafi did not allow them to enter without undergoing medical screening, they went to the CHC.A number of other people quarantined in the district hospital campus in Pilibhit also attempted to escape by climbing down from an attic window using a rope made of bedsheets but their attempt was foiled by health staff.The migrants had been asked to wait till an ambulance arrived from the district headquarters to take them to their quarantine facility. “But when the ambulance got delayed, the migrants decided to sneak out. We have conveyed this information to Barkhera police station, requesting them to trace the migrants, said Dr S K Singh, the medical officer in-charge at Barkhera CHC. He said this could happen because of lack of police surveillance at the CHC.On the escape attempt by quarantined people in Pilibhit, additional chief medical officer Dr CM Chaturvedi said 50 people, who were quarantined at the district hospital campus, had attempted to flee on Tuesday night, but were thwarted by vigilant health staff.“We have now locked the quarantine centre from outside and the police have deployed two constables, each for 12-hourly shifts there, to prevent any untoward situations. Prior to this, police used to take a brief round of the campus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/taken-to-community-health-centre-for-screening-12-migrants-run-away-in-bareilly/story-AhZNLQlDLNgJaVB2ifVtoK.html
23-04-2020||City||Junior docs seek stipend on a par with Chandigarh||MBBS interns at Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot have demanded that the Punjab government should bring their stipend on a par with that paid in Chandigarh.In both places, the interns were being paid Rs 9,000 a month, but with they being required to contribute in the fight against the covid-19 pandemic, both the governments have increased their payout. Chandigarh has doubled it to Rs 18,000 a month; Punjab has said that the stipend will be hiked by 50%.“MBBS students of Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh, pay around Rs 1.21 lakh as fee to the government over five years, whereas a student in Punjab pays Rs 4.4 lakh. Punjab government, too, should double our stipend as we are also working for extra hours during our covid-19 hospital duties,” said Dr Vaibhav Chawla, president, Medical Student Association, Amritsar.Dr Birgurman Singh, a GMC student from Patiala said, “The state government is ready to pay Rs 750 per day to a private ward attendant in the fight against covid-19. Our services are also important.”Strap/BlurbUT has announced doubling of stipend to Rs 18,000 a month; Punjab has said it will be increased by 50%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/junior-docs-seek-stipend-on-a-par-with-chandigarh/story-UvDvUXo0n80UA567TEQGBL.html
23-04-2020||City||Capt orders detailed audit of Covid-19 deaths||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday said he had ordered a detailed audit of every Covid-19 death by experts to understand and check the high mortality rate in the state.Giving this update to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi during a video conference, the CM said the state government was being guided by a group of experts in handling the Covid-19 crisis. The group comprises Dr KK Talwar, former director of the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh; Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor of the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot; Dr Rajesh Kumar, a former head of the School of Public Health at PGIMER; besides experts from John Hopkins University.Amarinder said the mortality numbers in the state were high largely due to co-morbidity and lack of health-seeking behaviour (patients come late to hospital). “Despite the high mortality rate of 6.2%, the rate of growth of Covid-19 in Punjab is lower than India, with the cases doubling in 16 days against the national average of nine days,” he said.The CM cited the example of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar as a case of effective containment. In the district, which was one of the first hotspots in the country, all 18 treated cases, besides the initial death of granthi Baldev Singh, had recovered and no case had been reported since March 26, he informed the party leadership.He also said that Punjab had to be compared with Kerala and Gujarat, which were also states with high NRI population. The state was doing significantly better than Gujarat, and in terms of cases per million population, even lower than Kerala (9/million in Punjab vs 12/million in Kerala), he pointed out.ASKS STATES TO SEEK BAILOUT PACKAGEAfter suggesting a three-pronged strategy to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bail out states from the COVID crisis, Amarinder has now urged his counterparts in all the states to pursue the matter with the Centre.Amarinder has written to the chief ministers of all the states to also approach the Prime Minister, urging him to consider the strategy he had suggested to combat the crisis. In his letters, he underlined the urgent need to request the Government of India to give a special 3-month COVID revenue grant with flexibility to states in spending as per local conditions. He has also urged the states to seek review by the Finance Commission of its recommendations for the current year since the ground situation had completely changed due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/capt-orders-detailed-audit-of-covid-19-deaths/story-NL9Jnpx43slp7RVYo24ZeN.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai gets 117 new containment zones||The number of containment zones in Mumbai shot up by 117 between Tuesday and Wednesday, taking the total to 930 as of Wednesday evening, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city also increased by 522 on Thursday, taking the total to 4,205. Mumbai has seen a total of 167 deaths, with six new deaths recorded on Thursday.However, a presentation made by municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi and chief secretary Ajoy Mehta to the Centre said there are 771 containment zones in Mumbai. Explaining the difference, Pardeshi told Hindustan Times, “The number of containment zones increases every day, and fluctuates as some zones finish their 14-day quarantine period, and show no patients with symptoms.” Pardeshi confirmed that as of Wednesday evening, there were 930 recorded containment zones in the city. The G-South ward in Worli crossed the 500 Covid-19 positive cases mark, and recorded 507 cases as of Wednesday. The same data revealed that 62.8% (2,360) of the total cases in Mumbai fall in seven wards — G-South, E ward of Byculla, L ward of Kurla, K-West ward of Andheri West, F-North ward of Wadala, G-North ward of Dadar and Dharavi, D ward of Tardeo and Malabar Hill, and K-East ward of Andheri East.However, the silver lining is that most new cases are among people already quarantined by the BMC. “It is a good thing because it means we have been able to contain the spread to the area which is already a containment zone. In containment zones, there is rigorous contact tracing, testing, fever clinics, and strict lockdown,” said Pardeshi.Also, the BMC removed 187 containment zones from its list until Wednesday, as these are areas have finished their 14-day quarantine period and showed no new cases.The solution for BMC going forward is quarantining more people, who are contacts of Covid-19 positive cases. Another method of containing the outbreak in these areas is monitoring human movement with drone images. “We are flying drones every day, all the time, and carefully inspecting feed from them for any crowding, lathering, or even one or two stray humans walking around. Police or ward staff is immediately intimated, and these people are moved indoors. Food packets are delivered on time to ensure people are not prompted to venture out of home for any food.”Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G-North ward, said, “We are increasing our quarantine facilities and ensuring that our hotspot areas and containment zones have a regular supply of food and medicines.”Dharavi recorded 25 new cases and one death on Thursday taking the total count to 214 cases, and total 13 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-gets-117-new-containment-zones/story-TeppCdfqQZJzyyFUQHzp3M.html
23-04-2020||City||SGPC member who honoured suspended IG Umranangal apologises to Akal Takht||Four days after the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) found itself in the middle of a row for honouring suspended IGP and an accused in 2015 Kotkapura police firing case at anti-sacrilege Sikh protesters, Paramraj Umranangal, during his visit to the Golden Temple on April 19 (Sunday), its member, Bhagwant Singh Sialka, who felicitated the cop, tendered a written apology to the Akal Takht on Thursday.Additional Golden Temple manager Gura Singh and manager of langar (community kitchen) of the holiest Sikh shrine, who were also party to the felicitation, have been transferred.The trio had given Umranagal a ‘siropa’ (robe of honour) and a painting of fourth Sikh master Guru Ram Das, after he donated grocery items to the community kitchen.A senior SGPC official said Mand had been transferred to an SGPC-managed gurdwara at Kurukshetra in Haryana, while Guru had been sent to a Sikh mission in Uttar Pradesh.“Sialka has submitted a plea requesting the Akal Takht Sahib to pardon him for honouring Umranangal. Singh Sahib Giani Harpreet Singh will address this plea and give his verdict after discussing the matter with the heads of other Sikh temporal seats,” said Jaspal Singh, personal assistant to Akal Takht jathedar, Giani Harpreet Singh.Sialka, who has also been member of SGPC executive, was elected to the general House of the gurdwara management body on a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) ticket from the quota of Damdami Taksal, a Sikh seminary that has a militant background. The Taksal, however, has remained mum on the issue.SGPC members are upset at the entire controversy. “If the SGPC wants to back-track, and now blame the employees, then such employees should be demoted to a level where they will never have such power. For House member, Sialka, let Damdami Taksal answer,” said SGPC member Kiranjot Kaur. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh have not commented on the issue.Strap/BlurbTwo other managers of Golden Temple transferred; trio had given a ‘siropa’ to the officer, who is an accused in 2015 Kotkapura police firing case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sgpc-member-who-honoured-suspended-ig-umranangal-apologises-to-akal-takht/story-C2B2ORxiNrn0CFbHnsAMxK.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Palghar lynching: Congress links two accused in mob to BJP, saffron party denies claim||Maharashtra Congress on Thursday alleged that two of the 101 accused arrested in the Palghar lynching case are Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office-bearers and the saffron party was trying to communalise the episode for the political gain. The party also raised questions over the Centre’s alleged reluctance on enacting independent law on mob lynching despite a Supreme Court directive on the same. Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant, in a press conference on Thursday, produced documents to establish the claim that two of the Palghar lynching case accused are BJP office-bearers. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday released the list of 101 accused arrested in Palghar mob lynching case. Sawant said that accused number 61 and 65 on the list, Ishwar Nikole and Bhau Sathe respectively, are local office-bearers of the BJP and were featured on party’s official Facebook page of Dahanu circle.“The two accused were felicitated by the BJP’s local office-bearers in a programme organised during Fadnavis government’s rule in the state. We have released the pictures of the programme establishing the identity. Not only the two but even few more accused in the Palghar lynching belong to the saffron party. The party has not taken any action against the accused, ” Sawant said.Sawant also questioned why the central government is sitting on the Supreme Court directives of enactment of a special law against mob lynching.“ Former chief justices of India, Dipak Misra in July 2018 and Ranjan Gogoi in July 2019 had directed the central government to enact the special law. Why is the Centre sitting on these directives for over two years? Union home minister, who was quick enough the call Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after the Palghar lynching, has done nothing to enact this law,” he said.The BJP’s spokesperson Madhav Bhandari, however, said that the accused do not belong to their party. “Sawant’s claims are false and the Facebook page he is talking about could be fake. In fact, our allegation is that the police have booked the people who were not involved in to save the actual accused. How can there be 101 arrests when the number of people seen in the videos is not more than 50. Workers from Nationalist Congress Party and Left parties were present when the incident took place, but they have not been booked by the police,” he said. On April 16, three men — two seers and their driver — were dragged out of their vehicle outside Gadhchinchale village, located about 110 km from Palghar, and were beaten to death by a mob. The incident occurred when the victims were going from Mumbai to Surat to attend a funeral.The deceased were identified as 70-year-old Kalpvrush Giri, 35-year-old Sushil Giri and 30-year-old driver Nilesh Telgade. The seers belonged to Varanasi-based Juna Akhara and were slated to attend the last rites of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri in Surat.The gram panchayat of the village is with the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/palghar-lynching-congress-links-two-accused-in-mob-to-bjp-saffron-party-denies-claim/story-v83qlpaeGDw4uVDLCvF7OM.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||11 kids escape observation home after attacking caretakers, police||Eleven children fled from an observation home for boys at Delhi Gate in central Delhi, after allegedly attacking caretakers, private guards and police personnel on Wednesday evening, the police said. One of the boys returned to the observation home on Thursday, while the police are trying to locate and bring the others to the home, which is run by Prayas NGO, in collaboration with the Delhi government’s department of women and child development. A senior police officer, on the condition of anonymity, said that the incident took place around 7.30pm on Wednesday, when a caretaker was serving dinner to 13 children, aged over 15. They were brought from two separate correctional homes in north Delhi, to be kept in quarantine. “The children cornered and assaulted him with wooden sticks and other objects available to them. When the private security guards and another caretaker intervened, the children beat them up, vandalised some items, broke the main gate lock and fled,” the officer said. Four personnel of the fifth battalion of Delhi Armed Police tried to catch them, but the children allegedly attacked them as well and escaped. Five persons, including two caretakers, suffered minor injuries, the officer said.Amod Kanth, the founder of the NGO, said that apart from the 13 recently shifted children, there were around 20 more children aged below 15 staying at the facility for the last some months. “This home is meant only for children aged below 15. The 13 other children, who were shifted, were repeaters and hardened. They came with an intention to take advantage of the Covid-19 situation and escape. Our home manager had already requested the juvenile justice board that the older children should not be kept here. It was an unfortunate incident,” said Kanth. “Since the incident was related to juveniles, who cannot be kept in observation homes forcibly, no case can be registered. Only efforts can be made to bring them back to the home,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/11-kids-escape-observation-home-after-attacking-caretakers-police/story-SWhh3gPC1CK7XA0KwRoTCK.html
23-04-2020||City||Housing minister Jitendra Awhad tests positive||Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, confirmed sources from Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). Awhad, NCP MLA from Mumbra-Kalwa, has been admitted at Fortis Hospital, Mulund since Tuesday due to fever. He was in self-quarantine since April 13 after 14 of his staff tested positive. He had tested negative for the disease last week, but tested positive on his second test, claimed the civic body.A TMC official said, “A 54-year-old male from Thane, who is admitted at Fortis Hospital in Mulund, has tested positive for Covid-19. We checked with the hospital authorities and confirmed that it is the state housing minister. He was admitted to the hospital after suffering from high fever and breathing problems.”Awhad was first admitted to Jupiter Hospital in Thane on Tuesday and was shifted to Fortis Hospital later that night.An NCP party, worker who did not wished to be named, said, “He had high fever and breathing difficulties.”Fortis Hospital, however, refused to release any statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/housing-minister-jitendra-awhad-tests-positive/story-m6K4FQIFVwSsPtx7k5bRWP.html
23-04-2020||City||2 landlords held for forcing migrant workers to pay rent||Gurugram: Two men were arrested for allegedly forcibly demanding rent from their tenants during the lockdown in two separate instances in the Sector 53 area on Wednesday. Both the complaints were lodged by migrant workers. The police said the accused were arrested and later released on bail. Both Haryana government and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram(MCG) have issued directions stating that landlords in the city should not demand house rent for one month from migrant workers, students and paramedics. In an order issued earlier this month, the authorities had stated that if any landlord was found forcing his tenants to vacate, he would be liable for strict criminal action. The police said on Wednesday, Gulshan Kumar, a daily wage labourer from Bihar, who stays in a slum in Saraswati Kunj, Sector 53, filed a complaint, alleging that his landlord had been demanding a rent of ₹2,100 for a month and was threatening to evict his family on non-payment.In the second case, Panchu Buiya, a labourer from South 24 Parganas district in West Bengal, who stays in Saraswati Kunj near a petrol pump, said that his landlord had forcibly recovered ₹3,100 rent from him for one month. A police official privy to the investigation, requesting anonymity, said, “The labourers alleged that despite their requests that they did not have any money after losing work during the lockdown, their landlords had been demanding rent and threatening eviction. As per the directions of the authorities, the accused men were arrested and two separate FIRs were lodged against them.”The accused men were booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 384 (punishment for extortion) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at the sector 53 police station, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-landlords-held-for-forcing-migrant-workers-to-pay-rent/story-kjVBK1YFpSwCgjePrhlrjJ.html
23-04-2020||City||Nanded shrine management finds it tough to send Sikh pilgrims back||Even as Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh reiterated that his government is working to ensure the return of Sikh pilgrims stuck at Takht Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, it is turning out to be an uphill task for the shrine management to ensure passage to the devotees from various states. Bhupinder Singh Minhas, president of the Takht Sri Hazur Sahib Management Board, said, “Though the Punjab government is working to bring back the stranded pilgrims and has approached Union home minister Amit Shah and Maharashtra CM Udhav Thackeray, there is a confusion because all these things are verbal and we have not get anything in written.” “Still, we have arranged 15 buses and 15 Tempo Travelers which will leave for Punjab with nearly 1000 pilgrims aboard on Friday because the Punjab government has taken the entire responsibility of ensuring passage to them from Nanded. We have been advised by the Maharashtra government to not send the pilgrims in one go. We will be able to send them in groups”, he added.In a fresh tweet, the Punjab CM also requested his Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh counterparts Ashok Gehlot and Shivraj Chouhan to facilitate the pilgrims to travel through their states. As per the management, over 4,000 pilgrims are stranded at Nanded and are staying at serais there. “Everything we are hearing is from the online news channels. We have already spent money on booking train tickets twice for which no refund was made by the railways. We cannot afford to go back by hiring private taxis or buses,” said Kulwant Singh, a pilgrim from Amritsar.ALLOW SAFE PASSAGE TO PILGRIMSChandigarh: Punjab has requested the Maharashtra government on Thursday to allow safe passage to over 3,000 pilgrims from the state, who are stranded in Nanded due to lockdown in wake of COVID-19. An official spokesperson said the request was made by additional chief secretary, home, Satish Chandra to Maharashtra government through a letter who also informed them that pilgrims would return to the state by bus. Likewise, the governments of Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have also been requested to facilitate the hassle free return of the pilgrims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nanded-shrine-management-finds-it-tough-to-send-sikh-pilgrims-back/story-LAENwERTwvvT4pkrONQ2QP.html
23-04-2020||Gurugram||Insurance cover for mediapersons, government employees working in containment zones||The Haryana government on Thursday announced that all mediapersons, both accredited or recognised by the local press and information departments, shall be provided with a life insurance cover of ₹10 lakh against Covid-19 valid up to June 30, 2020. All government employees working in containment zones, including accredited social health activists (ASHAs), Anganwadi workers, police personnel and sanitation workers will also be provided a life insurance cover of ₹10 lakh till June 30. These measures were announced by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday, who also clarified that the benefit of life insurance cover of₹50 lakh against Covid-19 announced by the Government of India will be given to all doctors, nurses and group C and group D employees posted in Covid isolation wards, ICUs and operation theatres across the state.Khattar also extended of the deferment of payment of all outstanding dues from March 15 till May 15, 2020, towards all departments, boards, corporations and authorities. He also announced a 50% waiver of interest on all such dues and waiver of rent on buildings and shops belonging to government, panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies(ULBs) during this period.All startups working in the Startup Incubator Centre being run by the information technology department would not be charged rent from March 15 to May 15, 2020, he said.Similarly, commercial vehicles such as auto-rickshaw, motor cab, maxi cab, bus, and truck will be been given proportionate waiver of motor vehicle tax for the period from March 15 to May 15, 2020. He said that in all contracts of all government departments, this period will be considered as frozen or zero-period and the timelines for all buildings, projects or equipment supply not related to Covid-19 will be extended till May 15, 2020 without any penalty.The government also announced a 25% waiver of fixed charges for consumers of industrial and commercial electricity. Now, it has been decided that a 25% discount will also be given to those consumers whose monthly fix charge is more than ₹40,000. The remaining 75% amount of fixed charge will be taken in six equal instalments from July to December 2020. This benefit will be given only to those whose consumption is less than 50% of the average of January and February month.The CM also said that all registered farmers, arhtiyas, labourers and employees whether regular, part-time or contractual of all procurement agencies engaged in the agricultural procurement process in mandis(markets) will also get the benefit of insurance cover of ₹10 lakh till June 30, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/insurance-cover-for-mediapersons-government-employees-working-in-containment-zones/story-Yn2GIxYNwl859tSilfvmbN.html
23-04-2020||Gurugram||Haryana prohibits private schools from hiking fee, asks to charge monthly tuition fee only||The Haryana government on Thursday said that till the time the lockdown continues, private schools in the state cannot charge parents anything other than the tuition fee. The government also prohibited private schools from hiking the tuition fees or introducing hidden charges in the fee, and asked the schools to to collect the tuition fee on a monthly basis.“Private schools should only collect monthly tuition fees. Payment of other funds such as building fund, maintenance fund, entrance fee, computer fee among other additional heads should be deferred in light of the unprecedented situation due to Covid-19,” stated the education department in a letter shared with district education officers across the state on Thursday. The department has also asked schools to not introduce any change in the uniforms and books.The government order also stated that schools cannot take any punitive action against students for non-payment of fees. “Schools should abide by the rules and ensure that no student’s name is struck off the roll or students are deprived of online classes due to non-payment of fee,” stated the department. The department also said that parents could share their grievances as per Rule 158-A of Haryana School Education Rules, 2003, if schools were found not complying with the directive.Pooja Mihani, a parent, said the order had brought relief to parents, and was an improvement over the previous orders. “The April 12 order said that schools could collect the monthly fee but it did not specifically mention tuition fee or anything about fees being charged under additional heads. The new order is definitely a source of relief, especially in the current financial situation where most people are facing pay cuts,” Mihani said.While some parents welcomed the order, others have sought a concession in the fees in light of the lockdown. “Most people are facing salary cuts, business is also getting affected. In view of all this, a 50% concession in tuition fees should be given,” said Himanshu Sharma, a parent, who is also a member of a consortium of parents who had earlier written to the chief minister seeking relaxation in fee payment. Sharma also added that the government had not said anything about the annual fee.Kailash Sharma, general secretary, Haryana Abhibhavak Ekta Manch, a parents’ body, said the government had only deferred the payment of fees, and schools would charge an exorbitant fee after the lockdown.On the other hand, schools said they could face a fund crunch soon and are having trouble paying salaries. Colonel (retired) KR Pratap Singh, president, Haryana Progressive School Conference, a consortium of private schools, said schools could come under financial strain if the deferment of complete fee payment continued for long. “While the administration is talking about a deferment of fees during the lockdown and not a waiver, schools will be badly affected if the transport charges are not collected on time as schools need to pay salaries of the employees engaged in running the buses. This fee deferment cannot be prolonged for too long,” said Singh. He added that some schools had failed to pay the complete salaries to employees due to financial hardships. “Schools might be able to manage till May with difficulty, but beyond June, they won’t be able to pay salaries to their staff which might pave way for retrenchment of employees such as drivers and conductors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/haryana-prohibits-private-schools-from-hiking-fee-asks-to-charge-monthly-tuition-fee-only/story-obsyy51gVSx6AuPaQQU5LP.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||HC stays publication of first merit list for PG medical courses||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday stayed the publication of Maharashtra’s first merit list for admissions to postgraduate (PG) medical courses that was to be published on Friday.Justice SJ Kathawalla passed the order on separate petitions filed by two PG aspirants through advocate Madhav Thorat. One of the petitioners, Dr Rajdeep Deshmukh, has sought admission to a non-surgical PG course through ‘physically handicapped’ category, as he is affected by congenital deformity, leading to the shortening of index and middle fingers of both his hands and toes.Dr Deshmukh moved HC after he was declared ineligible for admissions to the course. He contended that despite the deformity, his functional capacity of upper limbs is very strong and he is able to carry out all the routine activities without any difficulty.“In other words he does not have any functional impairment of upper limbs inasmuch as there is only shortening of the fingers and not absence of limb or fingers,” said his petition.Thorat pointed out that Dr Deshmukh was admitted to the MBBS (Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery) course through physically handicapped category, pursuant to the order passed by the HC. He further pointed out that the court allowed him to pursue medical education in spite of the deformity in upper limbs after experts said he can undertake general practice and can also choose non-surgical branch for PG studies.The other petitioner, Dr Abhinav Bhute, has challenged the government resolution (GR) issued by the medical education department on March 19 last year, granting only 4 ℅ of the additional weightage to in-service candidates who have rendered service in rural areas, instead of the 10℅ weightage given by the Medical Council of India (MCI).Thorat pointed out that the MCI had in April 2018 issued a notification granting 10℅ additional weightage per year of service, subject to cap of 30℅, to candidates serving in tribal areas, difficult terrains and rural areas.Bhute has served in rural areas for six years and accordingly sought 30℅ additional weightage last year. But when the department refused to give him the 30% weightage, he moved HC. The court had on March 12 last year directed the state government to extend additional weightage as contemplated by MCI notification to in-service candidates who have served in rural areas. But despite the HC’s direction, the department has refused to give the 30% weightage to Bhute, Thorat added.After assistant government pleader sought time to respond to the petitions, justice Kathawalla posted the petitions for further hearing on Monday and till then stayed release of the first merit list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-stays-publication-of-first-merit-list-for-pg-medical-courses/story-iw8EqZ8iKHSEeVNYOaYIPJ.html
23-04-2020||Gurugram||Residents of Mayfield Garden’s N-Block complain of poor water supply||Residents Mayfield Garden’s N-Block, in Sector 51, complained of poor quality water supply over the last 15 days due to a leak in the water pipeline, which they feat might cause health issues. “We are getting dirty water as there is a leakage in the underground pipes, which are more than 25-years-old. The pumps, valves and pipes are out of shape, and need to be replaced. The immediate need is to rectify the problem of poor water quality,” said Dharamvir Yadav, a resident.Canal water is supplied to Mayfield Garden by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). The supply to the underground tank is distributed locally through a gridded distribution system. Locals said that a number of deficiencies in water, power and road infrastructure are yet to be fixed, due to which a takeover by the municipal corporation is pending.Colonel (retd) Santpal Raghav, a government-appointed administrator of the colony, said that he has been trying to resolve the matter since it arose and attributed the delay to the lockdown. “I would also like to point out that this problem is with only a few houses and the issue is being blown out of proportion. I have escalated the matter to government authorities as well,” said Raghav.Inder Singh, a resident, said the water supplied to some houses in N-Block has a foul smell and could not be used for drinking or other uses. “A group of residents on Wednesday had tried to check the fault themselves, with help of few repair workers, but could not resolve it,” said Singh.Raghav said that only 180 of the 700 families in the colony had paid their full maintenance dues. “Around 320 families have made partial payments and 100 don’t pay at all. In such a situation, how am I going to maintain the colony?” he said. Residents have contacted the authorities and the town and planning department, seeking action against the developer, for fixing basic amenities in the complex.A representative of the developer said that they have no role to play in this matter as maintenance is being done by the RWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-of-mayfield-garden-s-n-block-complain-of-poor-water-supply/story-GeghNMMYOSgErdrybgKadO.html
23-04-2020||Gurugram||Cops rescue 150 daily wage workers being ferried in trucks; 5 arrested||The Gurugram police, on Thursday morning, arrested five persons from Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway for allegedly ferrying more than 150 daily wage workers in trucks from Ludhiana in Punjab despite restrictions on movement within or outside the state amid the ongoing lockdown for Covid-19, said the police.According to the police, the two trucks were transporting 75 daily wage labourers each to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. A sticker was pasted on the truck glass window that read, “Agriculture Farmer Pesticides” to avoid any checking, said the police.The police intercepted one of the two trucks near the Jhajjar border on KMP Expressway around 5am after receiving a tip-off. On checking the truck, the workers were found to be sitting inside with a canvas sheet placed over them to mislead the police.The police said there was no social distancing maintained and none of them had any masks. At least 75 workers were rescued and three persons, including the driver, were arrested from the first truck, said Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police (Manesar).Another truck that was half a kilometre behind dropped the workers and his two co-drivers at KMP on seeing the police, and took a U-turn and drove off on the wrong side of the road, said the police. The police also said all the workers and the two co-drivers ran into a field. However, the police team chased and caught them.Saharan also said among those found in the truck, there were four women and three children.The workers were employed with private contractors, real estate developers, and electronic repair units in Ludhiana, the police said. They were allegedly abandoned by their employers after the lockdown was announced, said the police.The truck drivers had taken ₹2,000 each from the labourers and, while on their, way threatened them and extorted another ₹1,000 from them to ensure their safe passage.The police said the labourers were from Aurangabad in Bihar and Gorakhpur and Mahrajganj in Uttar Pradesh, nearly 1,200 kilometres away from Ludhiana, the police said.Saharan said that these workers used to live in Jeevan Nagar in Ludhiana. With the outstation bus and train services suspended, the truck drivers offered to drop them to their home towns in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, in exchange for money. “The drivers during the questioning said that they were charging the labourers only for the fuel cost and other expenses during the 1,200km journey. They wanted the money to pay the EMIs of the trucks and due to the lockdown they were under immense financial pressure,” he said.The police placed all the labourers and drivers under quarantine and distributed masks, gloves, and sanitisers among them. They were given breakfast and space was provided to them at the Manesar police lines to rest in accordance with the social distancing norms, the police said.Saharan said the workers revealed that after the lockdown was announced their employers had asked them to vacate the factories where they usually lived. Thus, they were heading back to their home town. “We will write to the officials in Ludhiana to ensure strict checking at the checkpoints, he said.A case under sections 384 (extortion), 188 (Disobedience), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270, 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and sections 51 and 51B of Disaster Management Act, 2005 at the Farukhnagar police station was filed .Police commissioner Muhammad Akil said that all the workers will be sent back to Ludhiana soon. “We have provided them with space to rest. Food is being prepared in the police station for them. Their medical check-ups are being conducted,” he said.Meanwhile, the police team of Sohna on Thursday intercepted an essential services trucks transporting six passengers. The passengers, mostly daily wage labourers, were trying to get back to their native places as they were stranded in the city. “We intercepted the vehicles and arrested them from the spot,” said Saharan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-rescue-150-daily-wage-workers-being-ferried-in-trucks-5-arrested/story-ojir6LU2j4qjIAF7o9oZqJ.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Aspirants may put foreign university plans on hold due to Covid-19||The Covid-19 lockdown has dampened the hopes of aspirants who want to study abroad. Many students who got their admission letters from the universities are still awaiting dates for start of their semesters. Aspirants are also apprehensive about classes going online.“I wanted to study abroad to experience their teaching methodology and their focus on practical projects over theory. However, this year most universities might go for online classes. If that happens, I would apply for the course next year,” said a 22-year-old student who aims to bag a seat in the MBA programme at George Washington University. She is currently pursuing her graduation in management from the University of Mumbai and has been saving to study abroad for the past two years by working part-time. “Meanwhile, I will also try applying for AIMS Test for Management Admissions (ATMA) and see if I can get through a good management institute in India,” she added. Simranjeet Singh Chawla, 26, from Borivli, has been accepted to the Master’s in Data Science course at the RMIT University in Melbourne for the July intake. While no official word has come from the university on the semester dates, he is weighing his options. “Even though my admission is confirmed, I’m still waiting for an official word on lectures and start of the semester from the university. If they are organising only online lectures for this semester then I might defer my admit to the February intake,” said Chawla. According to experts, students will take tougher calls about their prospects in the next few weeks. “Most students would want to experience studying abroad in the real sense and won’t go for online classes. I feel more students will take a break from studies this year and focus on getting work experience, if at all, or try to get through the same course next year,” said Abhijeet Kumar, a career guidance coach who runs a private firm in the city. Some students, however, are still hopeful of a shift in scenario by October. “I am scheduled to head to the UK in October on a scholarship. So far, I have not received any intimation of the academic year being postponed. There’s certainly a chance that they might move classes online but that won’t change much for me,” said Anish Gawande,23, a Rhodes scholar, scheduled to be at the Oxford University from October 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/aspirants-may-put-foreign-university-plans-on-hold-due-to-covid-19/story-2KoT6ZLjwe82KB5OrlvKcJ.html
23-04-2020||City||Muslims in Nuh asked to stay indoors this Ramzan, not hold gatherings||With the month of Ramzan expected to begin on April 25, Muslims in the district will stay confined to their homes due to the nationwide lockdown. Due to the restrictions in place thanks to Covid-19, residents will stay indoors as they fast and offer special prayers.Arshad, a Nuh resident, said that Ramzan this year was going to be unlike any other that he had seen so far. “Every year, there is a lot of excitement for Ramzan. People step out to purchase special food items and meet and greet each other. Due to the unprecedented circumstances, the mood is dull, but we will pray at home for the betterment of society,” Arshad said.He added that the ulema (religious scholars) and elders of Nuh had collectively decided that the lockdown would be observed in accordance with the rules. Taraweeh (special prayers offered every night of Ramzan), an important aspect of Ramzan, will also be offered at home. “Every year, mosques are brimming with people, especially during the Taraweeh. We have been asked to offer Taraweeh at home. There will no gathering of any kind,” Arshad, who goes by his first name, added.Earlier this week, the Nuh administration met religious leaders and asked them to reach out to the Muslim community and reinforce the message of abiding by restrictions during Ramzan. The administration has assured residents that electricity supply will be maintained for the whole day and water will be supplied at homes through tankers.Mufti Zahid Hussain Qasmi of Nuh’s Badi Jama Masjid has appealed to residents and asked them to stay at home and observe the ritual fasts. “We are currently facing the coronavirus disease and the only way of escaping it is to maintain physical distance. No one needs to step out of their homes. People should offer Taraweeh prayers at home just as they are offering prayers five times a day,” Qasmi, who also asked people to pray for the eradication of Covid-19, said.Khalid Izak, Maulana, Darul Uloom Mewat, has advised residents to break their fast with family members since no Iftar gathering will be held. “This year, people will not be gathering together to break their fasts. People will be doing small Iftars at their respective homes. Gathering of people at mosques and other places for Iftar will not happen this time,” Khalid said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/muslims-in-nuh-asked-to-stay-indoors-this-ramzan-not-hold-gatherings/story-2e05tQPKX77i025JiO8chN.html
23-04-2020||City||Gurugram: Two new Covid-19 cases from Sector 39, district inches closer to 50||Gurugram: On Thursday, two persons from Gurugram’s Sector 39 tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the total count of infected persons to 47. Of these, 35 have recovered and 12 are undergoing treatment. Dr Jaswant Singh Punia, chief medical officer of the district, said that the two patients -- a man and a woman, who are in their thirties – had come in contact with a Sars-Cov-2 patient who had tested positive from the area earlier.So far, a total of five Covid-19 cases have been reported from Sector 39. This is the third highest from a single area after Sohna with 15 cases and Pataudi with seven cases. All the three areas have been declared as containment zones. Health officials said they have increased surveillance in Sector 39, with the rise in the number of cases. On Thursday, the district administration increased the number of containment zones to 24 from six. This number includes 10 containment zones in Gurugram block, 11 in Sohna block and three in Pataudi.The district health department said it has been collecting 200-300 samples for Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) from across the city. From Gurugram, over 3,953 people have been tested so far, of which 3,790 tested negative while test results are awaited for 116 samples. More than 7,000 people have completed their quarantine period of 14 days while 170 are under surveillance at government-run quarantine facilities, said officials. Overall, across Haryana, 270 cases have been reported, out of which 170 have recovered, they added.According to the state health bulletin, the recovery rate of Covid-19 cases is 62.96% in the state while the fatality rate is 1.11% as only three deaths have been reported in the state, one each from Ambala, Karnal and Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-two-new-covid-19-cases-from-sector-39-district-inches-closer-to-50/story-Wy27emBpfkhS2HGhVWsLmM.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||42% Class 11, 12 students review career options in view of pandemic||With a lot of uncertainty surrounding future educational prospects, 42% of Class 11 and 12 students surveyed from across the country said they are reconsidering their career plans in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.The findings are part of a survey, wherein a total of 47,560 students from across the country were surveyed, recently conducted by Mindler, a career counselling and guidance platform. Given the postponement of entrance exams and deferred admissions in international universities, many students are now rethinking their career plans, revealed the survey.While 19% of the respondents had plans to go abroad, 78% said they were considering changes in their plans. “The ongoing pandemic has triggered scepticism about travelling overseas. Students, and their parents, are perhaps the most worried about attending an overseas university in such times,” read the report. Around 55% students said they would cancel their plans to study abroad altogether while 35% said they were planning to defer the plans for a year. 10% students said they were looking at other options. Nearly half the students who had planned to study abroad intended to go to the USA and UK.Students said there was a lot of anxiety and uncertainty due to the outbreak owing to which they were restless. Nearly half the students surveyed said they spent most of their time in procrastination and lethargy. With 66% of students showing positive inclination towards online entrances, it is a relief to universities as students seem comfortable with the idea of online evaluations. 79% students said they would be comfortable with online interviews if the need arises.Prateek Bhargava, Founder and CEO of Mindler, said, “While the ongoing crisis will have a long-lasting impact on every sector, for students and online education platforms the need of the hour is to give them the right direction so that their career plans are not disrupted. The end goal for all stakeholders would be to make sure that the learning process continues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/42-class-11-12-students-review-career-options-in-view-of-pandemic/story-KSDty0pnJ971edZA0aa0RJ.html
23-04-2020||City||Punjab ramps up corona testing, but still behind national average||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has ramped up the Covid-19 testing, but it is still way below the national average.The state, where the Covid-19 positive count rose to 287 on Thursday, has more than doubled the number of tests conducted to trace the coronavirus infection cases in the past two weeks amid a push for more testing. Against 108 samples tested per million of the population as on April 9, the figure stood at 266 tests per million on April 22, an increase of 147%, according to the comparative testing data of various states compiled by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the state health department.Despite the increase, the state’s testing numbers are not just below the national average of 344 tests per million of the population, it also trails behind some state experiencing similar-scale or lower outbreaks such as Haryana, Odisha, and Uttarakhand.Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Anurag Agarwal said the state was doing testing in a very scientific manner through extensive contract tracing as 80% of the positive cases were asymptomatic. “The situation in SBS Nagar and SAS Nagar (earlier known as Nawanshahr and Mohali, respectively) has been controlled through this strategy. We have increased testing substantially in the last one week. As testing capacity has got enhanced, more testing will be done in the coming days,” he said. Of the 7,716 samples tested so far, 3.6% have come out Covid-19 positive.STATE AHEAD INITIALLY, THEN FELL BEHINDPunjab was testing more samples than the national average till about 10 days ago as the number of Covid-19 tests conducted per million of the population stood at 151 against the national average of 138 on April 12. However, Punjab then fell behind as other states ramped up their testing faster subsequently. By April 22, neighbouring Haryana’s number of tests per million people climbed to 568 from 108 as on April 9 – an increase of 426%. In Odisha and Karnataka also, the number of tests per million have increased by 477% and 245%, respectively. Besides Punjab, other major states where the count of tests for the virus per million inhabitants is lower than the national average are Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and West Bengal. With 1,543 tests per million people, Delhi has tested a higher proportion of its population than any other state as per the ICMR data.Dr KK Talwar, former director of the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, said the state’s testing capacity was very low to start with but has been increased substantially since. “There are five approved government and private labs in the state and the process for approval of some others is underway. Constant efforts are being made to scale it up further. Pool testing will also improve the numbers but we are limiting it only to green zones,” said the renowned expert who is advising the state government on the health sector.44% TESTS IN ONLY 3 DISTRICTSThe three districts of Jalandhar, SAS Nagar and Ludhiana, two of these are among the hotspots with large outbreaks, accounted for 44% of the Covid-19 tests conducted until April 22. Of these, 1,364 tests have been conducted in Jalandhar where eight containment zones have been identified to curb the virus spread. Similarly, 954 samples have been tested in SAS Nagar from where 62, or say 22%, of the total 283 positive cases in the state have been reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-ramps-up-corona-testing-but-still-behind-national-average/story-H26Qf6lXkZ2cBwOrCmzwEK.html
23-04-2020||Patna||Additional 7.4 lakh people given foodgrains under PMGKAY in Bihar: Ram Vilas Paswan||Union Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Thursday said he has allotted foodgrains to an additional 7.4 lakh people in Bihar for free of cost distribution under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY). Under this PMGKAY scheme, the Centre is providing 5 kg of foodgrains per person free of cost for three months. This is over and above 5 kg per person per month foodgrains distributed under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) to over 80 crore people in the country for Rs 2-3 per kg. Only 8.57 crore beneficiaries have been brought so far under the NFSA in Bihar, as against 8.71 crore people who are eligible, Paswan said in a tweet.The minister said he had already communicated this gap of 14 lakh to the state government on April 17. The Bihar government, Paswan said, has sent a beneficiary list of an additional 7.4 lakh people and requested to allot free foodgrains under the PMGKAY scheme.The minister said he immediately sanctioned allotment of foodgrains for these 7.4 lakh people. Paswan also requested Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to include the 14 lakh people who still do not feature in the beneficiary list of the NFSA, so that they can get the subsidised foodgrains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/additional-7-4-lakh-people-given-foodgrains-under-pmgkay-in-bihar-ram-vilas-paswan/story-ve25tpbmFQKyMiJHCUjbPL.html
23-04-2020||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Teachers cry foul over DIOS order making virtual teaching mandatory||Teachers of government-aided high schools and intermediate colleges of Prayagraj affiliated to UP Board are up in arms against a recent order issued by District Inspector of Schools (DIOS) warning of disciplinary action and adverse entry in service record of teachers who fails to form WhatsApp groups and virtually teach students during the lockdown.The teachers have threatened to move court against the order if it is not withdrawn.The DIOS-Prayagraj RN Vishwakarma, in a order dated April 21, had ordered teachers to connect all their students to a specially formed WhatsApp group and start teaching them through the medium from April 20. He had also conveyed that henceforth senior education department officials would also join these WhatApp and social media groups and monitor the teaching process.“Teachers who do not have smartphones can still guide and teach students through the regular mobile phones that they have. They can even motivate students to undertake self study and help them with support of their teaching colleagues who have smartphones. Online or virtual teaching of students is not optional for teachers but mandatory during the lockdown,” said Vishwakarma.All teachers were instructed to strictly adhere to their virtual teaching schedules.The order has irked the teachers who point out that it mistrusts them and also threatens them of adverse entry in their service record for failing to take interest in their work and duties while also talks of disciplinary action through the managers and management of their respective institutions.“The order is completely inappropriate and unjust. Many of our colleagues, especially the older ones do not have smart mobile phones and are not very comfortable on WhatsApp and social media etc. Moreover, we have a definite service rules that govern us and there is no provision that bounds us to teach virtually in it. If the order is not withdrawn, we may even move court against it,” said a senior teacher of a government-aided school in Prayagraj unhappy with the DIOS order.“Majority of teachers are themselves voluntarily taking virtual or online classes and such a threatening order is unacceptable. I urge officials not to intimidate the teachers or we will be forced to kick-start a demonstration to protest such attitude once the lockdown gets over,” said Suresh Kumar Tripathi, Teacher MLC (Allahabad-Jhansi)“Officials of state education department are on one hand sending misleading reports to the state government to earn a pat on their backs while on the other they are sending letters to school principals and college managements and threatening action against the teachers. All teachers are trying their best to help students in these trying times and if still any action is initiated against teachers, it would be strongly opposed and if needed we will also move court,” said Lalmani Dwivedi, state general secretary, UP Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh (Thakurai faction)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/prayagraj-teachers-cry-foul-over-dios-order-making-virtual-teaching-mandatory/story-WSkZljHFR0MvoXrNHzf2SM.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Indian researchers set to study Covid-19 link with loss of smell, taste||India has joined a global scientific consortium to draw a link between Covid-19 and a change or loss of sense of smell or taste – anosmia and dysgeusia – following tests from infected patients and observations of clinicians from various parts of the world since the outbreak of the pandemic.Four Indian research institutes have collaborated with the Global Consortium of Chemosensory Researchers (GCCR) to collect data via an online survey (http://gcchemosensr.org/) to find the connection between chemical senses and the novel coronavirus. The investigation will determine if anosmia is a reliable ‘early indicator’ of the disease, and when and how the change or loss of sense occurs. The Indian collaborators are also working on a self-assessment test to help monitor change/loss of smell and taste.Indian collaborators include National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TFIR), Hyderabad, Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology-Delhi, Coimbature-based Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences, and CSIR- Central Scientific Instruments Organisation.Researchers said several studies from countries like China, Italy, UK, Belgium, France, Spain and the United States have shown a connection between changes in smell and taste and Covid-19 infection. In April, Harvard researchers in a yet-to-be peer-reviewed study in bioRxiv suggested that the novel coronavirus may be interacting with a certain type of cell inside the olfactory epithelium (tissue inside the nasal cavity) and not the actual neurons involved in processing smell.Shannon Olsson, who heads the Naturalist-Inspired Chemical Ecology group at the NCBS which is a centre of the TIFR, and is a collaborator, said the rate of occurrence for loss of smell and taste, however, varies widely in these studies, possibly because they used different methods.“Many other factors affect the senses of smell and taste such as other respiratory illnesses, medicines, lifestyle choices (smoking), genetics, and environment. These also differ within and between countries. Our survey has several questions designed to try and separate these factors,” said Olsson.She added, “To make the picture even more complicated, there are also genetic variations in Covid-19 viruses themselves in different regions, which could potentially change how they impact smell and taste.”The India team has translated the questionnaire into Hindi, Tamil, Malayalam, Marathi, Kannada, Gujarati, Punjabi, Bengali, and Urdu, with more languages planned. The objective of the common survey translated in local languages, said collaborators, is to compare the results across borders, find country-specific factors and support policy decisions for India and other countries worldwide.GCCR comprises over 600 clinicians, neurobiologists, data scientists, cognitive scientists, sensory researchers, and technicians from 50 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/indian-researchers-set-to-study-covid-19-link-with-loss-of-smell-taste/story-UBaUT7sf8VgYuoz9t2WeJM.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC starts mobile testing vans for sample collection of suspected Covid-19 patients||With many housing societies not allowing visitors inside their premises even for home testing for the coronavirus, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation(BMC) has now introduced mobile testing vans. These vans will be operated by private labs in the city and can collect swab samples at the gates of housing societies. Two private labs have so far signed up to provide this facility. The first such mobile testing van did a round at Vikhroli earlier this week. The vans will be requisitioned by the ward officers depending upon the requirement in the area. Civic officials said these vans can also be stationed at selected locations and those given appointments for testing can reach there in different time slots. Apart from this, BMC has three other alternatives like getting tested at private labs of civic-run hospitals, representatives collecting samples from homes and drive-through testing which has been started at 18 public parking lots. A BMC official said, “If going from gate to gate is too much, we can also decide a central location in a particular area where several people can be tested. Each person can be given a time slot for testing. With these vans, we can also go to different hospitals for collecting samples and getting them delivered.”P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We are offering mobile van testing as an option for those wanting to make use of it. We can collect samples from entry and exit points of housing societies.”Meanwhile, SRL Diagnostics, associated with BMC, that has started mobile van testing in a statement said, “Mobile-testing facility is being used to fast-track sample collection for Covid-19 testing. Using this mechanism we would save time and energy of both patients and our personnel. The vehicle can be taken to any part of the city without much difficulty and thereby also ensures easy access...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-starts-mobile-testing-vans-for-sample-collection-of-suspected-covid-19-patients/story-qMo37GsTAVZs5aTNolHkNK.html
23-04-2020||City||GNDEC organises poster-making competition to celebrate Earth Day||To mark the Earth Day celebrations, School of Architecture of Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC) organised an online poster-making competition for its students. The aim of the competition was to pay tribute to the mother Earth and sensitise students about climate change and global warming. The college observed the 50th anniversary of Earth Day by spreading awareness among its faculty and students regarding environment protection and planet conservation.GNDEC principal Sehijpal Singh said, “During the contest, students showcased their skills and demonstrated the present-day scenario besides suggesting steps to preserve nature.” They also emphasised on using the environment-friendly architecture to stimulate people in the right direction, he added.The winners of the competition are Anudesh Saini, Jaismeen Kaur and Nitika Pathania, who bagged the first, second and third positions, respectively. The principal appreciated the efforts of the students. He also encouraged them to continue taking steps towards saving the planet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gndec-organises-poster-making-competition-to-celebrate-earth-day/story-qMuQw5HFZcYP4YnXhDYbhO.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 recovered couple says didn’t tell kin about the infection||A month after recovering from Covid-19, the first couple in Mumbai to be diagnosed has kept their illness and recovery a secret from relatives, fearing stigma. The Andheri-based couple spent 14 days in Kasturba Hospital and have recovered completely.The 70-year-old man and with his 69-year-old wife were diagnosed with Covid-19 on March 11. They were among those tested following contact tracing of the first patient from Pune. The couple told their son and daughter, both of whom live abroad, that they’d tested positive, but did not disclose this information to other family members.When the couple was admitted, there were 20 beds in the ward, but more were added in the 14 days that the husband and wife spent in Kasturba Hospital. The 70-year-old, who has a history of diabetes and hypertension, said he hadn’t felt afraid until the 11th day, when his condition deteriorated. “My wife had recovered earlier than me so she was shifted outside. I thought I would recover soon. But suddenly, I started vomiting. I thought I wouldn’t survive,” he said, adding that hospital staffers looked out for him when he was feeling low. The most unsettling day was when a Covid-positive patient passed away. “There was sudden noise in the ward,” he recalled. “I inquired with a nurse. She told me that a 65-year-old man had succumbed to the infection in the isolation cabin next to mine. A cold chill ran down my spine,” he said.The couple was discharged on March 24, after testing negative for the virus. Back home in Andheri, they isolated themselves for another 14 days. “The domestic help didn’t come and we were too weak to cook. So our neighbours provided all the help,” he said.More than a month after their recovery, the couple are yet to tell their extended family of their illness. “I come from a village where people don’t understand this disease is curable so I haven’t told them we were infected with Covid-19. Our family members will be stigmatised,” said the man, who is the first of his family to settle in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-recovered-couple-says-didn-t-tell-kin-about-the-infection/story-oPc8fnAw8bXdN3tJ8s5wyO.html
23-04-2020||City||Mohali admn bans sale of liquor, tobacco amid Covid-19 outbreak||In a bid to contain and prevent of the spread of Covid-19, the district administration prohibited the sale of liquor and tobacco.Deputy commissioner and chairperson of District Disaster Management Authority, Girish Dayalan, said the decision was taken to avoid community outbreak. He said it had been ordered that spitting in public places will be prohibited and any violation will invite criminal proceedings under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-admn-bans-sale-of-liquor-tobacco-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-QnSXkyOjoQqemEuf3IoJvM.html
23-04-2020||Bangalore||1 Covid-19 death, 18 new cases in Karnataka, partial lockdown relaxations come into force||Results of over 3,000 random samples tested in ten coronavirus-free districts in Karnataka so far have returned negative results, the government said on Thursday as one more death was reported and 18 people tested positive for the contagion elsewhere. With the latest updates, the toll due to COVID-19 in the state has risen to 18 while the total cases to 445. The day saw the partial lockdown relaxations, allowing certain activities including in IT and ITES sectors outside COVID-19 containment areas, coming into effect that also led to traffic snarls in parts of the city. Joining states like Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka has made it mandatory for pharmacies to maintain contact details of customers who purchase drugs used for influenza like illness, the government said. Ten districts in the state so far continue to remain “corona free” and the government had asked the officials there to collect at least 100 samples each and screen them for the virus, Minister S Suresh Kumar, who is the spokesperson for COVID-19 in Karnataka said. “So far in 10 districts, 4,631 samples have been collected. Among them positives are nil so far. Negatives are 3,146, results awaited are 1,485,” he told reporters here. Late on Thursday, official sources said a 75-year old woman, who was among the 18 new COVID cases, died at a hospital in Mangaluru. Hailing from Bantwal, she had history of hypertension, stroke and pneumonia. Earlier, the health department bulletin said ten of the new cases were from Bengaluru Urban district, as its total infections breached the century mark and stood at 101. Fourteen patients were discharged after recovery on Thursday, taking the total number of people recovered to 145, the bulletin said adding there were 283 active cases in the state. Responding to question, Additional Chief Secretary- Health and Family Welfare Department Jawaid Akhtar said about 62 per cent of the patients who have tested positive and undergoing treatment in the state were asymptomatic. Among the 18 cases reported on Thursday, nine are contacts of a 54-year-old man, a labourer with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), who tested positive on Wednesday, while the other is contact of another patient earlier tested positive, here. Others are two each from Vijayapura, Hubballi in Dharwad district and Mandya; and one each from Bantwala in Dakshina Kannada district and Kalaburagi. In all, 17 out of the 18 fresh cases, including 13 men, are contacts of patients already tested positive, while contact of a woman from Vijayapura was being traced. Most number of cases have been reported in Bengaluru Urban district (101) followed by Mysuru (88) and Belagavi (43). As many as 2,798 samples were tested on Thursday, taking the total to 32,122 so far and of this 28,174 reported negative with the day’s tally at 2,750. A slum in Hongasandra municipal ward in the city has become a COVID-19 hotspot and has been completely sealed after some people contracted the coronavirus from a migrant labourer. Kumar also said the state government has issued a notification making it mandatory for chemists and Druggists to maintain a list of customers who purchased certain drugs used for Influenza Like Illness or Severe Acute Respiratory Infection along with their contact details. Earlier, governments in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Odisha have issued such advisories to chemists in their states in a bid to ensure that people are not hiding symptoms of coronavirus. As the relaxations in the lockdown came into effect, officials sources said Information Technology and IT Enabled Services (ITES) companies, that have been allowed to function, will work out the essential minimum staff requirement and mobilise them. Besides these, certain construction activities, manufacturing of packaging materials, courier services, ice cream and juice shops, flour and dal mills, recharge facilities for pre-paid mobile connections, shops of educational books for students are among the services that figured in the relaxations announced. All these activities will be permitted only outside COVID-19 containment zones, the government has made it clear. As parts of the city witnessed large scale traffic movement, opposition Congress criticised the government, accusing it of proper planning. “Announcement of partial relief to ease Lockdown by @BSYBJP has created chaos in #Bengaluru today. Massive traffic jams are reported across city with confusions & no proper guidelines. This shows lack of co-ordination in Governance with improper planning,” it tweeted. Meanwhile, taking into consideration inconvenience faced by renal patients in view of 23 government hospitals offering dialysis services having been designated COVID-19 facilities, it has been decided to use 45 private hospitals for them as per the cost prescribed under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka scheme. The government has also issued a circular for resuming immunization services at all health facilities except in containment zones and follow strict infection prevention and control measures and social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/1-covid-19-death-18-new-cases-in-karnataka-partial-lockdown-relaxations-come-into-force/story-ve2N1mKQmN4tSsRk8ph9QK.html
23-04-2020||City||7K families in Thane get food to break Ramzan fast||With holy month of Ramzan beginning on Thursday, members of All Faith Organisation in Thane distributed food and essentials among 7,000 families at Rabodi in Thane. Many families are daily wage workers and are finding it difficult to survive during the lockdown.“It is essential to have nutritional food during Ramzan. Very few can afford fruits or dates. We all contributed and provided these families dates, fruits, rice pulses and lentils that will help to have healthy meals and also essential to break the fast,” said Ranjit Kwatra, a resident of Thane, and member of All Faith Organisation.They will reach out to these families after a fortnight and give them more provisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7k-families-in-thane-get-food-to-break-ramzan-fast/story-1bbDWGPLuuknxA2xybcQsL.html
23-04-2020||City||4 FIRs against Arnab Goswami in Punjab, complaint in HP||Batala/Ferozepur/Shimla: Congress leaders lodged police complaints against journalist Arnab Goswami at five different places in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh on Thursday for allegedly inciting communal hatred in the Palghar lynching case and using derogatory language against Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Four of these FIRs were filed in Punjab, whereas another complaint was submitted at Shimla in Himachal Pradesh. The Batala police in Punjab registered a case against the TV channel editor on a formal complaint filed by District Congress Committee president Roshan Joseph who accused Arnab Goswami of creating disharmony between two different communities through remarks made in his programme.In Abohar, Harmahinder Singh, chairman of freedom fighter cell, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, complained to police late last night. Fazilka senior superintendent of police Harjit Singh said that based on the complaint, a case was registered against Goswami under sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 295-A (malicious acts intended to outrage the religious feeling of any class) and 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Party leaders also filed complaints in Fatehgarh Churian and Rupnagar.Earlier, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh condemned Goswami for his remarks against the Congress president. “Ridiculous attack by Arnab Goswami on Sonia Gandhi Ji in derogatory language is totally shameful and unacceptable. She was 22-yr-old when she came to India and has been living here for 52 years of which she has dedicated most of her life to the service of the country,” he posted on Twitter.In HP, senior Congress leaders, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and state Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore also filed a complaint with the police for registration of an FIR against Goswami. Besides making derogatory remarks against the Congress chief, Goswami tried to set off a wave of communal riots in the country through his provocative remarks, they alleged, demanding strict action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-firs-against-arnab-goswami-in-punjab-complaint-in-hp/story-wj4IW6kyMjrqDv1vcCojQK.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown: Kalyan society places chairs for each flat to collect essentials, minimise contact||To ensure minimal contact in times of the pandemic, a society in Kalyan (East) has come up with an innovative solution. The 13-storey Vivaan Heights has numbered chairs as per the flat numbers and lined them in the society’s lobby. Delivery persons are asked to leave the essential items on the chair from where the members can collect it. The building has a total of 48 flats. Dr Umesh Kapuskar, chairman of the society, said that they have enforced the system since the lockdown was announced. “This way, we do not allow any outsider to enter the building premises,” said Kapuskar adding that they have also closed one of the two entrances of the building. Kapuskar, who practices in Kalyan, said that the building committee collectively arrived at this decision when the state government had announced the lockdown. He also said that most of the members have not left the building premises since the lockdown was imposed. Shreejith Nair, who resides on the fifth floor of the tower said that the system has helped in minimising contact. “Milk pouches and newspapers are left on the chairs in the morning and can be collected by individual members later. It is similar for other deliveries too,” Nair said. As of Sunday night, the Kalyan-Dombivili municipal corporation has registered 69 positive Covid-19 cases and two deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-kalyan-society-places-chairs-for-each-flat-to-collect-essentials-minimise-contact/story-EFiR3aIK2YOokICw3ZcMSJ.html
23-04-2020||City||Punjab youth devp board to donate 1,000 PPE kits across state||The chairman of the Punjab Youth Development Board, Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, on Thursday distributed certified Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits to healthcare workers at USPC Jain Charitable Hospital here. Bindra said that under the guidance of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and with the support of various non-governmental organisations (NGOs), the association will donate around 1,000 kits across the state.He said that during these difficult times, it’s the doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers at the forefront who are protecting the people of Punjab by risking their own lives. The Punjab Youth Development Board is committed for the welfare and development of the youth and people of the state, he said. Bindra further said that the hospital staff, after getting protection by PPE kits, will carry out their duty with more confidence. He also appealed to the corporate houses to support the government in this time of crisis. According to the association chairman, the board had also distributed kits at Baba Deep Singh Gurudwara Sahib and Shri Krishna Charitable Hospital earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-youth-devp-board-to-donate-1-000-ppe-kits-across-state/story-IV3eWcKm23I6EVFsDzTNzK.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||2,000 students stranded in Rajasthan amid coronavirus lockdown plead to Maharashtra government for help||Around 2,000 students from Maharashtra who are stranded in Kota, Rajasthan, have pleaded with the state government to help them return home. The Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Madhya Pradesh (MP) government have already made provisions to bring back students stuck in the coaching capital of India.On behalf of the students, 18-year-old Aditi Thorat from Solapur has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray as well as other ministers and legislators. Students have also been sending messages on social media to the state authorities to take a cue from the UP and MP governments.“The number of cases in Kota has been on the rise. We are staying in hostels and paying guest accommodations where we interact with mess and other staff. We are scared of contracting the disease,” said Thorat, who is in Kota to prepare for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). Every year, thousands of students from different parts of the country go to Kota to prepare for various competitive exams. With the nation under lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, students have not been able to return home.Last week, the UP government sent around 300 buses to retrieve students stuck in Kota, and soon after, the MP government followed suit. The Maharashtra government has made no such announcements yet.“The situation is becoming grimmer every day. I stay at a paying guest accommodation and since all mess facilities are shut, my roommates and I are not able to get proper food. We have been surviving on biscuits and packaged food. We hope the Maharashtra government comes to our rescue,” said 18-year-old Om Ghadling from Buldhana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-000-students-stranded-in-kota-plead-for-govt-help/story-nKgatvt5wXJSb7TO7bUGNI.html
23-04-2020||City||Now, apply for IGNOU online exams by May 15||The Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has extended the last date for accepting online examination forms without late fee for its June term end examination (TEE) from April 30 to May 15. This is subject to validity of registration in the programme amid the Covid-19 lockdown. The learner support services at all regional centres/ learner support centres across the country have also been stopped till May 3 to contain the spread of Covid-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-apply-for-ignou-online-exams-by-may-15/story-IJdzkALsIf5ZPwIogBJqeP.html
23-04-2020||City||Phone used to record video of 3 men being stripped at Sadar police station traced||The phone that was used to record an objectionable video of three men being striped at Sadar police station, Khanna, and circulate it, has been traced by the police.The mobile phone belongs to constable Varun Kumur, chhota munshi at the Sadar police station. His statement was recorded and Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh transferred the constable to Police Lines with immediate effect. Sources said that the constable, in his statement, claimed that though his mobile phone was used, it was SHO inspector Baljinder Singh who had recorded the video. However, the constable did not give any satisfactory over forwarding the videos, they said.Inspector Baljinder Singh has already been transferred to Ferozepur Range for inquiry. After the video went viral, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta had directed Jaskaran Singh, inspector general of police (IGP), Ludhiana Range, to immediately carry out a fact-finding enquiry into the matter on April 16 and submit the report at the earliest In the nine-second video, that was recorded around ten-months back, three persons were allegedly seen standing nude in front of the SHO, who’s voice is audible but his face cannot be seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/phone-used-to-record-video-of-3-men-being-stripped-at-sadar-police-station-traced/story-QVJAaWvHEvLsZK2XObl1GJ.html
23-04-2020||City||Covid-19 control isolation centres set up at 4 educational institutes||As a measure against the spread of coronavirus, the state government has turned the hostels of four educational institutes as Covid-19 control isolation centres (CCICs) to treat the patients with mild symptoms.The four institutes are Senior Secondary School for Meritorious Students (a girls/boys hostel with 800 beds); Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) with hostels 1, 2, 4 (600 beds); hostel 11 at PAU (500 beds); and Kular College of Nursing, Kishangarh Khanna (a hostel with 500 beds).The rooms of the hostel at Senior Secondary School for Meritorious Students have been turned into changing rooms for doctors and nurses, besides a pharmacy, a laundry room, and a laboratory. Medical teams will be deputed by the civil surgeon office at these centres, said SDM (West) Amrinder Singh Malhi, the facility in-charge at the centre.The hostel at Kular College of Nursing will cater to the patients of sub-divisions Khanna, Payal and Samrala. Khanna SDM Sandeep Singh said, “The work is in progress and all required facilities will be soon available at the centre.”The four centres will have adequate medical and support staff, furniture, and medicines. Besides, each centre will be equipped with a patient registration facility, an operational pharmacy, and sanitation staff for keeping the facility and toilets clean (as per biological waste management rules).Also, there will be a sufficient supply of cooked food, drinking water, and electricity. Laundry services will be available at all centres which will have ample security. Covid-19 facilities nodal officer Sanyam Aggarwal, said, “Patients with mild symptoms will be given treatment at the four CCICs. To ensure proper arrangements at the centres, the incharges and other staff have been given instructions. Soon, all these centres will be equipped with all facilities.”INCREASED BED CAPACITY AT ISOLATION WARDS IN KHANNA, JAGRAON SUB-DIVISIONAL HOSPITALSThe bed capacity of the isolation ward at sub-divisional hospital in Khanna has been increased from 30 to 100. The sub-divisional hospital at Jagraon now has a 50-bedded isolation ward, Earlier, it had 30 beds.The authorities of sub-divisional hospital at Jagraon have been dispensed with three washing machines and a solar geyser. Besides, paramedical staff have also been deployed here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-control-isolation-centres-set-up-at-4-educational-institutes/story-fmGVToMstRi0MXzBbTfKRL.html
23-04-2020||City||Delhi child rights body launches campaign to fight hunger, malnutrition||New Delhi: The Delhi Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has started a programme to help children whose parents have lost work during the nationwide lockdown, which has been in place since March 25, to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).As part of the ‘Delhi Against Malnutrition’ campaign, the commission is providing support to children up to the age of 6 from families of out-of-work daily wage labourers. The DCPCR regularly stores data of poor children. The DCPCR has also joined hands with the Centre For Advocacy and Research (CFAR), an NGO that works with marginalised communities, to distribute milk packets to these children on a daily basis.Covid-19 continues to spread in the national capital, where the contagious disease has so far infected 2,248 people, and killed 48.Around 2,000 families are being benefited by the initiative, which began last week, on a daily basis.DCPCR member Ranjana Prasad said the commission has curated a list of food items for children based on the nutritional values of each product and suggested distribution of the same through Anganwadis and food distribution centres.“Based on the list DCPCR has created nutritional kits for children, which includes but is not limited to baby food, milk (fresh/powdered), energy biscuits, and distributing them among the underprivileged families on need basis,” she said.Prasad said the commission has also partnered with private companies that produce and sell eatables to channel their products to these children, to ensure a continuous supply of nutritious food.“We have also provided 10,000 packets of glucose biscuits to the district magistrate’s offices in all the districts of Delhi. The commission is also sending cornflakes and biscuits packets to the government’s hunger relief centres across the city,” she added.Juhi Jain, CFAR’s senior programme specialist said the NGO had identified children from poor families, whose parents neither have cash reserves nor wages to afford a daily supply of milk.“Relief agencies had so far probably overlooked milk as a food item necessary for children, but DCPCR immediately used its networks to arrange the same for children in our project areas,” Jain said.The areas of distribution include Mazdoor Kalyan Camp, Okhla, JJ Camp Anand Vihar; Transit Camp Khichdipur; B 45 Sanjay Camp; Gautampuri; Lal Kuan, D Block JJ Camp, and Indira Kalyan Vihar.The initiative brings relief to many parents struggling to provide milk to their children amid the lockdown.Jyoti, a mother of two children , said, “My husband is a daily wage worker and I do domestic work. We have both lost our jobs and have limited cash reserves to take care of our daily needs. The government and relief agencies are providing dry ration kits, but no milk powder or any other nutritional supplements for our children. We, therefore, had to feed our children rice, dal, and water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-child-rights-body-launches-campaign-to-fight-hunger-malnutrition/story-G6SLDxidlqJOa61RxIioYM.html
23-04-2020||Gurugram||With 6 new cases, Haryana’s Covid-19 count rises to 270||The total number of COVID-19 cases has reached 270 in Haryana after six new positive cases were reported on Thursday, said the state Health Department in a media bulletin.“The total number of cases also includes 24 cases which are linked to foreign nationals. So far, 170 patients have been cured. 97 are undergoing treatment whereas three people have lost their lives due to the infection,” the bulletin reads.According to the bulletin, the cumulative number of persons put on surveillance including contacts till to date, stands at 34,119 while the total number of passengers/persons who have completed the surveillance period is 17,334.The bulletin informed that the COVID-19 positive rate in the state stands at 8.53 per cent, and the recovery rate is at 62.96 per cent.According to the district-wise breakup of cases, a maximum of 57 cases is reported from Nuh, followed by Gurugram with 45 cases and Faridabad with 43 cases.A total of 21,700 confirmed cases of coronavirus have been reported in India. 4,325 people, who were COVID-19 positive, have recovered or migrated, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Thursday. 686 people have lost their lives due to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/with-6-new-cases-haryana-s-covid-19-count-rises-to-270/story-ngZrkoHwSlUdGU9cHXhOZL.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi airport designated hub for distribution of Covid-19 essentials||More than 20 lakh face masks, at least two lakh bottles of sanitizers, 70,000 bodysuits, 1.5 lakh Personal Protective Equipment kits and over 50,000 pieces of other medical equipment required to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, have so far been channelised across India through the Delhi airport. The airport operator on Thursday said that the ministry of civil aviation has designated Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport as a major hub for the import and distribution of Covid-19 medical essentials. Even as flight operations were suspended in the country March 25 onwards, relief flights, cargo flights and Air Force flights are operational.The airport operator, Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL), said in a statement on Thursday that they have built a unique dedicated distribution facility at the cargo terminal for the logistics, aggregation and distribution of large consignments of medical supplies imported by India.“The Delhi airport has been handling cargo flights and chartered aircraft movements every day for the timely and smooth supply of medical equipment and relief material to and from Delhi to various destinations like Patna, Varanasi, Guwahati, Nagpur, Vadodra, etc. The air cargo terminal at the IGI airport has been operating round the clock to support the country in handling and processing essential commodities, especially healthcare and medical supplies,” DIAL said in a statement. Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL, said the ministry of civil aviation has designated the IGI airport as a major hub for import and distribution of medical essentials. “Even during the lockdown, the Delhi airport is functioning 24x7 to handle international and domestic cargo movements,” the CEO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-airport-designated-hub-for-distribution-of-covid-19-essentials/story-ExubrBPmCD0zUDoUdMyJ0I.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Sexually abused minor’s four-year struggle comes to an end||It has been a long, arduous journey for a 17-year-old girl who went missing from her home in an Assam village four years ago. She is a victim of trafficking and sexual abuse, is HIV positive and has been pregnant. The girl was rescued from the New Delhi Railway Station last month, was able to terminate her pregnancy last week and is now waiting to return home once the nationwide lockdown is lifted. The nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has been extended till May 3. According to the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), the minor was rescued from the railway station on March 5 by an NGO when her medical examination revealed that she was 12-weeks pregnant. A Zero FIR was registered in Delhi and the case was transferred to Assam’s Gauripur police station. “The girl, in her statement (under Section 164 of the CrPc), said that she was taken from her village by her 60-year-old neighbour. He took her to Punjab where he handed her off to another person. She said she was sexually abused for two years continually. She managed to escape and reach Delhi and has been living at the railway station,” Jyoti Rathi, member, DCPCR, said. As per her medico-legal case report, the minor was again abused at the railway station by a stranger about three months ago, she added. “It was a challenge to locate the girl’s family to get their consent to terminate her pregnancy, which is necessary in the case of minors. As per the law, a pregnancy can be terminated only up to 20 weeks. We wrote to the Assam state child protection commission to locate her family at the earliest,” the member said. Meanwhile, the girl was medically assessed to check if she was fit to undergo the termination. A team of doctors submitted their report to the concerned child welfare committee (CWC) looking into the case and later to the commission. On April 1, the commission facilitated a conversation between the minor and the district child protection officer (DCPO), Assam where she told them about her family and the village she is from.“It took a few days to locate her family. A missing complaint had been filed by them. On April 4, I visited the girl’s house with staff,” Kishori Baruah, district social welfare officer and probationary officer/DCPO, Dhubri, Assam, told HT over the phone. Baruah added that the girl is from a poor family. Her mentally ill father passed away some years ago. She lived in the village with her mother and four siblings off a small patch of land here. “We organised a video call for the girl and her mother. The mother gave her consent for the termination of pregnancy, which was sent to the commission,” she said. Following the mother’s consent and on the orders of the CWC, on April 13, the minor was admitted to a government medical facility for the termination of pregnancy, which was done successfully. She was discharged last week. “However, during the medical assessment, we found that the minor was HIV positive. After the termination, we arranged for her to stay at a shelter home run by an NGO until the lockdown is lifted and she can go home. All the girl wants is to go back home,” Rathi said. Meanwhile, DCP (Railways) Harendra Singh, said, “The matter has been transferred to the Assam Police, who will be probing it further. We ensured that the child is medically examined and facilitated the movement with all other necessary help in logistics amid the lockdown.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/sexually-abused-minor-s-four-year-struggle-comes-to-an-end/story-KEQO2dcjqCUDLuU5Vm3kqK.html
23-04-2020||City||Shops to remain open in containment zones between 10am to 12 noon||PUNE The shops of essential commodities including groceries, vegetables, fruits, meat, milk, will be allowed to remain open for two hours between 10 am and 12 noon in the containment zones which were announced on April 7 and April 14.In all the other parts of the city, the essential shops will remain open between 10 am and 2 pm.The containment zones announced on April 7 include the jurisdiction of Khadak, Faraskhana, Swargate, and Kondhwa police stations. The zones announced April 14 include parts of Hadapsar, Yerawada, Vimantal, Chandannagar, and Khadki, Vishrantwadi, Sinhgad road, Dattawadi, Warje, Kothrud, and Bundgarden police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shops-to-remain-open-in-containment-zones-between-10am-to-12-noon/story-GAz2jK4YDpYwuskO6nemNO.html
23-04-2020||City||Pune records 104 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hours - its highest single- day figure; 3 deaths||PUNE Pune recorded 104 fresh Covid-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours, the highest number of Sars-Cov-2 virus infections in a single day, the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department said on Thursday.Three more Covid-19 related fatalities were recorded in Pune city on Thursday, taking the death toll to 60. The total number to active positive patients in Pune district is now at 876. Also on Thursday, eight patients fully recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals.According to the PMC’s health department, the deceased include a 56-year-old female who was admitted to the Inlaks and Budhrani Hospital in Koregaon Park on April 19, and who is from Yerawada.The second mortality is an 83-year-old male from Bhavani peth, admitted on April 10 to the Army Hospital in Kondhwa. He suffered from pneumonia.The third patient to expire was a 47-year-old male from Parvati Darshan, admitted on April 22 to Sassoon Hospital. He died of respiratory failure with pneumonia.A family of four from Baramati, including a 30-year-old male, 26-year-old female, 8-year-old girl and one year-old girl, who tested positive on April 7 are to be discharged. After 14 days of isolation, their repeat swab tests, taken on April 21, are all negative.Dr Prakash Rokde from Aundh civil hospital said, “The patients were close contacts of one of the Covid-19 positive cases and they had no reported comorbid condition. They’ve tested negative twice and now they’ll be discharged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-records-104-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-its-highest-single-day-figure-3-deaths/story-y8WiVCazW0c9jI4m1KZOEO.html
23-04-2020||Noida||Noida police urge people to beware of Covid related cyber frauds, issue advisory||The Gautam Budh Nagar police department has urged the public to beware of cyber fraud cases amid the ongoing lockdown and has also advised people to steer clear of any suspicious messages and links that offer “free tests”.Police said there have been a few cases wherein people have been defrauded of money after clicking on such links.“It is not a very significant number but there have been isolated incidents. Some people have also lost money to a fake PMCares fund ID. The idea of issuing the advisory is to ensure that such cases don’t pick up in the days to come,” Ashok Kumar Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, said.According to police, most of these frauds are perpetrated through social media sites and range from fraudsters asking for money from victims as a fee for conducting a medical test to determine Covid-19 or by cloning the social media ID of a person and then asking that person’s friends and relatives for money citing some difficulty. In some cases, the fraudsters offer free telecom recharges, police said.“If any demands for money are made through social media, people should verify if the information is true and only make any money transfer. Also don’t clicks on links send via text messages, offering free recharges or free services,” the advisory issued by the district cyber cell said.The advisory further said unverified messages or links related to Covid-19 medical tests or provision of essential services should be ignored. On April 18, an engineer was duped of ₹1.5 lakh in the name of donating to a relief fund. According to the complainant, he received a call and the caller asked if he would want to donate money help those in distress and the engineer agreed. The fraud happened in eight instalments and a case was registered at the Sector 39 police station. In another incident, a Sector 77 resident was duped of ₹80,000 on the pretext of online delivery of liquor after he clicked on an ad on a social media site. The victim had placed an order for ₹6,200 after which he was sent a QR code. The fraud happened after the code was scanned and a case was later registered at the Sector 49 police station. In the district, most cyber fraud cases are related to unified payments interface (UPI) and KYC of e-wallets, followed by fake offers of lottery and jobs. The third most reported offence is bogus ATM withdrawls. In 2019, the cyber cell received 3,050 complaints related to various online frauds. When the commissionerate was formed in January, cyber crime became a special focus area and the department was working on revamping the cell before the lockdown was put in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-police-urge-people-to-beware-of-covid-related-cyber-frauds-issue-advisory/story-AR55xF3up9X7eRVOkWmHEL.html
23-04-2020||Noida||No new case in GB Nagar, officials continue to screen people entering district from Delhi||The Gautam Budh Nagar district reported no new Covid 19 case in district on Thursday even as the administration and the police continued to screen people who are entering the district from Delhi. People working with essential services and having valid passes were allowed to enter only after screening at the border checkpoints.“Yes, thermal screening is happening at all border points. Police along with teams from the health department are working to ensure all precautions,” deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Sankalp Sharma, said.On Tuesday, district magistrate Suhas LY had passed an order to seal the Delhi-GB Nagar borders as a precautionary measure to control the spread of Covid-19 in the district. The order was issued after the health department said several Covid-19 cases in the district had connections to Delhi.On Thursday, five FIRs were registered for the violation of Section 144 of CrPC Act and 25 persons was arrested. Around 626 vehicles were checked, 157 vehicles were fined and four vehicles seized. Permits for essential services were granted to 21 vehicles even as checking continued at 200 points in the district. On Thursday, no new Covid-19 case was reported from the district. The total number of cases remained 103 in the district, with 54 persons (over 50%) discharged after treatment. Until now, seven patients have been discharged from the Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida, 21 from the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Sector 30, 22 from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida, and four from Delhi hospitals.According to officials, around 550 sample reports of suspected Covid-19 patients are awaited. Currently, the district has more discharged cases than active ones. “Most patients who were found positive were already in government quarantine and this has helped in breaking the chain of the spread of Covid-19,” a senior health official said.Officials have kept hundreds of people from the slums in sectors 8 and 5 in quarantine at different centres to stop the chances of a community spread. Until now, 11 persons from the two areas have been found positive for Covid-19. By Thursday night, the health department had notified 1,967 travellers and collected 2,617 samples. A total of 103 cases have come positive while 54 patients have been discharged. Currently, there are 49 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/no-new-case-in-gb-nagar-officials-continue-to-screen-people-entering-district-from-delhi/story-vIjLi8AcTJe8PX98KhatjN.html
23-04-2020||Noida||GB Nagar to test vendors supplying essential goods to residents during lockdown||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration said it will test all vendors engaged in supplying essential commodities such as milk, vegetable, medicines for the coronavirus infection to keep the rising number of cases in check. The officials said after sealing the Noida-Delhi borders, the next step to halt the spread of the coronavirus is to test the vendors who are supplying essential goods to the residents in the district. Officials said if vendors contract the deadly infection, they can act as carriers and the virus can spread to others.“We have decided to test vendors for coronavirus to ensure they are not infected with the virus as they are engaged in delivering supplies, often door-to-door, in Noida and Greater Noida areas. The state government has asked us to test the vendors who are supplying essential goods amid the lockdown. If the state government will ask us to test others who are engaged in essential services, then we will follow the orders immediately and make arrangements for their tests too. Our objective is to completely break the chain of the virus spread,” said Narendra Bhooshan chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, and officer-in-charge for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar.The health department is likely to start testing the vendors soon.“We will start testing all vendors in the next one or two days. We are in the process of making arrangements for conducting the tests,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.The Noida and Greater Noida authorities have registered all vendors supplying essential goods in Noida and Greater Noida, respectively amid the lockdown. At least 900 vendors in Noida and 700 vendors in Greater Noida are authorised to supplying vegetables, fruits, medicines, etc to households during the lockdown. The district has 33 hot spots, where vendors are delivering supplies at doorstep, while in other areas essential goods are being delivered at gates of housing societies, said officials.The officials added that they will also ensure that all vendors wear masks and gloves to ensure they don’t contract the infection and do not spread it to others.All top officials of the Noida authority, the Greater Noida authority, and the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) have been told to brief their staff to follow all safety guidelines while distributing food or ration at shelter homes and distribution centers in their respective areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-to-test-vendors-supplying-essential-goods-to-residents-during-lockdown/story-Hk98kt4TmYnwDM1Ez0dZNN.html
23-04-2020||City||Ludhiana Hand Tools Association moves SC against GOI orders to pay full wages to workers amid lockdown||The Ludhiana Hand Tools Association has moved the Supreme Court against direction issued by the central government to pay full wages to workers amid lockdown. The petition has been filed challenging the validity of Section 10(2)(l) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and for setting aside clause (iii) of order issued by the ministry of home affairs under this section on March 29,2020. The order directs all the employers to pay full wages to its workers, without any deduction, during the lockdown period. The association alleged that the orders issued by the Union government also violates Articles 14 (equality before law),19 (freedom of expression) and 300A (persons not to be deprived of property save by authority of law) of the Indian Constitution and the Industrial Disputes Act, 1948.The petition has been filed by advocate Rajeev M Roy on behalf of 41 members of the association, including various sole proprietorship firms, partnership firms and private limited companies, engaged in manufacturing and distribution of hand tools.President of the association, Subhash Chander Ralhan, said that with this petition, the association has contended that the Disaster Management Act, 2005, does not empower the Government of India to direct the private establishments to pay full wages to its workers during the lockdown. The government orders violates Article 14,19 and 300A of the Constitution of India and it is also in violation of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1948, which provides for payment of 50% wages under natural calamity, he said. Ralhan said that the Union government had issued the order in undue haste and without considering financial ability of private establishments to bear the burden of full wages during this period of crisis. The petition further contended that hundreds of crores of unclaimed provident fund and Employees State Insurance Corporation contribution is lying in banks attracting interest and union government is enjoying benefit out of it. Instead of using this contribution of the industry towards the welfare of workers/employees, the direction to private establishments to pay full wages by the Government of India is completely arbitrary and unreasonable.Ralhan said that the government order does not provide any clarification in respect of its applicability to workman class or to all employees of all private establishments, otherwise this will have grave financial implications on all private establishments.Further, the association has sought a declaration from the court that Section 10(2)(l) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in the event it confers power on the Central Government to direct private establishments to make full payments of wages to the employees during the lock-down period, as being illegal, arbitrary and violative of articles 14, 19(1)(g), 265 and 300A of the Constitution. In the alternative, it is sought by the association that the court should hold that Section 10(2)(I) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, does not empower the central or state government or any authority to direct the private establishments to pay full wages during the period of lock-down.Earlier also different industrial organisations, including the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) and All Industries and Trade Forum had raised hue and cry over the orders issued by the government claiming that they are not in condition to pay wages due to lockdown, but they will take care of labourers in these times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-hand-tools-association-moves-sc-against-goi-orders-to-pay-full-wages-to-workers-amid-lockdown/story-QnUPzVITIF6WT0ab0Wf7hN.html
23-04-2020||City||Delhi Police team conducts raids at Tablighi Jamaat chief’s farmhouse in Shamli||A six-member team of Delhi’s crime branch raided the farm house of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad on the outskirts of Kandhla town in Shamli district on Thursday.The team remained at the farm house for over two hours and searched inside the house and orchard.SP Shamli, Vineet Jaiswal, said, “A team of crime branch from Delhi arrived in the afternoon to conduct a search at Maulana Saad’s farm house and we provided cops from Kandhla police station to assist them during their work”.A relative of Maulana Saad, who requested not to be named, said the team remained at the farm house for over 2 hours and they did videography and photography inside the house.They also dig a few points inside mango orchard and queried about three servants who stay at farm house.He claimed that the team didn’t ask anything about Maulana Saad and returned after completing their work.“We had nothing to hide. Kandhla is Maulana’s native place and he visits here occasionally and prefers to remain away from people because huge crowd gathers in no time to meet him,” he said.Maulana Saad is under fire after Tablighi Jamaat was blamed for spreading coronavirus in the country.He had placed himself under quarantine and still to present before the crime branch, which has been investigating the charges against Tablighi Jamaat.In an exclusive interview to HT, Maulana Saad had rejected charges leveled against him and the Tablighi Jamaat and claimed that he was always ready to cooperate with the investigating agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-team-conducts-raids-at-tablighi-jamaat-chief-s-farmhouse-in-shamli/story-03BqlvldhSNz7hy1t4KjxH.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Body of suspected Covid-19 patient at Cooper Hospital was not moved from ward for 15 hours, claim other patients||While a 45-year-old man, suspected of having Covid-19, died on Wednesday night, his body was not moved from the ward in RN Cooper Hospital for more than 15 hours, till the formalities were completed, other patients from the ward alleged on Thursday. The man’s swab sample was sent for laboratory testing, but he died before the report came. While there is no protocol for disposal of bodies of suspect and non-confirmed Covid-19 patients, others alleged it was a health hazard. One of the patients told HT, “They did not even move the body to the morgue. Hospital staff was not ready to touch his body in the absence of PPE, which delayed the procedure.”Dr Pinakin Gujjar, dean of RN Cooper Hospital, said, “Without police personnel, we cannot hand over dead bodies. We informed police at night, but they came late.” Refuting these allegations, Pandharinath Wavhal, a senior inspector of Juhu police station, said, “We have deployed our staff at each COVID ward. The hospital administration should check before making such allegations.” The last rites were performed around 1:30pm. Hospital staffers alleged another body of a Covid patient was lying in hospital for more than 10 hours, but the dean refuted the allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/body-of-suspected-covid-19-patient-at-cooper-hospital-was-not-moved-from-ward-for-15-hours-claim-other-patients/story-YZ7LvI5fcuInrPbbjh3AyL.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘Post lockdown, huge scope for the bicycle industry and e-vehicles’||The Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) organised a webinar for the bicycle industry on Thursday wherein the experts deliberated on what approach should be adopted during and post lockdown period.As many as 300 FICO members from across the country participated in the session that covered topics, including revival procedures, government relief measures, payments of wages and salary, cash flow management, funding options and do’s and don’ts to avoid debt-trap, among others.Hero Cycles chairman Pankaj Munjal and additional income tax commissioner Rohit Mehra were the key speakers for the session.They industrialists discussed the steps being taken by the governments as well as what needs to be done at the entrepreneurs end. There is a huge scope for the bicycle industries and e-vehicles, including e-bikes, e-rickshaws and e-loaders, in post lockdown period, said Pankaj Munjal.“After the lockdown gets over, the industry needs to focus on direction rather than speed. Focus should be on the objectives and the industry should aim for bull’s eye,” said Rohit Mehra.FICO bicycle division head Harpal Singh Bhamber said that due to the Covid-19, the world is looking for a manufacturing alternative to the Chinese bicycle market and India being the second largest manufacturer of bicycles in the world has a huge opportunity to capture the export orders of Europe and United States of America.Post lockdown, the industry should concentrate on the cycle valley project and develop high end products for the international markets, said FICO president Gurmeet Singh Kular. Meanwhile, raising concern over the government’s guidelines for the industry owners if any employee is found positive for the virus, FICO general secretary Rajeev Jain said that as per the guidelines of the Union home affairs ministry, if any employee in a factory is found positive with coronavirus, there is a direct conviction and criminal proceeding for the owner, which is totally wrong and unjustified. Rather, the government should cover Covid-19 under the Employees’ State Insurance (ESI), and treat the employees at ESI hospitals if found positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/post-lockdown-huge-scope-for-the-bicycle-industry-and-e-vehicles/story-Gq8YVn3nbjVf8rMyuYyVpK.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 lockdown: Chemists allege shortage of meds, FDA dismisses claim||Many in the city are complaining of shortage of medicines at pharmacies. While patients and chemists say medicines are becoming scarce, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said concerns of shortage were baseless and blamed the unavailability on problems in the delivery chain. Parel-resident Vidyut Shah has been searching for anti-depressants, which have been prescribed for a family member, but could not find the medication either at local chemists or online. After days, he was able to source a few strips and has now ordered three months’ supply online to avoid this situation in the near future. Nilesh Chiplunkar, who works as a manager at a chemist in Parel, said supplies of medicines have been erratic during lockdown. “Generally, all medicines are in shortage,” said Chiplunkar. Gastroenterologist Dr Ameet Mandot said his patients were also unable to get prescribed medication. “I am giving substitute medicines in such cases,” said Mandot.Retailers say the problem is in the supply chain. “Chemists are going out of their way to ensure regular supply and are themselves lining outside wholesalers’ and getting their supply,” said Prasad Danave, president, Retail Drugs and Chemists Association (RDCA). He also said wholesalers are refusing to give medicines on credit and demanding cash payment, which makes procuring medicines difficult for many retailers.However, the FDA maintained that there is adequate stock. “We have a stock of three months and patients need not worry about shortage. Such are localised issues due to problem of manpower, but the overall situation is normal. We have taken adequate precautions to ensure no one is deprived of medicines,” said FDA commissioner Arun Unhale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-lockdown-chemists-allege-shortage-of-meds-fda-dismisses-claim/story-DexJRPsmBuFGEzk4DBbm5I.html
23-04-2020||City||Mohali admn ties up with Uber India for emergency transportation||The district administration has teamed up with Uber India under the ‘Uber Essential’ and ‘Uber Medic’ programmes to provide vehicles round-the-clock for emergency transportation.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said Uber Essential will provide 24 vehicles round-the-clock for any medical emergency within the district. He said the vehicles will carry patients and attendants to the hospital and not more than two passengers (excluding the driver) can avail the facility.Rides can be booked via the mobile application only from the home to the said destination and vice-versa. He said citizens using this facility will not require curfew passes and standard charges will be levied by Uber India with no surge. He said Uber Medic will provide 20 vehicles for ferrying front-line officials, including health and district administration officials. He also said as the administration had requisite vehicles, it was decided that the 20 vehicles will be deployed to ferry persons from lower income groups to and from government hospitals free of cost. The 20 vehicles will be placed at the disposal of Mohali civil surgeon to be further placed at district hospitals/ SDH/ CHCs/ PHCs as per requirement.The DC said since the targeted persons were unlikely to use the Uber application, the health control room at 0172-2270091/ 78146-41397 will take down requests and pass on to concerned official in-charge, who can send the vehicle to pick and drop the patient. Mohali road transport authority secretary, who can be reached at 9872630545, will be the nodal officer for management of this service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-admn-ties-up-with-uber-india-for-emergency-transportation/story-4ZfiIPpxD1OhQv8b6sc1LP.html
23-04-2020||City||Ludhiana health team conducts inspection, destroys 40kg rotten fruit and veggies||A team of food safety department conducted an inspection at various grocery stores and food retail chains in the city on Thursday .As per the communique shared by the health department, district health officer (DHO) Dr Rajesh Garg along with Dr Yogesh Goyal inspected the stock kept at premium food retail outlets such as Big Bazaar, Vishal Mega Mart and Reliance Market. The team destroyed nearly 40kg of fruits and vegetables that were lying unused.The DHO has directed all the grocery and retail chain outlets to ensure the delivery of fresh food items in the wake of pandemic.Coronavirus update Meanwhile, deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said that so far as many as1,267 tests for coronavirus have been conducted. The reports of 1,160 samples have been received of which 1,141 have been found negative. So far, the city has 19 positive cases (three patients from other district). He said that five patients, including one from Jalandhar, have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-health-team-conducts-inspection-destroys-40kg-rotten-fruit-and-veggies/story-ov2t9v2YUNvZP3qkIOU2iN.html
23-04-2020||City||Staying strong at 70, two elderly women in Ludhiana beat corona||A day after her son expressed inability in paying the hospital bill running into lakhs of rupees, the 72-year-old Jalandhar-based woman, who was cured of Covid-19, finally started her return journey home. She had been waiting in the step-down unit of the Covid-19 facility of Christian Medical College and Hospital since Monday, however, no one turned up to take her home. The woman’s son stated that as she was a victim of a pandemic and as there was no vaccine to cure the decease, the government should pay the hospital’s outstanding bill of Rs 4.77 lakh. However, on Thursday, the matter was resolved when the medical institute revised the bill amount as per the directions of Union government which put a cap on treatment rates. The revised bill was Rs 3.62 lakh.Her son, who runs a stationery shop in Jalandhar, said that issue has been resolved and his mother was finally returning home. “It is celebration time in our house. My mother has defeated deadly coronavirus and we would be able to meet her after a month,” said Naresh Chhabra, while speaking over the phone from his house in Nijatam Nagar, Jalandhar.The woman was rushed to Christian Medical College and Hospital on March 21, following complaints of dry cough, fever and breathlessness. Her Covid-19 test was conducted on March 24 and it turned out to be positive on March 26. After a month long treatment, two consecutive tests held on April 16 and 19 turned out to be negative following which she was discharged.Dr Vineeth Jaison, in-charge of the Covid-19 facility at CMCH, stated that the patient was sent with her son and grandson. He added that the remaining payment was also made to hospital.He congratulated the team for successfully saving the life of positive patient who was very sick when she was brought to the hospital.‘Stay home, mantra to beat COVID-19’Surinder Kaur, 72, who tested positive for the virus on April 1, was discharged from the hospital on Monday. A resident of Amarpura, she tested negative twice following which she was discharged. Kaur was infected after coming in contact with Puja Rani, 42, the first Covid-19 casualty of the city.She said that staying home is the only way to beat the virus.Surinder was given a warm send-off by the hospital staff. Staff lead by SMO Dr Geeta Kataria and other doctors lined up outside the gate of Covid-19 unit and cheered her on as she left the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/staying-strong-at-70-two-elderly-women-in-ludhiana-beat-corona/story-Z9lAI4I0odrugBj1VfpRVM.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Bandra migrant workers gathering: Senior PI who failed to reach spot on time transferred||A senior inspector from Bandra police station was transferred to the traffic department ostensibly for failing to handle the situation wherein hundreds of migrant workers gathered outside Bandra railway station on April 14, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the lockdown till May 3.Vijaylaxmi Hiremath was transferred to the traffic department because she allegedly reached the spot after her superiors, including the deputy commissioner of police (Zone-9) and additional commissioner of police (west region). None of the senior police officers were willing to comment on the transfer but sources said that a report was sent to higher authorities which stated that Hiremath reached the spot late.“A report into the incident was made available, based on which necessary action was taken,” said a senior police officer, requesting anonymity.Mumbai Police had to resort to force on April 14 to disperse the migrant workers and later a first information report (FIR) was registered against 700 unidentified persons at Bandra police station.According to reports, fake news was being circulated among the migrant workers that the government had made provisions for special outstation trains through which they could return to their hometowns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bandra-migrant-workers-gathering-senior-pi-who-failed-to-reach-spot-on-time-transferred/story-d3xK9cpbaGmUHlcFQYKbHK.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Sion hospital nursing students ‘forced’ to work without PPE, social distancing||Nursing students at Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, commonly known as Sion hospital, have expressed concerns for their safety after 17 students contracted Covid-19 through cross-transmission. They claim that despite the risk, the administration is forcing them to attend to patients.Medical colleges under BYL Nair and King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospitals have already reported cases of infection among resident doctors, nurses, and staffers. But Sion hospital is the only civic-run medical facility where the number of infections has gone up to 17, with 19 others being quarantined.Though infected students have been kept in isolation wards, the nursing students claimed that the hospital is risking their lives by violating safety rules.“In the initial days, we were given duty in the non-Covid ward, without protective gear like N95 masks or other personal protective equipment (PPE). Soon, the infection started spreading from asymptomatic patients and now, the cases have gone up to 17,” said a second-year student from the general nursing and midwifery (GNM) course.Being the nearest civic-run hospital to the Dharavi, Sion hospital has received the highest number of Covid-19 cases from the slum, which has already reported 214 infected people.Students have alleged that due to the shortage of staff, quarantined students are being forced to take care of patients. “High-risk contact students were tested on the ninth day of quarantine. But as their reports came back negative, they are being forced to work. They were not allowed to complete the 14-day quarantine period. Now, two of them have started showing symptoms,” said an 18-year-old first-year student.The students said that social distancing is not feasible in their hostel with 275 women sharing rooms and bathrooms with quarantined students. “If my roommate gets infected, I will certainly contract the virus due to the congestion to students showing symptoms,” the student said, adding that the hostel has not been fumigated yet. “We are mere students with no health insurance. We don’t mind the work but we should be provided with safety kits,” said another student.Dr Ramesh Bharmal, director of major hospitals, said, “Due to staff crunch, the students have been pulled in but they have been given duty in non-Covid wards.” An official from the United Nurses Association, said, “Nurses play an important role in taking care of Covid-19 patients. If the authority can’t provide safety to the frontliners then they shouldn’t admit patients. A medical system can’t function without nurses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sion-hospital-nursing-students-forced-to-work-without-ppe-social-distancing/story-DOLg4FyEN29BojveLAlFCN.html
23-04-2020||City||Former minister hands over 40,000-litre water tanker to Mohali MC||Former Punjab minister and MLA Kapurthala Rana Gurjit Singh on Thursday handed over a water tanker with a capacity of 40,000 litres to the Mohali municipal corporation. Punjab health minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu and MC commissioner Kamal Garg were present on the occasion.Sidhu said once filled to its full capacity, the tanker can cover a range of 150 kilometres. He said the tanker will also be utilised for carrying out sanitisation work in the district in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-minister-hands-over-40-000-litre-water-tanker-to-mohali-mc/story-usJJyC0nHF1qrvihLjeHEK.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||PIL complains of lack of non-Covid hospitals, ambulances||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed in the Bombay high court seeking directions to hospitals and the state to make arrangements for treatment facilities for persons suffering from ailments other than Covid-19. The petitioner has also prayed for provision of ambulance services for both Covid-19 and other ailments as well as directions to the authorities to announce the area wise list of hospitals providing treatment for Covid-19 and other ailments for the benefit of the common man. The PIL filed by advocate Mutahhar Khan has cited the instances of persons approaching various hospitals for availing treatment of non-Covid-19 related ailments but being turned away on the grounds that the hospitals have been ordered by the state health authorities to singularly dedicate its facilities for combatting the pandemic. Khan has said that after he came across media reports about the same, he verified it independently too and found hospitals refusing to admit non-Covid patients.Khan has further pointed to the fact that ambulance services have become scarce as a result of which the needy persons are suffering.In light of the above averments, Khan’s PIL has prayed for directions to the state and health authorities to provide sufficient facilities for persons suffering from non Covid-19 ailments in hospitals and to provide ambulances and announce list of hospitals for the benefit of the common man. The PIL is expected to come up for hearing on April 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pil-complains-of-lack-of-non-covid-hospitals-ambulances/story-CutsFBNhnjz4Qw8nXeB77H.html
23-04-2020||City||12 isolation coaches ready in Ambala, mock drill conducted||A mock drill was conducted at Ambala Cantonment railway station on Thursday to finalise the protocol for the 12 modified train coaches that arrived in Ambala this week from the Jagadhari workshop in Yamunanagar. Earlier this month, the railways decided to modify existing train coaches as isolation wards in the hour of crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic, and a drill was conducted to finalise the working protocol to keep Covid-19 patients in isolation coaches. Accordingly, 10 isolation coaches and two service coaches have been placed at the siding tracks of Ambala station. The 10 coaches, with a capacity of 16 patients per coach, have been earmarked for patients, while one coach is reserved for medical and ancillary staff, and another for changing of clothes and protective gear. Divisional railway manager Gurinder Mohan Singh said, “The railways is doing all it can to serve the nation by ensuring unabated supply/transportation of essential goods. Apart from that, this division is making existing resources available to extend assistance during the epidemic. The departments concerned conducted a drill for these newly modified isolation coaches.”The middle berth in these coaches have been removed for better occupation and the lower part of the compartment is plugged with plyboard for better flooring. Bed sheets and pillows with covers, bottle holders, electric points for medical instruments and curtains have been provided in every ward. 415 volts of electricity is also being supplied externally, railway officials had said.The railways has converted four available toilets into two bathrooms by plugging the toilet pan and installing proper flooring. A hand shower, a bucket and a mug have also been provided in each bathroom. The coaches will be sanitised regularly and proper arrangements of meals, security and medical facilities will be ensured. The staff attending the coaches will also be given PPE kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-isolation-coaches-ready-in-ambala-mock-drill-conducted/story-MvxFOYwr5t40XVLwF3BjKL.html
23-04-2020||City||Religious leaders, scholars call for home Ramzan prayers||PUNE The Ulema Council has appealed to the Muslim community to observe fasting and prayer inside their homes and avoid gatherings during the holy month of Ramzan, or Ramadan, which will begin on April 25.The city houses at least 350 big and small mosques, including madrasas, which are the centres of congregational prayer during the month of Ramzan.Prominent Islamic cleric, Maulana Razin Ashrafi, said, “The devouts should not step outside the homes during the Covid-19 (coronavirus) lockdown period. Measures like social distancing are the need of the hour in our collective fight against the pandemic.”“All members must observe ‘roza’ and ‘iftar’ and perform ‘namaz’ and ‘taraweeh’ (night prayer said during Ramzan) inside their houses. The devotees will get the same blessings at their homes which they get in the mosques during the time of fasting and prayer,” said Maulana Ashrafi.Maulana Hameed Nadwi said, “Many of our top religious scholars have given their view that Ramzan must be observed in the houses and nobody should venture out during the holy month. The Muslim community must follow all the guidelines of the government and cooperate with the police and health department with regards to reducing the spread of Covid-19 in society.”“The community has stayed indoors during the entire month and will stay indoors during Ramzan as it in the larger interests of the society,” he said.Qari Idrees, a cleric from the city, said, that the Ulema has unanimously appealed to the Muslim community to observe the holy month indoors and have cited Quranic references for observing ‘roza’ and ‘namaz’ inside the house. “During the lockdown, the Muslim community will be observing the rituals inside their houses and nobody will be coming to the mosques. The appeal has been sent through various channels of communication to the community,” said Idrees.Saleem Mulla, a social worker, said, “ The Muslim community in the city will diligently follow the directions of the state government and the Ulema Council while observing the holy month of Ramzan. We have been actively working for spreading awareness about the same and the community has responded to the call of the Ulemas and the government.”“We will jointly work with the government in curbing the spread of Covid-19 in the city,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/religious-leaders-scholars-call-for-home-ramzan-prayers/story-I7yRel3jPvzzIDROJsSKrN.html
23-04-2020||City||Dera Bassi SDM steps in to pacify patwaris, cops at loggerheads over ‘misbehaviour’||Accusing each other of misbehaviour, policemen and patwaris of Dera Bassi sub-division came to loggerheads on Thursday. The patwaris union even threatened to go on strike if action was not taken against the policemen. However, the matter was amicably resolved following timely intervention of Dera Bassi’s sub-divisional magistrate Kuldeep Bawa.On Thursday morning, the Revenue Patwari union of Dera Bassi tehsil held a meeting at the Zirakpur municipal council office. Union president Gurjant Singh said, “The meeting was called due to policemen’s misbehaviour with patwaris on emergency duty. Now, we have decided we will not work till the policeman, who misbehaved, is suspended.” The patwaris have been supervising eight kitchens that are providing food to poor families in Dera Bassi area. Patwari Saurav Garg said on Wednesday night around 8.30pm, he had gone to distribute ration in Dhakoli area on directions of the SDM. He said he had parked his vehicle along the roadside when ASI Jashanpreet Singh of Dhakoli police station, deployed at a naka nearby, misbehaved with him and issued him a challan for not wearing a seatbelt and for an invalid pollution certificate that had expired on March 20. The policemen, on the other hand alleged, that it was the patwari who misbehaved with them when they stopped him for checking at the naka. Dera Bassi SDM Kuldeep Bawa intervened and counselled both parties and urged them to forget their differences amid this national emergency. Following his counsel, the patwaris decided against going on strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dera-bassi-sdm-steps-in-to-pacify-patwaris-cops-at-loggerheads-over-misbehaviour/story-24ZC7RpdrFkVplV6EEOl7M.html
23-04-2020||City||Nine shops in Thane sealed for flouting lockdown norms||Nine shops in Thane were sealed on Thursday for flouting social distancing norms.The owners of five shops in Mumbra and four in Naupada were booked under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Disease Act, 1897.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “The social-distancing norms were violated by the shops. General stores, grocery shops, meat shops and shops selling dairy products were open for long hours and there was a huge crowd outside the shops.”Thane civic commissioner Vijay Singhal had given directives to all shops to follow social-distancing norm. He had asked shops to deliver groceries and essentials at doorstep to consumers so that there will not be any crowding at the shops. Shops in Mumbra were directed to operate three days a week for a specific time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-shops-in-thane-sealed-for-flouting-lockdown-norms/story-xDsThfTK6cfBfy8PeXkKfP.html
23-04-2020||City||Punjab Mandi Board secretary inspects wheat procurement in grain markets||Punjab Mandi Board secretary Ravi Bhagat on Thursday visited grain markets in the district and informed that more than 24 lakh metric tonnes (MTs) of wheat have already been procured across Punjab during this season.Overseeing the procurement of Ludhiana, Moga and Sangrur districts, Bhagat said that the Mandi Board has provided 27,000 litres of sanitisers in the mandis and distributed masks and ensured social distancing to fight infection and keep its people safe.Bhagat visited the markets in Ludhiana city, Khanna, Doraha, Sahnewal and Mullanpur and expressed satisfaction over the ongoing procurement work in the district. He said Ludhiana is getting good quality produce in the market.He said Punjab government is making dedicated efforts to support its farmers and common man in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. The state government is committed to procure every single food grain from the mandis of the state, he said.Bhagat informed the Mandi Board has set up 4,000 purchase centres, out of which 3,000 are functioning. He said that the arrival of wheat is more than the last year.The secretary said that the passes have been issued to the commission agents as per registered arrivals in their accounts and arhtiyas would distribute them among the farmers. So far, 4.5 lakh passes have been issued by the Mandi Board and the procurement season has been expanded from 20 days to 45 days for this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-mandi-board-secretary-inspects-wheat-procurement-in-grain-markets/story-niuJOIPTwBWiFHnkgYhwjJ.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh RPO official granted bail in graft case||Observing that an accused incarcerated for a long period may end up like Dr Manette in Charles Dicken’s novel “A Tale of Two Cities”, who had forgotten his profession and even his name in the Bastille, the special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has allowed the bail application of Rajiv Khetarpal, assistant superintendent at the Regional Passport Office (RPO), Sector 34, Chandigarh, in a graft case.CBI special judge Sushil Kumar Garg pronounced the order over a WhatsApp video call.Khetarpal and one Balinder Singh, a resident of Kumaun Colony, Nayagaon, Mohali were arrested by the CBI in March for allegedly accepting ₹30,000 bribe for renewal of a passport.“Detaining of the accused behind the bars is not likely to serve any purpose... Often this (concluding of trial) takes several years, and if the accused is denied bail but is ultimately acquitted, who will restore so many years of his life spent in custody?” observed the court, while ordering the accused to furnish personal bond of ₹50,000 before the Burail jail superintendent, who will submit it in the court as and when the court reopens.THE CASEOn March 2, an FIR was registered under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The complainant, Jagdeep Singh, said that on January 27, he had submitted an application through online RPO portal for renewal of his passport. Singh telephonically contacted Balinder, who sought ₹25,000-30,000 bribe, threatening “to delay infinitely or reject the renewal file.”The CBI had laid a trap and caught Balinder while accepting the bribe “on behalf of” Rajiv Khetarpal. Balinder was asked to make a call to Khetarpal and inform him about the bribe amount, following which he was caught the next morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-rpo-official-granted-bail-in-graft-case/story-FxsgKspUpFpnTvXOTlvWYP.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew in Chandigarh: Zone allocation for utility services ‘faulty,’ far from home, say repairmen||Though the Chandigarh administration has allowed utility service providers to visit clients’ homes to make life easier for residents under lockdown due to Covid-19, it appears to have inconvenienced electricians, plumbers and air-conditioner repairmen here.Many service providers authorised by the administration to operate in six zones in the city have been allotted areas far from their homes, making movement difficult in a curfew and that too with the virus outbreak.Vikas Kumar, who has been assigned to handle plumbing jobs in zone 1 for Sectors 1 to 13, Kaimbwala, Khuda Jassu and Kishangarh villages, is a resident of Sector 48. “It doesn’t make sense for me to go all the way to Manimajra now, especially in these times when it’s best to travel short distances,” he says. Other plumbers too allocated this zone have a problem, as Surinder Singh lives in Sector 48 and Angrej Singh in Maloya.Electrician Himanshu Gosain has been allocated zone 2, comprising Sectors 14 to 17, 22 to 25, Dhanas and Sarangpur. “I live in Sector 38, yet I have been assigned areas that are far from home. We have to bear travel costs and customers will accordingly have to pay up if we have to move long distance,” he says.Shiv Mohan Singh, allotted zone 3 with Sectors 18 to 21, 27 to 30, Mauli Jagran, Daria and Raipur Kalan, lives in Sector 41, “right at the opposite end of where I’m supposed to go,” he says.REPAIRS INEFFECTIVE AS MARKETS CLOSEDAnother problem that the service providers have is that though they are receiving 20 to 30 calls a day, many of them can’t do much as parts are unavailable because markets are closed.Parwinder Singh, an AC repairman in zone 3, says gas refills for ACs are unavailable. That is the reason why, says Sukha, an electrician in zone 6, that they were only attending genuine emergencies even though they were receiving many complaints.Commenting on the matter, UT chief engineer Mukesh Anand said, “Distance is a trivial issue. What matters most is fixing people’s issues. In two days, we have solved 475 complaints and have received overwhelmingly positive feedback from people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/curfew-in-chandigarh-zone-allocation-for-utility-services-faulty-far-from-home-say-repairmen/story-ukPYlfnVb2SByXPb8qlPgK.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Recovery rate of Covid-19 patients improves in J&K, say doctors||Eight more Covid-19 patients recovered in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, taking the total number of those cured in the Union territory to 100, an official said.In what may seem like a piece of good news, of the 434 positive patients, 100 have recovered so far. Ten thousand people have been screened for the virus so far.Srinagar and Bandipore districts have the highest number of positive cases at 79 and 101 respectively followed by 64 cases in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. Five persons have died due to the infection— four in Kashmir and one in Jammu. More than 90 areas have been declared as red zones across the UT.Head of department of social and preventive medicine at Government Medical College Dr Salim Khan said, ‘’Few Covid-19 positive cases are being reported which is a positive sign.’’Most of the cured patients have been discharged from SKIMS in Srinagar. More than 40 patients have been discharged since the first case was detected in Kashmir in March.SKIMS medical superintendent Dr Farooq Jan said, “The patient recovery rate is increasing. So far, 39 patients have been discharged from the hospital and four or five more patients were discharged on Thursday.’’Giving details, Jan said, “We have also conducted 5,178 tests, of which 236 were tested positive. The samples which were tested here were taken from different parts of Kashmir.’’In fact, the encouraging recovery rate has given hope to other Covid-19 patients. “There is hope that I will also recover from the dreaded virus. I hope I will go home soon,’’ said a Covid-19 positive patient undergoing treatment at GMC Baramulla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/recovery-rate-of-covid-19-patients-improves-in-j-k-say-doctors/story-6WPSh19hLu7IxfdwDFD77J.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: MC to conduct screening of field staff from Monday||With an aim to ensure safety of the frontline staff that has been working on field during the Covid-19 outbreak, the Ludhiana municipal corporation has decided to conduct screening of all its staff members from Monday onwards. The zone-wise screening process will begin from April 27 and the sweepers will be screened first. Currently, there are around 7,000 class-IV employees in the MC including the contractual staff.MC health officer Jasvir Kaur said that the decision has been taken to ensure safety of the field workers. During this process, thermal screening would be conducted to check fever and the employees would be asked if they have Covid-19 symptoms.Meanwhile, the schedule for the screening is being prepared, she added.“The decision has been taken as a precautionary measure. The civic body employees especially the sweepers come in contact with many residents while working in the field. Also, the MC employees have been involved in sanitisation of houses and areas from where Covid-19 positive cases have been reported, therefore it is necessary to screen our field workers,” MC secretary Neeraj Jain said.There is also fear among the MC employees after assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli, district mandi officer Jasbir Kaur, SHO Basti Jodhewal police station Arshpreet Kaur among others, had tested positive for COVID-19 couple of days ago. It is suspected that ACP Kohli who died after getting infected with the virus, had contracted it while he was deputed at the main vegetable market near Jalandhar bypass.Earlier in the mid of April, the fire brigade also conducted screening of over 100 staff members and quarantined two fire fighters as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-19-mc-to-conduct-screening-of-field-staff-from-monday/story-GQFVCBzAs04yC5oJKUvGTK.html
23-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: Day after landing in jail, inmate attempts suicide||A day after landing in Borstal Jail in Ludhiana, an inmate attempted to end his life by hanging himself. The inmate was identified as Jaspal Singh of Jalandhar. The jail staff rescued him and rushed him to the hospital. Sensing his critical condition, the doctors referred him to Christian Medical College and Hospital, where his condition was stated as serious.The Jalandhar police had arrested him for drug peddling and sent him to jail on Wednesday. On the same afternoon, he went to the bathroom and hanged himself with the grille with his ‘Parna’ (a piece of cloth that is wrapped around the head). The jail officials saw him and raised an alarm. They cut the cloth and rescued him.Mohammad Shareef, superintendent of Borstal Jail, said, “I informed the police about the incident for further proceedings. I am also investigating to know about the reason behind this extreme step.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-day-after-landing-in-jail-inmate-attempts-suicide/story-2yieQoETiueZkY1HjnoKoI.html
23-04-2020||City||‘Anomalies in ration distribution’: Ludhiana councillors to protest outside DC’s house||Accusing the Congress leadership and the administration of adopting pick and choose policy while distribution of ration in the city, the councillors of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) were mulling to stage a protest outside the residence of deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal on Monday. Led by the leader of opposition in general house, Harbhajan Singh Dang, the councillors assembled at Zone D of the MC on Thursday to make the announcement. Dang said they will demonstrate outside the DC’s house on Monday if the administration fails to streamline the distribution.The councillors alleged that the administration is working in connivance with the congress leadership, which is providing ration through only their leaders . They said the Congress leaders were being selective and providing ration only to their friends and family, while the general populace of the district is facing shortage of food and is busy making the rounds of councillors’ office. They also claimed that the helpline number -1905- is also not working properly.Harbhajan Dang, BJP councillors’ leader Sunita Rani and SAD councillor Jaspal Giaspura claimed that in their meeting with mayor Balkar Sandhu on Monday, the mayor had assured that ration would be delivered to the councillors by Wednesday. However, nothing has been provided and the mayor is now asking the councillors and the residents to dial 1905 for ration. LIP leader Swarandeep Chahal said that the Congress leaders are asking for voter cards before distributing ration and are providing it only to those who voted for the party. SAD councillor from ward number 2, Gurmail Singh Jajji, had also staged a protest against the alleged pick and choose policy in his ward last week.Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister and MLA (Ludhiana west), Bharat Bhushan Ashu, refuted the allegations. Ashu said that DC Agrawal is monitoring the distribution of ration in the district and it is being supplied through block level officers and other staff members. He said that if residents are facing any problem, they can contact the elected representatives, administration or give a call at 1905.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/anomalies-in-ration-distribution-councillors-of-oppn-parties-to-protest-outside-dc-s-house/story-DwyZ7rokfEaJBdhuYquXzM.html
23-04-2020||City||2 Thane cops recover from Covid-19; colleagues welcome them back||Two police officers from Thane were discharged from hospital on Thursday after they recovered from coronavirus disease. His colleagues clapped and cheered and showered flowers on them when they came out of hospitals.“One is a 50-year-old police inspector , who was being treated at a private hospital, while the other is 32-year-old assistant police inspector from Thane Nagar police station who was admitted to Thane civil hospital,” said Balasaheb Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Thane. The two are among 20 police personnel from Thane commisssionerate who got infected while on duty.“Sixteen constables and four police officers had tested positive. Two have been discharged and others are in hospital,” added Patil.The police inspector said it is important to think positive while undergoing treatment. “Being Covid-19 positive does not mean your life has come to end. Regular exercise, healthy diet and following doctor’s advice will help fight the virus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-thane-cops-recover-from-covid-19-colleagues-welcome-them-back/story-g1x2kD6oUyAvIgiJzBnOoM.html
23-04-2020||City||Ludhiana civil hospital offers feel at home facilities at Covid-19 unit||As many as five washing machines and 15 air-conditioners were installed in the Covid-19 unit of the civil hospital on Thursday.Confirming the development, deputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said that televisions are also being installed in the Covid-19 unit of the hospital.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that the need for air-conditioners was felt keeping in mind the rising temperature in the region.“We have to understand the climatic conditions. Operating with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is difficult. The kit is completely sealed to protect the person from exposure. While working in high temperature, it causes a lot of sweating and doctors and paramedical staff feel uneasy,” said Dr Bagga.To protect the patients from bacteria, exhaust fans have been installed in the wards.He said that nearly 15 LEDs’ have been installed for recreation of patients.Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Geeta said that fully automatic machines have been installed so that patients can wash and dry their clothes. If need arises, then staff will also be deployed to operate the machines.The matter of lack of facilities at the civil hospital came to the fore after son of Puja, the first Covid casualty of the city, alleged that he was wearing the same set of clothes for the last 15 days and his bedsheets have also not been changed as there was no provision to wash clothes. Even assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh, who was later shifted to a private hospital, had also raised the issue lack of facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-civil-hospital-offers-feel-at-home-facilities-at-covid-19-unit/story-95qat4BQilaNm2somrnpJL.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||24-year-old NRI falls off fourth floor in Manimajra, critical||A 24-year-old NRI was critically injured after he fell off the rooftop of a four-storey building at the Manimajra modern housing complex after allegedly consuming alcohol on Wednesday night , the police said.The victim was identified as Sanjay. He had returned from Nigeria and was having dinner drinks with his friends and family on the rooftop. The police said at some point Sanjay planned to go downstairs to fetch more alcohol, but took a wrong turn and fell off the roof.The police said before hitting the ground, Sanjay got stuck in electrical wires and then crashed through multiple tree branches. “While Sanjat received multiple internal injuries, due to the impact electric wires got snapped and power was out for some time. The branches of a tree were broken as well,” said a police official privy to the matter.Sanjay stays with his aunt and brother. He had recently secured divorce after three years of marriage, police said.“He is under treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. We have found a couple of whiskey bottles and glasses from the spot,” added the police official. So far, the police have not taken any action against the victim or his brother for violating curfew orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/24-year-old-nri-falls-off-fourth-floor-in-manimajra-critical/story-Al7U1M86wIzgmFWBkb99iM.html
23-04-2020||City||Ludhiana MC, NHAI resume work on stalled projects||After the administration allowed construction activities on stalled projects, the municipal corporation (MC) has commenced the repair work of roads in the city on Thursday.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has also started the work on NH-44 flyover near Mohan Dai Oswal Cancer Hospital, Ferozepur road elevated project and Laddowal bypass. The works, however, could not be carried out at full capacity due to the conditions imposed by the authorities in the wake of the lockdown. The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) has also got approval for taking up seven development projects. The MC has been drawing flak over the pathetic condition of the roads in the city and the residents have been demanding that the civic body should take up the repair work. MC superintending engineer HS Bhullar confirmed that the work to repair the city roads has commenced. The MC will first repair the main roads and then the internal roads will be patched, he said.Earlier on Tuesday, the administration had given permission to the NHAI to commence work on five stalled projects. The NHAI was granted permission to start work on Jalandhar-Panipat national highway project, Laddowal bypass, Chandigarh-Kharar-Ludhiana highway, Ludhiana-Jagraon-Ferozepur highway and Ferozepur road elevated project (Samrala chowk to Ferozepur road).Permission with ridersThe permission was given on the grounds that the contractor would ensure labour quarantine, social distancing among other precautions at the sites. The contractors have also been directed to provide insurance cover to the labour/staff working at the site. Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Agrawal said that two-member committee has been formed to keep a check on the working of the contractor and if any anomaly is found at the site, the permission would be cancelled.NHAI project director Bhupendra Chauhan said that the work at Laddowal bypass and elevated road has commenced on Thursday and the NHAI has issued around 35 passes for labourers and other staff members. Member of the Punjab road safety council, Rahul Verma, said that the work of NH-44 has also started at the flyover near Mohan Dai Cancer Hospital. He said starting work during the lockdown also means that the public would not be inconvenienced as they are confined to their homes. It is expected that the work would be completed by May 3, the current deadline for the lockdown, he said. LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam confirmed that the administration has granted approval to the trust for commencing work on seven projects in the city. The construction work of these projects was put to a halt due to the lockdown and the work would restart in a few days as the contactors are making required arrangements at the work sites.The projects that would be re-started are installation of inter-locking tiles at Rajguru Nagar market and Rishi Nagar market, construction of BRS Nagar leisure valley near DAV school, construction of shop-cum-flats (SCF) in BRS Nagar, construction of sheds and installation of static compactors at specified points and construction of Rajguru Nagar main road.Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) chief administrator PS Gill said that GLADA has also sought permission to commence different projects, including construction and widening of roads in Sector 32, Chandigarh road; construction of ROB over Dhuri line between missing link-2 Part A and B; development of GLADA estate; construction of water recharging pits in Sector 32 and repair of cremation ground parking area in Dugri phase 2.Nod to begin work on Pakhowal road ROB/RUB project The MC has also got permission for commencing the Pakhowal road ROB/RUB project and the work is expected to begin in a day or two. The MC officials said that taking up the project at this time would also decrease the inconvenience to public in terms of traffic movement. The approval has been given subject to the conditions imposed by the government and the civic body is also working to get permission to commence other smart city projects in the city.Permission to re-start work on Jagraon bridge awaited Meanwhile the MC is working was yet to permission for restarting the work on Jagraon bridge. Earlier, the authorities had claimed that the Jagraon bridge project would be completed by April 14, however, its work was stalled due to imposition of the curfew.HS Bhullar said that the application has also been forwarded to the administration but the contractor has to meet the conditions of the administration before commencing the work. As per the sources, the contractor is facing trouble in fulfilling the norms of providing labour insurance and labour quarantine facility at the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-nhai-resume-work-on-stalled-projects/story-1VSoCAgDvXFACQhoZGlSfL.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||HP working to adopt three-pronged strategy to combat Covid-19: Jai Ram||Himachal Pradesh government will adopt a three-pronged strategy to combat coronavirus effectively in the state, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday. He was presiding over a review meeting of health and family welfare and Ayurveda departments.The state government will increase testing for the disease so that maximum population can be examined, the CM said. “We will be identifying three types of institutions where treatment of Covid-19 patients can be done,” he said, adding that asymptomatic people will be kept in Covid care centres; moderate symptomatic in Covid health centres; and severe symptomatic in hospitals.The CM has directed the department officials to ensure sufficient supply of PPE kits, masks and ventilators in the hospitals so that there was no complexity when the lockdown is over. He also discussed the issue regarding homecoming of residents of the state from other parts of the country and directed officials to prepare an effective plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-working-to-adopt-three-pronged-strategy-to-combat-covid-19-jai-ram/story-2uSD6a2chltpq0lkbk0ZVM.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||IIT-B witnesses two sightings of leopards in 24 hours||The campus of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), which has in the past reported sightings of leopards and crocodiles, is attracting wildlife, with 90% students off campus due to the lockdown. Residents of the campus have registered two sightings of leopards with the college administration within 24 hours. “The first leopard was spotted at around 10:30pm on Tuesday while the second sighting took place on Wednesday at 7:30pm. It’s not a surprise but never a pleasant sight either, so we have notified the forest officials,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B.The IIT-B campus is spread over 550 acres bordering the Sanjay Gandhi National Park. While students of the institute are living so close to nature that sighting deer, various species of birds and cattle, among other animals is a common feature, many have also complained about the wild visitors.While dog attacks on staff and students, as well as cattle being found inside hostel rooms and classrooms is common, there have also been instances of leopards having entered labs on campus and a wild bull attacking a student, as well.“We have notified the forest authorities in order to ensure no harm is done to the animal and at the same time to maintain our staff and students’ safety as well,” added Chaudhuri. He said that while less than 100 students are on campus due to the lockdown, as many as 4,000 other staff, employees and their families are still living on campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iit-b-witnesses-two-sightings-of-leopards-in-24-hours/story-eclaMomRfZ3H0ZyUNrGG1N.html
23-04-2020||City||Mohali MC set to dissolve on April 26, poll date undecided||Mohali municipal corporation’s five-year term is due to get over on April 26, wherein powers will be vested with new MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg. The posts of mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor will also be dissolved.With this, the five-year tenure of mayor Kulwant Singh will come to an end. In the April of 2015, 50 councillors had taken oath. Currently, the Congress has 14 councillors, SAD-BJP and Azad group have 33 and two are independent.MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said a notification in this regard had been issued and the term will get over on April 26. The date for elections has not been announced yet, but it has been notified that elections will be held in 50 wards only and reservation of candidates, too, has been fixed, Garg said.Mayor Kulwant Singh said that they will be holding a meeting with councillors through video conferencing to say goodbye. “I am happy about the way we carried out development works in the past five years,” he said.Deputy mayor Manjit Singh Sethi said, “After the lockdown ends, the state government should immediately think about holding its elections, so that all development works in Mohali are carried out effectively.” He also said he was thankful to all 50 councillors who contributed in developing the city.TUSSLE BETWEEN MAYOR, MINISTER The five-year term witnessed many clashes between mayor Kulwant Singh and local MLA and cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu over several issues. In February this year, Sidhu stated that all development works carried out in Mohali in the past eight months were done by the state government, while the mayor had accused the state government of delaying approvals for developmental works.POLLS: NOTIFICATION, BUT NO DATEIn December last year, Punjab government has issued a notification regarding Mohali MC elections.Although the date of elections is undecided, the notification says the polls will be held in 50 wards wherein 2.36 lakh voters are expected to cast their vote. Five seats have been reserved for scheduled castes (two for women (SC) and three for backward classes); two seats are for women (backward classes), 43 seats for general category, of which 23 are for women. The mayor is elected for a period of five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-mc-set-to-dissolve-on-sunday-poll-date-undecided/story-us5WOWhELFfS9UmQRl5z4O.html
23-04-2020||City||Ludhiana: FIR lodged for circulating fake information about Kitty Breads||Following the complaint of Satpal Singh of Chak Sarvan Nath village, production manager of Kitty Industries Private Limited, Chandigarh Road, an unidentified man has been booked for spreading fake news on WhatsApp groups. The unidentified accused had forwarded a message in WhatsApp groups that an employee of Kitty Breads was found positive for coronavirus and the police had seized the factory.In the complaint, Singh said, “Ramesh Mago (owner of Kitty Breads) told me that someone is spreading fake news about us on social networking sites with the intention of denting our reputation.”“Mago told me that he got to know about the message through a relative, who saw the message circulated in WhatsApp groups,” he added.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Section 54 of Disaster Management Act and Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Koomkalan police station. The police have been tracing the accused who spread the information.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal has appealed to the people to not circulate any information without confirmation.“To confirm any information, people can call at the police control room on 112. As many as six FIRs have already been lodged in the city till date against people circulating fake information on Facebook and WhatsApp,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-fir-lodged-for-circulating-fake-information-about-kitty-breads/story-M9i2kUCTpsIXQAbd1xjirI.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud case: Wadhawans get protection from arrest till Monday||The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Thursday granted the promoters of DHFL group Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, protection from arrest till Monday in connection with the Yes Bank fraud case. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) objected to their plea for anticipatory bail and the hearing on the plea is now scheduled on Monday.The brothers had moved the PMLA court for anticipatory bail fearing arrest by the ED which is probing money laundering allegations against the brothers. The special court had scheduled the hearing for Thursday, directing the ED to submit its reply on their plea.On Thursday, ED submitted a reply, objecting to the plea on several grounds. However, the plea could not be heard as the court time ended by 2pm. Meanwhile, Amit Desai, lawyer for the two, pleaded to file a rejoinder to ED’s response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-case-wadhawans-get-protection-from-arrest-till-monday/story-JDMIi5tOMno51woTFTFVNM.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||471 units in Ludhiana avail benefits under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana||Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), as many as 471 establishments in the district have availed the benefits worth Rs 1.19 crore for Employees Provident Fund (EPF) contribution till April 22.The government had announced the financial relief to help the establishment in the financial crisis due to the lockdown imposed for containing the spread of novel coronavirus. “It is encouraging to see that 471 establishments have been benefited under the PMGKY scheme. Following which, an amount of Rs 1.19 crore has been disbursed among 7,847 employees across the district. These establishments will continue to get similar benefits under the scheme for 3 months till May 20,” said EPFO regional commissioner Dheeraj Gupta. Over 1,200 establishments in Ludhiana are eligible to avail the benefit under the scheme. So far, 743 establishments have submitted their declaration and are in process to avail the benefit under the scheme, he said, adding that they are sending details of the scheme through field officers and emails to all eligible establishments in Ludhiana, so that they can avail benefits of the scheme. The last date for the applying under the scheme is May 15.The establishments that have availed benefits under the scheme include Raikot Public School, ISC Projects Private Limited, GNC Dyeing and Finishing Mills, M/s SB Prime Sales, Mandeep Singh and Associates, Shaligram Jain Public School, Fortune India, Providence Textiles, Falcon Industries Ludhiana, Jai Auto Private Limited, Big-Ben Industries and A2Z Wastemanagement, among others.“I have applied under the scheme last week and after submitting the declaration and other formalities, the EPFO department has approved my application. They have already disbursed the EPF contribution for this month,” told Angad Singh, director of Big Ben Industries. While many establishments in the city have applied to avail the financial relief under the scheme, some of the industrial organisations have recently moved to the Ministry of labour and employment urging the latter to relax norms under the scheme, so that all establishments irrespective of the headcount of workers can avail the benefit under the scheme. The Punjab Dyers’ Association (Ludhiana) that includes around 300 dyeing units’ owners in the city and Bahadur K Textile and Knitwear Association that includes over 5,500 units are among those who have urged the government to relax the norms.Financial relief under the schemeUnder the scheme, the government will pay the provident fund contribution of both the employer and employees (12% each) for the next three months. However, the financial relief measures concerning the PF employers and employees contributions, under the PMGKY announced by the finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26, is applicable to only those establishments that have 100 or less number of employees with 90% of them having wages less than Rs 15,000 per month. The central government has allocated Rs 5,000 crore under the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/471-units-in-ludhiana-avail-benefits-under-pradhan-mantri-garib-kalyan-yojana/story-01yYc8r6rM9M7xNKbAm1HM.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||HC directs submission of CCTV footage of NCP leader Awhad’s bungalow before magistrate||The Bombay high court on Thursday, directed the Thane police to submit the CCTV footage of state minister Jitendra Awhad’s house before the magistrate after hearing a petition filed by a Thane based civil engineer who claimed that the leader was behind an assault on him by 10-15 persons on April 5 for posting a morphed photograph of the leader on social media. The court has also asked the state to respond to the plea of the engineer seeking transfer of the investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and posted the matter for hearing on April 30.A single bench of justice GS Kulkarni while hearing the petition filed by Anant Karmuse, 40, a resident of Thane was informed that he had posted a morphed photograph of Awhad on social networking site, mocking him for his stand against the call by prime minister Narendra Modi to have a candle light vigil on April 5 at 9pm to applaud the efforts of all those involved in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic.Awhad had, however, rebuked the PM through a viral video and said that he would not light a candle but spend the money to help the needy. Karmuse in his police complaint stated that after he posted the morphed photograph of Awhad, two people dressed as cops came to his house and asked him to accompany them to the police station. He obliged. However rather than the police station he was taken to Awhad’s bungalow behind Vivianna Mall where he apologised after being beaten by the two alleged police and some more persons. On April 8, an FIR has was registered against “unidentified persons” under several Indian Penal Code sections for abduction, causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means, rioting and intimidation in the matter at Thane police station. Five persons were subsequently arrested by Vartak Nagar police.After a brief hearing, justice Kulkarni directed the police to secure the CCTV footage from Awhad’s residence of the day of incident and to submit it along with the call data record (CDR) of Awhad in a sealed cover to a magistrate in Thane and also sought a response from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-directs-submission-of-cctv-footage-of-ncp-leader-awhad-s-bungalow-before-magistrate/story-yk6x6EkUQ15wHD7ebTSGzI.html
23-04-2020||City||21 foreigners among 25 held for attending Jamaat event||Twenty-five people, including 21 foreigners, were arrested from a quarantine centre at Shil Daighar on Thursday. “The 21 foreigners and 4 Indians had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. Among the foreigners, eight are from Malaysia and the rest from Bangladesh. The foreigners were here on a tourist visa. They violated the visa permit rules. They not only attended the Delhi event but also travelled to Mumbra and were staying in a mosque without informing local administration,” said Nitin Thackeray, senior police inspector, crime Branch unit 1, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/21-foreigners-among-25-held-for-attending-jamaat-event/story-4hTVr5QiX8y5hPI1yhA13M.html
23-04-2020||City||Complete lockdown in Mira-Bhayander till 28 April||The complete lockdown in Mira Bhayander has now been extended till April 28. Chandrakant Dange, commissioner of Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) announced on Thursday that all shops including groceries, poultry, vegetable and fruit markets will remain shut till the midnight of 28 April. Only medical stores, dairy shops are allowed to operate, said Dange. The home delivery of essential commodities will be allowed between 9am to 5pm. One can only place an order for home delivery through the MBMC app or can call on the mobile numbers issued by MBMC. All the fish, mutton and poultry shops will be closed from Friday till April 28 midnight. Dange further announced that the medical stores will remain open for eight hours while the stores inside all hospitals will remain open 24 hours. Mira Bhayander has reported around 116 positive cases so far. Those violating the lockdown order will be charged under the Maharashtra Covid-19 Epidemic Act, 2020, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/complete-lockdown-in-mira-bhayander-till-28-april/story-U79jVh2FB7f3ebBiw5hn3L.html
23-04-2020||City||Fruits, multivitamins to keep Ludhiana cops healthy||The police department on Thursday provided fruits, multivitamins, masks and hand sanitisers to cops on curfew duty to ensure they remain fit while carrying out their duties.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal met the personnel to motivate them to continue their good work while also taking care of their health.The department had earlier provided them umbrellas and temporary sheds to save them from the scorching heat in the afternoon.“I appeal to the people to stay at home to arrest the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown was imposed almost a month ago and people have cooperated with us. I expect the same cooperation from them in future as well,” the police chief said.“Through a survey, we have got to know that most people have adequate ration at their homes. And the police are providing the rest of them with groceries and other essential items,” Agrawal added.‘OVER 1,500 COPS HAVE BEEN SCREENED’Over 1,500 cops on duty have been screened and provided treatment in mobile medical units set up in the city, the police chief said, adding that around 4,000 personnel in city are on curfew duty and are ensuring the distribution of food items and other essential supplies.“As per the orders of DGP Dinkar Gupta, no cop over the age of 55 or having a medical condition has been deployed on frontline operational duties,” Agrawal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fruits-multivitamins-to-keep-ludhiana-cops-healthy/story-3A9FjGSuoqYCDNYHiY6fhM.html
23-04-2020||City||Panvel police turn to drones to enforce lockdown||The Panvel city police are using drones to enforce a stringent lockdown in containment zones. The police have so far issued 14 notices to housing societies after finding people gathering on the terraces. The police are making use of two drones to monitor containment zones in Panvel jurisdiction. Police on Wednesday identified a few men who were loitering near the creek.“We have booked 10 persons who visited the creek in Vadgaon despite being issued a warning,” said Ajay Kumar Landge, senior inspector at Panvel city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panvel-police-turn-to-drones-to-enforce-lockdown/story-MbNIK8lTpvglo41aZCzqOP.html
23-04-2020||Noida||3,219 arrested in Noida, Greater Noida so far for defying lockdown: police||As many as 3,219 people have been arrested across Noida and Greater Noida in a month - an average 107 arrests a day - for violating lockdown restrictions, according to police data. Altogether 3,681 people were booked for defying lockdown curbs during the period that saw registration of 944 first information reports (FIRs), stated the police data from March 23 till 7 pm of April 22.         The Uttar Pradesh government had announced a three-day lockdown from March 23 and later a country-wide lockdown was announced, an official told PTI, explaining why the data is from March 23.           The nation-wide lockdown that restricted people’s movement outdoors came into force on March 24 and was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with an objective to break the transmission of the deadly coronavirus. The 21-day lockdown was preceded by a day-long voluntary Janata curfew on March 2.           On April 14, Modi announced extension of the lockdown till May 3, as law enforcement agencies across in Gautam Buddh Nagar like elsewhere in the country got down to ensure stricter adherence to the guidelines that included action against those out on streets during the pandemic without a valid reason.           “Between March 23 and April 22, 3,681 people were booked for violating the lockdown of which 3,219 got arrested and 944 FIRs were registered,” the police data stated.           The FIRs were registered under Indian Penal Code section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and violation of prohibitory orders put in place under CrPC Section 144, which bars assembly of four or more persons.           Separately, five FIRs were registered under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 in which five people were booked and three of them arrested till April 22, the data said.            “During the period, 63,273 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 12,118 of them for lockdown violation. Another 807 vehicles were impounded for the offence and Rs 1,47,400 were collected in fines,” according to the police data seen by PTI.            The district police allowed passage to 3,200 vehicles – more than 106 daily on an average -- that were categorised in the emergency services during the period, according to the data. Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi in western UP is one of the worst COVID-19-hit districts in the state and has recorded 103 positive cases of the disease till April 22 evening, trailing only Agra (324) and Lucknow (170), according to official figures.           On the brighter side, 48 of the 103 patients have got cured and discharged in the district, which has identified 33 hotspots – areas where more than one COVID-19 case has been detected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/3-219-arrested-in-noida-greater-noida-so-far-for-defying-lockdown-police/story-wX4vEuZnwnPCjY7PF7aUZN.html
23-04-2020||City||3 held with 316 boxes of illicit liquor in Jalandhar||The Jalandhar police on Thursday busted a gang involved in smuggling of illicit liquor in the city and arrested three persons and seized 316 boxes of liquor from their possession.Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said that they had got a tip-off that Rajinder kumar alias Raju of Makhdoompura was running a racket of supplying illicit liquor during the curfew. The accused had also set up a godown at Raj Nagar for this purpose.The liquor was supplied through a Bolero (PB 08 CH 9646) sports utility vehicle (SUV) from the godown to various parts of the city.He said that on receiving the tip-off, a team of CIA Staff-I raided the premises and arrested three accused identified as Amit Kumar alias Ajay, Ankit and Ram Sewak with 316 cases of illicit liquor. Amit is a resident of Visholi village in Unnao district of Uttar Pradesh; Ankit is a resident of Chandpur village in Bihar; and Ram Sewak is a resident of village Khera in Unnao. CP Bhullar said that all the three youth were tenants of Rajinder Kumar and were involved in the business. A case under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Section 61-1-14 of the Excise Act has been registered against the accused.Raids were conducted by police parties to nab Rajinder, the kingpin of the gang, said Bhullar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-held-with-316-boxes-of-illicit-liquor-in-jalandhar/story-fUVRf2WVVEeR3A76WJwNlJ.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at textile factory in Thane; no one injured||A fire broke out in the textile factory at Kausa area in Mumbra on Thursday. No one was injured. The fire was extinguished by Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) official within a few hours. “The fire broke out in the one-storey factory at Almas colony around 2.30am. We doused the fire with two fire engines and two water tankers,” said an official from RDMC, Thane. “No one was injured and the fire was extinguished around 4:15am,” added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-textile-factory-in-thane-no-one-injured/story-XCCZYZ7a3LWqrdusouenpN.html
23-04-2020||City||Father among 5 held for trying to sell 5-day-old boy in Jalalabad||Five persons, including the father of a five-day-old boy, were apprehended by the Fazilka police on charges of human trafficking in Jalalabad, a subdivision of Ferozepur district, after they allegedly tried to sell the infant to a Muktsar resident for Rs 2.2 lakh.As per information, Kulwant Singh of Phalianwala village in Jalalabad, in connivance with his brother-in-law Banta Singh, were trying to sell the child to Balwinder Kaur of Muktsar but the police got a tip-off about the matter and caught them red-handed. Besides the trio, police have also arrested two others identified as Giano Bai and Charanjit Singh for their involvement. The infant was handed over the mother in accordance with judicial orders. The accused have been booked under Section 370 (trafficking of persons) of the Indian Penal Code besides Section 81 of the Juvenile Justice Act. Police recovered Rs.1.8 lakh from their possession.During investigation, it came to the fore that Balwinder Kaur had been previously been charged with similar cases in Bathinda and Jalandhar areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/father-among-5-held-for-trying-to-sell-5-day-old-boy-in-ferozepur/story-ZFhuXHgMotagedITjBD0II.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Provide relief to workers in unorganised sectors: Cong||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former urban development minister of Himachal Pradesh Sudhir Sharma on Thursday urged the Centre to provide relief to those working in unorganised sectors. In a statement issued here, Sharma said the Indian economy was characterised by the existence of vast majority of labour in unorganised sector or those who are self-employed. “This large informal sector is likely to be worst-hit by coronavirus as millions are reduced to subsistence living and even worse in some cases,” Sharma said.He said the Social Security Act, 2008, was a major breakthrough that aims to ensure welfare to the people working in unorganised sector through schemes developed by the central and state governments.The magnitude of the need in wake of Covid-19 outbreak is such that pressing action need to be taken immediately, he said.“The government should cover all of them and their families under medical insurance scheme given the hostile condition they work in for long hours,” Sharma said.One-time COVID relief fund should be transferred directly into their bank accounts to support them, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/provide-relief-to-workers-in-unorganised-sectors-cong/story-kVQOamMTGjuDrPJeSzNsHI.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Assault case: HC directs cops to submit CCTV footage of Awhad’s bungalow||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed the Thane police to submit the CCTV footage of state minister Jitendra Awhad’s bungalow before the Magistrate after hearing a petition filed by a Thane-based civil engineer who alleged that the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was behind an assault on him that took place on April 5. The petitioner Anant Karmuse, 40, alleged he was beaten up inside Awhad’s bungalow premises by 10-15 persons for posting a morphed photograph of the leader on social media for his stand against the call by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to have a candle light vigil on April 5 at 9pm to applaud the efforts of all those involved in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic. A single bench of justice GS Kulkarni has also asked the state to respond to the plea of the engineer seeking transfer of the investigation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and posted the matter for hearing on April 30.Karmuse, in his police complaint, said after he posted the morphed photograph of Awhad, two people in police uniform came to his house and asked him to accompany them to the police station. He alleged that instead of police station he was taken to Awhad’s bungalow in Thane, beaten up around 10 to 15 people and was made to apologise for the post. On April 8, Thane police registered an FIR against “unidentified persons” under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for abduction, causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means, rioting and intimidation in the matter. Five people were subsequently arrested by Vartak Nagar police.After a brief hearing, Justice Kulkarni directed the police to secure the CCTV footage from Awhad’s residence of the day of incident and to submit it along with the call data record (CDR) of the NCP leader in a sealed cover to a magistrate in Thane and also sought a response from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/assault-at-awhad-s-house-hc-asks-cops-to-secure-cctv-footage/story-GIjTmhJCyq7zBG4T7eSvMK.html
23-04-2020||Jaipur||49 Covid-19 cases reported in Rajasthan today, total cases at 1,937||With 49 new cases reported on Thursday, the Covid-19 tally in Rajasthan rose to 1,937. The state government has decided to procure machines that will help ramp up the testing capacity by 3000. Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, health, has already said 20 cases were reported from Jodhpur, 10 cases were reported from Nagaur, 12 from Jaipur, four from Kota, two from Hanumangarh, and one from Ajmer.The total deaths in the state are 27 while 407 people have recovered and 134 have been discharged, he said.The total samples taken in the state are 69,764 of which 63,485 have tested negative and 4342 are under process.Health minister Raghu Sharma said to ramp up testing of Covid-19 patients, the state government has decided to procure Cobas 8800 machines that are used for nucleic acid testing.He said with these machines, 3000 more tests will be conducted in Jaipur and Jodhpur. Currently 4000 tests are being conducted in the state daily.He said the decision was taken to speed up testing of Covid-19 cases in Jaipur and Jodhpur. The machines are approved by the US food and drug administration.He said only Rajasthan and Telangana are buying these machines to increase testing capacity. He said the machines can carry out nucleic acid and RT-PCR tests together and these can be done manually or through automation.He said testing is being increased in corona affected districts and for this RT-PCR machines have been sent to Bharatpur, Dungarpur, Pali and Barmer districts while additional RT-PCR machines have been sent to Ajmer and Udaipur.Sharma said testing facility for 300 tests has been started in Desert Research Institute in Jodhpur.Sharma said the death rate in Rajasthan is much below the national average. “Our death rate is only 1.43 percent which is much lower than the national average. We are at 15th spot in the country with regard to the death rate.”He said all the 27 people who have died so far were afflicted with other ailments such as heart disease, diabetes, cancer, kidney disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/49-covid-19-cases-reported-in-rajasthan-today-total-cases-at-1-937/story-2I5ZRScAsENUS6dNPpKVZJ.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chhatra Abhibhavak Manch demands private schools’ fee hike be delayed||The Chhatra Abhibhavak Manch, a local organisation of parents and guardians has demanded that chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, education minister Suresh Bhardwaj and the director of higher education delay hike in students’ fees in private schools for the academic year 2020-21.The manch has also sought the CM’s intervention in this matter.Manch coordinator Vijendra Mehra said as parents are going through a financial crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic, it had become imperative to delay the decision to hike fee.He said that on December, 2019 and March 2020, the directorate of higher education had issued notifications to stop fee hike and had directed private school authorities to not to hike fee without conducting a general house with parents and guardians.The manch has alleged that private schools have hiked the fee from 8 to 20% without conducting a general house.More than five lakh students are studying in 2,712 private schools in the state, he said. The manch has said that it will stage a protest if their demands are not fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chhatra-abhibhavak-manch-demands-private-schools-fee-hike-be-delayed/story-O03lNSQ7syl5cb5BpUHrKJ.html
23-04-2020||City||Infant locusts spotted in 2 Fazilka villages||As the state fights the Covid-19 pandemic, two border villages in Fazilka are faced with yet another crisis. Locals spotted a swarm of infant locusts in Roopnagar and Baree Kee villages, posing a threat to mustard and cotton crop spread over 300 acres here. The local administration swung into action on Thursday and started spraying pesticides.Mahinder Singh, former sarpanch of Roopnagar village, said the locusts have come from Pakistan side near Mojju Kee, a border out post on the Indo-Pak border.“These are newly born locusts and unable to fly so they cannot cause much damage right now. But we have started spraying pesticides to kill these and also stop more from coming,” said Manjit Singh, chief agriculture officer, Fazilka, told HT.He added that the administration is using the pesticide, malathiona to control the situation.A team from the locust circuit office, Suratgarh, Rajasthan, is also camping in the two villages to help the Punjab agricultural authorities in eliminating the locusts.DON’T PANIC, DC TELLS LOCALSMeanwhile, Fazilka deputy commissioner Arwind Pal Singh Sandhu appealed to farmers not to panic and said, “Whenever you notice locusts in the vicinity, inform the administration. We have tackled the locust attack in February too and they are very alert to entire situation.” In the first week of February, a maiden locust attack was reported from the region but it was eliminated well in time.An adult locust swarms can fly up to 150 kilometres a day with the wind and adult insects can consume roughly their own weight in fresh food per day. A very small swarm eats as much as about 35,000 people in one day, posing thereby posing a threat to crops and food security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/infant-locusts-spotted-in-2-fazilka-villages/story-ZXA1FJP6hqVOPHEnvA7tYJ.html
23-04-2020||Entertainment||Kolkata theatre icon Usha Ganguly dies at 75||Theatre stalwart Usha Ganguly died in her south Kolkata residence on Thursday morning following a prolonged illness. She was 75.Ganguly, who founded the theatre group Rangakarmee, which essentially produces Hindi plays, had been one of the biggest names in the Kolkata theatre industry. She won the Sangeet Natak Akademy award in 1998.Born in Rajasthan in 1945, Ganguly completed her education in Kolkata. She had been engaged in theatre since the early 1970s. She founded Rangakarmee, known for producing socially relevant plays, in 1976.In an interview a few years ago, Ganguly had said that she had no life except for theatre. Her 1992 direction, the play Rudaali, based on a short story by Mahashweta Devi, has earned an iconic stature since then. Her other plays include Gudiya Ghar (1981), Holi (1989), Court Martial (1991), Himmat Mai (1998), and Mukti (1999). She also collaborated with the late filmmaker Rituparno Ghosh in writing the script of the film Raincoat.She was trained as a Bharatnatyam dancer and also served as a lecturer in Hindi at a college in Kolkata. She had also served as a member of the Senate of Calcutta University for five years and as a member of the executive committee of Sangeet Natak Akademi.On Thursday, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her deepest grief at the passing of Ganguly. A senior official of the state government said Ganguly was alone at home and on Thursday morning her domestic help found her lying unconscious. The body will be sent for post-mortem examinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/regional-movies/kolkata-theatre-icon-usha-ganguly-dies-at-75/story-Pu6jriQRMxOwn0MFQ3hj0N.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmer unions want crop residue burning stopped due to Covid-19||Days after Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh appealed to farmers not to burn wheat residue in their fields, calling it harmful for Covid-19 patients with respiratory problems, farmers’ unions have demanded the same of their cadre.The farmer outfits reportedly took the decision on Thursday after consulting health experts even as a man was arrested in Kanakwal Bhanguan village for burning wheat residue in his fields on WednesdayCovid-19 is known to affect the lungs and cause respiratory distress.“According to the recommendations of medical experts, due to burning of stubble, environmental pollution will increase, which can lead to respiratory illness. Such cases are more vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. Though farmers will have to face financial loss, the decision has been taken unanimously for the welfare of humanity as the country is facing tough times,” said Jagmohan Singh, state general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU- Ekta Dakaunda).The union leaders also demanded that the government revoke any fixed date for paddy transplantation as there was acute shortage of migrant labour since many of them had left for their hometowns on villages.“The condition that paddy will be transplanted from June 13 or on another fixed date should not be imposed on farmers. Also, according to prior promises, cases on farmers for paddy stubble burning should be quashed,” he added.Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, general secretary, BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), said that his union will convince farmers to not burn crop residue when the pandemic was raging.“The residue of wheat crop is very low in quantity as compared to paddy. However, we advise our workers not to burn crop residue this time. During the paddy harvest season, farmers have to arrange for sowing of the next crop in a hurry, but now they have enough time left to manage the residue,” Kokri Kalan told Hindustan Times.Disobeying ordersMeanwhile, Dharamgarh police arrested a farmer, Bikkar Singh, fromKanakwal Bhanguan village on Wednesday for burning wheat residue.A case against him was registered under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code at the Dharamgarh police station. Bikkar Singh was later released on bail, said Narinder Singh, station house officer of the police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-farmer-unions-want-crop-residue-burning-stopped-due-to-covid-19/story-MxGM9baLZFVYZ1ViUMrVjK.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown cuts PM2.5, PM10 levels by half in Delhi: CPCB||With very few vehicles on roads, only essential commercial units functioning due to the coronavirus-forced lockdown and a weather favourable for dispersion of pollutants, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has reported 46 per cent reduction in PM2.5 levels and 50 per cent depletion in PM10 concentrations in the national capital.The apex pollution control body has analysed data from continuous ambient air quality monitoring network of 38 stations in Delhi between March 16 and April 15. Air quality trends have been studied in two phases -- pre-lockdown phase of March 16 to 21 and the lockdown phase from March 25 to April 15.In its report, the CPCB said, “Significant reduction in PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 levels observed. Overall, 46 per cent reduction in PM2.5 and 50 per cent reduction in PM10 concentration observed during the lockdown period.” PM2.5 refers to particulate matter having diameter less than 2.5 micrometers which can enter the lungs and even the bloodstream.The CPCB said reduction in PM10 and PM2.5 levels primarily indicate depletion in combustion and industrial sources of pollution which are common to both fractions of particulate matter.Since 81 per cent of Delhi’s nitrogen oxide comes from the transport sector, according to TERI Emission Inventory, 2018, restrictions on vehicular activity led to 56 per cent reduction in NO2 levels and over 37 per cent cut in carbon monoxide (CO) concentration during the lockdown period, compared to the pre-lockdown period, it said.Due to restrictions on the transport sector and industrial operations, the two major sources of benzene emissions, a 47 per cent reduction in benzene level has been observed, the CPCB report stated.“However, only 19 per cent reduction was seen in sulphur dioxide levels which may be due to the fact that over 70 per cent of Delhi’s SO2 originates from power plants located around the national capital (as per TERI Emission Inventory, 2018) and power plants were operational during the lockdown period,” it added.Since most of the eateries and industries in Delhi have shifted from coal to other less polluting energy sources, power plants appear to be the most likely source of sulphur dioxide.The CPCB also analysed data from 13 pollution hotspots in Delhi.Anand Vihar recorded 62 per cent, 69 per cent and 72 per cent reduction in PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 levels respectively during the lockdown period, the report said, adding Vivek Vihar, which is near major traffic corridor GT Road, saw a 60 per cent reduction in NO2 levels.In Dwarka Sector-8, PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 levels depleted by 48 per cent, 61 per cent and 68 per cent respectively, while Okhla recorded a 72 per cent reduction in nitrogen dioxide levels, the CPCB said.The apex pollution control body recorded 24 hourly average PM2.5 and PM10 levels within National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for 20 and 15 days respectively in 22 days of the lockdown period. NO2 levels were 75 per cent less than their 24 hourly standard.Twenty-four-hour averages of PM10, PM2.5, NO2 and SO2 levels dropped as low as 24 microgrammes per cubic meter, 39 µg/m3, 15 µg/m3 and 10 µg/m3 respectively during the lockdown period, the report said.A 27 per cent increase in PM2.5 level and a 65 per cent increase in PM10 concentration was observed in between April 7 to April 15 compared to the first two weeks of the lockdown -- March 25 to April 6.However, the CPCB said, PM2.5 and PM10 levels were still lower by 39 per cent and 35 per cent respectively than pre-lockdown concentrations. This may primarily be attributed to change in meteorological conditions.The onset of summers has led to dry and dusty conditions. A mild dust storm from the western part of the country and the gulf region hit Delhi on April 14-15 rapidly increasing PM10 levels in Delhi and NCR, the pollution control body said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-lockdown-cuts-pm2-5-pm10-levels-by-half-in-delhi-cpcb/story-qSX5Xjrl3bJ1ePbKE1EqPK.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders detailed audit of every Covid-19 death by experts to check high mortality rate in state||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday said that he had ordered a detailed audit of every Covid-19 death by experts to understand and check the high mortality rate in the state, and the government was also strengthening its pandemic containment measures, under the guidance of an expert team.The chief minister gave this update to Congress president Sonia Gandhi during a video conference, at which he informed the party leadership that the state government was being guided by a group of experts in handling the Covid-19 crisis. The group comprises Dr KK Talwar, former director of the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research; Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor of the Baba Farid University of Health Sciences; Dr Rajesh Kumar, a former head of the School of Public Health at PGI; besides experts from John Hopkins University.CO-MORBIDITY FACTORS,DELAY IN SEEKING HELPThe mortality numbers in the state were high largely due to co-morbidity and lack of health-seeking behaviour (patients come late to hospital), said Capt Amarinder Singh.Despite the high mortality rate of 6.2%, the rate of growth of Covid-19 in Punjab was lower than India, with the cases doubling in 16 days against the national average of nine days.In percentage terms, cases in Punjab had steadily declined from 2.57% of the total cases in India (as of March 31) to 1.22% in 3 weeks (till April 22), revealing effective containment of Covid-19 in the state, he said.EFFECTIVE CONTAINMENT IN SBS NAGARCapt Amarinder Singh cited the example of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, earlier known as Nawanshahar, as a case of effective containment, that had been appreciated by the Government of India and the media.In Nawanshahar, which was one of the first hotspots in the country, all 18 treated cases, besides the initial death of granthi Baldev Singh, had recovered and no case had been reported since March 26, he informed the meeting. The chief minister said Punjab had to be compared with Kerala and Gujarat, which were also states with high NRI population. Punjab was doing significantly better than Gujarat, and in terms of cases per million population, even lower than Kerala (9/million in Punjab vs. 12/million in Kerala), he pointed out.At present, Punjab has 257 positive cases, with 16 dead and two critical patients, while 53 have been cured. The state has three containment zones, places with more than 15 cases, at Jawaharpur in Mohali district, Safabadi Gate in Patiala district, and Budhlada in Mansa district, while the three districts of Ferozepur, Fazilka, and Bathinda are green zones with no cases.TESTING FACILITIESAs many as 7,887 tests have bene done so far, with regular testing facility of 400/day each at the government medical colleges in Amritsar and Patiala; 150/day at the medical college in Faridkot and IMTECH, Chandigarh; and 60/day at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.In addition, testing facilities are available in private hospitals as follows: 40 a day at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, and 100 a day at Tuli Diagnostic Lab, Amritsar. The clearance for testing at Christian Medical College, Ludhiana, and SGRD Medical College, Amritsar, is in process, he said.At present, the testing rate in the state, at 248/million, is slightly lower than the national average of 309/million (excluding rapid testing).Regarding rapid testing, the chief minister said 3,502 cases were tested before the Indian Council for Medical Research suspended such tests.The state has 10,500 rapid testing kits supplied by ICMR, while 10,000 have been ordered by the state government, with deliveries in progress. The government has also floated a tender for another 50,000 kits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-cm-orders-detailed-audit-of-every-covid-19-death-by-experts-to-check-high-mortality-rate-in-state/story-A70ByRCNl6xiNuMW6WmITL.html
23-04-2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC seeks responses on steps taken to assist needy advocates||The Jharkhand High Court on Wednesday asked the Bar Council of India, the state government, and others to file their responses on the steps taken to assist needy advocates across courts in the state.The direction comes days after the Jharkhand High Court Advocates Association gave Rs 5,000 each to needy lawyers who had sought financial assistance from it in the wake of the coronavirus-triggered nationwide lockdown. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad, directed the Jharkhand government to file its response whether any legislation has been formulated for the benefit of advocates clerks of different courts in Jharkhand, including the high court.“If yes, then details should be filed as to how it is being implemented,” the bench said, posting the next date for hearing on April 27. Hearing a bunch of petitions, the bench observed that all the writ petitions “have common cause, pertaining to grant of financial aid to the advocates and advocates clerks working in the High Court of Jharkhand and the district courts within the state of Jharkhand, with consent of the parties, are being considered together.” The parties were asked to exchange their respective replies through email.“Since the State Bar Council has already framed a scheme known as Special Welfare Scheme, 2020 which has come into existence with effect from 06.04.2020...let the State Bar Council also file its response as to what steps it has taken to provide assistance to the needy advocates and what is the position of the fund available to the State Bar Council.“It goes without saying that since the state government has already come up with a policy to assist all the needy persons who are not in a position to maintain themselves by providing them with food, ration etc, it should not exclude such needy advocates or advocates clerks,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-seeks-responses-on-steps-taken-to-assist-needy-advocates/story-6IuJPTHvhcQJ6dRsm0HjSP.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Pakistan exporting coronavirus-infected militants to J&K, says DGP Dilbag Singh||Pakistan is pushing militants infected with Covid-19 into Kashmir to spread the disease among the people of the valley, according to director general of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh.“It is a matter of concern that Pakistan is pushing Covid-19 infected militants from across. Till now, Pakistan had been supporting terrorists and now it is exporting coronavirus patients to infect people of Kashmir. This is something on which there is a need to take precaution,” Dilbag Singh told reporters in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district on Wednesday after reviewing security and measures taken in view of Covid-19 outbreak.The DGP also attended a meeting chaired by RR Bhatnagar, the adviser to lieutenant governor GC Murmu, to review the security and the prevailing ground situation in the valley in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Referring to the recent terror attacks, Dilbag Singh said when the entire world was making efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic, Pakistan and its sponsored terrorists were making all out attempts to disrupt the measures being taken to safeguard the lives of the people in Jammu and Kashmir.“Even during the present health crisis, our forces continue to consolidate peace, while maintaining the security and law and order grids. Pakistani agencies are engaged in various activities at their launching pads in PoK to push in terrorists this side, both from the international border and Line of Control, to further their nefarious designs of disturbing peace and normalcy and lives and livelihoods of the people without bothering about their own people who have become coronavirus victims,” the DGP said.A recent report suggested that terrorists at training centres and launching pads in Pakistan and PoK are suffering from coronavirus infection, Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pakistan-exporting-coronavirus-infected-militants-to-j-k-says-dgp-dilbag-singh/story-cvHZKxr0029vQS3ayxAO0N.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-IAS officer booked for travelling during lockdown in Himachal||A former Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer was booked along with his family members and friends for travelling within the state amid lockdown, police said on Thursday. The officer in question, Deepak Shanan, retired as additional chief secretary. Shanan is learnt to have gone trekking with his family and friends. The group was travelling in two vehicles. Police also booked Anil Walia, a resident of Purani Kothi, for violating the lockdown. Police said the villagers tried to stop the two vehicles but the occupants tried to force their way. Consequently, residents of Khatnol village blocked the vehicles with their own vehicles and informed the village head, Anita, who immediately called the police. Acting on the locals’ complaint, police booked eight people including Shanan, after they failed to produce the travel permission. As per the police investigation, they were returning after trekking to Shali Tibba temple, 35 km from the state capital. Deputy superintendent of police Dinesh Sharma said that two vehicles were seized and an FIR was lodged against eight people. Shanan has served on top positions in the state government and at the Centre.At present, he is an advisor for projects on water and sanitation and land governance at a number of institutions in India. He has been a consultant with the World Bank, IFAD, DFID, IDS Sussex and AusAid.He has also served as India Country Team Leader in the Water and Sanitation Program (South Asia) at the World Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ex-ias-officer-booked-for-travelling-during-lockdown-in-himachal/story-sl0IIZ4qIrQvLhjLYSR1aM.html
23-04-2020||Patna||Four more test positive in Bihar, Covid-19 tally 147||Four more people tested positive for COVID 19 in Bihar on Thursday, all residents of a coronavirus hotspot in Munger district, taking the tally to 147, a top official said.Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar said the patients included three women aged 60-68 years and a 30-year- old man, all of whom are residents of Jamalpur block in the district.Jamalpur has accounted for over a dozen cases in the past one week, and most of these have been linked to a 60- year-old vegetable seller who had travelled on foot to and from Bihar Sharif in Nalanda district last month to attend a Tablighi Jamaat congregation.Both Munger and Nalanda now account for 31 cases each, making them the two worst affected in the state.Meanwhile, six patients from Munger have recovered and one has died. Nalanda still has 29 active cases.The total number of active cases now stands at 103.Two patients, including one from Vaishali district, have died while 42 have recovered.Out of the 38 districts in the state, 17 have reported COVID 19 cases though besides Nalanda and Munger, only Siwan (29) and Patna (16) have recorded cases in double digit.The state reported its first couple of cases on March 22 and has been witness to a steep rise in the incidence since Sunday. The number of cases reported since April 19 is 61, according to figures made available by the state health department.The total number of samples tested so far stands at 13,843, the department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/four-more-test-positive-in-bihar-covid-19-tally-147/story-euclmUqRwbtSVZgQYXQnWO.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||20-year-old found dead in Ludhiana, Covid-19 suspected||A 20-year-old girl was found dead in a house in Model Town on Thursday. Her father said she had been suffering from fever, cough and breathlessness for the past few days and had taken medicine from a local chemist. They are both caretakers of the house where she was found dead, and the owner, an NRI, lives in another part of the city.Authorities suspect that she was suffering from the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and have sent her body for post-mortem examination and Covid-19 test at the civil hospital.Her father, 59, has also been admitted to the hospital for check up. As per the police, he is also showing symptoms of coronavirus.Station house officer inspector Pawan Kumar said the girl’s father had informed the police control room that she suffered severe breathlessness on Wednesday night and died. He added that the girl’s father said that they used to stay indoors and were following proper social distancing norms ever since the curfew was imposed in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-year-old-found-dead-in-ludhiana-covid-19-suspected/story-uWGfbOEj9TOhCmCviWiDyL.html
23-04-2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Central team visits quarantine centre near Kolkata||A central team on Thursday visited a quarantine centre in Rajarhat area near here to take stock of the Covid-19 situation, an official said. Two central teams are in West Bengal to look into the state’s preparedness for tackling the Covid-19 outbreak. The inter ministerial central team, which is in Kolkata, on Wednesday sought a detailed presentation from the West Bengal government on whether the level of testing in the state is adequate and enough oxygen and ICU beds and ventilators are available.The central team in the state capital, led by Apurba Chandra, a senior bureaucrat in the Ministry of Defence, visited the quarantine centre in Rajarhat area in North 24 Parganas district, the official said.The second central team in North Bengal, however, is yet to begin field visits, the official said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had slammed the Centre for sending teams to look into West Bengal’s preparedness for tackling the Covid-19 outbreak and alleged that faulty testing kits were dispatched to the state. There has been a war of words between the West Bengal and the Union governments over the arrival of two central teams in the state to assess the coronavirus situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/covid-19-central-team-visits-quarantine-centre-near-kolkata/story-H4XGB5D5I07V6dFHWxd2aO.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two killed in accident on J&K highway||Two persons were killed and another injured when a load carrier skidded off a highway and rolled down down a 400-feet gorge in Jammu and Kashmir’s Ramban district, officials said. The vehicle was on its way to Chanderkot area from Banihal when the accident took place on Wednesday night. The deceased have been identified as 25-year-old Manoor Ahmed and 26-year-old Faryad Ahmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-killed-in-accident-on-j-k-highway/story-U7jtN8nVCRoIqEzgJPDguI.html
23-04-2020||Kolkata||Eastern Railway hospital doctor tests positive for Covid-19||A doctor at an Eastern Railway (ER) hospital here has tested positive for coronavirus, a spokesperson of the railway zone said on Thursday.The doctor, who was on leave since April 14 as she was feeling unwell, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, ER spokesperson Nikhil Chakraborty said.She has been admitted to a private hospital in the city, he said.At least 10 staff members of the B R Singh Hospital, the main hospital of the Eastern Railway, have been asked to go on home quarantine by authorities of the medical establishment as they had come in contact with the doctor at their workplace, the spokesperson said.Four members of the doctor’s family have also been asked to remain under home quarantine by the state health department, he said, adding that they will be tested for Covid-19.No coronavirus patient has so far been treated at the B R Singh Hospital, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/eastern-railway-hospital-doctor-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-pvgRf6fy229KpkDp4bSxuJ.html
23-04-2020||Bangalore||16 new Covid-19 cases confirmed in Karnataka, total cases in state mount to 443||Sixteen new coronavirus cases have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of infections in the state to 443, the Health department said on Thursday.“Sixteen new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon....Till date 443 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 17 deaths and 141 discharges,” the department said in its mid-day situation update.Among the 16 new cases, nine are from Bengaluru urban, who are contacts of a 54-year old man, a labourer with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), who tested positive on Wednesday.Of the rest, two each are from Vijayapura, Hubballi in Dharwad district and Mandya; and one from Bantwala in Dakshina Kannada district.Fifteen of the 16 cases reported are contacts of patients already tested positive, while contact of a woman from Vijayapura is being traced.Among the positive cases reported today, 11 are men and five women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/16-new-covid-19-cases-confirmed-in-karnataka-total-cases-in-state-mount-to-443/story-V7HtKIH9sDcYwkhgpmFrUP.html
23-04-2020||City||Srinagar admn draws up care package for 6,330 women expecting babies in four months||The Srinagar administration has reached out to more than 6,300 women expecting a baby in the next four months, allaying their fears about proper care during the coronavirus outbreak with a package that includes regular checkups and the availability of ambulances. The plan was chalked out after a team went door to door around Srinagar city and its outskirts to identify women needing help during these difficult days, when all of India is under lockdown, officials said. Jammu and Kashmir has more than 400 cases of COVID-19 and five fatalities. With panic about the pandemic rising, several people in the Kashmir Valley are under quarantine. It is in these difficult times that pregnant women need both help and reassurance, officials said. And so, Srinagar Deputy Commissioner Shahid Iqbal Choudhary got together with some officials to draw up a plan for special care to expectant mothers. It includes a dedicated 24x7 helpline to facilitate end-to-end assistance, regular medical checks, ambulance services, hospital line-ups as well as counselling and vaccinations. The condition of the woman, pre-and post delivery, will be monitored on a web-based application which will have details such as expected date of delivery, administrative action, hospital assistance and vaccination schedules, officials said. After the baby is born, the administration will give the new mother a ‘baby kit’ that includes nutrition supplements, lotions and soaps and sanitiser. The kit will be enough to last the mother and baby three months, they added. The aim of the administration is to ensure that a baby is born healthy and in a safe environment keeping in view the threat of COVID-19, Choudhary said. “The assistance for expectant mothers is important to avoid any medical complications and to ensure that both mother and the newborn are healthy and get proper nutrition as well as vaccinations,” he added. Explaining the logistics of how the details were finalised, officials said the administration roped in 1,200 odd anganwadi and healthcare workers across the district to conduct a survey for pregnant women with a tentative delivery date in the next four months. Choudhary drew up a team led by Zeenat Ara, a Kashmir Administrative Officer who is district coordinator of the Integrated Child Development Programme. She has been dealing with issues being faced by women since March 17, when Srinagar shut down. Around a dozen officials were also deputed for the job. Sixteen localities have been declared ‘red zones’ in the entire district. The district has been divided into four administrative zones and 6,330 women identified for assistance -- 2,155 from North Srinagar which comprises some rural areas, 1,435 from Eidgah and 1,445 from Khanyar-East divisions of downtown areas of the city and 1,295 in west Srinagar, they said. Though there are ambulances, the district administration has procured five new ambulances specifically for the project. Another fleet of six vehicles is dedicated for various aspects of the project, including movement of teams to homes, medical check-ups and ensuring that a team of doctors in readiness to respond on call are able to reach the patient. The 24X7 helpline will be manned by four officials who will be put on six hour shifts. The project is being funded by “converged funds” from several schemes such as ‘Beti Bacho Beti Padao’, district plan and State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). “It needed sufficient funds and convergence was the only way,” the deputy commissioner said. He said convergence of not only funds but also manpower, human resource and expertise is required to make such a plan a success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/srinagar-admn-draws-up-care-package-for-6-330-women-expecting-babies-in-four-months/story-wvMgzFnC0yLgGTBu5HRDkO.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||4 Mumbai men recover, no active case in Moga||With the recovery of all four infected people, there is no more active coronavirus case in Moga district.The four residents of Andheri in Mumbai, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 7, were declared cured on Wednesday. Moga civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said that there is no active Covid-19 case in the district as all the four Covid-19 positive patients were tested negative for the second time according to the report received from VRDL lab at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot. “They will be discharged from the isolation ward of civil hospital on Thursday,” she added. A group of twelve residents of Maharashtra had reached Cheeda village on March 22 and stayed at a mosque, where they were quarantined on April 5. Later, four of them were tested positive.Deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans said: “We have been successful to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district. He appealed the people to follow the instructions and support the administration to keep Moga Covid-19-free. Meanwhile, the condition of the second Covid-19 positive patient has not improved as his recent sample has tested positive again. The 53-year-old Faridkot resident tested positive for the Covid-19 on April 8 and was admitted to the isolation ward of the GGSMCH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/4-mumbai-men-recover-no-active-case-in-moga/story-oJdby0iC4eXcIBsbftmV6K.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Ramzan under lockdown: The indomitable spirit of the Walled City||Ramzan is one month when all eyes are on Old Delhi. From the festooned stores to restaurants that come alive by night, Old Delhi is one place where you get to see the festivities in all their glory. But this Ramzan that starts on the intervening night between today and tomorrow will tell a different story. Owing to the lockdown, everyone is following precautions and staying indoors. This means no congregations and no lavish iftaar spread with friends. So how do the locals plan to bring in the holy month? Well, it starts with realising the true spirit of Ramzan — to help those who need it the most. “We have made kits which include dry rations, dates and fruits. These are the food items with which the faithful break their fast. We are in a continuous process of raising funds for these families. We have also come across such people who refuse to accept kits for free; for them, we have offered a subsidised rate. We are also urging everyone to pray from their homes,” says Abu Sufiyan, member of Delhi Youth Welfare Association. Since movement is restricted, and many localities within the Walled City have been completely sealed, locals are helping migrant labourers living in their neighbourhood. Mohammad Iftikhar, owner of Al Amaan Foods, has helped his staff and some of their friends with food and lodging. Adding to this, he says, “Since the restaurant is closed, we’ll try and make as many meals at home and make them available to anyone in need.”Mohammad Naved, whose family has been in the sweets business for over 80 years in Matia Mahal, has been moving around in Chawri Bazaar and Choori Walan, distributing ration and food. “Many of the homeless people we were feeding earlier have been quarantined. So we have shifted focus on whoever we can find within our neighbourhood,” he says.Read: Eid Mubarak: Singing the tunes of the Walled CitySome volunteers have been made smaller teams for distribution to other parts of the city. “Our ration kits, which include 10kg atta (wheat flour), 5kg rice, 5 litre oil, 3 kg sugar, pulses, salt and dry masalas can feed one family for a month. Our teams have already stored these in their respective areas, which include Shakurpur Basti, Sadar Bazaar and other areas,” says Asim Husain, president of Red Fort Bazaar Shopkeeper’s Association. Special kits for iftaar, which include packets of namkeen (dry snacks), soft beverage, dates, bananas and samosas, will also be distributed daily by their team. Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinian||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ramzan-under-lockdown-the-indomitable-spirit-of-the-walled-city/story-2QnTzrysfeV93M2zucl5XJ.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||BRO builds permanent bridge on Ravi||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has constructed a permanent bridge on river Ravi, which connects Kasowal enclave in Punjab to the rest of the country.The defence ministry said the bridge was completed and opened to farmers ‘much ahead of its schedule’.“The 484-meter bridge was built by 141 Drain Maintenance Coy of 49 Border Roads Task Force (BRTF) of Project Chetak. The bridge cost ₹17.89 crore, excluding the approaches. It consists of 16 cells of 30.25-metre length each,” a defence ministry release said on Wednesday. According to the release, the BRO had planned to open the Kasowal Bridge in time for Vaisakhi so that farmers could transport their harvest to the market comfortably. “All available resources were diverted and approach work of far bank was completed in a short time. On the first Monday after Vaisakhi, the bridge was opened to farmers, who transported their harvest on tractors,” the ministry said. Director general border roads (DGBR) Lt Gen Harpal Singh said the BRO teams did the work while taking precautions against Covid-19. As per the release, the enclave of around 35 square kilometers, had been connected via pontoon bridge of limited load capacity. “The pontoon bridge used to be dismantled every year prior to the monsoon so that it wouldn’t wash away in the strong currents of the river. This meant thousands of acres of fertile land across the river could not be tilled by farmers during the monsoon.” “The locals and the army required a Class-70 permanent bridge to give all-weather connectivity to the enclave. The bridge was planned by the Border Roads Organisation,” the defence ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bro-builds-permanent-bridge-on-ravi/story-AR71rqj7KKl1dSWDzlI72M.html
23-04-2020||City||One more tests positive for Covid-19 in Himachal, tally touches 40||A Tablighi Jamaat worker tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Sirmaur district on Thursday, bringing the state’s tally to 40.The patient, who became the second person to test positive from Sirmaur, had been admitted to the Taruwala quarantine facility near Paonta Sahib.Earlier, he had tested negative for the coronavirus on April 7.Health authorities had sent 38 samples of Jamaat workers for testing on Wednesday, of which 37 came out to be negative.Sirmaur deputy commissioner Raj Krishan Pruthi said the patient has been shifted to ESIC Model Hospital, Baddi, which is a designated Covid treatment facility.Una is the worst-hit district in the state with 16 cases—40% of the total cases—followed by Solan with nine cases. Chamba has recorded six cases, Kangra five and Hamirpur and Sirmour two each.Twenty-six of the forty cases in the state are either Tablighi Jamaat workers or their primary contacts.SEVEN PATIENTS RECOVERAs many as seven Covid-19 patients, who were undergoing treatment at ECSI Model Hospital, Baddi, have recovered as they tested negative for second consecutive time, additional chief secretary (health) RD Dhiman said in a statement issued Wednesday.All of them are Tablighi Jamaat workers or their primary contacts. Six of the recovered patients are from Una and one patient is from Sirmour. The patients from Una had tested positive on April 7, and one patient from Sirmaur had been diagnosed on April 8.Dhiman said the recovered patient will be kept under observation for fourteen days at an institutional quarantine facility. They will be discharged if they test negative after the observation period.With the recovery of seven patients the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state has come down to 17.However, a case has been reported in the state where a patient tested positive for coronavirus after recovery.At present, 8,300 people are under surveillance in the hill state, of which 2,805 are home quarantined or admitted to institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-tally-touches-40/story-KcObmefvY1RENuvSQUacFL.html
23-04-2020||City||Punjab’s Moga district becomes Covid-19 free||After four people recovered from Covid-19 in Moga, the district has become coronavirus free, informed KBS Sidhu, Special Chief Secretary, Punjab on Thursday.“There were 4 Corona positive cases who were kept in isolation for 14 days. Now, they have been tested twice and are now negative. District Moga is Covid-free now,” the official tweeted.“They are all TJ’s and belong to Maharashtra--14 in all. They will be kept in Deaddiction and Rehabilitation Centre at Village Janer, which is closed now. This one is totally away from habitation. No one will object. Once the Inter-State borders open, they will be sent back,” he said in another tweet.According to the Health Ministry, Punjab so far has recorded 251 cases of coronavirus, out of which 49 have been cured and 16 have lost their lives.(This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-moga-district-becomes-covid-19-free/story-xpdO7pzteM8f9LKzApEvCM.html
23-04-2020||Education||Bihar cabinet nod to create 33,916 teaching posts||State cabinet on Tuesday paved the way for the appointment of 32,916 secondary school teachers and 1,000 higher secondary computer teachers by giving its nod for creation of posts in the schools being set up at panchayat level.The sanction will expedite the process for setting up higher secondary schools in all such panchayats that lacked secondary school.The move is part of government’s ambitious plan to provide higher secondary level education in all the 8,386 panchayats of the state. Existing high schools were being upgraded for the purpose. But, 2,963 panchayats did not even have a high school of their own.To ensure the delivery of higher secondary education at the panchayat level, in the vicinity of villages, efforts were on to start teaching for Class 9 students with the help of retired teachers, who were to be roped in on deputation basis, from April this year.The lockdown imposed in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent closure of educational institutions had pushed back the start of the new academic session. But the nod for the appointment process will help in putting back the session back on rails with the availability of teachers.For the time being, education department has roped in Doordarshan Bihar for extending an hour long online teaching session for Class 9 and 10 students everyday and efforts are on to book a slot for extending the facility for Class 11 and 12 students too.This fits in the exigency plan, prepared at the departmental level, to kick start the process before the Covid-19 disruption. It was envisaged that at least two rooms of existing facility would be earmarked for Class 9, in all such panchayats where new infrastructure for higher secondary schools is yet to get completed.These classrooms were to be equipped with smart class facilities for helping students to access interactive learning, through pre-recorded videos of chapter-wise lectures. The pre-recorded videos, prepared as part of the ‘Unnayan Bihar’ programme to make up for the lack of quality teaching facilities, also have a module for student assessment.“The cabinet sanction coupled with smart class facility and the initiative to make up for the lost classes by beaming online education facilities on DD Bihar is likely to come to the aide of students in these difficult times,” said an official of the education department.THE SCHOOL SCENARIOTotal panchayats: 8,386Panchayats with high schools: 5,423Panchayats without high schools: 2,963Middle schools with two extra rooms for Class 9: 1,482Two rooms being built in middle schools for Class 9: 1,139Schools with one extra room, another being built: 191Schools to run Class 9 in two shifts due to lack of space: 151||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bihar-cabinet-nod-to-create-33-916-teaching-posts/story-Il1yh6sa219qKNahba28qI.html
23-04-2020||Education||AKTU to start virtual lab for engineering students||After online classroom teaching Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) is shifting its focus to virtual lab as closure of all engineering colleges affiliated to the university has put practicals on halt, said an official.Under the chairmanship of AKTU vice chancellor Vinay Kumar Pathak, a webinar was held on Wednesday to weigh options for virtual lab. “The idea is to explore possibilities of starting virtual lab amid the lockdown,” said the VC.“We also have to start practicals alongside online classroom teaching. Theory is important. But for engineering student, the application part of what is being taught, is equally important,” said Pathak.AKTU sought guidance of experts from IITs, including prof Ranjan Bose from IIT Delhi, prof Kantesh Blani from IIT Kanpur, Pushpadeep Mishra from IIT Mumbai, and prof Venkatesh from IIT Hyderabad.Prof Ranjan said virtual lab is a project of ministry of human resource development, government of India.He said on this platform, practical work of all engineering streams is possible.He said on virtual labs, practical teaching can easily be conducted because the required software is free for all students. Pushpdeep Mishra and prof Venkatesh informed on how to carry out practicals on the virtual lab.AKTU vice chancellor prof Pathak said, “In the present scenario virtual lab is a good option to start practical work.”He said the university will form a committee to explore the possibility and from the next semester it will become an essential part in AKTU teaching learning module.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/aktu-to-start-virtual-lab-for-engineering-students/story-2Axk5wC9dfPkRs8LYvXJzM.html
23-04-2020||Lucknow||Tally of UP’s Covid-19 free districts swells to 32: CM Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the number of coronavirus-free districts in Uttar Pradesh had gone up to 32, including 22 which never had any Covid-19 patients and 10 initially affected districts which did not have cases now.These 10 districts are : Pilibhit, Lakimpur Kheri, Hathras, Bareilly, Prayagraj, Maharajganj, Shahjahanpur, Barabanki, Hardoi and Kaushambi. The chief minister also said the lockdown should be strictly enforced and strict action should be taken against those violating restriction norms.Reviewing the lockdown situation with officers, Yogi said people should not be allowed to assemble under any circumstances at the time of ‘iftar’ and ‘sahari’ during Ramzan.He said Aligarh, Moradabad and Saharanpur were on the list of sensitive districts.Yogi said industrial units should be made operational in districts that have not reported any case of coronavirus and permission for transportation of construction and material should be granted. He said permission to transport products by containers should also be given for export-oriented units.Yogi said supply of essential commodities should not be obstructed during the lockdown period and no one should face any scarcity of food grains. He said social distancing must be ensured while carrying out any activity, anywhere and added that food being cooked in community kitchens must be checked.The chief minister said private hospitals not following instructions for safety and spreading infection must be sealed. He said a state government medical officer should survey all private medical colleges and private hospitals and adequate precaution should be taken to check spread of infection there. Yogi said testing capacity of laboratories should be increased and a testing lab should be set up at all divisional headquarters. He said work for medical tests should be carried out at a faster pace and training should be imparted to technicians for the purpose.The chief minister said equipment for medical tests should be kept in good condition and arrangements for oxygen should be made at every bed. A ventilator should be made available for every 10 beds in a hospital, he said.He said 77 per cent of crop has been harvested and this was for the first time that no problem was there about availability of workers for harvesting. He said in all 30 lakh quintal wheat has been procured and 62 per cent of this has been bought at the doorstep of farmers.Officers informed the chief minister that 12.75 lakh workers were working in 12,000 brick kilns. Moreover 1.25 lakh workers were working in 7,000 industrial units while 60,000 had jobs in 119 sugar mills. He was also informed that distribution of food grains had been made to 3.06 crore people out of 3.5 crore ration card holders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/tally-of-up-s-covid-19-free-districts-swells-to-32-cm-yogi-adityanath/story-1hC5m55A9W68Y1agscMHAO.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Ghosts of Khan Market||No clacker-clacker of high heels on the front lane pavement. No one saying, “My daughter, who is doing her MBA in New York...” No famous face is to be seen—no litfest author, no foreign ambassador, not even a has-been politician. It’s all empty.What’s the point, then, of coming to Khan Market? One of Delhi’s most upscale shopping destinations, it has been for years a place to see and be seen. But these days, it is as quiet and unhappening as the adjacent Jewish graveyard.“Never thought I’ll see such a thing,” exclaims Abhinav Bamhi, one of the very rare Delhiwallas who happen to live in Khan Market. On his way to a vegetable shop, he is walking along the front lane. He’s the only one there.His family have been running one of the area’s longest surviving shops, Faqir Chand and Sons. When Khan Market was founded in 1951 to rehabilitate Partition refugees, it was designed to have shops downstairs and houses upstairs. Today, only four homes survive; the others have been turned into cafés and restaurants. The Bamhis live at No. 59.Mr Bamhi’s house shares its wall with the Town Hall restaurant, which, in BC (Before Corona) era, would teem with Sushi-loving crowds. His kitchen window looks to Cafe Turtle, where a cup of masala chai is priced 155 rupees plus taxes. The young man —he is 22—is conscious of having an extraordinary address. His Instagram handle is called @myhomeiskhan.“Each time I come out of the house to get groceries, I walk along the lanes, looking at the shuttered shops,” he says, chatting on WhatsApp. “I see the notices announcing ‘Closed due to COVID-19 alert’.”Mr Bamhi stops by a cake shop and turns his phone camera lens towards its locked glass door. The counter inside, that was once filled with whole portions of carrot cake, chocolate hazelnut cake, blueberry cake, salted caramel brownie, chocolate gooey cake and red velvet pastry, is now empty. Many will remember how this place used to be super-crowded at all times — now, it is looking like a relic from a previous civilisation.As the Khan Market Instagrammer takes a round of the area, showing the middle lane and the back lane through the phone screen that connects him to this reporter, the surreal aspects of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown become starker. Here, on these lanes, would walk some of the country’s most powerful and rich. Even the world of those super-privileged haven’t been spared by the pandemic. Nothing living is to be seen except for the market’s much-cherished stray dogs. “A lady who lives in (nearby) Sujan Singh Park used to send food for the strays,” Mr Bamhi explains. “She is still sending the food daily.”Further ahead, a showroom’s security guard in blue uniform is sitting cross-legged on the floor, his eyes focused on his mobile phone. Gazing upon the haunting emptiness in front of him, Mr Bamhi talks of missing the so-called Khan Market people—“the dignified elderly women in handicraft saris, politicians with bodyguards, young people passionately discussing democracy and fascism, journalists and activists...”He heads towards the middle lane, turns left into a staircase and returns to the flat that he shares with his parents, brother, sister-in-law and niece, Aradhana. At 19 months, she is Khan Market’s youngest resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-ghosts-of-khan-market/story-ENA8Qhp8nw7h5c1X6HMXEO.html
23-04-2020||Kolkata||Mamata slams Centre over ‘faulty’ Covid-19 testing kits||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that the federal government was trying to malign the state and that “canards” were being spread about the state’s testing figures when the “real problem” was with the testing kits supplied to the state. Her comments came a day after the West Bengal government and the Centre clashed over the arrival of two central teams in the state tasked with assessing the Covid-19 situation and the local government’s handling of it.On Wednesday, West Bengal claimed that all 10,000 rapid testing kits (RTKs) allocated to it by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) were defective. Following complaints from some states, the ICMR on Tuesday had asked for a two-day suspension in the use of these kits while it revalidated their performance. West Bengal previously complained about the poor quality of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests supplied to it by the ICMR. “The Indian Council of Medical Research was supposed to supply the testing kits. But either the kits are in short supply or they are defective and are being withdrawn. Who is to blame for this?” Banerjee asked. The Bengal government has drawn flak for its low rate of Covid-19 tests. Till date, the state, which has a population of around 100 million, has tested 7,037 samples out of which 423 tested positive; 15 people have died because of Covid-19. “Luckily the state health department didn’t depend on the Centre and had ordered testing kits from various other organisations. Health hazards are taking place. We are not responsible. We have to do tests on time. Else patients will die. Who is responsible for this situation?” the chief minister said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) denied the allegations, and said that the Mamata Banerjee administration was crying foul to hide its own inefficiencies.Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP are bitter rivals in the state, which goes to polls in 2021. On Wednesday, West Bengal said the RTKs it received were faulty. “All 10,000 rapid test kits supplied to Bengal have been found to be faulty. We conducted 220 tests with these kits. It was a waste of time and energy,” said Rajiva Sinha, chief secretary of West Bengal. “We had to make our own arrangements. While supply was scarce we are being blamed for low number of tests.”Meanwhile, Apurva Chandra, who is heading the inter-ministerial central team for south Bengal, wrote to chief secretary Sinha on Wednesday seeking a “detailed presentation” on a number of issues, including the level of testing carried out by the state. It also asked about the availability of safety equipment for doctors, and the system created by the state for the approval of “cause of declaration of death” for Covid-19 patients. The government has come under flak for attributing some of the deaths of Covid-19 patients to co-morbidities. Most states are attributing even uch deaths to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-slams-centre-over-faulty-covid-19-testing-kits/story-hhFmF7QQ5WDCbLXMxbUGnO.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai records 11 new Covid cases; pregnant woman tests positive in Panvel||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has reported 11 Covid-19 positive cases in its jurisdiction on Wednesday. One case was reported by Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC).The total count of Covid-19 cases in Navi Mumbai is 85 cases. There are 20 containment zones in the city.Eight of the new cases are among the 19 employees of an IT company at Mahape, MIDC. A 19-year-old youth, resident of Kopar Khairane, who was in contact with a Covid positive employee of his company in Rabale has tested positive. A 27-year-old domestic help from Turbhe has tested positive. Her husband, a labourer, will be tested. The area has been declared as containment zone and sanitised.Panvel has 40 cases with one reported on Wednesday. A pregnant woman, resident of Kamothe, has tested positive. She had been admitted to Fortis hospital in Mulund on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-records-11-new-covid-cases-pregnant-woman-tests-positive-in-panvel/story-kZQGRAbgO2ii0qG6KAvWuI.html
23-04-2020||City||Thane sees 13 new cases; 3 suspected Covid patients die||Thirteen new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Thane on Wednesday.Thane Municipal Corporation said they have also recorded three deaths of people suspected to be Covid positive.Three patients admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa with symptoms of coronavirus died on Wednesday. Their swab test reports are still awaited. Their funeral will be carried out as per the norms laid down for Covid patients.An official from Kalwa hospital said, “A 69-year-old man from Kharegaon was bought to the hospital on Tuesday in an unconscious state. He had high blood pressure, sugar and suffered a paralytic stroke. He died on Wednesday morning. A 74-year-old man from Shahad, who had breathing problems and pneumonia, died at 10.30am. The third patient is a 63-year-old man from Diva, who was brought to the hospital unconscious. He too died on Wednesday.”The three patients will be treated as suspected coronavirus deaths. The city has six coronavirus deaths.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “On Wednesday, 13 new cases were recorded, taking the total positive cases in the city to 168. Two-year-old girl, sister of the five-month-old boy who has tested positive, too is infected with the virus. Two more policemen from Mumbra have been tested positive.”Twenty seven patients have been discharged so far.Twelve new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Kalyan and Dombivli on Wednesday, taking the total count to 97. Those infected include a man from Kalyan police department and a 57-year-old nurse.After learning about the crowd of people at the newly set-up onion-potato market near Durgadi Chowk in Kalyan (West), KDMC commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said market would shift back to APMC market. The market will be open from 7am to 5pm.The civic body found that several trucks, which claimed to be travelling to Vashi APMC market, halted at Kalyan market at Phadke ground and other places in the city instead of going to Vashi. This too is leading to crowding at the ground and other places in Kalyan. “To ensure the trucks don’t halt at Kalyan, we will only allow in only those trucks which has taken permission to pass through Kalyan while going to Vashi APMC market. Those without permission will not be allowed and face legal action, “said Suryavanshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-sees-13-new-cases-3-suspected-covid-patients-die/story-ItBmRW69tEXDsTxcZmMjmM.html
23-04-2020||City||One month of Covid-19 curfew in Punjab||There is complete shutdown in Punjab since March 23. HT spoke with people from different segments, encapsulating their daily routine, challenges they faced and the worries they have. Excerpts:YOUNG COP BALANCING IT BETWEEN DUTY, SAFETY(By Anil Sharma)AMRITSAR: For the last six weeks, he’s been waking up at 5am and going to the bed around 11pm. A 12-hour shift is not the only hardship, once back home, he has to isolate himself from the family members — mother, brother and sister.Punjab Police constable Shivjit Singh, 21, joined the force in July 2018 after his father, a police head-constable, died. He is among the eight cops deputed on rotation basis outside the isolation ward of Amritsar’s Guru Nanak Dev Hospital where Covid-19 patients are being treated.Wearing a mask and surgical gloves, Shivjit notes down the details of the patients in the ward and also ensures that no one except doctors and nurses cross the ward’s threshold.“My duty hours are from 8am to 8pm, but that gets stretched often due to emergency admission of patients. I mostly reach home between 9pm and 10pm,” he says.“As soon as I reach home, I take a bath in the courtyard after sanitising my uniform. I sanitise my body before entering the house. I have been living in a separate room since March 10,” said Singh, who lives in Verka village, around 8km from the hospital.PADDY SEASON COMING, LABOUR PANGS BOTHER THIS FARMER(By Vishal Joshi)BATHINDA: After a good wheat harvest this season, Balwinder Singh, 55, a small farmer from Bathinda’s Deon village, is worried about the paddy season two months later.Ever since the curfew was imposed, arranging labour for the paddy season has been keeping him worried. The migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh are nowhere to be seen.“Every year I used to hire 6-8 migrants to prepare paddy fields and sowing. I contacted them telephonically a week ago, but they say it is not feasible and as well as safe. I have no idea what to do no,” he says.“The curfew came when wheat was near ready for harvesting. My two sons completed the harvesting on five-acre land on Monday and got a token to sell the produce,” he adds.With no other source of income, Balwinder is now apprehensive on taking another five-acres on lease for paddy cultivation. Balwinder is relieved that no one in his seven-member family required any medical help during the curfew. “Till now there has been no shortage of fodder or food,” he says.Balwinder, too, advises his family members to stay indoors, but then there is no work from for a farmer.HOMESICKNESS SEEPED IN FOR STUDENT FROM SOUTH SUDAN(By Deepa Sharma Sood)LUDHIANA: For Jambu Lukudu, 22, from South Sudan, staying away from family was normal. However, last six weeks in the hostel were different and he has started feeling homesick. A commerce student at Bhutta Group of Colleges, Lukudu has been residing in the hostel for two years. Now, he misses his parents and video calls them daily.“On March 16, the classes were suspended and then came the curfew. But cases in India are on the rise and we are concerned now,” he says.“Teachers are taking classes online. There’s no clarity on the exams which were due in May?” He says the lockdown has changed his daily routine. “I used to attend classes from 9am to 2pm and then would work in the college call centre from 3pm to 8pm to earn some money. Now, if I am not making a call or attending online class, I am sleeping. Also, baking is my new hobby,” he says.“I am not able to step out of the college to get money which I will run out in the next ten days. I am worried. Hostel administration arranges a doctor for check-ups every week and we are taking all precautions,” he said.DOCTOR CUT OFF FROM FAMILY AND FRIENDS(By Vishal Rambani)PATIALA: Life was going smooth for Dr Nitin Chhabra, 34, an ENT specialist, till mid-February when the ICMR asked the medical colleges to train doctors to take samples of Covid-19 patients. Dr Chhabra was among the first batch of such trainees. And, life is not the same since.“As I would get exposed to Covid-19 patients, I shifted my wife and two-year-old son to my in-laws’ place in Amritsar. I haven’t met them since the first week of March. Video calls are the only solace,” says Dr Chhabra, who was in the team that took samples from Covid-19 hotspot Nawanshahr.His doctor wife was having a good private practice in Patiala before Dr Chhabra moved her to Amritsar for the safety of their son. “I am happy that I am a Covid warrior,” he says. “Hopefully, I will meet them by June-end.”“Not only family, I am cut off from friends, relatives except those from the fraternity,” he says.For six weeks, he is having meals at the medical college canteen. “Initially, people used to avoid me. But, slowly now they are understanding,” he said.BIZMAN BUSY WITH FAMILY AS FISCAL CONCERNS LOOM (By Harsimran Singh Batra)LUDHIANA: The industry has been among the worst hit due to the curfew. For 44-year-old Rahul Verma, the owner of a dyeing unit in Ludhiana, the pandemic has brought about an unprecedented change in his life.Verma’s highly active life has undergone a sea change in the last 30 days. His regular day prior to the curfew used to be hectic. Verma confesses he never got this much time to spend with his near and dear ones in the last many years.“I have been spending time with my family for the last one month and I am also concerned about my daughter who is studying in Australia,” he says, adding that he spends most of his time watching movies.Even as he is managing, the rising burden of bank interest and stress to pay salaries of workers is a major cause of worry. He has a workforce of 250, including labour. Verma says he has planned that from now on he will putting a system in place to provide labourers a healthy diet on the factory premises.HAIR DRESSER’S SAVINGS ARE VANISHING FAST (By Gagandeep Singh)JALANDHAR: The life of Liaquat Ali, 48, a hair dresser from Kabir Nagar, has come to a standstill since the curfew was enforced amid the Covid-19 outbreak. With no earnings, he has the responsibility to also pay his two helpers who are sitting at home, besides paying the shop rent and meeting his own family expenses. Ali has five daughters and wife. Savings are vanishing fast and he is concerned about the pending fee and other education expenses of his daughters.Ali says he would get around 100 customers daily at his shop before the curfew and life was comfortable. “I have to pay around ₹5,000 rent for the shop and salary of ₹15,000 each to my two helpers,” he says. Since there are no earnings now, Ali is spending from his savings to run everyday affairs.He has been receiving more than 30 to 40 calls daily from customers, asking him to come to their houses for haircut or shave. “I am declining all such requests. There is a risk to my customers as well as me. You never know who may contract the virus from whom.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/one-month-of-covid-19-curfew-in-punjab/story-qoccMiURtF4f0gRIbR70ML.html
23-04-2020||Entertainment||‘I’m shocked to see the spike in domestic violence complaints…’||Actor Annup Sonii is taking the quarantine in his stride and fears that it will be difficult to break his newfound routine. “My last working day was March 15, so in a way I am in a lockdown for five weeks and that’s a reason why my quarantine pattern is all set. So now going back to professional life will definitely be difficult. But ‘kaam toh karna hai’ and we have to go back to our professional selves soon,” says ‘Gangaajal’ actor over phone.Sonii was in Meerut shooting for an international film and left for Mumbai for another shoot when he got the lockdown news. “We were well informed about social distancing norm that we had to follow but soon the shoots stopped. The film is nearly complete. A bit of shoot is left that will be done in Baghpat (UP) probably in August or September. Also, my web film and series are in post-production. Hopefully, that too can be released this year end,” he said. He feels pattern of shoots will change. “Shooting with less people and following social distancing we can get back to work after a month or two.”The versatile actor has been associated with a crime-based show for years now and has connected with the viewers to a great extent. “My ‘Crime Petrol’ journey has been truly inspiring. And the appreciation I have received is so rewarding. We plan to shoot fresh episodes after two months as it’s set up is not as vast as films.”Sonii was shocked to see the spike in domestic violence cases during the lock down, “It shook me completely when I read the numbers of complaints being received during such unprecedented times. Crime has reduced in the lockdown phase but rise in such cases is alarming. Some steps need to be taken and such people require counselling,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/i-m-shocked-to-see-the-spike-in-domestic-violence-complaints/story-5hLgdM9adhF2iXvauzCyTI.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Amid case surge, dire estimate, state says do not panic||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 431 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the fourth day in a row 400 or more cases have been reported, taking the number of infected people in the state to 5,649. However, the state government said the hotspots in the state have reduced to five from 14 a few days ago.The toll rose to 269 with the deaths of 18 people. Of these deaths, 10 are in Mumbai, two each in Aurangabad and Pune, one each from Kalyan-Dombivli, Solapur, Jalgaon and Malegaon.The state government has claimed that the mortality rate had reduced and the rate of doubling of cases has improved to 7.01 days, up from 3.1 days earlier this month, even as a Central team that visited Mumbai and Pune projected a sharp spike in cases in the next two to three weeks. The team has advised the Maharashtra government to prepare for a worst-case scenario. However, state health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said there was no need to panic over the projection of a massive surge in the number of cases in Mumbai between April 30 and May 15, saying that the projections were based on the rate of increase in cases, which would not be applicable now. “There is panic among people about a spike between April 30 and May 15. It is a mathematical model. There is surely a science behind it, but certain things have been assumed in this, such as the doubling rate at 3.5 and that it is kept static We have taken a lot of preventive measures. We are carrying out surveillance, tests, etc.” He said that such a spike would only happen if the state government wasn’t taking any measures.In the past four days, 2,001 cases have been reported in the state, while 58 people died during this period. So far, Mumbai has 3,683 cases and 161 deaths.Of the 431 new cases, 232 are in Mumbai. Of the 18 deaths, five were above that age of 60, while 12 were in 40-60 age group and one was below 40 years. Twelve of these patients had high-risk comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, asthama and heart ailments.The mortality rate in the state dropped 4.80 % on April 21, much below the rate of 7.21% on April 11. During a presentation before chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and chief secretary Ajoy Mehta, the five-member inter-minister Central teams reportedly projected an exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. It believably said that cases in the city may touch 42,604 by April 30 and increase to 6.56 lakh by May 15. Officials from the health department, however, said that the figures do not substantiate the present trend. “Those are figures assuming the doubling of the cases to be two days. But at present, cases are neither rising at that rate, nor are we conducting testing to reach that number by May 15. Even the percentage of cases against testing ranges between 5-8% and with that rate, figures appear to be unrealistic,” said the official.Tope said the doubling rate now is 7.01 days, and added that it will go up further. He added that the mortality rate has also improved in the state. Tope said, ”Earlier, it was 7%, now, it has come under 5%, and with efforts, it will reduce further.” The minister said that the hotspots in Maharashtra have reduced from 14 to five — Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, Nagpur, Nashik.Meanwhile, Tope rejected the notion that the Central government had sent a team to Maharashtra as it felt that lockdown measures are not followed properly in the state. The minister said the state is faring well in terms of mortality rate and the doubling rate now, which are crucial parameters to judge the size of the pandemic.Tope said, “Nobody has said that lockdown norms have not been followed [in Maharashtra]… In an epidemic, the situation is always serious. The cluster containment strategy is being properly implemented. If there is any lacuna, we are immediately identifying and resolving it… There are two important things — doubling rate and mortality rate. The doubling rate has improved. Earlier, cases doubled in three days, then in five days, now it is happening in seven days. It is will increase further. The death rate is also improving. Earlier it was over 7%, now it is under 5%. The number of cases are increasing and would increase in the coming days. But they are not growing exponentially.”A senior state government official said that the Central teams, which visited Worli-Koliwada on Tuesday, Dharavi and other slum pockets in Andheri (East), has sought data of residents of the slums, from the government. It has also sought the number of tests conducted in these areas. An official added that the team has advised that people should be shifted to quarantine facilities to curb the spread of infection in densely populated areas. “In Mumbai, around 75,000 people have to be taken from their homes and shift them into institutional quarantine facilities. We have spaces, including schools and grounds, where this can be erected. Institutional quarantine will aggressively start in Mumbai from Thursday,” Tope said.The health minister said that the Centre anticipates a spike in the number of cases in the city and added that the state has reviewed its preparedness plan. “According to the preparedness plan, we are checking the availability of hospital beds, oxygen, PPE kits, etc. We are considering the worst possibility and the BMC is preparing for it. I have instructed BMC to increase testing facilities and quarantine facilities as well,” he said.The minister also hinted that the lockdown could be extended beyond May 3 in areas where the number of cases are high. “Wherever cluster containment strategy is implemented and if there is any hindrance in implementing it and if the cases increase, we will have to take stricter steps,” he said.After 67 patients were reported to have recovered fully on Wednesday, the total number of the patients to be discharged from the hospitals has reached 789. A total of 1,09, 072 people are home quarantined and 8,051 are under institutional quarantine.State authorities have conducted 90,223 tests at government and private labs, of which, 83,979 tested negative. State has got 465 containment zones, with 6,798 health teams, which have 25.61 lakh people.During its interaction with chief minister Thackeray, the IMCT [the central team] has asked the state government to prepare for the worst-case scenario. “They have directed the government machinery for strict monitoring of containment zones and aggressive outreach to curb the spread of the virus further. They also have pressed for contact tracing and aggressive testing of people in hotspots. The government has also been told to increase the number of health teams to trace more high and low- risk contacts,” said an official from the state government, on the condition of anonymity. The official also said that the Central team has asked the state government to take steps to avoid crowding on the roads during the month of Ramadan.CM Thackeray apprised the team about the initiative taken in by the government to contain the spread in the hotspots, especially the slums in Mumbai and Pune. The team was told that the civic body in Mumbai has been reaching out to people, without waiting for them to report about symptoms. “We have increased the number of tests and it has resulted in the rise in the number of cases in the state. We expect the ICMR nod for the rapid testing at the earliest. The centre should also respond positively to the demand raised by us concerning the supply of PPE kits, N-95 mask and other equipment,“ he said.Meanwhile, the state government fears an extreme reaction from more than 5.7 lakh migrants living in 4,618 camps across the state if the lockdown is extended again after May 3. “We do not want to repeat the Bandra migrant crisis after second phase of the lockdown ends. We have been getting harsh reactions from these migrants, who have been put up in camps for more than four weeks with every facility at their disposal. The state has already spend around ₹90 crore and huge machinery is engaged for the arrangements. At a few camps, the migrants have boycotted food, demanding for transport arrangements to take them to their respective states. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is keen on sending them back at the earliest,” said an official from the state government. Meanwhile, reacting to the allegations of former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis that the BMC is suppressing the Covid-19 related death count in Mumbai, Tope said that the civic body has assured him that the deaths referred to by Fadnavis were not related to coronavirus. “I have spoken to Praveen Pardeshi, municipal commissioner. He has studied the cases; the patients were old and had comorbidities. The ICMR guidelines say that if a patient arrives in a critical or a serious condition, he or she must be stabilised first, and then swab should be taken. In this case, during the period of stabilising the patients had died. The ICMR guidelines also do not say that swab samples should be taken of [such] patients who died. The commissioner has told me that these are non-Covid-19 deaths,” he said.Fadnavis, in a letter to Thackeray on Tuesday, said that patients registered as suspected Covid-19 patients were not tested and after deaths, the bodies were releases as non-Covid ones.. He said at least 44 bodies of “suspected Covid-19” patients have been released from the civic-run BYL Nair Hospital — a dedicated Covid-19 facility now — without the coronavirus test. There are several such instances from other hospitals too, said Fadnavis, who tweeted details of the letter he’s sent to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “We are not hiding any information; there is no reason. The directives of the government of India, the protocol of ICMR, is being followed completely,” Tope added.The minister added that there is a “question mark” over the rapid test or antibody test after the Centre directed the state government not to use the Chinese kits provided for tests. “There is still a question whether to do it (rapid test) at all. In the Chinese kits, the IgM and IgG bands are not visible properly. We will act as per the corrective instructions of the Centre.”Meanwhile, Tope said that the state has got the go-ahead from the ICMR to try out the plasma therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/amid-case-surge-dire-estimate-state-says-do-not-panic/story-GamMkz4s9W2sut6OsKB7CN.html
23-04-2020||Lucknow||UP: Plan for red zones, corona-free dists gets green light||The state government is working on a two-pronged strategy to control the spread of the Covid-19 disease in red zones and give a momentum to economic activities in 32 districts that are coronavirus-free.Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, additional chief secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the state government has directed all district magistrates to implement the Covid protocol strictly in their respective districts to check the spread of the coronavirus. The DMs and SPs were also directed to take strict action against lockdown violators.Even the authorities in districts that had been declared corona free were directed to remain alert as any laxity could lead to revival of coronavirus, he said. The state government has also decided to start works in industrial units and construction in 32 non- Covid districts.The industrial development department has already started work in 6,980 industrial units where 1.25 lakh labourers are engaged.The state government also granted permission to 12,027 brick klins to start operation and around 15 lakh labourers were working in these units, he said.Out of 119 sugarmills in the state, 96 were functional with 60,000 labourers during the crushing season. The labourers will continue to remain in the sugar mills after the crushing season ends.The district magistrates have been directed to ensure smooth movement of trucks carrying raw material and finished products. The micro, small and medium enterprises department asked to ensure export of manufactured goods, he said.The state government has also started construction works on the Purvanchal, Bundelkhand and Gorakhpur link expressways. Around 8,500 labourers, engineers and other staff had started work on the expressways, he said.The industrial units and the respective district authorities were directed to implement the lockdown guidelines strictly by ensuring social distancing, regular hand washing and wearing of masks.As much as 77% harvesting of the Rabi crop was completed with the state government and private agencies purchasing 30 lakh quintal wheat, he said, adding that 62% of wheat was procured from the farmers’ doorstep.In the remaining districts in which the coronavirus cases were reported, the district and health department teams were directed to screen people in hotspots, admitted infected people in isolation wards and quarantine the suspected patients, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-plan-for-red-zones-corona-free-dists-gets-green-light/story-M3rrSSOsFbvE2ffW6bFsYN.html
23-04-2020||Lucknow||Experts need to find leakage in Agra Model: MP||With coronavirus positive cases crossing the 300-mark in Agra, questions are being raised about the Agra Model of Covid-19 management.Earlier this month, officials had said the local administration’s proactive approach in identifying cases, a door-to-door survey, the number of samples sent for testing, adequate quarantine measures and recovery of infected people made the “Agra Model” special in the fight against the coronavirus.Now, Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Agra SP Singh Baghel has called for finding ‘leakage’ in the Agra Model.“The initial stress was on the supply of essential items and people had faith in the Agra Model which also earned applause from joint secretary, union ministry of health, but no one had guessed there would be such a rise in the number of positive cases in Agra, which has crossed the 300-mark and now stands at 313,” said Baghel.“It is high time experts find ‘leakage’ in the Agra Model,” said Baghel.‘Para-medical staff are asking for gloves, masks and PPE kits, which seem to be a justified demand. Already, two dozen health workers have tested positive. If frontline corona warriors like medical staff and police personnel test positive, then who would look after the preventive measures?” the Agra MP asked.A meeting of elected representatives, including Agra MP and MLA, is being held to gather feedback and forward it to the appropriate authorities.Vivek Sarabhoi, convenor of the voluntary initiative ‘Covid-19 Agra Support’, said, “There is a huge gap between what needs to be done and what actually is being done.”However, Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh defended the Agra Model and claimed the administration was on right track. The stress was on testing more and more people as the source of the infection spread was known in all cases, he said, ruling out community spread.“There is a series of meetings with stakeholders. New guidelines are being issued in consultation with the SN Medical College principal, chief medical officer, chief medical superintendent, SSP Agra, IMA Agra, Help Agra, Bajaja Committee, besides Dr BS Chandel, representative of the World Health Organisation,” the Agra DM said.‘We have decided to keep suspected Covid-19 patients in institutional quarantine after having their sample tested so that they can be moved to isolation once they test positive,” the district magistrate said.“A dedicated five-member team of Indian Medical Association (IMA) will ensure compliance with the corona protocol at private hospitals,” Singh said.“Medical mobile units would be stationed in Hariparvat, Loha Mandi and Shahganj areas of city. Medical waste is to be disposed of on priority and we are updating arrangements for the availability of blood,” the Agra DM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/experts-need-to-find-leakage-in-agra-model-mp/story-K4uMIP4his1H4xZtUQiOxJ.html
23-04-2020||City||Cop made sexual advances at me: Colombian woman||A 30-year-old Colombian national stuck in Mumbai due to the lockdown has alleged that a junior police officer made sexual advances at her at a hotel.The woman said that she had filed a complaint with the Mumbai Police via an e-mail, which is confirmed by a senior police officer on Wednesday. He said a probe was on. “I came to Mumbai on February 22 on a tourist visa and was staying in a Bandra hotel till March 31,” the woman stated.The woman stated that she had approached the Colombian embassy in Delhi after she exhausted her money. “Accordingly, an officer of Mumbai Police helped me check in a lodge in Marol in Andheri on April 1,” she said in the complaint. She alleged that the officer first asked her for a drink, which she refused. However, he kept sending me “flirtatious” messages on my phone, she alleged. “A couple of times he tried to force himself on me, but I pushed him out of the room,” she stated. An NGO helped the woman shift to a hotel. The officer has denied the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-made-sexual-advances-at-me-colombian-woman/story-8Ttg60ZBv28SvXOMI8lXaL.html
23-04-2020||Lucknow||Five test positive in pool test, health officials fear community transmission in Meerut||Five persons tested positive in the pool test done in Lakhipura locality, a development that has got the health officials worried for they now fear outbreak of community transfer of virus in Meerut. “It indeed is a matter of concern for all,” said Dr Rajkumar, chief medical officer adding pool test in the district were being conducted on Wednesday as well. The findings of the pool test done on Friday in which five tested positive was confirmed on Sunday, health officials said. “Apart from these five , two positive cases have been found without a contact chain,” said Dr Rajkumar. In one such case a pregnant woman, wife of vegetable seller, tested positive in Rajban Bazaar locality. Her husband tested negative. But the virus’ contact link to her is missing, health officials said. Similarly, the contact chain of a private hospital’s accountant, who died of Covid 19, is also missing.He explained the pool test is done to check if the virus has moved to the next stage thus opening the possibility of community transmission. “In this stage it becomes very difficult to know who is spreader and carrier,” Dr Rajkumar said. Till now, 82 persons have tested positive in Meerut (since March 27) when the first positive case was detected. Of these 82, 3 have died while 15 have been discharged, health officials said. Dr Anil Noushran, secretary of IMA’s Meerut chapter, too expressed his worry and concern for missing contact chain. “It could be an indication of moving towards community transfer which is indeed a matter of great concern,” he said. He held peoples’ casual approach in following rules during lockdown a major reason behind possible threat of community transfer in the district. He also emphasized on strict implementation of lockdown to prevent possible community transfer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/five-test-positive-in-pool-test-health-officials-fear-community-transmission-in-meerut/story-spcBbdo957MdkfTdzU98WL.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn doubles stipend of GMCH-32 interns||The UT administrator VP Singh Badnore decided to increase the stipend being received by the interns of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, from ₹ 300 per day to ₹600 per day. The students will now get ₹18,000 per month. The interns had earlier written to the UT administration seeking a hike as their working hours had increased to around 14 hours amid the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-doubles-stipend-of-gmch-32-interns/story-VPzOqCOiq8Z9YpcnjBhdUK.html
23-04-2020||Lucknow||Cop assaulted in Kasaibada containment area in Lucknow||A constable of the Cantt police station was injured on Wednesday in a scuffle between a patrol party and residents of Kasaibada locality which is the COVID19 containment area. The police have booked three identified people and six others and were planning to impose National Security Act on them, said a police spokesperson.Reports said a police party patrolling along a railway track in Kasaibada locality asked a group of youths sitting near railway track to go home.They argued with the cops and later heckled a constable. “During the scuffle, the constable received injury on his nose,” said deputy commissioner of police (DCP) east Somen Barma. He, however, rubbished the reports of stone-pelting on cops. Later the injured cop was taken to hospital for first aid.Barma said, “There were nine people who entered in a scuffle. We have registered a case against them for attacking a cop on duty. We are in the process of identifying them.”They had been booked for rioting, assaulting a government official, disobeying the government orders, indulging in a negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life and under relevant sections of Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act, said BarmaKasaibada was sealed after 12 people from the locality tested positive for the coronavirus on April 3.RESIDENTS DENY VIOLENCE, ALLEGE ESSENTIALS SHORTAGEHowever, residents of Kasaibada locality alleged shortage of essentials. Some videos also went viral on social media showing locals talking about their issues. They also alleged misbehavior by police.A person was heard saying that he had booked the LPG cylinder on April 3 and had not received it so far. Women were also complaining about medicine shortage.A local resident Md. Imran said, “The issue is not with the supplies only. Many people are daily wagers who do not have money to buy essentials. But this does not justify the violence.”Meanwhile, additional district magistrate (ADM) supplies, RD Pandey also flayed the allegation, saying good quality ration was being provided. “We are provided good quality ration to the people at their doorstep. There is no shortage. People have our numbers and had there been an issue, we would have been informed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/cop-assaulted-in-kasaibada-containment-area-in-lucknow/story-0VkLTf7xgKJvEC1LZ4rksN.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh-based lawyer files PIL seeking proper disposal of masks||A Chandigarh-based advocate, Abhayjeet Singh, filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in Punjab and Haryana high court seeking guidelines for usage and disposal of face masks, hand gloves and other protective gear.The PIL mentioned that contaminated face masks, gloves and protective gear posed greater risk to environment and health if not handled properly.It demanded that used protective gears collected from residential areas in UT, Punjab and Haryana should be treated as medical waste and proper disposal should be ensured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-based-lawyer-files-pil-seeking-proper-disposal-of-masks/story-jc4PeqeL9jPawetwTh4ROK.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Bar urges Punjab, Haryana HC chief justice to allow more hearings||The Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association (PHHCBA) on Wednesday wrote to the chief justice of the court seeking more hearings as the functioning of the court had taken a hit amid the Covid-19 outbreak.The letter mentioned that litigants were left in the lurch and at the mercy of police and other authorities as matters of ‘very urgent nature’ were being taken up by the HC benches through video-conferencing. The Bar suggested that pending cases should also be taken up provided both the parties agree for hearing. The letter suggested that mentioning of cases should be allowed before judges in place of emails and all petitions about anticipatory bails, regular bail and protection matters should be taken up automatically upon filing of petition.It also suggested that more benches should take up cases through video- conferencing and one or two benches should conduct hearing on the court premises, with entry only of limited number of lawyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bar-urges-punjab-haryana-hc-chief-justice-to-allow-more-hearings/story-AJzxWGuxDn0UWCN2SGnZTN.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Bhatia Hospital staff in Mumbai steps forward to treat colleagues tested positive for Covid-19||For 32-year-old doctor Shalaka Patil and 36-year-old nurse Ansa Sam John of Bhatia Hospital, the outbreak of Covid-19 has required them to treat not just patients, but also colleagues who contracted the infection while on duty. So far, over 100 members of medical staff from hospitals across the city have contracted Covid-19 after treating patients who were positive for the infection. Since April 9, 35 staff members of the privately-run Bhatia Hospital, in Tardeo, have been diagnosed with Covid-19. Patil and John are among an additional team of 25 that has stepped up to treat the 35 Covid-positive medical staff at the hospital. On Monday, 11 of the 35 were discharged after recovering, but eight of the additional staff, including doctors and nurses, on Wednesday tested positive for Sars-Cov-2, which causes Covid-19. At present, all the Covid-19 patients in Bhatia Hospital are staff members who had been treating patients. All outsider patients have recovered and been discharged.John, who has worked as a nurse at Bhatia Hospital for over 15 years, said, “We are taking necessary precautions like wearing personal protection equipment, but there is still a chance that we might get it. All staff members are prepared for this.”At Bhatia Hospital, three teams have been formed to treat Covid-positive patients, each one comprising three doctors, four nurses and two housekeeping staff. A total of 27 staff members are on rotational duty. The medical staff do rounds to check on their Covid-positive colleagues twice daily, in the morning and evening, and do follow-ups over video calls. Repeated swabs are taken of all staff and swabs are also collected from patients showing only minor symptoms, said Bhatia Hospital authorities. “When we see our colleagues recovering, we get the confidence to keep going,” said Patil.A team is on duty for seven days at a stretch, during which time they stay at the hospital. Then they go into a 14-day isolation and are replaced by another team.Patil, who is an intensivist and has been working for six years, said they are all aware that treating their colleagues increases chances of them getting infected despite taking necessary precautions. She also said part of the challenge was to comfort the families of those who have tested positive. “We do regular counselling of family members over video calls. We being their colleagues are doing everything possible to handle this situation,” she said.It is also necessary for those on duty to reassure their own families. “Along with being mentally prepared, my family members are also proud of us,” said Patil, who calls home twice a day. “We make them [family members] understand that as a healthcare worker, it is our responsibility and it [Covid-19] might come to any one among us,” said John.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhatia-hospital-staff-in-mumbai-steps-forward-to-treat-colleagues-tested-positive-for-coronavirus/story-hDS0j2QeEGTttI6DPduaTK.html
23-04-2020||City||Vashi toll plaza sees traffic congestion as govt staff resume work||With around 10% of government employees reporting to their offices along with essential services officials, there has been a significant increase in traffic at Vashi toll plaza. On Wednesday morning, there was severe traffic congestion at the plaza leading to more than one-hour delay. Officials attributed the same to lesser number of toll staff.Sunil Lokhande, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), said, “We are vigilant about who is leaving the city limits. The traffic at Vashi toll plaza is a result of APMC vehicles being allowed to ply along with vehicles carrying few government officials who have started reporting to work.”“The staff at Vashi toll plaza is working with less than half manpower hence, they take time to collect toll and clear vehicle, resulting in a delay,” said Lokhande.Vashi toll plaza has resumed toll tax collection from April 20.Bhanudas Khatavkar, traffic inspector, Vashi traffic police, said, “As local trains are not running and many government employees are now going to work, there are more private cars are on the road. And in a bid to maintain social distancing, carpooling is also not happening, thus adding to the number of vehicles.”“In addition, goods transport has been allowed along with other essential services. Hence, there is an increased influx of vehicles for two hours in morning and evening each,” said Khatvakar.Traffic police are ensuring that only people with passes travel. They have also set up a separate dedicated queue for checking goods vehicles to ensure other commuters are not inconvenienced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vashi-toll-plaza-sees-traffic-as-govt-staff-resume-work/story-e0F6Dei1PAGDhBagmUOHgP.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai 3rd most polluted among 10 int’l cities during lockdown: Study||The city was the third most polluted among 10 international cities during the first three weeks of the lockdown imposed owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a report published on Wednesday.Coinciding with the 50th anniversary of Earth Day, the report released by Swiss-based air quality research group IQAir collated real-time PM2.5 concentrations from monitoring stations over the three-week lockdown period. While the timeframe for seven of 10 cities was March 23-April 13, the period was different for Rome (March 9-30), and Wuhan and Seoul (February 26 to March 18).Even though Mumbai witnessed a 42% reduction in average PM2.5 levels recorded between March 23 and April 13, compared to average PM2.5 levels (during the same period) over the past four years, and a 34% reduction compared to the same period in 2019, the city ranked third most polluted with PM2.5 concentration at 28.8 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m³) during the lockdown period. Wuhan, China was the most polluted at 35.1 μg/m³ followed by Delhi, second most polluted at 32.8 μg/m³. New York had the lowest PM2.5 levels at 4.4 μg/m³, which had the cleanest air across 10 cities, followed by Los Angeles USA at 5.5 μg/m³, and Madrid, Spain at 6.4 μg/m³. Sao Paulo, Brazil recorded 10.1 μg/m³, London UK 16.2 μg/m³, Rome, Italy 16.7 μg/m³, and Seoul, South Korea 24.1 μg/m³. Nine of 10 key global cities experienced PM2.5 reductions of 25-60% from the same period in 2019, the study said.PM (particulate matter) is a mix of organic and chemical particles suspended in the air and can aggravate respiratory illnesses. PM2.5 is breathable particulate matter (solid and liquid particles) which is 2.5 microns in size or smaller, which can cause health ailments. The annual mean safe limit for PM2.5 is 10 μg/m³, according to the World Health Organisation. A recent US-based study suggests that even an increase of just 1 μg/m³ of PM2.5 in breathable air is associated with a 15% increase in the Covid-19 death rate.“Although Asian cities had higher average PM levels, we observed that cities with historically higher average PM2.5 levels such as Delhi, Mumbai, Seoul, and Wuhan, experienced more drastic reductions in particulate pollution,” said Kelsey Duska, air quality outreach specialist at IQAir through an email response to HT. “It is likely that cities in India are still observing higher PM2.5, relative to cities in Europe or the US, because people are still using energy. This energy may be sourced from dirtier sources, such as coal-based power plants. Similarly, biomass burning or fossil fuels used for domestic heating or cooking can further contribute to this effect,” said Duska.During March, Mumbai experienced average PM2.5 levels of 34.5 µg/m³ – making it the cleanest March on record, despite lockdown measures only being implemented in the later part of the month, the study said, adding, “There is high possibility that April too would be the cleanest April on record if measures are to continue throughout the month.”Significant reductions in particle pollution were primarily the result of restrictions on movement (greatly reducing traffic congestion) and industry, the study said.Duska pointed out that overall air quality improvement for Mumbai was still unprecedented. The study examined the amount of hours spent in different AQI categories (as classified by the US), from March 23 to April 13. AQI levels are categorised as 0-50 as good, 51-100 as moderate, 101-150 as unhealthy for sensitive groups, 151-200 as unhealthy, 201-300 as very unhealthy, and 301-500 as hazardous. “It was observed that Mumbai’s ‘unhealthy’ and worse rated air quality hours fell from 22.5% in 2019 to 0.4% during this lockdown period. This means that of all the hours between Mar 23 and April 13 (528 hours), only two were classified with ‘unhealthy’ air quality,” said Duska. As compared, Delhi’s ‘unhealthy’ and worse rated hours plummeted from 68% in 2019 to 17% during the lockdown period.The study also presented a chart visualising the distribution of air quality hours during the lockdown period, which were classified into AQI categories. For Mumbai’s lockdown period, the chart showed that 66.2% of hours were classified as ‘moderate,’ while 33.4% of hours were ‘unhealthy for sensitive groups’ and only 0.4% were ‘unhealthy.’ In 2019, the distribution for ‘moderate’, ‘unhealthy for sensitive groups’, and ‘unhealthy’ was 51%, 23.3% and 22.5% - showing significantly more hours in the worse rated AQI levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-third-most-polluted-among-10-int-l-cities-during-lockdown-study/story-ttmBVK1SrB8m0PsehfsYmL.html
23-04-2020||City||Ludhiana police comes up with ration kits for bulk orders||With focus on helping industrialists, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and other residents in providing ration to labourers, the Ludhiana police have prepared two types of ration kits (see box) to be sold at the police lines consumer canteen store on a no-profit basis.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said they will only be accepting orders of 10 or more kits, and anyone can place the order at 91156-01159, 91156-01160 and 91156-01161.Type A ration kit weighing 25.75kg will cost ₹1,200 and Type B weighing 10.45kg will cost ₹500.Agrawal said, “It was observed that many industrialists and social workers were facing problem in purchasing ration for labourers due to heavy charges or unavailability of the product. Therefore, the police lines staff has started this service.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-police-comes-up-with-ration-kits-for-bulk-orders/story-KMSRCWwuwIHpHGaGKLi29M.html
23-04-2020||Mumbai||Four hospitals in Mumbai turn away constable with Covid-19 symptoms; he’s in the ICU||A 57-year-old police head constable attached with the Kurla traffic division was allegedly refused treatment by four civic hospitals after he developed coronavirus symptoms. When HT contacted Dr Daksha Shah, deputy heath officer, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC), she said, “I am not aware of this case. I will inquire with the hospitals before I comment on it.”Shivaji Sonawane had developed fever on Monday and after consulting a private doctor, his son Sharad rushed him to Rajawadi Hospital on Tuesday around 2pm. “My father had developed fever and cough and had difficulty in breathing. The doctors at Rajawadi Hospital checked his temperature and conducted preliminary analysis, after which they recommended to keep him in isolation at home. But when I asked the authorities to admit him to the hospital’s isolation centre, they claimed there was no bed available and asked us to take him to Kasturba Hospital,” 25-year-old Sharad told HT.He then rushed Sonawane on his motorcycle to Kasturba Hospital. “Doctors there checked his temperature and gave him some oxygen. They said they do not have enough beds available and asked me to take him to Nair Hospital. They did not even bother to take my father’s swab for testing,” Sharad alleged. When the authorities at Nair Hospital also refused to admit Sonawane, Sharad rushed his father to KEM Hospital. “At Nair Hospital, too, they said there was no bed available and that they do not test patients. On their recommendation, I took my father to KEM Hospital, where doctors initially refused to admit him. Then I contacted the police, following which some officers requested civic officials to admit him. My father was finally admitted to the hospital’s intensive care unit (ICU) around 11pm on Tuesday night,” Sharad said. Sonawane’s swab samples have been collected and the reports are awaited. “My father has given 28 years to the service. If anything goes wrong, the doctors are responsible,” an emotional Sharad said. Despite repeated calls, Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital, did not respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/four-hospitals-in-mumbai-turn-away-constable-with-covid-19-symptoms-he-s-in-the-icu/story-Rhti4IVXDZuQR5iGjullvM.html
23-04-2020||Gurugram||Education dept asks counsellors to continue with tele-counselling during lockdown||To guide students grappling with mental health concerns during the lockdown, the school education department has asked its counsellors to provide counselling services over the phone. In a letter shared with district education officers in the state on Tuesday, the department wrote, “Due to the lockdown, students are not being able to meet their teachers and classmates with whom they share an emotional attachment. In the absence of interaction, the mental health of students can be affected. During this difficult period, counsellors of Umeed Centre are available to resolve any mental or emotional concerns that students and teachers might face. Counsellors must continue their services during the lockdown period so that students remain cheerful and are able to share their concerns if any [sic].”Counselling and guidance centres called Umeed Centres have been operating in the state for the past two years. The tele-counselling service was started last year to address the grievances of students remotely. As per the new directive, counsellors across 15 districts in the state will be available to provide these services regularly during the lockdown period. Students in districts where the centres don’t operate can reach out to the nearest Umeed Centre counsellor. The helpline—6283848585—will cater to students in the Gurugram district.The education department has shared the list of helplines operational across the state with school principals who have been asked to communicate the information to students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/education-department-asks-counsellors-to-continue-with-tele-counselling-during-lockdown/story-281OnqbaX068ygUwGwxfIN.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Not just red, orange zones central to Capital’s anti-Covid cleaning drives||New Delhi:  The Delhi government has started an intensive cleaning and disinfecting campaign in the city, particularly in areas on the periphery of Covid-19 hot spots and those that are densely populated, by demarcating them as the “orange zones”, according to officials aware with the matter and government documents reviewed by HT.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on April 12 said that his government was focusing on zones designated “red” and “orange” to isolate and control the outbreak of the coronavirus disease that has so far infected 2,248 people in Delhi and killed 48. The government has imposed a hard lockdown in its 89 containment, or “red” zones, with people not allowed to step out of their homes and authorities home-delivering essentials. Along with this, a rolling list of “orange zones”, prepared every two to three days, identifies areas that are not yet infection clusters but could potentially turn into red zones. The Delhi government updates the list of orange zones regularly. For example, in the April 19 and 20 list -- seen by HT -- Kailash Kunj and Kailash Hills in East of Kailash were included in the list of about 180 orange zones. Some other localities that were listed were Blocks A1, A4 & B5 of Safdarjung Enclave; the entire unauthorised colony of Sangam Vihar; Paschim Vihar; Dwarka Sector 6; Block C of Vasant Kunj; Savitri Nagar near Shekh Sarai; Wards 73 & 75 of Ashok Vihar; D Block of Malkaganj; Okhla Vihar; Block C of Yamuna Vihar and Boulevard Road in Chandni Chowk.While some of the orange zones are lanes and blocks, others include entire localities – the contours of the high-risk zones depend on the demographic spread in the areas, a senior government official said on condition of anonymity.A senior government official said that these areas are broadly chosen either based on their proximity to localities from where cases are being reported, on the basis of their vulnerability due to risk factors such as high population density. These zones are earmarked for large-scale disinfection and sanitation drives every few days. The Delhi government recently acquired Japanese machines, which can sanitise an area of 20,000 square metres in an hour, to spray disinfectants in high-risk areas.To be sure, Delhi’s red and orange zones are different from the Centre’s district-wise classification on similar lines. Nationally, the central government has classified districts into red, orange and green areas. While red zones, as defined by the Union health ministry, are “highest caseload districts”, also called hot spots; and orange zones are areas where no Covid-19 case has been reported in 14 days. All 11 revenue districts in Delhi are currently hot spots. The orange zones, as defined by the Union government, can be reclassified as “green zones” once no fresh cases are reported for another two weeks. A second government official, requesting anonymity, said many congested areas have not reported any cases so far but they were included in Delhi’s list of orange zones because infection may spread very quickly there.Some other areas on the April 19 and 20 list as per Delhi’s classification of orange zones were Mandoli; Ashok Nagar; West Jyoti Nagar; East Gokalpur; Rajgarh Colony in Shahdara; Blocks 52 and 52 of Karol Bagh; Kewal Park Extension and Majlis Park in Adarsh Nagar; F Block of Mansarovar Garden, Madan Park & Chhagan Park in Moti Nagar; Blocks 27 and 32 of Trilokpuri; and Nawada village in Uttam Nagar.“People in buffer areas are in a state of risk because of proximity issues. They stay close to clusters that have recorded three or more cases. Several orange zones include areas around quarantine centres and hospitals. The reason is the same – proximity,” said the first official, asking not to be named.“So far, all red zones have been covered for sanitation. They shall witness multiple rounds of disinfection in the days to come. Work on orange zones is part of our regular progress,” said Raghav Chadha, Rajendra Nagar MLA and vice-chairperson of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) – the agency that is leading the sanitisation programme though sanitation in the Capital normally comes under the municipal corporations.The municipal corporations and the Delhi Fire Services continue to operate sanitisation programmes in containment zones across the city. While Chadha said that the sanitisation efforts of the MCDs were “not up to the mark”, spokespersons of all three municipal corporations in the city asserted that they have been working round-the-clock and meeting goals set by the area district magistrates, who are the nodal officers under the Disaster Management law currently invoked across the country.Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department at the Safdarjung Hospital, suggested that the government go for “targeted sanitisation”.“Targeted sanitisation means, instead of randomly spraying disinfectant on roads and walls, the programme should focus on surfaces that are more likely to retain the virus and more prone to human contact. They include railings, stairs, gate handles, knobs, etc. The government can also explore the idea of disinfecting the indoor surfaces of residences in containment zones,” said Kishore, who leads one of the teams that is helping the Delhi government in tests and assessment of the burden of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/not-just-red-orange-zones-central-to-capital-s-anti-covid-cleaning-drives/story-EtGI7Vzd68kLyOIVdhJduO.html
23-04-2020||Gurugram||In Raheja Vedaanta, common areas within society also remain off limits||The residents of Raheja Vedaanta, a condominium in sector 108, have barely ventured out since the country went into lockdown to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease. The RWA has put in place a stringent screening process and ensures that residents step out only for essential services. “People are staying inside and following the guidelines very strictly. We are not stepping out at all, not even in to the common areas. As a community, everyone has been watchful. There are hassles, but this is the only way out for breaking the chain (of the disease),” said Urvi Sukul Singh, 58, a resident.Ram Singh, a member of the team formed to coordinate efforts aimed at containing the coronavirus spread, said that the team was closely monitoring the implementation of the lockdown. “We are ensuring that people are not moving out unless absolutely necessary. We are educating people in the society about the necessity of the lockdown and even call the police to make rounds on alternate days so that people don’t violate the rules. Some people were continuing to play in the tennis court but we gave them an ultimatum, following which they stopped,” said Singh.The condominium has barred the entry of all domestic help such as maids, cooks, drivers, car washer among others. Senior citizens who may require assistance have been asked to house their domestic help with them house or ask them to avail passes issued by the district administration. Entry for food delivery persons, meanwhile, has been restricted. All entering the building with deliveries are scanned and are required to mandatorily use sanitisers. Within the condominium, common areas are regularly sanitised. “We are ensuring that everyone including residents sanitise their hands as many times they enter the condominium. Common areas are regularly disinfected too and MCG also helps in the process,” said Singh.In view of the lockdown, the apartment has cut down the strength of its staff and is managing with a skeleton staff to keep essential services running. The staff has been provided with boarding and lodging facilities within the condominium to reduces the chance of exposure from outside. “The number of staff at the condominium has been reduced to curtail unnecessary movement. We have made arrangements for the staff to stay within the condominium. Cooked meals are provided to them and we have tied-up with a food delivery service for the same,” said Singh. Security guards have also been provided with protective gear including masks and gloves.The condominium has grocery and vegetable shops within the complex. In addition, in the area around the general store, the floor has been marked to facilitate social distancing. “We have made circled markings on the floor at a distance of two metres from each other so that people maintain a gap while standing outside the shop. Guards are monitoring and ensure that people do not crowd. It’s difficult but people are cooperating,” said Singh. Apart from relying on the service of the grocery shop on campus, residents can also procure essential items from the MCG which delivers the items twice in a week. “We have two chemist shops adjacent to the society. People can simply call the chemist shops and the medicines are delivered. The security persons or volunteer deliver the medicines till the apartments,” said Singh. He added that most residents had been compliant of the restrictions in place and so far, people had managed by helping each other out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/in-raheja-vedaanta-common-areas-within-society-also-remain-off-limits/story-WuKauLiXnlNpP2lIgI6Z4K.html
23-04-2020||Gurugram||MCG to fine Gurugram residents ₹1,000 for urinating or spitting in public||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) issued a public notice on Wednesday evening stating that persons found urinating or spitting in public spaces will be fined ₹1,000 on the spot.The order by the MCG refers to the directive issued by Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on April 15 for Covid-19 management, which states that “spitting in public spaces shall be punishable with a fine.”“In pursuance of the directive issued by the MHA, and in the exercise of powers conferred under Section 292 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, spitting and urinating in public is now strictly prohibited across the city. Any person violating this directive will be fined ₹1,000, on the spot by MCG officials,” Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, said.MCG officials said that no specific teams will be formed for this task; however, sanitation officials and those engaged in essential services will be empowered to fine violators if they spot them anywhere in the city.As per MCG officials, if a violator does not have the fine amount with him or her, then they need to submit an identification card such as UID, license, passport, with the official as surety and recover it after paying the fine.Officials said that in the eventuality that a violator does not possess any identification card with them at the time, then a photo of the violator would be clicked by the MCG official, along with their address, family details, and mobile number to ensure the amount is recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mcg-to-fine-gurugram-residents-1-000-for-urinating-or-spitting-in-public/story-cB0lZqvYXwLBOWcrG6UEAL.html
23-04-2020||Noida||Commuters screened at Delhi-Noida borders, media persons to be issued passes||A day after the administration issued an order to seal the Delhi-Gautam Budh Nagar borders to contain the spread of coronavirus in the district, all commuters at the major entry/exit points were screened on Wednesday for any Covid-19 symptoms, officials said. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said that the enforcement of lockdown at the Delhi-Noida borders is strict. “Teams from health department also conduct thermal screening at the borders and return people if they have any symptoms of Covid -19,” he said. The officials said that no traffic chaos was witnessed on the borders due to proper arrangements by the police.The sealing order was issued on Tuesday under the National Disaster Act 2005. The decision was taken based on a report submitted by the health department which suggested that the travelling by people to and from Delhi increases the chances of spreading the infection in the district.On Wednesday, GB Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh reviewed the lockdown preparations in the district and directed police officers to ensure that the vehicles be properly checked at the check posts.On the issue of cross-border travel of media persons, the district administration and Noida police issued a joint press statement saying that they held discussion over the issue and it has been resolved.The statement issued by district magistrate Suhas L Y and the police commission said that they would issue passes to media persons commuting between Delhi and Noida from Friday. “We have received 17 applications from media persons for the passes. More applications/emails are expected to come that will also be processed. We have decided that on Thursday, entry of media personnel will be based on their official identity cards. From Friday, they would be required to produce the passes issued by the administration and their official ID cards,” it said.The district administration clarified that the transportation of newspapers falls under the essential goods and hence it does not require any pass.The police commissioner also directed cops to ensure social distancing among people during Ramzan, which will start from Friday. He asked the officials to hold meetings with influential persons from respective areas to ensure that people follow the lockdown orders.Sankalp Sharma, deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that all kinds of social, cultural, and religious gatherings are prohibited in the lockdown period. “We have contacted Muslim clerics and sensitized them over the issue. They are informing people in their neighborhoods to maintain social distancing, and pray and have iftar at home in Ramzan,” he said.The police commissioner also suggested conducting surprise checks of the check posts by senior police officers to make sure that personnel are not negligent of duty. He also said that all police personnel on duty must wear masks and gloves, and use sanitizer.“Patrolling should be done at main roads, inside sectors and villages through PCR vans and motorcycles. The police officers should also monitor wheat procurement centres and ensure that farmers do not face any inconvenience in reaching these centres,” he said. On Wednesday, the district police booked 23 persons and registered seven cases for lockdown violations. The police also issued challans to 312 vehicles and seized four vehicles. The police teams are conducting checks at 200 spots across the district, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/commuters-screened-at-delhi-noida-borders-media-persons-to-be-issued-passes/story-KkkfTpefmvnBmbLTILL2lN.html
23-04-2020||Gurugram||Well-stocked Gurugram civic body shares protective gear||Officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Wednesday said they have sufficient stock of gloves, masks and personal protective equipment (PPE), and have started sharing the gear with Mewat and Faridabad, where there is a shortage. Last week, the municipal corporation distributed over 10,000 masks and gloves, each, to the local administration and municipal bodies of Mewat and Faridabad.Since March 25, the MCG has been storing protective gear at its central facility in Sector 42. As per a report on April 20, a copy of which is with HT, the civic body has 550,000 hand gloves, 250,000 face masks, 15,000 hand sanitizers and 1,600 PPE kits.Besides these, the MCG also has a stock of around 7,500 litres of sodium hypochlorite solution, 260 bodysuits, 2,400 eye care glasses, 500 pieces of face shields, 200 dead body kits, and 1,000 pieces each of head and shoe covers. MCG officials said that they have, so far, issued over 300,000 gloves and masks, each. MCG officials said they have been able to maintain a stock due to advance preparation and fewer coronavirus cases in Gururgam, compared to neighbouring Delhi. Gurugram has so far recorded 45 cases of the coronavirus disease, in comparison to 2,248 confirmed cases in Delhi, as of Tuesday. Hariom Attri, joint commissioner of MCG, who is also the nodal officer of the civic body’s central store, said that between March 20 and 25, even prior to the opening of the central store, a large stock of PPE kits, gloves, masks, and hand sanitisers was distributed by the MCG to the workers of health department, district administration, GMDA, HSVP, and Gurugram police officials.“We made advance preparations to combat the coronavirus disease and started stocking up in early March. Simultaneously, we also appealed to private companies to donate such items under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative, and managed to procure a large stock of items over time from them,” said Attri. He said that since the central store was opened, protective equipment has been largely dispatched to adjoining districts of Faridabad and Mewat.“Last week, we distributed over 10,000 masks and gloves, each, to the local administration and municipal bodies of Mewat and Faridabad, where their supply was running low. Even within the city, the few times there has been a requirement, we have distributed items immediately. We ensured that we are in a position where there will be ample supply to initiate preventive measures against the spread of the infection if the situation in the city worsens on the lines of Delhi, where the cases have been higher in number,” said Attri, who said that the MCG is also open to sharing stock with other cities that have a requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/as-demand-for-protective-gear-rises-gurugram-jumps-to-rescue/story-w1XWCuyhiVHZAOIuUQ2SKP.html
23-04-2020||Noida||Noida sees cleanest Earth Day since active pollution monitoring began in 2018||With Wednesday marking the 50th anniversary of ‘Earth Day’ – a day that aims at enhancing environmental education and awareness -- Noida saw the cleanest Earth Day in the past three years with particle and gaseous pollutants well within prescribed limits. According to data assessed through the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 88 or ‘satisfactory’ on Wednesday, against 168 or ‘moderate’ the same day last year, and 262 or ‘poor’ in 2018.Interestingly, while the theme for 2020 is climate action, it’s not the mitigation measures taken by the authorities but rather the nationwide lockdown that has given the city the cleanest Earth Day since active monitoring of the pollution levels began in 2018.According to the data assessed, the average PM2.5 for Noida for Earth Day 2020 was 54.9 microgrammes per cubic metres (Ug/m3), against 78.97 Ug/m3 on Earth Day 2019, and 98.46 Ug/m3 in 2018. The PM2.5, or particles with diameter less than 2.5 microns, are coarse particle pollutants produced from industrial and vehicular emissions. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 Ug/m3, going by national standards.The average PM10 also dropped, though not under the prescribed limit just yet, with Wednesday seeing an average of 111.84 Ug/m3, while last year the same was 203.24 Ug/m3, and in 2018 it was 280.21 Ug/m3. The PM10 safe limit is 100 Ug/m3, going by national standards.The gaseous pollutant, nitrogen dioxide (NO2), which comes from industrial and vehicular fuel combustion, however, fluctuated. Wednesday saw an average of 21.61 Ug/m3 of NO2, while the day in 2019 saw 18.19 Ug/m3 and 2018 saw 29.45Ug/m3 in NO2 values. The safe limit for NO2 is 40 Ug/m3 for industrial areas and 30 Ug/m3 for eco-sensitive zones, going by national standards.Though the lockdown has reduced pollution levels due to lesser vehicular movement and industrial activities, experts believe they will spike sharply when the lockdown is over.“One of the major reasons the air is cleaner is the reduction in the vehicular movement. However, there are chances that the pollution levels will spike sharply after the lockdown is over, people might prefer personal vehicles and avoid public transport in fear of the pandemic. The government has to ensure trust among people to ensure that public transport areas are safe. Also, local authorities must work on parking policies to discourage private vehicle movement,” said Shambhavi Shukla, senior project associate, air quality, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said.According to Noida-based environmentalist Vikrant Tongad, strict measures would be required to minimise the likely risk of sharp spike in pollution.“The air quality will obviously deteriorate after the lockdown is over. In such a case, the best that could be done is to minimise the impact of pollution on the local environment. The authorities will have to implement proper waste management rules, for both industrial and local waste, and ensure that industrial effluents are not discharged into rivers. Also there has to be accountability, so in case pollution levels spike, there could be liable agencies that could be held accountable,” said Tongad.According to officials, while taking cars off the road has had a major impact on pollution levels, the post lockdown scenario will depend on the meteorological conditions.“It’s obvious that the pollution levels will as the lockdown is in place, as the major reason (for emissions) is vehicles. You take the vehicles off the road and pollution drops. However, it also depends on the meteorological conditions. There would be a spike in pollution levels once the lockdown is over, but meteorological conditions will play a major role in controlling them,” said Utsav Sharma, environment engineer, Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board.“Though Covid-19 is the major crisis that we are handling currently, the authority is already doing a lot of sprinkling for sanitisation, which also acts as a pollution cutting measures. There are a number of measures to be taken post lockdown, which are currently on hold due to the ongoing pandemic, such as water sprinkling, grassing and massive plantation. Controlling pollution will be our priority,” said Rajeev Tyagi, general manager, Noida Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-sees-cleanest-earth-day-since-active-pollution-monitoring-began-in-2018/story-U79HlssjUkJv4haQ4dfgFK.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Domestic violence cases down, says Delhi govt; DCW warns can’t draw any conclusion||Delhi women and child development minister Rajendra Pal Gautum on Wednesday said the number of domestic violence cases being reported in the city had come down during the lockdown period. Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal, who had shared the data with the department, however, said though the number of calls being received on its 181 helpline of crimes against women had decreased, no definite conclusion can be drawn on its basis. “This is mainly because it can be assumed that victims might be hesitant in reporting the crimes due to fear or inability to move away from the perpetrator to seek help,” said Maliwal. The minister held a meeting with officials of his department and with the DCW chief to discuss the situation days after the National Commission for Women (NCW) had reported a spike in the number of cases of domestic violence in Delhi. The nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 was announced on March 24.The DCW said it had received 337 calls of domestic violence between April 7 and April 20, as compared to 808 calls between March 12 and March 25. A statement issued by Gautum’s office said, “Upon analysis of the calls received by the Commission’s 181 Women Helpline, it has been observed that there has been no rising trend in domestic violence cases being reported on the helpline.”On the contrary, it added, that the number of cases reported to the Commission had decreased. Under the normal course, the 181 helpline receives between 1500-1800 calls per day. According to DCW chief, during the lockdown, the commission received a higher volume of calls between March 26 and March 31. “The commission received 4,341 calls on March 27, 5522 calls on March 28 and more than 3,000 calls on March 29-30. Most of these calls were regarding confusion about the imposition of the lockdown,” she said. However, she added, from April 1, the commission is again receiving around 1300 to 1500 calls per day.Along with 181 helpline number, DCW has also launched a WhatsApp Number --- +91- 9350181181 -- to register complaints regarding domestic violence.The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights also launched a helpline number -- 011- 41182977 -- for children who need any kind of mental health counselling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/domestic-violence-cases-down-says-delhi-govt-dcw-warns-can-t-draw-any-conclusion/story-QnYK0sTIAYDT3G7J0Ve9OI.html
23-04-2020||Noida||GB Nagar prepares strategy till July to fight Covid-19||A team comprising top five officials in the Gautam Budh Nagar district has developed a plan that incorporates infrastructure, resources and the consumables required to fight Covid-19 challenges till the end of July.“As part of the infrastructure, we have already developed facilities comprising 400 beds for Covid-19 patients in the district and also identified facilities with 2,000 beds for future use, along with ambulances, kits, gloves and other equipment. In terms of resources, we have brought retired government officials, retired army medical staff, Nehru Youth Centre staff and self-help groups as well as other volunteers on board. In terms of consumables, we have stocked adequate medicines and other goods required for treatment. The district is completely ready even if Covid-19 cases keep rising till July-end. The curve is on the decline here but we are ready to handle any challenge and keep people safe from the disease,” Narendra Bhooshan, CEO of the Greater Noida authority who is in charge of handling Covid-19 operations in the district, said.The five officials in the team leading the mission to fight Covid-19 in the district are the three chief executive officers from Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway industrial authorities, the district magistrate and the police commissioner. These five officials are assisted by additional CEOs in the three authorities and deputy police commissioners along with the chief medical officer and his staff.“We are working on a 2+2+2 strategy to contain the spread of the disease. Once a patient is confirmed positive, it takes two hours for our staff to identify all contacts, including family, friends, relatives, neighbours or domestic help. And in the next two hours, our teams are at the doors of all the contacts of the positive case; in another two hours, all these contacts are either transported to quarantine or put into isolation while following proper guidelines. The objective is to take immediate precaution and strictly follow protocols to ensure the infection does not spread further,” Bhooshan said. He said that they also have the capacity to test 980 Covid-19 cases daily without having to depend upon other districts.Gautam Budh Nagar teams promptly sealed the Delhi-Noida border after they realised that those who travel to Delhi are getting infected.“Strict action may inconvenience people, but the need of the hour is to completely break the chain to contain the spread of this infection,” Bhooshan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-prepares-strategy-till-july-to-fight-covid-19/story-h93Mh63OU2uny4AlOq2MUJ.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||92 test positive,113 recover from virus on Wednesday||Ninety two people tested positive for Covid-19, while 113 recovered from the infection on Wednesday in Delhi, according to the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin. This is the third day in a row that the number of those who have recovered in the city is higher than those infected.In a late development on Wednesday, a 45-day-old baby tested positive for the virus and was in the process of being admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital at the time of the report. The case is yet to be added to the daily bulletin.At least three others from the baby’s family, with comorbidities, have been admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital. Around 12 people from two families living in Central Delhi’s Chooriwala area have tested positive, with others being admitted to Covid Care Centre.So far, 724 people have recovered from the infection that has killed over 180,000 globally. 683 people have died of the infection in India.One person died of Covid-19 in Delhi on Wednesday, taking the toll to 48. Of those that died, almost 83% had comorbidities, such as diabetes, hypertension, heart or kidney disease. Over 53% of the deaths were among those aged 60 years or older.On Wednesday, 1,682 samples for Covid-19 test were collected for testing, including those collected from the community. So far, 5,619 samples have been collected from the community. However, the test results of 3,018 samples are pending.The Delhi government, in a plan to conduct 20,000 RT PCR tests, to gauge the spread of the disease, had set up 23 sample collection centres in hotels and dharmashalas, and started giving a ₹100 incentive, per sample, to each team going into the community to collect samples.On Wednesday, 57 staff members of Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini were quarantined, after a 40-year-old woman died, allegedly due to the virus on April 18. Several healthcare workers from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and Lady Hardinge Medical College continue to remain in quarantine.Lady Hardinge Medical College — where 12 healthcare workers from a single ICU tested positive for the infection — discharged the first batch of four recovered patients on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/92-test-positive-113-recover-from-virus-on-wednesday/story-Gsr5KtwpC0SolhII5VthqK.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Death of Jamaat attendee sparks protest at Sultanpuri quarantine facility||A 50-year-old man, who had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat at the Nizamuddin Markaz last month and was housed at a quarantine facility in northwest Delhi’s Sultanpuri, died on Wednesday morning. The death triggered protests by the occupants of the facility. The occupants staged a sit-in inside the compound, alleging that the man, a diabetic patient, died as he did not receive medical attention and food on time. A number of videos of the protests were circulated on social media and messaging platforms as well.A relative of the person who died, also an occupant of the facility, said the man, an engineer from Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore, had tested negative for Covid-19 but was not sent home despite completing his quarantine.“He was diabetic and needed to take his medicines after proper meals, which has been an issue at the facility. There were long gaps in the meals and even medicines are not available. The ambulance arrived late, even though I had been calling up the authorities for long,” said the relative, who had attended the Jamaat congregation with the man and was lodged at the facility with him. Confirming the death, a North West district official said that the person died around 11am, when he was being shifted in an ambulance to be taken to a hospital and that he was given medicines when he fell unwell. “His body has been sent for a post-mortem examination,” the official said.Dispelling allegations of food not being served on time, the official said, “There are 700 people at the facility. There is a standard protocol for serving food to Covid and suspected patients. We are trying to provide food on time, but there could be a delay of 15-30 minutes. Yesterday (Tuesday), a lot of new patients were shifted to this facility. As per protocol, we have to stop other activities when new patients are shifted.”Hafiz Javed, a Delhi-based social activist, said that the government must arrange transport for people who have completed their quarantine period to their home towns or shift them to mosques, where they can be provided with proper food and medicines. “Now that Ramzan will start from April 25, it will become really difficult for them to live at the quarantine facilities, as one needs to follow a different routine during the fasting period. The government must ensure steps are taken to resolve the issue at the earliest,” said Javed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/death-of-jamaat-attendee-sparks-protest-at-sultanpuri-quarantine-facility/story-QBrt6FmObxRkonx06Bi6FI.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Video calling a luxury for family of Covid-19 infected hospital staffer in Delhi||When a 46-year-old janitor of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC)’s Charak Palika Hospital fell ill around the end of March, his family of 12 took great pains to isolate him at their rented two-room set in Moti Bagh. “We cleared an entire room for my father. It was difficult for 11 of us to adjust in the other room, but we had to do it for everyone’s safety,” his son said.But that compromised way of living was clearly not enough to escape the infection.On April 4, the oldest of this 12-member family, which belongs to Samastipur in Bihar, tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Three days later, four more—his wife, son, daughter and daughter-in-law—were found to be infected. A fortnight later, members of this family feel they were better off staying packed in one room. “After the test results arrived, my father was sent to AIIMS in Jhajjar. My mother, sister, brother and wife are in different wards of Lok Nayak Hospital,” said the son, who is a janitor, as are his father and brother at the same hospital.The other seven, including his two-year-old son and his sister’s two daughters—who are two years’ and two months’ old—were quarantined in a facility in South Delhi’s Chhattarpur.The only good news they got in the last fortnight came from doctors who allowed the three children to stay with their mothers in the same ward. “The children would keep crying. We struggled to console them. They also needed their mothers’ milk. It was impossible to keep the crying children with us at the quarantine centre. The mothers requested the doctors to let their children stay with them. They allowed the children to stay with their mothers in the same wards, but sleep on different beds and get tested frequently. So far, the children have undergone three tests and all have turned out to be negative,” the man said. However, there is little else to cheer up the family. In fact, they can communicate with each other only occasionally. “My father who is hospitalised in Jhajjar doesn’t receive mobile network. When he does, the calls keep getting disconnected midway,” he said.The only other members of this family who own a mobile phone are his wife, his sister and him. “When I want to speak to my mother or brother, I call the patient next to them. Sometimes they connect us to them, other times they get irritated,” he said.Unlike many other patients and quarantined people who spend their time video calling each other, such a facility is a luxury for this family. As it turns out, only this man owns a smartphone while the three others have basic phones. “If another patient obliges me with a video call, I get to see my family members from a distance. We wave at each other, but can’t talk from such a distance,” the man said. He feels that his father was infected first while going about his janitorial duties at the hospital. “He may have come in contact with some infected patients or staffer,” he said.But a senior NDMC officer said that the man’s wife also worked in a similar role at the AIIMS trauma centre. “Since both of them worked at hospitals, the doctors aren’t able to say whether the man passed on the infection to his wife or the other way round,” the officer said.In any case, his father’s test result was followed by the immediate testing of the other members of the family. “On April 7, we were returning home from the hospital with our own test results when the police sealed off our building. We had to leave for the hospital and quarantine centre with just the clothes we were wearing. We couldn’t take our phone chargers or even essentials,” he said.At the quarantine centre, the man says, he and his three relatives wash their clothes at night and wear them the next day. “Thankfully, we are provided with soaps to bathe,” he said.He also values his smartphone a little more than he did earlier. “When we walked into the quarantine centre, my phone was taken away. It was returned to me after five days. Now, my relatives and I take turns to use the phone to make calls and watch films. Sometimes I play songs for the four of us in quarantine,” he said. On Wednesday, a fortnight since the four of them were quarantined, they sat worrying.“We were told we would be tested after 14 days. But that hasn’t taken place. We don’t know if they plan to let us go anytime soon,” he said.This is also a time when this family has been remembering God more. “It feels like our family has been destroyed. So, we chant God’s name. And sometimes we sing bhajans together”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/communicating-with-each-other-a-luxury-for-this-family-eight-are-in-hospitals-four-in-quarantine/story-M1m7bsvREebqj7afyHUFRM.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Six cops in Jahangirpuri test positive after duty in red zone||New Delhi: A day after four constables in central Delhi’s Nabi Karim containment zone tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), six more Delhi Police policemen from north-west Delhi’s Jahangirpuri were found positive on Tuesday evening, highlighting how front-line workers are vulnerable to the pathogen.All the six police personnel were asymptomatic, and have been moved to isolation units, where they are being monitored and treated, the police said.The total number of infected Delhi Police personnel in the city is now 26. Deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Vijayanta Arya said the six policemen — two assistant sub-inspectors (ASI) and four constables —were on duty in and around the Jahangirpuri containment zone. He added that the wife of one of the infected police personnel also tested positive for Covid-19. She displayed symptoms, and is also in isolation.“The wife of one of the ASIs has also been tested positive. They have all have been moved to isolation and are under treatment. We are tracing all those who may have been in contact with these people. We have disinfected and sanitised the police station, as four of the constables used to live in the barracks,” Arya said.The Delhi government has imposed a hard lockdown in 89 containment zones, or “red” zones, where people are not allowed to step out of their homes and authorities are home-delivering essentials. These zones are guarded by policemen who control the pickets at all entry and exit pickets.Eight police personnel from Chandni Mahal police station in central Delhi had tested positive for the virus over the past week. Two of them tested positive on April 14, one on April 15, and the rest on April 18. The police station, which falls in a containment zone, was sealed.A second senior officer said that the Jahangirpuri police station did not need to be sealed because no one other than the six who tested positive on Tuesday were suffering from the disease. “Everyone is being examined. Even the six policemen who tested positive were asymptomatic, but all necessary precautions are being taken. They were on duty near Jahangirpuri’s B and C blocks, which fall under the containment zones. The source of infection to these policemen is yet to be identified. We are in the process of tracing their contacts, and every person who was in touch with the six is being monitored regularly by dedicated medical staff,” said the second officer cited above who asked not to be named.Of the 80 police personnel from the Nabi Karim police station in central Delhi screened, four tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. They four were also asymptomatic.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said that, as of Wednesday, over 200 police personnel from Nabi Karim and Chandni Mahal police stations have been tested; 12 were positive, 140 negative, and the reports of the remaining 48 were pending.“Some of these policemen who had dealt with people who had gone to the Markaz,” Bhatia said, referring to the gatherings in March at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in the Nizamuddin Basti, which has emerged as India’s biggest Covid-19 cluster.Of the 26 Delhi Police personnel found positive so far in the city, an assistant sub-inspector in the traffic police, who was the first to be diagnosed on date, was discharged from hospital last Friday. Two deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) in the south-west district, and 300 personnel of other ranks who had come in contact with the infected people, are currently in home quarantine.Additionally, 72 personnel of the Delhi Police’s anti-terror wing, the special cell, isolated themselves on Tuesday after a head constable posted with the unit was tested positive for the disease on Sunday. He was admitted to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital on April 11, after being found symptomatic. “Following the standard protocol, 72 police personnel who had come in contact with him were asked to go into self-quarantine. They will also be tested,” said an officer from the special cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/six-more-policemen-test-covid-positive-in-delhi-total-number-up-to-26/story-ikq6uu318tV34pPVxNt9KI.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali Senior Citizens’ Association donates sanitisers, masks||Members of Mohali Senior Citizens’ Association (MSCA) donated 400 kits, each comprising a bottle of sanitiser and four masks, to the district police on Wednesday. Superintendent of police (city) HS Virk thanked the association on behalf of SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal, for helping front-line workers in the battle against Covid-19. The association had earlier donated 100 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to civil hospital in Phase 6. Gurdaspur pvt hospital donates two ventilators  Abrol Medical Centre, a private hospital in Gurdaspur, has donated two ventilators to the local civil hospital, besides upgrading its Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and training staff in operating these new machines. Deputy commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq lauded Dr Ajay Abrol, the chairman of the private hospital, for the contribution.Industries’ body donates ₹85 lakh Members of Mohali Industries Association (MIA) donated ₹85 lakh to the chief minister’s Covid-19 relief fund, on Wednesday. MIA president Yogesh Sagar said the country is facing an unprecedented crisis and all of us must do our best to help the needy. The members are also providing free face masks, PPE kits, gloves and hand sanitisers to doctors and staff of government hospitals.IMA, Chandigarh, donates hand sanitiser Indian Medical Association, Chandigarh, donated 1000 litres of hand sanitiser to director health services on Wednesday, as a show of support to front-line workers in the battle against Covid-19. Officials said IMA is trying to coordinate with the health department and extend its support to manage the pandemic. Godrej donates dry ration  Godrej Group donated 500 packets of dry ration at a cost of ₹2.5 lakh to the district administration, for distribution to the needy, on Wednesday. Each packet comprises wheat, rice, oil, salt, turmeric and soap. Representatives of the company said another 1,500 packets will be delivered soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mohali-senior-citizens-association-donates-sanitisers-masks/story-QXsKR61Af6K0enSo6d9FWN.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||North Delhi sanitation staff unpaid for March; MCD, govt trade blame||Nearly 27,000 sanitation workers employed with the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, and mostly deployed on Covid-19 duty, have not got their salaries for the month of March. The workers said they have been struggling to sustain their families and most have run out of whatever little savings they had been dipping into.The north corporation, on its part, blamed the Delhi government for its inability to pay its staffers and said it was yet to receive the quarterly funds from the AAP-led government. On Wednesday, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, wrote to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urging him to immediately release funds to the corporation.“The financial condition of the north corporation is most serious. Due to an acute shortage of funds, it has not been able to pay salaries to its overall staff of 57,000 and 24,000 pensioners. I urge the CM to provide immediate financial assistance to the civic body,” Singh wrote.North corporation commissioner Varsha Joshi said, “We are waiting for funds to be released by the Delhi government in order to disburse salaries.” However, the Delhi government refuted the civic body’s claims. “These claims are baseless. All dues have been paid. It is unfortunate that the BJP ( which rules the civic bodies) is playing politics in such difficult times, especially when the Delhi government is fully cooperating and working with the Centre to tackle the spread of Covid-19,” a government spokesperson said.cash-strapped corporation is now exploring the option of seeking donations from the public, on the lines of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) that put out an appeal on its website seeking financial help from people to meet expenses incurred on Covid-19 related arrangements. “The SDMC requests all to generously contribute by transferring funds to (this) account...,” read the appeal put out on its website last week.The SDMC said it needed funds as the workload has multiplied and so has the requirement for disinfectants and PPE kits.SDMC chief spokesperson Radha Krishan said, “Our work entails huge expenditure. We have 112 health centres that include general dispensaries, specialised chest/respiratory diseases clinics and maternity centres. Besides these, we also run quarantine centres in areas such as Bakkarwala and at the Poornima Sethi Hospital. We have 37 containment zones where we are carrying out extensive disinfection drives. We need money for these.” The civic body, however, did not comment on how much money it has so far managed to crowd source. The North corporation, on its part, manages six big municipal hospitals, including Bara Hindu Rao hospital, a designated Covid screening centre. Joshi said, “We are in need of money and have had elaborate discussions over whether we should start accepting donations on the lines of the SDMC. However, we felt that it could get complicated. Instead, we are taking donations in kind --- in hand sanitisers, gloves, masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) kits.”With civic agencies struggling for funds, the worst-hit are the sanitation workers who are at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19.Sooraj (who goes by the first name), 33, employed in the corporation’s Civil Lines zone, said he had to take a loan of ₹5,000 to buy ration and other essentials for his family of six. “I make ₹ 12,200 a month and am not able to save much. I have not got my salary for March. Is this what we deserve after risking our lives every day collecting hazardous waste during the pandemic?” he said. The sanitation workers’ union has raised the matter with the municipal authorities. “They told us they were waiting for funds (from the government). The workers risk their lives every day by going out to collect garbage even from houses under quarantine as well as medical facilities. Is this how the government will reward them? Most of them are unable to arrange two proper meals for their families,” Vijender Bagdi, head of Akhil Bhartiya Safai Mazdoor Sangh, north Delhi, said.He added that the workers are not given any protective gear such as gloves or masks while handling waste from houses and garbage collection points and they are at high risk of catching the contagious infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/north-corporation-sanitation-workers-not-paid-salaries-for-march-civic-body-says-govt-yet-to-release-funds/story-QDmKuNDcPZvTxVty8qVQ2I.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt issues advisory for Ramadan||The Punjab government issued an advisory on the safe celebration of the holy month Ramadan with the objective of containing the human transmission of the covid-19. To achieve this, restrictions have been imposed on free movement and congregations have been banned. A spokesperson said careful adherence to certain preventive measures was the need of the hour.He added that the state government once again appealed to all to meticulously follow its guidelines under which all Masjids/Dargahs/Imambaras and other religious institutions shall remain closed and there will be complete prohibition on congregational prayers (Nimaz-e-Bajamaat) including the Jumma and Taraweeh prayers. People are advised to offer prayers from their respective houses only. “All types of celebrations including Urs, public and private Iftar parties/functions, Dawat-e-Sehri and any other religious functions involving assembly of devotees shall be strictly avoided,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-govt-issues-advisory-for-ramadan/story-Cqb26zDDN0UuvXrUoPXIAJ.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Biomedical waste collectors lift garbage from houses of quarantined residents||Amid row over collection of garbage from the houses of the residents who have been home quarantined, a team of biomedical waste collectors on Wednesday lifted garbage from 15 such houses that come under zone-A of the municipal corporation (MC). It came as a big relief for the quarantined families as garbage was piling up at their houses since they were quarantined.The team, under the supervision of MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana and secretary Jasdev Sekhon, wore coverall suits and ensured all necessary precautions during the process. Earlier, the MC staff had demanded that they should not be forced to collect garbage from the houses of those residents who have been self-quarantined fearing the virus could transmit through the garbage. They had also claimed that the MC staff was not trained to carry out the process safely. It was then decided that the company, which has been awarded the contract to dispose the biomedical waste in the city, would collect the garbage and dispose the same at the biomedical waste plant on Tajpur Road. In four zones of the city, there are 89 houses where the residents have been home quarantined. The civic body has decided to take up the garbage collection in phases, MC officials said.“Garbage was collected with full precautions by the team of biomedical waste collectors and houses in other zones will be covered in the coming days,” the MC secretary said.Ensure regular sanitisation of sabzi mandis, banks: MC chiefMeanwhile, MC commissioner Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar, during a meeting with the officials of operations and maintenance branch, directed the officials to ensure regular sanitisation of the vegetable markets (sabzi mandis) and banks. As per the reports, it is suspected that ACP Anil Kohli who passed away after getting infected from to the virus, had contracted the virus while he was deputed at the main vegetable market near Jalandhar bypass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/biomedical-waste-collectors-lift-garbage-from-houses-of-quarantined-residents/story-6CXufwgjFmd70yZRuKRTWL.html
23-04-2020||Pune||Five Covid-19 deaths reported in Pune on Wednesday, 64 fresh cases||Pune reported five deaths related to Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of virus-related deaths in the city to 57. Also, 64 fresh cases of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the Covid-19 infection were reported on Wednesday, taking the total count of positive cases to 772 in Pune district; of these 122 have been discharged, 35 of whom were discharged on Wednesday itself. Of the four deaths, three were reported from Sassoon General hospital. The three include a 53-year-old male from Hadapsar who died on Tuesday at 10.45 pm. The patient was admitted to hospital on April 20 and was known to have morbid obesity and hypertension.The second deceased is a 65-year-old male from Parvati darshan who was admitted to the hospital on April 19. He was HIV+ and suffered from a cerebro vascular accident.The third deceased is a 56-year-old female from Bhavani Peth who was admitted on April 20 and also suffered from diabetes and hypertension.The fourth mortality was reported from Symbiosis hospital, where a 42- year-old male, residing at Raviwar peth, who was admitted on April 21 also suffered from diabetes and hypertension. He expired due to type 1 respiratory failure being Covid-19 positive. The fifth death reported in the city is of a 50-year-old female from Ganj peth. She was symptomatic, but was admitted to Sassoon on April 21 after her swab sample was taken on the same day.She was declared dead on April 21 at 10.05 pm, however, the swab report showed her Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. She also suffered from obstructive sleep apnea with obesity.Of the 57 deaths, Sassoon has reported 46, Aundh Civil (1), Naidu (1), Noble (2), Inamdar (1), Jehangir (1), Sahyadri, Karve road (1), Poona Hospital (1), KEM (1), Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital (1) and Symbiosis (1).As of Wednesday, 484 positive patients are still in hospital, of which 26 are critical..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-pune-on-wednesday-64-fresh-cases/story-YbWAVTO6v0jixn07kBC5DI.html
23-04-2020||Pune||Pune police enable 455 foreign nationals to travel back home under lockdown||The Pune police have granted travel passes to 455 foreign nationals from 12 countries to enable them to travel back to their home countries in the period of lockdown.The lockdown, announced by the central government to curb the spread of Covid-19, in in place till May 3.During this period, foreign nationals in Pune will be given permission to travel to Mumbai international airport, if and when special flights are organised by their respective countries, reads a statement from the office of Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Pune.All moves undertaken are with the help of embassies of the respective countries of the foreign nationals.The foreign nationals who have availed the service include 150 from Germany, 131 from USA, 125 from Bahrain, 16 from France; apart from England, Canada, Japan, Sweden, Brazil, Ireland, Australia, and Romania (see box).All requests by foreign nationals for passage are recieved by, and processed at, DCP Bachchan Singh’s office.Foreigners who have travelled from Pune back homeEngland - 7Canada - 4USA - 131Japan - 6Sweden - 7Brazil - 3Ireland - 4Australia - 1Germany - 150France - 16Romania - 1Bahrain - 125||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-police-enable-455-foreign-nationals-to-travel-back-home-under-lockdown/story-gjOTdBKev7u3Pkshsc8l7M.html
23-04-2020||Pune||Two held in Pune for allegedly driving woman to suicide||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have arrested a man and his mother on Wednesday for allegedly driving his wife to suicide over dowry demands.The woman committed suicide on April 19.The arrested accused have been identified as Mahesh Bapusaheb Bhosale, 30, and Sangeeta Bapusaheb Bhosale, 62, both residents of Pathare Mala in Charholi village in Haveli area of Pune. While the man is a farmer, his mother is a domestic help.The complaint in the matter was registered by the deceased woman’s mother.“We will investigate from the other relatives in the family about the reasons for suicide. For now, they have been arrested and remanded to judicial custody. We are taking them to a jail in Satara as the jail here is not taking any more inmates,” said police sub-inspector Kamble of Dighi police station.The woman was found hanging in their house in Pathare Mala area of Charhili village. However, the police are yet to investigate the events that led to the incident as the family is expected to be inside the house in light of the lockdown.A case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide), 498(a) (domestic violence), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Dighi police station against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-allegedly-driving-woman-to-suicide/story-28xz2vuL0CuKzTV92oSsDI.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||Unruly scenes amid free ration distribution at Chandigarh’s Mauli Jagran||UT’s social distancing and curfew curbs went for a toss as hundreds of residents at Mauli Jagran Complex near Manimajra jostled for free ration being distributed by the department of food supplies and consumer affairs on Wednesday morning. While several border points remain sealed and more stringent curbs have been put in place after Centre declared Chandigarh a red zone, there is no check on public movement in colonies and slums. Right before the announcement for free ration on Wednesday morning, people went out of control, filling up the entire 2km Railway Road stretch where delivery vehicles had stopped for distribution of ration. Police had a tough time dispersing the crowd and sending them back indoors.POLICE BLAMES FOOD DEPT BUT NO FIRJustifying the rush, area food inspector Manish Sawhney told HT that people often go out of control when they get something for the first time. “The colony has 1,600 beneficiaries under the public distribution system. The process was smooth later in the evening. We will complete the distribution in three days,” he claimed. However, UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale said the staff of food and supply department had no list of beneficiaries, and just gathered the public. “We immediately wound up the operation to bring order and dispersed the crowd. The staff was asked to return with the necessary preparations and list of beneficiaries,” she said. Later, Mauli Jagran SHO Juldan Singh said they immediately brought the situation under control as the matter came into their notice. However, no case was registered.NOT A FIRST Incidents like these are commonplace everyday as ration is distributed in various area of the city. Dadumajra councillor Farmilla Devi said there were similar scenes near the police station in her ward. “All people were summoned at the time same, leading to a crowd. While police had a tough time controlling the crowd, several residents had to return empty-handed,” she added.Councillor Satish Kainth said while the city had been under lockdown for a month, the administration had still not figured out crowd management in colonies. “UT adviser Manoj Parida had promised a coupon system some days ago, but the system has not been implemented on the ground,” he said. Congress local president Pardeep Chhabra blamed the ruling BJP for mismanagement and making a mockery of the poor in the lockdown. While UT food supplies secretary Vinod P Kavle refused to comment, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore told Kavle at the daily review meeting to ensure beneficiaries were intimated in advance and social distancing was adhered to during distribution of ration.The food supplies department so far claims to have provided ration to 24,000 of the 64,000 registered beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/unruly-scenes-amid-free-ration-distribution-at-chandigarh-s-mauli-jagran/story-QvC3pCUmXb2LIGkH9re8OP.html
23-04-2020||City||Stench from stray cattle carcasses irks Tajpur Road residents||Amid Covid-19 outbreak, the carcasses of two stray cattle lying on an open plot at the Tajpur Road dairy complex, is posing a different kind of heath risk to dairy owners.The matter came to light when members of Shree Ji Gau Sewa Society visited the area on April 21 to rescue some stray cattle that had fallen into the Buddha Nullah. The members found two carcasses lying on the plot and stray dogs feeding on it. The carcasses were also emitted a foul smell, causing inconvenience to passersby. While the dairy owners said it is the responsibility of the municipal corporation (MC) to remove the carcasses, the MC officials were oblivious of the matter.The society members rued that the dairy owners should have informed the authorities about the matter.President of Tajpur Road dairy complex association, DS Oberoi, said it is the responsibility of the MC to remove the carcasses . “The carcasses have not been removed as the lockdown has been imposed. I will intimate the MC authorities about the same,” he said.MC senior veterinary officer Dr YP Singh said neither dairy owners nor residents submitted any complaint but it is the duty of sanitary inspectors to get the carcasses lifted and send it to the carcass disposal site. He added that he will ask the field staff to remove the carcasses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stench-from-stray-cattle-carcasses-irks-tajpur-road-residents/story-aAAd4B4d1WPeDGCqefMirN.html
23-04-2020||Pune||As parents learn to deal with work and children during the lockdown, new relationship dimensions emerge||The spread of the Covid-19 pandemic has forced us to remain indoors due to the lockdown and with the lockdown, comes spending the entire day at home. This routine is new for working professionals, college students and even school-going children. The most challenging part is how to spend quality time with family during the lockdown without clashes, arguments and fights between parents and children. Parenting counsellors and mental health physiologists have been receiving many calls daily during the lockdown to get help on how to tackle children. Dr Anjali Chaudhary of Sangopan-The Art of Parenting, a child counsellor and parenting coach, said, “Since the lockdown has begun, I have received more than 50 calls from parents who want help on how to tackle children. Along with small kids, even the teens and college-going children are easily irritated being locked inside their homes. Parents have to face mood swings, anger and other issues related to children. There are online classes for children, parents work from home, the domestic chores adds to the problems. Parenting has become tougher and people need to understand its basics to deal with it better.”Neha Mundhada, a banking professional and a parent, says, “The lockdown has defined the parent-child relationship in new ways. First few days were spent nicely as we always wanted to spend more time with the children and vice-versa. So, there was no routine and we were happy and busy fulfilling all their demands of food, play time, among other things. But when the work from home pressure started pilling up which has webinars, video calls, audio con calls, and my child didn’t get enough attention and he started with his tantrums. So, we decided that we should have a routine which we had before the lockdown for everyone in the house and we will have to include our child in every activity we do and made a timetable for household work, office work, study time, TV time and family play time. Thee routine helps us do our work and also keeps him engaged.” Some of the measures which Dr Chaudhary suggests is that children should be kept engaged at all times, not only visually but creatively as well. Parents should encourage their hobbies at home, involve them in domestic chores to develop a sense of responsibility towards the household and spend time bonding with them, she adds. Another senior physiologist Dr Anand Nadkarni, a mental health consultant and managing trustee of Institutes for Physiological Help (IPH), Pune and Thane, says that teaching moral lessons should always be included in bonding exercises. “Bonding time can also be doing nothing together. Your kids do not have to learn a moral lesson each time they spend time with you. Time is a very neutral commodity, how we use that time is the goal that we have to set. In a family, parents have to plan their individual goals and should also include their children in planning their family time. Family time can include a healthy dose of time pass.”Family time should include edutainment time (combination of education and entertainment), action time (delegation of work) and personal time for each member, he adds. The biggest challenge for parents during the lockdown is to convince kids that they should not go out and play, maintain social distance and wash hands, says advocate Sheetal Lokhande Waghchoure. “Also, since there is no going out to restaurants, mothers have to take extra effort to prepare tasty food at home. Parks are shut, swimming pools are closed too and this brings in a lot of pent up energy in young kids, which makes parenting tough now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/as-parents-learn-to-deal-with-work-and-children-during-the-lockdown-new-relationship-dimensions-emerge/story-spmIMdyEEnNCIAUsg6gaQK.html
23-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: Covid-19 crisis evolves each day, but we resolve new challenges immediately, says Pune civic chief||Shekhar Gaikwad, Pune municipal commissionerPune has emerged as one of the hotspots of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. The key responsibility of health and medical facility in the city lies with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad speaks to HT about PMC’s role and his initiatives to handle the situation. He is the first municipal commissioner to seal the entire city using the 123-year-old Epidemic Diseases Act.What exactly is your role in this crisis? As the municipal commissioner, my main role is to coordinate with the central, state governments and various other bodies every day. The major role is to make necessary arrangements to deal with the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 disease at the city level. We have to establish adequate number of quarantine centres, acquire hospitals, hostels and create more healthcare facilities. We also have to provide personal safety equipment to the medical, sanitation and others who are fighting the disease from the frontline. How does your day begin and roll out?As the municipal commissioner’s post is a key post, it is a busy job. However, this is the biggest crisis we have faced in a century and it requires my 100%. My day starts at 6am and ends at 10pm, but coordination through the telephone goes on till late night every day. I take a half hour lunch break. I am mainly busy with coordination of various agencies, divisional commissioner, district collector, police and PMC staff. Various representatives come forward to donate items to PMC and I need to make sure these people are catered to and their items are sent to their place of need.What precautions are you taking?I am taking all precautions like using a mask, hand gloves and I wash my hands regularly and maintain social distance. However, since we are working on the front line, we cannot avoid meetings and meeting key persons. So my duty does not allow me to keep complete social isolation, but I take utmost care to follow all precautions. When returning home, I change clothes and sanitise all the things, I used throughout the day.What is your assessment of the Covid-19 crisis in Pune? How do you see it unfolding?We are well prepared to handle any situation. We can treat almost 25,000 Covid-19 patients and the capacity is being built further. Our main aim is to stop the spread. For that, we sealed the eastern part of the city in the first phase and later sealed the whole city completely. The PMC health staff is conducting the door-to-door survey and checking whether citizens have any symptoms of Covid-19. PMC is also keeping its clinic open for maximum number of hours so that residents can visit it.What gaps do you see in healthcare and relief work?We can’t claim that we don’t have gaps, but as this crisis is emerging, new challenges crop up every day and we are trying to address the issue immediately. There is good coordination among all the government departments and within the PMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/on-the-frontline-covid-19-crisis-evolves-each-day-but-we-resolve-new-challenges-immediately-says-pune-civic-chief/story-096EXxsSR52e6rSkZhrZlM.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||CICU organises web conference on maintenance of financial solvency||Fearing massive financial crises post lockdown, the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) on Wednesday organised a web conference for its local members on maintenance of financial solvency, managing finance cost and cost cutting and foreign exchange (forex) exposure. The members also deliberated upon recent changes introduced in the goods and service tax (GST) by the Central Board of Excise and Customs (CBEC) and the recent extension in the Foreign Trade policy.Chartered accountants (CAs) Nipan Bansal and Manmohan Dhiman, partners with M/s Parshotam and Associates, were the speakers for the session that was attended by 175 industrialists and CICU members.Bansal deliberated on the current steps taken by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and government of India (GOI) to infuse liquidity into the system. He explained the current changes in policy rates, including repo and reverse repo rate, and their impact on the financial position of banks and how to take benefits of the increased liquidity in the system. He also discussed the techniques including options to manage forex losses. Later, Dhiman briefly explained the extension of timelines by CBEC under GST regime and how to avail benefits under the Foreign Trade PolicyCICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja said that regular sessions are being organised to deliberate upon how the industry could manage and revive itself post lockdown. The CICU has also been submitting memorandums with the government for providing relief in terms of power bills, taxes and bank installments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cicu-organises-web-conference-on-maintenance-of-financial-solvency/story-GOeSK3OxM3ohSaq7OqI3eL.html
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||No more active Covid-19 cases in SBS Nagar||CONTAINING THE VIRUS All 18 infected people cured and discharged from hospital; DC to write to state govt to scale down containment operations in dist that has not reported any fresh case since March 26With the recovery of the grandson of 70-year-old preacher Baldev Singh, all 18 patients diagnosed with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have recovered in Punjab’s first hotspot Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar. With this SBS Nagar has become the first district in Punjab where all Covid-19 patients have recovered.The 16-year-old, who was the last active coronavirus case, was discharged from the local civil hospital on Wednesday. All 14 family members of Punjab’s superspreader Baldev Singh have recovered from the deadly infection. SBS Nagar MLA Angad Singh and official of the district administration, including the DC and SSP Alka Meena, presented the boy with flowers. All civil and police personnel clapped for the medical staff for a minute for their contribution against the novel coronavirus. The district had reported 19 positive cases, including one death, between March 19-26. Meanwhile, the district has not witnessed a single positive case since March 26. As many as 15 villages, including Pathlawa, in the district have remained sealed since March 25. SBS Nagar deputy commissioner Vinay Bublani credited the joint efforts of the civil, police and health department for the district’s success. “I would like to thank all resident of SBS Nagar district, especially those staying in the containment zone, who supported and cooperated with the administration,” said Bublani, adding that the officials had not become complacent and are aware that the war against the coronavirus was still on. Punjab’s first coronavirus victim preacher, Baldev Singh, had returned from Germany via Italy on March 7 and had passed away due to a cardiac arrest on March 18. He had posthumously tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The 19 cases reported in the district included, 14 of Baldev’s family members, Pathala village sarpanch and his mother, two associates of Baldev Singh, who had also returned from Germany. The patients were two to 78 years of age.Deputy commissioner Vinay Bublani said he will on Thursday write to the state government to scale down the containment operations in SBS Nagar as no positive case has been reported in the district since March 26. He said 15 villages in the Banga sub-division of the district will remained sealed for next 28 days as per the Covid-19 norms. According to the Union health ministry’s updated containment plan for large outbreaks Covid-19, a containment operation (large outbreak or cluster) is deemed to be over 28 days from the date the last case in that zone tests negative.Embeded4 MUMBAI MEN RECOVER, NO ACTIVE CASE IN MOGAParteek Singh Mahalparteek.singh@htlive.comMOGAWith the recovery of all four infected people, there is no more active coronavirus case in Moga district.The four residents of Andheri in Mumbai, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 7, were declared cured on Wednesday. Moga civil surgeon Dr Andesh Kang said that there is no active Covid-19 case in the district as all the four Covid-19 positive patients were tested negative for the second time according to the report received from VRDL lab at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital at Faridkot. “They will be discharged from the isolation ward of civil hospital on Thursday,” she added. A group of twelve residents of Maharashtra had reached Cheeda village on March 22 and stayed at a mosque, where they were quarantined on April 5. Later, four of them were tested positive. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans said: “We have been successful to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district. He appealed the people to follow the instructions and support the administration to keep Moga Covid-19-free. Meanwhile, the condition of the second Covid-19 positive patient has not improved as his recent sample has tested positive again. The 53-year-old Faridkot resident tested positive for the Covid-19 on April 8 and was admitted to the isolation ward of the GGSMCH.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-more-active-covid-19-cases-in-sbs-nagar/story-WGIPIbxxzYBj4YpI9yGcuO.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s Azadpur mandi trader dies of Covid-19, sellers demand market be shuttered||The Azadpur wholesale fruit and vegetable market reported its first Covid-19 related death after a 57-year old jackfruit and pea trader died on Tuesday. The death uncovered two more Covid-19 cases linked to the Azadpur Mandi, creating panic among sellers who demanded the market’s closure and initiation of containment activities. A senior district official, however, said these were not the first Covid-19 cases to be reported from the Mandi. “The 57-year-old man was confirmed positive on Monday after his sample was collected on April 19. He is a resident of Majlis Park and was admitted to a private hospital two days prior to being tested (April 17),” district magistrate (north) Deepak Shinde said.Late on Tuesday, Shinde said the number of people who would need to be put under quarantine was not yet known as surveillance teams were still preparing a list of people from the Mandi and his family who came in contact with the deceased. “He had a business partner, who is also being contacted,” a senior official said. A second senior official from the district, however, said this was not the first instance that someone from Azadpur Mandi has tested positive for Covid-19. “Earlier, a tomato dealer from Shalimar Bagh and a cauliflower seller who had left for his hometown in UP’s Ghonda were both found positive. So, rigorous contact tracing is on,” said the official who did not wish to be named. Meanwhile, traders demanded a complete lockdown of the market. “The authorities are being very negligent about Covid-19 spread in the market. We urge the government to shut the market for the time being. We are ready to do business in the open while adhering to all social distancing norms and regulations at Japanese Park or any other big stadium,” said Anil Malhotra, a trader. The DM said the shop of the 57-year old Covid-19 deceased and its surrounding areas have been cordoned off. “Other containment measures will be decided and put in place Wednesday,” he said. The Covid-19 death comes a day after the Delhi government allowed the Azadpur Mandi--Asia’s largest fruit and vegetable wholesale market—to operate round-the-clock. CROWD CONTROLEarlier on Tuesday, the first day after the government’s announcement of running the Azadpur Mandi 24x7, the police and civil defence volunteers had a tough time controlling crowds as many people jumped the boundary to enter the Mandi. The situation, however, was soon brought under control as 900 civil defence volunteers (CDV) were deployed along the market’s boundary.The police have deployed drones for continuous monitoring and have warned people that violators would be booked. The market traders’ association has also installed loudspeakers to remind people to maintain physical distancing. Gauging the severity of the situation in the market at a time when the city-state of Delhi, which has the second highest number of coronvirus cases in the country at 2,156, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal personally took stock of the situation and directed officials to ensure “no crowding, including vehicular traffic” occurs in the area.Union minister of state (home) G Kishan Reddy also inspected the mandi on Tuesday and reviewed the arrangements in place to prevent the spread of coronavirus, while ensuring the measure achieves its purpose—to help farmers sell their produce and minimise the prices of vegetables which have witnessed a hike due to the ongoing lockdown.Senior Delhi police officers said hundreds of supply trucks and tempos queued up outside the entry gate in the early hours of Tuesday but the situation was “like any other day” before the lockdown. The long queues did not affect the traffic as Delhi remains under lockdown and the roads were largely empty, police said.Under the new arrangement, which came into effect Monday night, entry of only 1,000 persons is allowed every four hours in the market. While fruits and vegetables will be sold between 6am and 10 pm, trucks have been allowed entry from 10pm to 6am. However, on Tuesday, aside from the traders and farmers, the wholesale market saw a huge rush of people who thronged the place after hearing that it would remain open 24x7.“A large number of people living in and around Azadpur came to buy vegetables and fruits for their daily needs. We are allowing entry only through tokens and e-passes, the distribution of which is highly regulated. But a lot of people entered the market by climbing its boundary walls; one side of the grilled fencing was also damaged because of people trying to break in,” a senior officer deputed at the market said on the condition of anonymity.“The crowd was brought under control by late afternoon. We have deployed 900 police and CDVs all along the boundaries of the Azadpur mandi. The situation is under control,” Adil Khan, chairperson of the Azadpur agriculture produce market committee, said, adding that the biggest challenge being faced was that of social distancing.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said the police have put adequate arrangements in place.“Because it’s a vast area that will now be active around the clock, we are using drones for monitoring. The APMC has put in place a mechanism to operate while following social distancing. It will be made sure that all vendors and customers who come are properly sanitized even during the late night hours. We have our deployment to ensure that APMC’s mechanism isn’t violated. Any violation that is reported will be followed by legal action,” Arya said.APMC head Khan said at least 50 public announcement systems have been procured for constantly reminding people about the importance of physical distancing and to maintain law and order.“Besides, six teams have been deployed to do continuous video recording of all activities inside the market. This is being done so people realise they are being watched and it acts as a deterrent to violate the lockdown rules. The footage also helps us think of new regulatory measures,” he said.Khan added that disinfection tunnel that was installed at the entry and exit of the Azadpur mandi has now been discontinued.Measure comes after the Union ministry of health and family welfare in an advisory on Monday urged local administrations to avoid using disinfectant tunnels, which spray sodium hypochlorite over individuals in order to disinfect them. “Spraying an individual or group with chemical disinfectants is physically and psychologically harmful,” the ministry said.The Delhi government has written to the Centre asking for a better chemical solution that could be used for disinfection of humans, Khan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/trader-at-asia-s-largest-wholesale-veggie-market-dies-of-covid-two-more-cases-reported-from-azadpur-mandi/story-C8EjvVp4nrvXXgdPXkQeWM.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Vasant Vihar: A neighbourhood that works together to protect each other||The well-maintained lanes of south Delhi’s upscale Vasant Vihar, once lively with the chatter of morning walkers, cyclists zooming through, and children hurrying to school, are now enveloped by a comfortable silence.Since the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) prompted governments to announce a lockdown across the national capital, the residents of Vasant Vihar have come up with a plan for their neighbourhood, ensuring that people stay at home while their everyday needs are taken care of.From introducing helpline numbers for ordering essential commodities such as groceries and vegetables to clearing all doubts about the pandemic, and even issuing regular advisories for its residents, the residents’ welfare association of Vasant Vihar is going all out to make sure that their campus remains free of infection. Gurpreet Bindra, the president of the Vasant Vihar residents’ welfare association (RWA) says that besides the RWA they have formed a volunteer group of over 700 youngsters, who call themselves ‘Vasant Vihar Divas’, and are addressing various aspects related to the pandemic.“When this pandemic broke out, we wanted to reach out to our residents in every possible way. We believe in working with the people of our neighbourhood instead of trying to impose a lockdown. With an efficient plan, we are ensuring that people remain comfortably at home and we all stay protected,” Bindra says.For instance, the community has selected professional experts from the neighbourhood, and made Covid-19 management teams. A dedicated helpline has been introduced for the residents, through which doctors and healthcare professionals in the area help locals get correct information about the disease and its spread as well as address their concerns. Similarly, there is a legal and neighbourhood dispute management team and a senior citizens’ group, each tasked with addressing specific problems. A mental health guidance helpline is also available to help residents deal with problems of anxiety and loneliness during the lockdown. The RWA also issues regular advisories and circulates digital copies of answers to frequently asked questions by residents. “Many residents like me and my wife do not live with our children. During such a time, they can’t come here and we can’t go there. It is a difficult situation, but we are managing with the help of our neighbours. We have one house help who lives with us, but we do not want to expose him to the infection,” a 69-year-old retired army officer, MS Rathore, says.Rathore says that with the help of his neighbours, they just have to call for groceries and other essential requirements.“I do not drive these days because of an accident, so a kind gentleman from our colony has been taking my wife for her chemotherapy sessions. The neighbourhood has truly stepped up,” Rathore says.Varun Grover, the owner of a supermarket in Block C, says that they have set delivery timings for each locality, to ensure that there is no pilling of orders.“It is a well-oiled machine. Since the area is divided into blocks and the density of population is not high, each area market has assigned a two-hour window for home delivery. People living in the particular block call during their allotted time and we try to deliver the items immediately,” Grover says. This local contingency plan also includes the care of street dogs, with a section of the area’s residents feeding animals from time to time. While this exercise was being followed by residents even before Covid-19 hit the city, with residents staying indoors and markets remaining closed, the drill has become pertinent now. “Earlier, street animals could find something from local markets or residents would feed them something while they were on their walks, etc., but where would they find anything now? We have made groups, and we take turns to feed street dogs. Anyone from the neighbourhood can sponsor it. They can either pay us cash for the food or bring food,” says Sangeeta Raghuvanshi, a resident of the area. The residents of this upscale locality are also helping their lesser fortunate neighbours. The RWA has tied up with the Vasant Vihar Gurudwara, to ensure that the residents of the slum cluster near Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) get three meals a day.However, despite this effective neighbourhood plan, the residents continue to struggle with diplomatic missions, who they allege often do not abide by the rules of the lockdown. Residents say that they have written to high commissions and embassies asking them to ensure that expatriates follow the laws of the land and do not risk the health and safety of people here.“They go about their chores like it is a regular day. We have asked the local station house officer (SHO) to intervene, but nothing has happened yet,” says Suresh Goel, general secretary of Vasant Vihar Residents’ Federation.Goel says that it was imperative to impose a strict lockdown in areas like Vasant Vihar because unlike many gated neighbourhoods of Delhi, this area is open to everyone.“This is an important link to reach other parts of south Delhi. So, while in other areas you can impose rules by keeping gates shut, here it does not work,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/vasant-vihar-a-neighbourhood-that-works-together-to-protect-each-other/story-EvR9leD0nPJi8Am0s7RVcM.html
23-04-2020||Delhi||Flights are grounded yet Delhi airport ATC still at work||As soon as a cargo plane lifts off the only functional runway out of the three available at the Indira Gandhi International Airport a controller inside the Delhi’s Air Traffic Control tower leaves his chair to pace the circular room; the next scheduled departure is an hour later. He sanitizes his hands and returns to his workstation and starts arguably interacting with the only other controller in the room. The repartee is part of their routine to stay alert for the duration of their 12-hour shift. This is the scene inside the country’s busiest air traffic control tower, which used to handle an average of at least 1,300 flight operations in a day. Since the lockdown, the usual average air traffic of one flight per minute has reduced to one flight per hour. “We are used to working at a fast pace. With very little work on our platter now as compared to the time before the lockdown, it is tough to stay alert. The new routine is tough and then we will have to tune ourselves back to a more demanding situation when passenger air traffic resumes,” an air traffic controller at the IGIA, who did not wish to be named. India had suspended all international flights on March 22. Three days later, on March 25, from the first day of the nationwide lockdown now extended till May 3, all domestic flight operations were also suspended. Yet, the eyes of the air traffic control staff must stay glued to the screen; always alert.An air traffic controller directs the pilot from the moment the plane is ready for start-up at the airport of departure until the time it is parked at the destination airport.Explaining the sensitivity of their job, a controller said that an airborne plane flies at a speed of approximately 800-900kmph. “It is always a race against time. A pilot has less reaction time to see and avoid an aircraft in the vicinity. There is no room for error or risk. Distraction for a split second can lead to disaster when hundreds of people are travelling at a height of more than 30,000 feet,” the controller said.Senior officers said that because of the country’s air traffic has reduced by 96% to 98%. However, they said, that even at a time when the entire airport is shut, the air traffic controllers are working round-the-clock to ensure smooth movement of cargo, relief flights and defence flights.However, despite less work, the controllers said they can’t leave their workstations. They cannot carry their cell phones inside the tower or listen to songs or watch a movie. “The rules are strict and our work requires a lot of discipline. We can’t take our eyes off the screen even for a minute. When it was business as usual, we used to work at war-like alertness every day as there were flights every minute. Now, the average air traffic handled by the Delhi ATC is roughly around 50-60 flights a day. Even though it’s little easier now, traffic using our air space has to be monitored, which keeps us engaged,” said a controller, who wished not to be named. As all passenger aircrafts are grounded, the Delhi airport is currently using only one of its three runways. While one has been converted into a parking area for grounded aircraft, the other one is kept vacant to handle any emergency situation.Explaining the usual operations, a senior Delhi ATC officer said earlier 60 controllers used to work in one shift, but now they’re engaging only 20 controllers per shift. “Flight operations are not even 5% of what we usually witness; we are managing efficiently with 20 controllers in a shift. With this, we are keeping 40 controllers on standby at any given time. If any of the controllers show signs of an illness, we can ask the entire shift to quarantine themselves and a fresh lot of controllers is available to take over. This way we can ensure round-the-clock functioning of the ATC. Contribution of the ground handling staff, the ground controllers and other staff working to make ATC operations a success, is also commendable in these times,” the officer said, requesting anonymity. Recently, the air traffic controllers were also exempted from undergoing the mandatory breath analyzer tests to avoid any possibility of spreading the infection.Vineet Gulati, member of Air Navigation Service, said the controllers have been given face masks which they wear at all times throughout their shifts. “Since the workstations are also used by controllers in other shifts, we keep sanitizing our hands time to time and regularly fumigate the machines, equipment and furniture. Even in other areas, physical distancing rules are being followed and our staff is seated at adequate distance from each other. All necessary measures are being taken for smooth and uninterrupted functioning of the Delhi air traffic control,” Gulati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-atc-goes-silent-as-only-select-flights-operate/story-0N2wOkaF1QWjM2wm4v83dJ.html
23-04-2020||World||PM Lee assures PM Modi that Singapore will care for Indian workers amid Covid-19 crisis||Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong assured his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on Thursday that his government will care for Indian migrant workers amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The two leaders discussed the Covid-19 situation in their countries and “agreed to work together on the challenges posed by the pandemic, keep supply chains intact, and keep essential supplies flowing”, according to a statement posted by Lee on Facebook.As of Thursday, Singapore has recorded more than 11,000 Covid-19 cases, with a majority of them linked to work permit holders living in foreign worker dormitories, Channel News Asia reported. A total of 21 of these dormitories have been designated as isolation areas as the Coronavirus was continuing to affect migrant workers.“I thanked PM Modi for India’s help when we brought home some Singaporeans from India recently. I assured him that we will care for Indian migrant workers here, just as we care for Singaporeans,” Lee wrote in the Facebook post.“The migrant workers made personal sacrifices to come to work here. They have made many contributions to Singapore, so we have a responsibility for them,” he added.Lee also said he appreciated Modi’s “affirmation of our efforts in looking after the migrant workers, and his assurance that they will not forget this”.Modi tweeted that he had exchanged views on the Covid-19 pandemic with Lee and “thanked him for the support and care being extended to Indian citizens in Singapore”. The India-Singapore strategic partnership can contribute to stability and prosperity in the post-Covid world, he added.Lee noted that Singapore was in the midst of a “circuit breaker” while India had implemented a nationwide lockdown since late March, “not a simple decision in a huge country of 1.3 billion people”.Meanwhile, external affairs minister S Jaishankar discussed the Covid-19 crisis and ways to overcome the pandemic during phone conversations with his counterparts from the US, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Oman and Brazil on Thursday.“The changing world of #corona era diplomacy. Strong friendships thrive even virtually. A busy day talking to Foreign Ministers of Russia, Brazil, United States, Saudi Arabia and Oman,” Jaishankar tweeted.He said he and US secretary of state Mike Pompeo had discussed the Covid-19 responses of the two countries and the “importance of international cooperation” and working closely on the implications and consequences of the pandemic. They also exchanged views on the Afghanistan situation, he said.State department spokesperson Morgan Ortagus said Pompeo and Jaishankar discussed bilateral and international cooperation to contain and mitigate Covid-19, including “ensuring the availability of pharmaceutical and medical supplies”. Jaishankar tweeted that he and Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov discussed the forthcoming BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) foreign ministers’ meeting and reviewed recent developments pertaining to Afghanistan. “Our cooperation on #coronavirus reflects our special friendship,” he said.During his conversation with Oman’s foreign minister Yusuf bin Alawi, Jaishankar expressed his appreciation for Oman taking care of Indian expatriates and assured him of India’s support in the collective fight against the Coronavirus. The conversation also assumed significance as an Omani princess clarified on Wednesday she had no connection to a fake tweet posted by a person impersonating her.Jaishankar thanked Saudi Arabian foreign minister Faisal bin Farhan al Saud for taking care of the Indian community in the kingdom and discussed “our shared interest in ensuring health and food security”.In his phone conversation with Brazil’s foreign minister Ernesto Araujo, Jaishankar reviewed the follow up of President Jair Bolsonaro’s visit to India in January and exchanged notes on global issues, including the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-lee-assures-pm-modi-that-singapore-will-care-for-indian-workers-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-m2ysvoiSwZe1HrQM7xQBAP.html
23-04-2020||World||Pilloried over Covid-19 response, WHO opts for truncated annual meet in May||The World Health Organisation has decided to go for a truncated annual meet on May 18 with a limited agenda amid efforts by countries such as Australia to push for an international investigation into the coronavirus pandemic.In a communication sent to member states, the WHO said it would not be appropriate to take up the nearly 60 items that had been placed on the provisional agenda less than 20 days ago.This is being done to provide crucial international focus on Covid-19 that has killed nearly 180,000 people worldwide in a matter of months, it said.Instead, the WHO document proposes that the 73rd World Health Assembly consider an abridged agenda. This would include opening of the health assembly, address by Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus that would be focused on Covid-19 preparedness and response and the formal election to the 10 seats on the executive board that will fall vacant.Hindustan Times has accessed the document.The session would begin on 18 May and end the next day. A fuller version of the assembly would be held later.The only items to be taken up would be what were described as “uncontroversial items” such as resolutions and decisions recommended by consensus by the WHO’s executive board. These would be considered to have been cleared by the health assembly if no country objects to them.During the virtual session, member countries will 2 minutes each to make their point. Regional and group statements have been limited to 4 minutes but they can all submit written submissions that would be uploaded to the WHO website.Information about the WHO opting for the abridged version came days after US President Donald Trump took sharp swipes at the global health body for what he described as its flawed recommendations on the Covid-19 outbreak in China. The US believes that the WHO-led by Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus sided with China to play down the disease that originated in China’s Wuhan city. It is an allegation that Tedros Adhanom, a former foreign and health minister of Ethiopia, has denied.But the WHO chief hasn’t been able to convince many of his critics.On Thursday, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison declared that his country would push for an international investigation into the pandemic at the meeting of the decision-making body of the WHO.“The World Health Assembly is coming up in May. There are opportunities to pursue that matter there and that is our first port of call,” Morrison said, according to news agency Reuters..Australia sits on the executive board of the assembly, which determines WHO policies. Next month, it will be India’s turn. Besides, New Delhi will also get the position of the executive board’s chairperson.Morrison had already phoned leaders in France, Germany and the United States to lobby support and could call Britain and Canada next,Australia has overcome the worst of its coronavirus outbreak, which is why it has moved on to lobbying other countries to support its call for an enquiry, but it understood that other nations were still dealing with high death rates, government, Reuters said, quoting unnamed sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pilloried-over-covid-19-response-who-opts-for-truncated-annual-meet-in-may/story-wfE7aJ8yok0ylGXTkuppSO.html
23-04-2020||World||S Jaishankar, Mike Pompeo discuss Covid-19, medical supply chain||US Secretary of state Mike Pompeo and his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Thursday discussed bilateral and international cooperation to combat the coronavirus outbreak, the US state department spokesperson said in a statement.They also spoke about “ensuring the availability of pharmaceutical and medical supplies”, the spokesperson added.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageIndia supplies upwards of 40% of over-the-counter and generic prescription drugs sold in the United States. And it is one of the largest manufacturers in the world of the antimalarial drug Hydroxychloroquine that President Donald Trump has embraced and advocated as a “game-changer” in the treatment of Covid-19, despite sufficient evidence to support its efficacy.India lifted export curbs earlier this month to allow a consignment of the drug after a request from President Trump to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/s-jaishankar-mike-pompeo-discuss-covid-19-medical-supply-chain/story-8R4g5NxyguzYgLnLh9hnwJ.html
23-04-2020||World||Trump’s immigration curb spares healthcare workers, dependents, investors||President Donald Trump’s executive order suspending immigration in view of the coronavirus epidemic impacts Green Card hopefuls mostly, but not spouses and underage children of existing US citizens, healthcare professionals such as physicians and nurses and rich investors.It does not affect non-immigrants work visas, but it was penciled in as something that can be considered.“In order to protect our great American workers, I’ve just signed an executive order temporarily suspending immigration into the United States,” Trump told reporters after signing the order Wednesday. “This will ensure that unemployed Americans of all backgrounds will be first in line for jobs as our economy reopens.”An estimated 26.4 million Americans have been rendered jobless by the shutdown of the country because of the coronavirus epidemic and the president has said he wants American to have the first claim to jobs still available or those that will become available, not foreigners.The executive order suspends all immigration for the next 60 days and applies to foreigners who are outside the United States, do not have a valid immigrant visa or any other official travel document issued before the other went into effect.It does not apply to current permanent residents (Green Card holders), physicians and nurses, medical researchers who can help combat the coronavirus outbreak, and their dependents.Also exempted from the suspension are spouses and under-21 children of US citizens, applicants for EB-5 investor visas, members of the US armed forces and their dependents, asylum seekers and refugees.The order can be terminated at the end of the 60-day period, or extended, or toned down or made more expansive.A a provision in the order says “additional measures” could be considered based on a “review (of) nonimmigrant programs”, which could include, though not mentioned in the order, short-term H-1B visas that have gone mostly to Indians hired by US employers from US universities or from India.People from India have been major beneficiaries of Green Cards in recent years. A Pew research center study said of the nearly 1 million Green Cards issued in 2017, 126,000 went to applicants from India; followed by Mexico, China and Cuba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-s-immigration-curb-spares-healthcare-workers-dependents-investors/story-yo6ClR4lzgD6KnjXZ5ky7L.html
23-04-2020||World||Nearly 500 of Indian-origin dead in UK as Covid-19 curbs set to stay||The Boris Johnson government on Thursday announced what it called a ‘major long-term study’ for antibody testing involving nearly 3 lakh people, as senior medical advisors dampened down normalcy expectations, insisting curbs are needed “for a very long time”.New figures of hospital deaths show UK-wide 18,738 deaths and 138,078 cases. In England, the dead include 492 people of Indian origin, constituting 3% of the 16% non-white people who passed away due to the virus. London boroughs with large numbers of people of Indian origin such as Brent, Barnet, Harrow and Ealing are among the most affected.The study, intended to track the spread of Covid-19 in the general population, will continue for a year, with the aim that it will help improve understanding around the current rate of infection and how many people are likely to have developed antibodies to the virus.Chris Whitty, chief medical officer of England, said the UK will have to live with some disruptive social measures for at least the rest of the year, adding that it is “wholly unrealistic” to expect life would suddenly return to normal soon.As the University of Oxford human trial for a vaccine was set to begin on Thursday, Whitty said the ideal way out of the pandemic would be via a highly effective vaccine or drugs, but he warned that the chance of having those within the next calendar year was “incredibly small”.He said: “This disease is not going to be eradicated, it is not going to disappear…So we have to accept that we are working with a disease that we are going to be with globally... for the foreseeable future”.On the study, officials said participants will provide samples taken from self-administered nose and throat swabs and answer a few short questions during a home visit by a trained health worker. The swab tests will show whether or not participants currently have the virus.They will be asked to take further tests every week for the first 5 weeks, then every month for 12 months. In total, 25,000 people will take part in the pilot phase of the survey, with plans to extend it to up to around 300,000 over the next 12 months.Health secretary Matt Hancock said: “This survey will help to track the current extent of transmission and infection in the UK, while also answering crucial questions about immunity as we continue to build up our understanding of this new virus”.“Together, these results will help us better understand the spread of the virus to date, predict the future trajectory and inform future action we take, including crucially the development of ground-breaking new tests and treatments”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nearly-500-of-indian-origin-dead-in-uk-as-covid-19-curbs-set-to-stay/story-wF3fu0NVrpGm78jWYxvk4O.html
23-04-2020||World||Millions of Americans join unemployed ranks as coronavirus ravages economy||A stunning 26.5 million Americans have sought unemployment benefits over the last five weeks, confirming that all the jobs gained during the longest employment boom in U.S. history have been wiped out as the novel coronavirus savages the economy.The labor market slaughter added to collapsing oil prices, retail sales, manufacturing production, homebuilding and home sales in reinforcing economists’ contention that the economy entered recession in March. As the economic slump deepens protests have risen against nationwide lockdowns to control the spread of COVID-19, the potentially lethal respiratory illness caused by the virus. President Donald Trump, who is seeking a second term in the White House in November’s general election, has been anxious to restart the paralyzed economy. Trump on Wednesday applauded steps taken by a handful of Republican-led states to begin reopening their economies, despite warnings from health experts of a potential new surge in infections.“Today’s report shows the labor market is almost certainly pushing into new territory, jolting the unemployment rate up above the Great Recession’s 10% peak and wiping out more jobs than we’ve gained in the recovery,” said Daniel Zhao, senior economist at Glassdoor, a website recruitment firm.Initial claims for state unemployment benefits dropped 810,000 to a seasonally adjusted 4.427 million for the week ended April 18, the government said. Data for the prior week was revised to show 8,000 fewer applications received than previously reported, reducing the count for that period to 5.237 million. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast claims falling to 4.2 million in the latest week.All told, 26.453 million people have filed claims for jobless benefits since March 21, representing 16.2% of the labor force. The economy created 22 million jobs during the employment boom which started in September 2010 and abruptly ended in February this year.The Labor Department said “the COVID-19 virus continues to impact the number of initial claims.” Last week’s claims report covered the period during which the government surveyed business establishments for the nonfarm payrolls component of April’s employment report. Economists are forecasting as many as 25 million jobs were lost in April after the economy purged 701,000 positions in March, which was the largest decline in 11 years.The National Bureau of Economic Research, the private research institute regarded as the arbiter of U.S. recessions, does not define a recession as two consecutive quarters of decline in real GDP, as is the rule of thumb in many countries. Instead, it looks for a drop in activity, spread across the economy and lasting more than a few months.WORST OVER?Though weekly jobless filings remain very high, last week’s data marked the third straight weekly decline, raising hopes that the worst may be over. Weekly claims appeared to have peaked at a record 6.867 million in the week ended March 28.U.S. stocks opened higher as investors focused on the decline in claims. The dollar was slightly higher against a basket of currencies. U.S. Treasury prices were trading lower.“While layoffs and furloughs are likely to continue across a number of industries in coming weeks, we are cautiously optimistic that the peak in layoffs following initial widespread closures has occurred,” said Andrew Hollenhorst, an economist at Citigroup in New York. Some of the decline in claims has been attributed to a historic $2.3 trillion fiscal package, which made provisions for small businesses to access loans that could be partially forgiven if they were used for employee salaries. The U.S. Senate on Tuesday approved $484 billion in a fresh relief package, which mainly expands funding for loans to small businesses.With claims expected to gradually decline in the coming weeks as more small enterprises access funding, attention will shift to the number of people on unemployment benefits rolls. The so-called continuing claims data is reported with a one-week lag and is considered a better gauge of unemployment. Continuing claims jumped 4.064 million to a record 15.976 million in the week ending April 11.Next week’s continuing claims data will offer some clues on the magnitude of the anticipated surge in the unemployment rate in April. Continuing claims have not increased at the same pace as initial jobless applications. Economists believe some people thrown out of work because of state-mandated “stay-at-home” orders found employment at supermarkets, warehouses and delivery services companies. They expect the unemployment rate will shatter the post-World War Two record of 10.8% touched in November 1982. The jobless rate shot up 0.9 percentage point, the largest single-month change since January 1975, to 4.4% in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millions-of-americans-join-unemployed-ranks-as-coronavirus-ravages-economy/story-SwuYinwXstxRYBkJXS9mpL.html
23-04-2020||World||World Bank warns coronavirus pandemic could pressure food supply chain||The coronavirus outbreak and government policies to limit the disease could disrupt food supply chains, potentially threatening food availability, even as prices remain stable in 2020, the World Bank cautioned Thursday.Prices of agricultural commodities are likely to hold up better than oil, metals and other industrial materials that have seen demand plummet amid lockdowns and other measures to combat COVID-19, the World Bank said in a report.“Agriculture prices are less tied to economic growth, and saw only minor declines in the first quarter of 2020, except for rubber, which is used in transportation,” the report said. But while prices are expected to remain “broadly stable” this year “as production levels and stocks of most staple foods are at record highs,” the bank warned that producers could “face disruptions to the trade and distribution of inputs such as fertilizer, pesticides, and labor availability.”John Baffes, a World Bank economist and co-author of the report, said exports of flowers to Europe from Kenya and Tanzania have “collapsed” and that North African fruit and vegetable suppliers also are suffering.“We can see how complex those supply chains are,” Baffes told AFP.Other countries have set up barriers to trade, with Russia limiting wheat exports and Vietnam restricting rice shipments, while the Philippines is among the countries that has conducted “excess” buying of rice.“Although these measures have not yet been used widely, they could lead to problems if they are used extensively,” the report said.Meanwhile, the World Bank expects energy prices to fall 40 percent in 2020 before experiencing a “sizeable rebound” in 2021.Oil prices are expected to average $35 a barrel in 2020, down from $61 a barrel last year.Metal prices, which also are linked to global growth, are seen dropping 13 percent, with copper and zinc especially hit, according to the report.The authors also sees the potential for “lasting effects” on commodity markets. A shift towards remote work would dent oil demand, while a “near-shoring” of key supply chains could alter demand for raw materials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-bank-warns-coronavirus-pandemic-could-pressure-food-supply-chain/story-uWioEjRFP9TrMT88uhvBAJ.html
23-04-2020||World||Weekly US jobless claims 4.4 mn, virus total hits 26.4 mn||Job losses from the coronavirus pandemic deepened last week with data Thursday showing another 4.4 million US workers filed new claims for jobless benefits, bringing the total to 26.4 million since mid-March.The total for the week ending April 18 is a drop from the initial claims filed in the previous three weeks, but remains at staggeringly high levels due to government-ordered shutdowns to stop the pandemic from spreading and intensifying.The outbreak in the US has grown into the world’s largest, with deaths reaching 46,583 on Wednesday, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.Meanwhile, lawmakers in the US House of Representatives were set to vote on a $480 billion coronavirus relief package that builds upon a massive $2.2 trillion CARES act passed in late March.The new package would provide another $320 billion for small businesses to keep their doors open and pay their workers, after the initial $349 billion in the Paycheck Protection Program was drained in just two weeks.The claims figures for last week show that the layoffs continued for a fifth week, despite the help from Congress.Ian Shepherdson of Pantheon Macroeconomics noted the decline but said it is not falling as quickly as he had hoped. He called the total “horrendous.”“We anticipate a further decline in claims next week, but the rate of fall of Google searches for ‘file for unemployment’ has slowed, suggesting it will take several more weeks before claims drop below one million,” Shepherdson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/weekly-us-jobless-claims-4-4-mn-virus-total-hits-26-4-mn/story-9R2y3BQsDhNMKaLawuXUbJ.html
23-04-2020||World||Covid-19 update: US was ‘attacked’, Donald Trump says as layoffs and fatalities mount||The United States was “attacked”, President Donald Trump has said of the novel coronavirus epidemic has rendered 26.4 million Americans jobless since mid-March with 4.4 million more filing for unemployment benefits last week, according to new data released Thursday; and killed more than 46,000.Economists assess unemployment rate to have climbed to somewhere between 15% and 20%, which is far higher than the Great Recession of 2008-2009, and briskly creeping up on 25% the peak reached during the Great Depression of 1929, which was the has been the worst slowdown in US history.Businesses continue to shutter as frustration mounts and people take to the streets demanding the reopening the economy, despite pleas from experts to let current mitigation efforts run their course as it has been successful in keeping fatalities lower than it had been feared earlier.US congress is set to pass later Thursday a legislation adding $480 billion to the $2.2 trillion passed earlier; the package includes $320 billion more in relief to small businesses, who account for 48% of the US workforce, under a government program to allow them to retain their employees.“We were attacked,” President Trump told reporters at the daily briefing of the coronavirus task force Wednesday, when asked if he worries about the impact of the stimulus package on US national debt. “We had the greatest economy in the history of the world. We had the greatest economy -- better than China, better than any place.”“And then one day, they came and they said,” he added, pointing to members of his coronavirus task force, “You have to close it.”Most US states are under varying degrees of stay-at-home restrictions and lockdown. But pressure has been mounting on governors to ease restrictions, with protests taking place across the country, which have been backed and encouraged by Trump. He is just as keen to reopen the country, if not more.South Carolina and Georgia, both Republican-ruled states, have already announced lifting of some restrictions that have been found worrying by public health officials around the who fear a rebound. President Trump himself weighed in Wednesday to urge Georgia to hold on to restrictions a little longer.More states want to reopen their businesses as the situation has looked better in recent days with the country going past the peak in new infections, hospitalization rates dropping and the hotspots increasingly stabilizing. But numbers continued to grow as a grim reminder tat the crisis is not over.New infections went up by 27,679 in the past 24 hours to 542,624 and fatalities by 2,139 to 46,785. The toll in New York state, the epicenter of the US epidemic that has stabilized lately, to 19,453; New York city accounted for most of them with 15,074.But the exact extent of the US epidemic is still evolving, with “hidden outbreaks” that had previously escaped official counts. While New York city, Seattle, Boston, Chicago and San Francisco had reported only 29 confirmed cases between them by March 1, the actual number is projected to have been around 28,000, the New York Times reported citing a new model developed by researchers Northwestern University.On Tuesday, officials in California had announced the death of two individuals of the coronavirus on February 6 and February 17, much earlier than on February 29, the previously first fatality.The virus has also shown it can spread from humans to animals. The first case was of the infection of a lion at a New York zoo. Two cats in New York city became Wednesday the first pets to catch the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-us-was-attacked-donald-trump-says-as-layoffs-and-fatalities-mount/story-iEuE8VRKyoDAANV4a4crsJ.html
23-04-2020||World||China Covid-19 toll could have been four times more, says new study in Lancet||China might have had more than 232000 people infected with Covid-19 by February 20, nearly four times the official figure on that date, new research by Hong Kong experts have found.Mainland China’s national health commission (NHC) had reported 55508 cases of Covid-19 on February 20 but research by the University of Hong Kong’s School of Public Health said the actual number could have been four times if a definition of the disease used later could have been applied throughout.Between January 15 and March 3, seven versions of Covid-19 case definition were issued by the NHC.“If the fifth version of the case definition had been applied throughout the outbreak with sufficient testing capacity, we estimated that by Feb 20, 2020, there would have been 232 000 confirmed cases in China as opposed to the 55 508 confirmed cases reported,” the research paper, published in The Lancet earlier this week said.The case definition was broadened from January to March, counting milder cases in the latter stage.“The case definition was initially narrow and was gradually broadened to allow detection of more cases as knowledge increased, particularly milder cases and those without epidemiological links to Wuhan, China, or other known cases,” the researchers added.The number of daily cases in China has dropped drastically since the peak of February, and on Thursday the NHC said no death was reported for the eighth consecutive day.A total of 10 new confirmed Covid-19 cases were reported on the mainland the day before, six of which were imported.As of Wednesday, the mainland had reported a total of 1,616 imported cases.The overall confirmed cases on the mainland had reached 82,798 by Wednesday and 4,632 people had died of the disease, the NHC said.In another development, China on Thursday said it would donate a further $30 million to the World Health Organisation (WHO), which is seeking more than $1 billion to fund its battle against the coronavirus pandemic, over and above the $20 million it had pledged earlier.Beijing’s new promise comes days after US President Donald Trump suspended funding to the WHO, accusing the Geneva-based organisation of promoting Chinese “disinformation” about the virus.Meanwhile, citizen journalist Li Zehua who went missing from the first outbreak epicentre Wuhan in February has reappeared, saying that he had been quarantined by security forces in the city for two weeks, and then for more days in in his home town.Two more citizen journalists Chen Qiushi and Fang Bin are still missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-covid-19-toll-could-have-been-four-times-more-says-new-study-in-lancet/story-UBW9BEXSOarxp0XyJHdKYN.html
23-04-2020||World||UK launches new study as Covid-19 lockdown curbs to stay ‘for a very long time’||The Boris Johnson government on Thursday announced what it called a ‘major long-term study’ for antibody testing involving nearly 3 lakh people, as senior medical advisors dampened down normalcy expectations, insisting curbs are needed “for a very long time”.The study, intended to track the spread of Covid-19 in the general population, will continue for a year, with the aim that it will help improve understanding around the current rate of infection and how many people are likely to have developed antibodies to the virus.Chris Whitty, chief medical officer of England, said the UK will have to live with some disruptive social measures for at least the rest of the year, adding that it is “wholly unrealistic” to expect life would suddenly return to normal soon.As the University of Oxford human trial for a vaccine was set to begin on Thursday, Whitty said the ideal way out of the pandemic would be via a highly effective vaccine or drugs, but he warned that the chance of having those within the next calendar year was “incredibly small”.He said: “This disease is not going to be eradicated, it is not going to disappear…So we have to accept that we are working with a disease that we are going to be with globally... for the foreseeable future”.On the study, officials said participants will provide samples taken from self-administered nose and throat swabs and answer a few short questions during a home visit by a trained health worker. The swab tests will show whether or not participants currently have the virus.They will be asked to take further tests every week for the first 5 weeks, then every month for 12 months. In total, 25,000 people will take part in the pilot phase of the survey, with plans to extend it to up to around 300,000 over the next 12 months.Health secretary Matt Hancock said: “This survey will help to track the current extent of transmission and infection in the UK, while also answering crucial questions about immunity as we continue to build up our understanding of this new virus”.“Together, these results will help us better understand the spread of the virus to date, predict the future trajectory and inform future action we take, including crucially the development of ground-breaking new tests and treatments”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-launches-new-study-as-covid-19-lockdown-curbs-to-stay-for-a-very-long-time/story-YvesurIwKi6IRHK2fmC5qN.html
23-04-2020||World||China close to launching the world’s first digital currency in small pilot projects||Amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and global financial gloom, China seems set to launch the world’s first digital currency in the weeks ahead.The central bank digital currency or digital yuan, is officially referred to as the digital currency/electronic payment (DC/EP) project.It’s not a new currency but a digitised version of the existing Chinese currency yuan, which will be disbursed via a digital wallet.The wallet doesn’t need to be linked to any bank account or card.Five years in development, the DC/EP project has been largely shrouded in secrecy. Until now.A number of articles in Chinese media this month indicate that the currency could be launched as early as next month in restricted, small pilot projects.The government-affiliated Star Market Daily reported earlier this month that China’s big four state-owned banks, the Industrial & Commercial Bank of China, the China Construction Bank, the Agricultural Bank of China and the Bank of China have begun testing the digital currency.On Thursday, another state media report gave details about the upcoming cautious launch of the currency.“The Chinese central bank’s digital currency DC/EP project will be tested in Xiongan New Area in north China’s Hebei province, with a trial run in local catering and retail industries including US coffee chain Starbucks, fast food chain McDonald’s and the Qingfeng Baozi (stuffed bun) restaurant chain,” the state-run tabloid Global Times reported.Employees from selected companies will be allowed to open digital wallets and operate them within the Xiongan New Area, a new development coming up about 100 km from Beijing.Three other cities — Shenzhen in southern China’s Guangdong province, Suzhou in eastern China’s Jiangsu province, and Chengdu in southwest China’s Sichuan province — will also test the central bank-backed digital currency. The new digital currency falls in China’s way toward becoming a cashless society where hundreds of millions make payments via WeChat or Alipay, which are linked to bank cards.“The DCEP will be powered partially by blockchain technology and dispersed through digital wallets. What sets it somewhat apart, however, are features that allow the central bank to track the movement of the currency and even supervise transactions,” the Reuters said in a report on DC/EP late last year.The head of the Chinese central bank’s digital currency research institute, Mu Changchun, told a public forum last year that it was “almost ready”.“However, in September, Chinese central bank chief Yi Gang said there was no timetable for its rollout and that it still needed to meet requirements, such as anti-money laundering,” the Reuters report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-close-to-launching-the-world-s-first-digital-currency-in-small-pilot-projects/story-sta1sevP2LyI9s21y8o7dK.html
23-04-2020||World||Canada PM appreciated for handling Covid-19 crisis, approval ratings increase||Canada prime minister Justin Trudeau’s high-profile daily media briefings on the country’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic has helped him enjoy a resurgence in popularity.A new poll stated that “Trudeau’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis lifts his approval to the highest level since 2017.” In fact, his performance is endorsed by 54% of Canadians, according to a new survey from the non-profit pollster Angus Reid Institute or ARI. The enhanced support amid the coronavirus crisis is clear since Trudeau’s popularity has jumped 21% since February this year.As ARI noted, “...more than one month into an unprecedented national shutdown due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the Prime Minister’s front-and-centre presence at daily briefings has caused his approval ratings to do something they have not done in nearly two years: crack the majority mark.” While Trudeau is leading a minority government, he is unlikely to use the new-found surge in support to announce snap elections given not only the restrictions that remain as the country to battle Covid-19 but also as his personal approval ratings do not translate into an upswing in the fortunes of his Liberal Party, and it remains in a statistical tie with the principal opposition Conservative Party.Trudeau has also announced more measures to ease the impact of Covid-19 on post-secondary students in the country, a move that will benefit nearly 200,000 students from India, many of whom are stranded in Canada.Trudeau announced a package to support college and university students as well as recent graduates. This support will cost CA $ 9 billion, and will include CA $ 1250 to students per month under a new Canada Emergency Student Benefit. Trudeau said, while making the announcement, “The future of our economy and our country relies on the opportunities and support we provide to Canadian students today..”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-pm-appreciated-for-handling-covid-19-crisis-approval-ratings-increase/story-vIJuu6eamCLlmtcyAWeLIO.html
23-04-2020||World||‘Fear we don’t start treating Covid-19 patients on road’: Pakistan doctors say they are running out of beds||The doctors in Pakistan have warned that the coronavirus pandemic could worsen in the country in the coming weeks, and warned people to follow social distancing norms especially during the month of Ramzan.“This is a medical problem which has its resulting economic and social effects. But we need to understand that this is nonetheless primarily a medical issue,” Dr Saad Niaz, a gastroenterologist, said at a press conference in Karachi on Wednesday.He added that the country has seen 30-40 per cent increase in the number of Covid-19 patients in the last four days, and said it’s very unfortunate that people are not considering this as a serious issue.“The severity is much more than we think and the numbers will continue to rise,” said Dr Niaz. “If a lockdown wouldn’t have been imposed, the situation would have been different. And if we don’t act now, two weeks down the line, the situation would be very different.”He also highlighted that the country’s medical infrastructure is already stretched, and said there are no beds for patients. “We will have great difficulty in the coming days such as refusal to admit patients because of no beds,” said Dr Niaz.“The projected figures of potential Covid-19 infection is 70,000, and if even 10 per cent of those are serious, we don’t have capacity to accommodate those. There are no ventilators,” said Dr Niaz.“What I fear is that we start treating patients on the road. That we don’t have to decide from among your (people’s) relatives that who is a 35-year-old and who is 55 and give preference to the younger one,” he added.According to media reports, the doctors have also written a letter pleading with the clerics to reverse the decision of leaving mosques open during Ramzan warning it could result in an explosion of Covid-19 cases as numbers are already on the rise at an increased rate throughout the country.Pakistan President Arif Alvi had last week announced that neither the state machinery nor clerics would stop citizens from visiting mosques as the government accepted almost all demands of the clerics related to the holding of Friday, Taraweeh and daily congregational prayers with the condition of social distancing and other precautionary measures.A sharp increase in Covid-19-related deaths has been recorded in Pakistan this week. More than 200 people have died, with over 10,513 infections recorded as of Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fear-we-don-t-start-treating-covid-19-patients-on-road-pakistan-doctors-say-they-are-running-out-of-beds/story-qWzqJvpv6BPXJEhDN76YdN.html
23-04-2020||World||‘Just another patient’: New Zealand nurse tells of treating British PM for virus||A New Zealand nurse who treated British Prime Minister Boris Johnson while he was in hospital with the coronavirus said she saw the world leader as “just another patient” and that she thought he was joking when he singled her out for praise.Jenny McGee, who has worked for the National Health Service since 2010, told a New Zealand television station that she was unfazed by the task of caring for Johnson, who received the same care as any other patient and “absolutely needed to be there”.“There was a lot of media interest about him being in hospital and, to be honest, that was the toughest,” McGee told TVNZ in an interview which aired on Thursday, her first public remarks since the episode.“As a unit, he was just another patient we were trying to do our best for, so it was business as usual. It was just another day at the office,” McGee added.Johnson, 55, was taken to Guys and St Thomas’ hospital on April 5 after his symptoms for COVID-19 worsened and he was moved into intensive care the following day, remaining there until April 9.On being discharged on April 12, Johnson said in a video message, “the NHS saved my life, no question”. He named and thanked the nurses who had cared for him, including “Jenny from New Zealand”.When Johnson sent that public message, McGee said in the interview, she was getting ready for her nightshift and a friend texted her the update.“My first reaction was that it was a joke,” she said.As McGee carried out intensive care duties, she and said she and the prime minister “spent a lot of time together and we talked away about NZ”, particularly about her home city of Invercargill, which she said he took an interest in.After shifts caring for the British leader, she said she would get in her car and “hear things about Boris Johnson on the news that was very surreal because I thought ‘wow, I’ve been looking after him’“.“But I really wasn’t fazed by looking after Boris Johnson,” she added.Johnson wasn’t the only national leader to congratulate McGee, who acknowledged she took longer than planned to respond to a message from New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, saying “it’s very surreal to have a message from Jacinda. She’s a hero of mine.”Once the nurse did respond to the New Zealand leader, the two shared “a little bit of banter which again was surreal, (and) a couple of emojis”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/just-another-patient-new-zealand-nurse-tells-of-treating-british-pm-for-virus/story-GsVId2XZ4OlolegnRlAqVN.html
23-04-2020||World||China to donate additional $30 million to WHO for Covid-19||China is to donate an additional $30 million to the World Health Organization (WHO) to support the global fight against Covid-19, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said on Thursday. China has decided to donate additional $30 million in cash to WHO to support its global fight against #COVID19, in particular strengthening developing countries' health systems. China already donated $20 million in cash to WHO on March 11.Hua said on Twitter the donation was aimed in particular at strengthening developing countries’ health systems and added that China had already donated $20 million to the WHO in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-donate-additional-30-million-to-who-for-covid-19/story-8TFV3xSS36zobKNbylqSCN.html
23-04-2020||World||WHO warns ‘long way to go’ in coronavirus crisis||The global coronavirus crisis will not end any time soon, with many countries still in the early stages of the fight, health experts have warned as researchers revealed the first US deaths from the disease came weeks before the alarm was raised there.The Covid-19 pandemic has killed more than 180,000 people and infected more than 2.6 million, and nations are struggling to check its spread with social distancing measures and lockdowns, while trying to repair their virus-ravaged economies.Some have started to slowly ease restrictions as pressure mounts on governments to find ways to reopen their societies after tens of millions of jobs were wiped out.But World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday cautioned that the struggle is far from over.“Make no mistake: we have a long way to go. This virus will be with us for a long time,” he said.“Most countries are still in the early stages of their epidemics. And some that were affected early in the pandemic are now starting to see a resurgence in cases.” The comments came after the director of the US Centers for Disease Control asked Americans to prepare for a second, possibly more devastating, wave of coronavirus infections.The United States is the hardest-hit country on the planet, with more than 46,500 coronavirus deaths and nearly 840,000 infections.Researchers have now revealed that the first Covid-19 fatalities in the country happened weeks earlier than previously thought -- meaning the current US tally is likely far short of reality.The newly confirmed Covid-19 deaths on February 6 and February 17 were in California’s Santa Clara county, where Stanford University researchers found that the true number cases was at least 50 times higher than the confirmed official figure.The explosion of coronavirus cases across the United States has overwhelmed healthcare facilities, from the most developed parts like New York City to the Native American territory of the Navajo Nation in the southwest, where a lack of running water and poor infrastructure has made the situation worse.“Right here in the middle of the most powerful nation, the United States of America, our citizens don’t have the luxury of turning on a faucet to wash your hands with soap and water,” Navajo Nation President Jonathan Nez told AFP.Vaccine trialsThe WHO and other health experts have warned that strict containment measures like lockdowns should remain until there is a viable treatment or vaccine for the coronavirus.There was a ray of hope on that front in Europe, where Germany announced Wednesday that human trials for a vaccine will start by next week.It is only the fifth such effort to have been authorised worldwide, and is a significant step in making a vaccine “available as soon as possible”, Germany’s regulatory body said.But even at the current, rapid pace of development, an effective prophylactic could be several months away.In Europe -- where the death toll climbed past 110,000 -- some countries have slightly eased coronavirus measures, but bans on large gatherings have been extended.Finland said it would maintain a ban on gatherings of more than 500 people until the end of July, while hard-hit Spain said it did not expect to lift its strict lockdown until mid-May.“We must be incredibly careful in this phase,” said Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez.‘I feel helpless’The pressure on governments everywhere to ease the economic pain is growing by the day, with tens of millions unemployed and several countries at risk of famine.With movement and travel severely restricted, sectors from small business to tourism and aviation have been hammered.Providing more evidence of the scale of devastation, the UN’s International Civil Aviation Organization said Wednesday the pandemic could mean 1.2 billion fewer passengers worldwide, with hundreds of billions of dollars slashed off airline revenues.The economic pain is intense for the people of Dharavi, the largest slum in India, who have been unable to leave home to eke out a living as factory workers or maids and chauffeurs to the well-heeled residents of Mumbai.Home to an estimated one million people, the massive slum has been under a strict lockdown, with police drones patrolling overhead to make sure no one goes outside.“I feel helpless at times and worry about my family and neighbourhood,” one Dharavi resident, in hospital for Covid-19 treatment, told AFP.“Looking at so many people losing lives due to infections makes me feel terrible. Will we ever recover from this?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-warns-long-way-to-go-in-coronavirus-crisis/story-28BdjVidmJYWbZtd0YxVPP.html
23-04-2020||World||Theory of 5G spreading Covid-19 ‘a hoax that has no technical basis’: UN ICT agency||The latest high-speed broadband technology 5G is not responsible for the spread of the Covid-19 and any theory of a link between it and the coronavirus is “a hoax that has no technical basis”, UN agency for information and communications technology has said.As the Covid-19 pandemic spread across the world almost four months ago, 5G phone masts have reportedly been damaged or destroyed in several European countries, including Ireland, Cyprus and Belgium. In the UK, dozens of towers were targeted and engineers abused on the job, a UN News report said.A spokesperson for International Telecommunications Union (ITU) Monika Gehner told the UN News on Wednesday that the theory of a link between 5G and Covid-19 is “a hoax that has no technical basis”.“The coronavirus is not being spread by radio waves. It’s a real shame, during this time when there are real concerns about the health and well-being of the general public, and the economic toll that the fight against this pandemic is taking, that any time or energy has to be put into fighting this and other false rumours,” she said.The 5G is the next generation cellular technology with download speeds stated to be 10 to 100 times faster than current 4G networks.The 5G reliably connect an extremely large number of devices. This allows future users to access a wide variety of services, including industrial and professional applications, the ITU said.During the current pandemic, communication technology is playing an essential role in ensuring that health services, many of which are facing unprecedented demand due to the pandemic, are able to respond function efficiently: this was underlined when a phone mast supplying voice and data traffic to a hospital built in response to the pandemic, in the UK’s Birmingham city, was reportedly set alight in April.The scale of the problem prompted the World Health Organisation (WHO), the UN agency which is leading the response to the pandemic, to add the 5G conspiracy to its Covid-19 myth busters article, which noted that “viruses cannot travel on radio waves/mobile networks. Covid-19 is spreading in many countries that do not have 5G mobile networks”.In a statement published in February, the WHO noted that “to date, and after much research performed, no adverse health effect has been causally linked with exposure to wireless technologies”.It also noted that “provided that the overall exposure remains below international guidelines, no consequences for public health are anticipated”.The ITU, the WHO and the UNICEF are working with telecommunication companies to text people directly on their mobile phones with vital health messaging to help protect them from Covid-19, reaching billions of people without internet access. The Global Education Coalition, an ITU/UNESCO initiative, is ensuring that learning never stops for the over 1.5 billion students and youths across the planet affected by school and university closures.The Global Network Resiliency Platform helps policy-makers, regulators and industry players ensure that networks are kept resilient and telecom services are available to as many people as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/theory-of-5g-spreading-covid-19-a-hoax-that-has-no-technical-basis-un-ict-agency/story-rOt6ilwi0ZFUPB7HcuWBaL.html
23-04-2020||World||North Korean capital sees ‘panic buying’ of food: Report||Consumers in North Korea’s capital this week have been “panic buying” food staples, causing some store shelves to empty, according to a news service that specializes in the country.The purchases may be due to stricter coronavirus measures on the way for Pyongyang and don’t appear related to reports this week that leader Kim Jong Un may be seriously ill, NK News reported, citing people who live in Pyongyang and were able to communicate outside the country. Shortages were initially limited to imported fruit and vegetables and then moved on to other goods, it said.Radio Free Asia also reported last week that the prices of food staples in North Korea were rising sharply because of panic buying.North Korea closed its borders in January when coronavirus cases in neighboring China began to skyrocket. Kim’s regime has said it has no confirmed infections from the virus but the US is “fairly certain” it has cases because of a noticeable lack of military activity, General Robert Abrams, commander of US Forces Korea, told reporters in a teleconference briefing in March.Food shortages are common in North Korea, which is one of the world’s poorest states. In the 1990s, a famine killed as much as 10% of the population, according to some estimates.The virus could make things worse. The United Nations’ World Food Program warned this week that economic hardship caused by the pandemic may lead to starvation in the developing world. The WFP, which has operations in North Korea, has said about 40% of the population is undernourished, adding “food insecurity and malnutrition are widespread.”Kim was conspicuously absent from birthday celebrations on April 15 of his grandfather and state founder Kim Il Sung. He has not been seen since a politburo meeting on April 11, raising speculation about his condition.The state-run Korean Central News Agency reported that Kim on Wednesday sent a message to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Letters of this sort are reported frequently.US officials said Monday they were told Kim was in critical condition after undergoing cardiovascular surgery last week and they were unsure of his current health. Meanwhile, South Korean President Moon Jae-in’s office said that Kim was conducting “normal activities” in a rural part of the country assisted by close aides and no special movements were detected.The health of North Korea’s leader is one of the most closely guarded secrets in the isolated state, known only to a few people in its inner circle. US President Donald Trump said Tuesday he doesn’t know about Kim’s health, adding that he might reach out to check on him.General John Hyten, the vice chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in Washington on Wednesday he couldn’t confirm or deny the reports, adding “I assume that Kim Jong-un is still in full control of the Korean nuclear forces and the Korean military forces. I have no reason not to assume that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korean-capital-sees-panic-buying-of-food-report/story-KWNkOANHgRsIP0PydRLtLK.html
23-04-2020||World||US signals growing unease with Pakistan, tightens export of nuclear byproducts||The United States has suspended the export of nuclear byproducts under a blanket general licensing system to Pakistan, whose history of nuclear proliferation has been a concern and has led to the blacklisting of many of its government agencies and private contractors.The decision announced in the government gazette called the Federal Register on Wednesday does not prohibit export of these nuclear materials — that are used as radionuclides embedded in devices — altogether, but make it mandatory for exporters to seek government’s permission every time and for every specific consignment. Also read: After proxy war in Kashmir, Pak launches cyber war against India and PM ModiRadionuclides are radioactive elements used widely, among other fields, in medicine and for irradiation of food. “The US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is issuing an Order suspending the general license authority under NRC regulations for exports of byproduct material to Pakistan,” said the announcement in the register. “Exporters are no longer authorized to use the general license to export byproduct material to Pakistan and now must apply for a specific license pursuant to NRC regulations.”It did not ascribe any specific reason other than that the Trump administration has determined that the suspension is “necessary to enhance the common defense and security of the United States and is consistent with the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act”.The order did not say so, but under relevant rules, a country’s proliferation record can be ground for cancellation of export license. “The Commission will closely monitor these countries and may at any time remove a country from a general license in response to significant adverse developments in the country involved,” says the code of federal regulations for the energy sector. “A key factor in this regard is the nonproliferation credentials of the importing country.”A response was awaited from the US Nuclear Regulator Commission (NRC) to a request for the reasons for the suspension.Also read: Optics aside, Pakistan and US ties are still fragile | Opinion The announcement came after President Donald Trump and Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan talked on phone about the coronavirus pandemic. Trump mentioned the call at the daily briefing of the White House task force but gave no details. It would not be ascertained if the nuclear export development figured in their discussion.Pakistan’s history of nuclear proliferation has been a major concern for the United States, as for the rest of the world. The nuclear black market established by AQ Khan, who built Pakistan’s nuclear bomb with stolen technology that he then passed on to Iran, Libya and North Korea, is thriving.The Trump administration has continued to pursue Pakistani government agencies, private contractors and fronts, who have sought to find a way around US rules and conditions, with unmitigated urgency and unchanged priority.The immediate trigger for Wednesday could not be ascertained. But Joshua White, a former top White House official for South Asia who first flagged the Federal Register announcement, said, “We can’t be certain what prompted this move by the NRC. It may have been undertaken in response to a series of technical violations or regulatory oversights, or it may be in response to broader US concerns related to Pakistan’s nuclear programs or non-proliferation commitments.”The US justice department indicted five Pakistani and Pakistani-descent men in January for using front companies to procure American goods for Advanced Engineering Research Organization and the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission, both Pakistani government agencies that are on the US “Entity List” of exporting destinations whose activities have been declared “contrary to US national security or foreign policy interests”.In 2018, seven Pakistani organizations were added to the US “Entity List”, a US commerce department blacklist of governments, government agencies, private companies and individuals viewed as a threat to US national security and the export of sensitive US material to whom are tightly controlled and are subject to specific government clearance.The Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, a non-partisan, and non-profit body that seeks to end proliferation by tightening export control regimes in source countries such as the United States, said in a report in September 2019, that since 2014, the US commerce department has added 40 Pakistani or Pakistani-related entities to that list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-signals-growing-unease-with-pakistan-tightens-export-of-nuclear-byproducts/story-TUqwuYUWCGJJ6kRSgN5ftJ.html
23-04-2020||World||Pompeo renews criticism of China over wildlife wet markets, calls for closure||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo hit out at Beijing again on Wednesday over the coronavirus outbreak and accused it of taking advantage of the pandemic to bully neighbors, even as he welcomed China’s provision of essential medical supplies. Pompeo told a news briefing that the United States “strongly believed” Beijing had failed to report the outbreak in a timely manner, in breach of World Health Organization rules, and had failed to report human-to-human transmission of the virus “for a month until it was in every province inside of China.”Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicPompeo also said China had halted testing of new virus samples, “destroyed existing samples” and failed to share samples with the outside world, “making it impossible to track the disease’s evolution.”The Trump administration has repeatedly criticized China’s handling of the coronavirus outbreak, which began late last year in the Chinese city of Wuhan and has grown into a global pandemic. The outbreak has killed around 180,000 people globally, including more than 45,000 in the United States, according to a Reuters tally. Even after Beijing notified the WHO of the outbreak, Pompeo said, “It did not share all of the information it had. Instead it covered up how dangerous the disease is.”President Donald Trump last week suspended U.S. funding of the WHO, accusing the U.N. agency of promoting China’s “disinformation” about the outbreak. WHO officials have denied this and China has said it has been transparent and open.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakPompeo said WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom failed to use his ability “to go public” when a member state failed to follow the rules. He said the WHO had an obligation to ensure safety standards were observed in virology labs in Wuhan and its director-general had “enormous authority with respect to nations that do not comply.” Pompeo repeated allegations that China was exploiting the world’s focus on the pandemic with “provocative behavior” to erode autonomy in Hong Kong, exert military pressure on Taiwan and coerce neighbors in the South China Sea.“The United States strongly opposes China’s bullying, we hope other nations will hold them to account,” he said. Pompeo also expressed concern over a U.S. government-funded study that said China’s Mekong River dams held back large volumes of water during a drought in downstream countries last year despite China having higher-than-average water levels upstream. Beijing has disputed the study’s findings. The Secretary of State spoke later on Wednesday with counterparts from the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and said the United States has called on China to close its wildlife wet markets permanently, citing links between the markets and zoonotic diseases, which can jump from animals to humans. The novel coronavirus is believed to have emerged in such a market in Wuhan late last year. While the Trump administration has stepped up criticism of China as the pandemic worsens, the crisis has exposed U.S. reliance on China for essential medical supplies.Asked about recent reports that supplies were being held up in China, Pompeo said: “The good news is we have seen China provide those resources; sometimes they’re from U.S. companies that are there in China, but we’ve had success. ... We appreciate that.“We are counting on China to continue to live up to its contractual obligations and international obligations to provide that assistance to us and to sell us those goods ... in a way consistent with all of the international trade rules.”White House adviser Peter Navarro, like Pompeo a persistent critic of Beijing, charged on Monday that China may be withholding data about early coronavirus infections because it wants to win the commercial race to create a vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pompeo-renews-criticism-of-china-over-wildlife-wet-markets-calls-for-closure/story-CePLMaDE0OkFkkpVgVx0gI.html
23-04-2020||World||26 US Navy ships reported confirmed Covid-19 cases onboard||There are 26 US Navy warships currently who have reported positive coronavirus cases onboard, while 14 other ships were also hit by the deadly virus but the crew members have who contracted the contagion have recovered, a senior Navy official told CNN on Wednesday.The 26 ships with current cases are in port or maintenance yards, the official stressed.The Navy is not releasing the names of the individual ships impacted or the exact number of cases because Defense Department policy states that it would risk operational security if the details became public.There are currently 90 ships at sea with no reported cases and the Navy currently has 297 active duty warships.As of Wednesday morning, 3,578 US service members have tested positive for the virus, including two deaths. Nearly 800 of those cases have come from the outbreak aboard the USS Theodore Roosevelt aircraft carrier where one sailor also died.More than 4,000 sailors on the Roosevelt had been moved ashore and were scheduled to begin returning to the ship this coming weekend after finishing a 14-day isolation period but that process has been paused because 120 previously asymptomatic sailors tested positive.As a result the Navy has decided to keep all personnel already ashore in place until it can learn more about how the virus remains active in an asymptomatic person.In a message to his forces obtained by CNN, Pacific Fleet commander, Admiral John Aquilino directed the halting of the release of crew members from “isolation and quarantine” over concerns some may test positive after being released. He added that “that this will delay progress” towards “deploying units” and emphasized “we must take this action to ensure we get underway with healthy crews.”The Roosevelt’s commander Capt. Brett Crozier was fired earlier this month for what the then acting Navy Secretary Thomas Modly said was poor judgment for too widely disseminating a warning about the spread of virus aboard his vessel, a warning that eventually made its way into the press.Modly resigned days later over his handling of the incident, actions which included a $240,000 trip to Guam where he slammed Crozier and admonished sailors for giving him a rousing send off in public remarks to the crew.Last week the Navy and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention launched an investigation into the outbreak aboard the Roosevelt.That inquiry will look to establish the origin of the outbreak and understand how it spread rapidly on board the ship.The results of a separate Navy investigation into the circumstances of Crozier’s memo is expected soon and it is possible he could be reinstated.“This is a stealthy virus in many ways and this outbreak investigation is an important medical weapon to understand its behaviour so that we can better protect the crew, their shipmates on other vessels and ultimately the nation,” Rear Adm. Bruce Gillingham, US Navy Surgeon General said on Friday.To carry out the investigation, crew members are being asked on a voluntary basis to complete a survey and provide two new specimens -- blood and nasal swabs -- for laboratory testing, according to the Navy. It hopes to get 1,000 volunteers which is what it believes is needed for representative sampling. (This story has been published from a wire agency feed without modifications to the text. Only the headline has been changed.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/26-us-navy-ships-reported-confirmed-covid-19-cases-onboard/story-namzqBeHTc0t90qiNppeeM.html
23-04-2020||World||‘Felt like I was dying’: Wuhan man tests positive after testing negative thrice||Trader He Ximing in the Chinese city of Wuhan says he has no idea how or where he caught the coronavirus or why repeated nucleic acid tests showed he didn’t have it.He was not a coronavirus patient, doctors told him, even though he had been having difficulty breathing with what he described as smothering chest congestion from early February.But his condition worried the authorities enough to get him sent to a quarantine centre. Still, he did not challenge the three negative tests at the time. After all, his wife did not fall sick. But he could not shake off the nagging suspicion that he had the coronavirus and in late March went to a hospital in Wuhan for more tests, including one for antibodies.This time he tested positive.“I didn’t expect it,” the 52-year-old vegetable seller said as he showed Reuters a copy of his test results - positive for antibodies showing exposure to the coronavirus.Finally, at least, he had an explanation for why he felt so terrible. “I felt like I was dying. You can’t imagine how it feels.”His case is not unique. Similar instances in China and elsewhere have compounded concern over the accuracy of coronavirus testing, even as authorities push for testing as key to handling the crisis.Unreliable testing could undermine strategies not just for stopping the virus but for opening up locked-down economies, as pressure grows on governments around the world to ease restrictions.More than 2.5 million people have been infected with the coronavirus globally and about 177,000 have died, according to a Reuters tally.Wuhan, where the new coronavirus emerged late last year, has recorded 50,333 cases and 3,869 deaths as of April 21, accounting for the majority of China’s cases.Nucleic acid testing, on samples swabbed from the back of a patient’s throat or respiratory tract, for the virus’ genome, is the main way cases are detected.The test is not easy to administer and, experts say, and mistakes do happen, such as if too small a sample is taken or if the swab misses a virus-hit spot. “The limitations of these tests need to be recognised, and the need to run regular tests if we want assurance that someone is truly negative, and that they remain so over a period of time,” said Andrew Preston, a lecturer in microbial pathogenesis at the University of Bath.TESTING TIMESThere is little consensus on what proportion of nucleic acid tests yield false negatives.A survey by Chinese doctors in February looking at samples from 213 patients suggested a false-negative rate of about 30%.Media has also reported cases of people testing negative repeatedly before finally getting a positive result.In February, the People’s Daily newspaper reported on a woman who had fallen ill with pneumonia but tested negative for the coronavirus four times. A fifth test was positive. Wuhan authorities have started testing residents for antibodies. China is conducting an epidemiological survey in nine regions in an effort to determine the full extent of asymptomatic infections and immunity levels. He said he first got tested on March 1 when his chest congestion worsened though he had no fever or cough.X-rays showed his lungs had white blotches, similar to those found in coronavirus patients, but his nucleic acid test was not positive so a hospital declined to admit him. As a precaution, a committee that manages his housing compound put him in quarantine for 14 days.Later, two more hospital tests came back negative so he turned to traditional Chinese medicine and other drugs.Finally, on March 28, he took a fourth nucleic acid test, which was again negative, but he was also tested for antibodies and got confirmation.“I told my story to a doctor and he said ‘you’re so lucky you didn’t die’,” he said in his apartment, where boxes of various medicines were scattered about.His wife, who he lives alone with, has shown no coronavirus symptoms though she has not been tested.He said he believed he was immune and not infectious, though he’s taking no chances and wears an N95 mask and a face shield when going out.“If there’s any possibility that I’ll infect others, I’ll harm them,” he said. “That’s why I’m taking these precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/felt-like-i-was-dying-wuhan-man-tests-positive-after-testing-negative-thrice/story-qq3pOnQ5IkitlIRYqlaBAJ.html
23-04-2020||World||China’s asymptomatic Covid-19 cases mount to 984 with 27 new infections||China has reported 27 new asymptomatic coronavirus cases, taking their total to 984, while a high-level committee headed by Premier Li Keqiang asked health officials to remain focussed on the targeted containment of the deadly virus.Asymptomatic cases refer to people who are tested Covid-19 positive but develop no symptoms such as fever, cough or sore throat. However, they pose a risk of spreading the disease to others. Besides the 27 asymptomatic patients, 10 new confirmed Covid cases, including six from Chinese returning from abroad, were reported in the country on Wednesday. The four other patients -- three from Heilongjiang province bordering Russia and one in Guangdong province -- were domestically transmitted, China’s National Health Commission (NHC) said on Thursday.No death was reported on Wednesday, the NHC said.As of Wednesday, the overall confirmed Covid-19 cases in China increased to 82,798, including 4,632 fatalities and 1,616 imported cases, it said. Of the total imported cases, 37 are in critical condition, the NHC said. But more concerning factor for the Chinese authorities is the steady increase of asymptomatic cases among locals. The 27 new asymptomatic cases, including one from abroad, were reported on the mainland, the NHC said, adding that 984 such asymptomatic patients, including 166 from abroad, were still under medical observation.In a meeting on Wednesday, the Central Leading Group headed by Premier Li said considering the new circumstances and challenges at home and abroad, health official should stay focussed on targeted containment and detecting and reinforcing areas of weakness to forestall any resurgence of infection.The Central Leading Group is supervising the Covid-19 containment efforts since January.The meeting noted the recent occurrence of case clusters and cross infections in hospitals in a few Chinese cities, an official press release here said. It directed competent authorities to promptly send a working group consisting of disease control and medical experts to cities concerned to supervise local efforts in ascertaining causes and releasing information.The meeting also called for all-round progress in restarting work and full-capacity production and restoring normal life and work on the basis of regularized containment measures. Meanwhile, as of Wednesday, 1,033 confirmed cases, including four deaths, were reported in Hong Kong. Macao registered 45 Covid-19 cases and Taiwan 426, including six fatalities. A total of 678 patients in Hong Kong, 26 in Macao and 236 in Taiwan have been recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-s-asymptomatic-covid-19-cases-mount-to-984-with-27-new-infections/story-DuNDBVzPylcpCg11eWmfgL.html
23-04-2020||World||Japan’s Tepco weighs options over projected tsunami threat to Fukushima plant||Tokyo Electric Power Co (Tepco) is assessing a government report that highlights the threat of another tsunami overwhelming its wrecked Fukushima nuclear station, the company said on Wednesday.Tepco is trying to clean up the site of its Fukushima Daiichi plant, hit by a massive earthquake and tsunami in 2011, an effort expected to last decades as it looks to build defences against another disaster.The latest government projection suggests an 11-metre (36-ft) seawall planned by Tepco engineers could be overwhelmed if tsunami waves taller than 20 metres (66 ft) are unleashed by a quake of magnitude 9 or more, broadcaster NHK has said.“Tepco will examine the latest projections and analyse the impact on the ongoing preventive measures against tsunamis that the company has been taking,” a spokesman told Reuters by telephone.The earthquake that struck off Japan’s east coast in March 2011 had a magnitude of nine, spawning a tsunami that led to the meltdown of three reactors at Fukushima, where Tepco continues to struggle to curb release of radioactive material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-s-tepco-weighs-options-over-projected-tsunami-threat-to-fukushima-plant/story-CQMF0qo1B6v7EdaGXQMl7K.html
23-04-2020||World||Thick blood clots in kidneys, lungs and brains of Covid-19 patients scare doctors||As the novel coronavirus spread through New York City in late March, doctors at Mount Sinai Hospital noticed something strange happening to patients’ blood.     Signs of blood thickening and clotting were being detected in different organs by doctors from different specialties. This would turn out to be one of the alarming ways the virus ravages the body, as doctors there and elsewhere were starting to realize.At Mount Sinai, nephrologists noticed kidney dialysis catheters getting plugged with clots. Pulmonologists monitoring COVID-19 patients on mechanical ventilators could see portions of lungs were oddly bloodless. Neurosurgeons confronted a surge in their usual caseload of strokes due to blood clots, the age of victims skewing younger, with at least half testing positive for the virus. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“It’s very striking how much this disease causes clots to form,” Dr. J Mocco, a Mount Sinai neurosurgeon, said in an interview, describing how some doctors think COVID-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus, is more than a lung disease. In some cases, Mocco said, a stroke was a young patient’s first symptom of COVID-19. As colleagues from various specialties pooled their observations, they developed a new treatment protocol. Patients now receive high doses of a blood-thinning drug even before any evidence of clotting appears. “Maybe, just maybe, if you prevent the clotting, you can make the disease less severe,” said Dr. David Reich, the hospital president. The new protocol will not be used on certain high-risk patients because blood thinners can lead to bleeding in the brain and other organs.“FUNNY YOU MENTIONED THAT”In the three weeks beginning mid-March, Mocco saw 32 stroke patients with large blood blockages in the brain, double the usual number for that period.Five were unusually young, under age 49, with no obvious risk factors for strokes, “which is crazy,” he said. “Very, very atypical.” The youngest was only 31. At least half of the 32 patients would test positive for COVID-19, Mocco said.Meanwhile, Dr. Hooman Poor, a Mount Sinai lung specialist, found himself working a late shift with 14 patients on ventilators. The ventilator readings were not what he expected. Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThe lungs did not seem stiff, as is common in pneumonia. Instead, it seemed blood was not circulating freely through the lungs to be aerated with each breath.    Poor ran into a kidney doctor that night, who remarked that dialysis catheters were often getting blocked with clots.     “And I said, ‘It’s funny that you mentioned that because I feel like all these patients have blood clots in their lungs,’“ Poor recalled.     Reich, the hospital president, told Poor about the surge in strokes seen by Mocco and said the two doctors should team up, setting off days of discussions and meetings with the hospital’s department heads.    At 2:46 a.m. on Easter Sunday, Poor sent Mocco his first draft of what would become the new treatment protocol. DOCTORS SHARE FINDINGS     As their wards began to overflow with COVID-19 patients, the Mount Sinai doctors read papers describing similar findings from doctors in China’s Hubei province and other hard-hit areas, and discussed them with their peers in phone calls and webinars.Mocco called neurosurgeons he knows elsewhere in the country. At Philadelphia’s Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, Dr. Pascal Jabbour had begun to see a similar surge in strokes among people with COVID-19. The way his patients’ blood congealed reminded him of congenital conditions such as lupus, or certain cancers.“I’ve never seen any other viruses causing that,” Jabbour said.In Boston, the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center began a clinical trial earlier this month to see if tPA, an anti-clotting drug, could help severely sick COVID-19 patients.    Clotting can develop in anyone who gets very sick and spends long periods of time immobile on a ventilator, but doctors say the problem seemed to show up sooner in COVID-19 patients as a more direct consequence of the virus.    At Mount Sinai, patients in intensive care often receive the blood-thinning agent heparin in weaker prophylactic doses. Under the new protocol, higher doses of heparin normally used to dissolve clots will be given to patients before any clots are detected. The treatment joins a growing toolbox at the hospital, where some patients are receiving the antibody-rich plasma of recovered COVID-19 patients or experimental antiviral drugs.    The American Society of Hematology, which has also noted the clotting, says in its guidance to physicians that the benefits of the blood-thinning therapy for COVID-19 patients not already showing signs of clotting are “currently unknown.”     “I certainly wouldn’t expect harps to play and angels to sing and people to just rip out their intravenous lines and waltz out of the hospital,” said Reich. “It’s likely going to be something where it just moderates the extent of the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/doctors-in-us-say-covid-19-causes-thick-clots-in-lungs-kidneys-and-brain/story-IZflqLbmN7g8zDEukM5HbI.html
23-04-2020||World||Coronavirus update- ‘Wasn’t just a flu, US was attacked’: Donald Trump amid struggle to restore normalcy||Struggling to restore normalcy in the US where Covid-19 has claimed the lives of more than 47,000 people and infected over 8,52,000, President Donald Trump has said that the country was “attacked”.“We were attacked. This was an attack. This wasn’t just the flu by the way. Nobody has ever seen anything like this, 1917 was the last time,” Trump told reporters at his daily White House news conference on Wednesday.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here He was responding to a question about the growing US national debt as a result of the multi-trillion dollars stimulus packages that his administration has come up with to help people and businesses in distress as a direct fallout of the pandemic.“We have no choice. Do we have a choice? I’m always concerned about everything. We had to fix this problem,” he said. “We had the greatest economy in the history of the world... Better than China, better than any place,” he said.“We built it in the last three years and then one day, they came and they said you have to close it. Now, we’re going to open it again and we’re going to be just as strong or stronger but you have to spend some money to get it back open,” he said. “We saved our airlines. We saved numerous companies that are great companies that two months ago were having the best year they’ve ever had. Now all of a sudden, they’re totally shut out of markets,” he added.Also read: Trump signs ‘very powerful order’, suspends issue of new green cards for 60 daysTrump said the number of new positive cases continue to decline nationwide.“Recent hotspots appear to be stabilising. They are going in the right direction. Cases in the Boston area are now declining. The Chicago curve appears to have flattened, which is terrific... Detroit has passed its peak,” he said.“These trends demonstrate that our aggressive strategy to battle the virus is working and that more states will soon be in a position to gradually and safely reopen. That’s very exciting,” he asserted. Trump said that his administration is working closely with governors to ensure that they have the testing infrastructure in place to reduce further spread of the virus if they’re so inclined to use the testing apparatus, including strategies for older individuals, low income Americans, minorities, and Native Americans. “I’ll not rest until that prosperity has been fully restored. I really believe that we’re going to lift those numbers higher than ever before, and it will be as long as people might think,” he said.“A lot of very smart people are looking at that and they’re betting. You just have to look at what’s going on with the stock market,” he added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage  The administration so far has directed more than $7 billion in federal funding to support the development of treatments, diagnostics, and therapies. The FDA, the NIH, and industry leaders are establishing master clinical trial protocols to test multiple promising new drugs at the same time. More than 1600 locations across the country have signed up to administer convalescent plasma to patients, infusing them with antibodies of those who have recovered, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-wasn-t-just-a-flu-us-was-attacked-donald-trump-amid-struggle-to-restore-normalcy/story-ZzS9G8FAilTVFAOqIMOyvK.html
23-04-2020||World||Covid-19 update: WHO chief brushes off resignation calls, appeals for US aid to ‘save lives’||The World Health Organization chief has said that he hopes the United States will reconsider its freeze in funding for his agency and vowed to keep working on “saving lives” despite calls from some US lawmakers for his resignation.WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he hopes the US believes the agency is “an important investment, not just to help others, but for the US to stay safe” amid the pandemic. President Donald Trump last week announced a temporary halt to US funding for the UN agency, alleging a WHO cover-up and missteps handling the outbreak.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The US is the Geneva-based agency’s biggest donor, providing hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of support each year. In Washington, officials said on Wednesday the halt involved new funding for the WHO, and was expected to continue for 60 to 90 days. A group of Republican lawmakers in the House of Representatives last week suggested that Trump should condition any voluntary US contributions to the WHO this year on Tedros’ resignation. Asked about whether he was considering that, Tedros said: “I will continue to work day and night because this is a blessed work, actually, and responsibility saving lives, and I will focus on that.” Dr. Mike Ryan, the WHO’s emergencies chief, said the US pause would impact core agency activities like child immunizations, efforts to eradicate polio, and “essential health services and trauma management in some of the most vulnerable populations in the world.” “I very much hope that ... this is a 60-day stay on funding,” and no more, he said. “That’s why you don’t see me complaining, because we just need to get on with it.” ‘Click here for complete coronavirus coverage At a news conference in Washington on Wednesday, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced a new tranche of US assistance to specific countries, bringing the total of virus aid this year to more than USD 700 million. Other US officials said the suspended money for the WHO would be used for the same purpose, just distributed to individual groups — eliminating the agency as a conduit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-who-chief-brushes-off-resignation-calls-appeals-for-us-aid-to-save-lives/story-HkDBBZRkiE0rnkHu6XzCiL.html
23-04-2020||World||2 cats in New York become first US pets to test positive for virus||Two pet cats in New York state have tested positive for the coronavirus, marking the first confirmed cases in companion animals in the United States, federal officials said Wednesday.The cats, which had mild respiratory illnesses and are expected to recover, are thought to have contracted the virus from people in their households or neighborhoods, the US Department of Agriculture and the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said.The finding, which comes after positive tests in some tigers and lions at the Bronx Zoo, adds to a small number of confirmed cases of the virus in animals worldwide.US authorities, including the nation’s top infectious disease expert, Dr. Anthony Fauci, say that while it appears some animals can get the virus from people, there’s no indication pets are transmitting it to human beings.“Now, obviously, is that impossible? I mean, biologically, no, anything is possible,” Fauci said. “But there’s no evidence whatsoever that we’ve seen from an epidemiological standpoint that pets can be transmitters within a household.”Dr. Casey Barton Behravesh, a CDC official who works on human-animal health connections, stressed that there’s no need for pet owners to panic, or rush to test their animals.“We don’t want people to be afraid of pets,” Barton Behravesh said. “There’s no evidence that pets are playing a role in spreading this disease to people.”Still, the CDC is recommending that people prevent their pets from interacting with people or animals outside their homes -- by keeping cats indoors and dogs out of dog parks, for instance.Coronavirus testing for pets isn’t recommended unless an animal has been exposed to a person with Covid-19 and the animal has symptoms of the disease — and tests have ruled out more common possible causes, said Dr. Jane Rooney of the USDA. Veterinarians who think testing is warranted are supposed to contact state officials to decide.Barton Behravesh said the animal tests are done at veterinary labs and use different chemicals than human tests, which have been in short supply during the crisis.The American Veterinary Medical Association says pets can stay in homes where a person has Covid-19, so long as the animal can be cared for.“In this emergency, pets and people each need the support of the other,” the group said in a statement Wednesday.For most people, the coronavirus causes mild or moderate symptoms, such as a fever and cough that clear up in two to three weeks. For some, especially older adults and people, it can cause more severe illness, including pneumonia, and can be fatal.Scientists studying the virus have been looking closely at links between human and animals. While a consensus is still evolving, the leading theory is that infection among humans began at an animal market in China, probably from an animal that got the virus from a bat.Scientists are working to understand the potential for transmission to animals in homes, farms and elsewhere. So far, it doesn’t appear that livestock or poultry are susceptible, Rooney said.The two cats live in different parts of the state; the USDA and CDC wouldn’t say where specifically.The first cat fell ill about a week after a person in its household had a short respiratory illness, though the person’s ailment wasn’t confirmed to be Covid-19, Barton Behravesh said. The animal goes outdoors at times and might have come into contact with an infected person in the area, she said.The second cat’s owner tested positive for Covid-19 before the cat became sick, officials said. Another cat in the same home hasn’t shown any signs of illness.The cats’ symptoms included coughing and slightly runny noses, officials said.The agencies have recommended that any pet owners with Covid-19 avoid petting, snuggling or other contact with their animals as much as possible, including wearing a face covering while caring for them.There have been a handful of reports outside the U.S. of pet dogs or cats becoming infected after close contact with contagious people, including a Hong Kong dog that tested positive for a low level of the pathogen in February and early March. Hong Kong agriculture authorities concluded that pet dogs and cats couldn’t pass the virus to human beings but could test positive if exposed by their owners.A tiger at the Bronx Zoo had what was believed to be the first confirmed coronavirus case in an animal in the U.S. or a tiger anywhere. The 4-year-old Malayan tiger, named Nadia, was tested after starting to showing signs of illness on March 27, 11 days after the zoo closed to the public because of the virus.Three other tigers and three lions later showed symptoms. Tests subsequently confirmed they all had the virus, as did another tiger that shares their exhibit but didn’t show any signs of illness, the zoo said Wednesday.All the affected cats are doing well, with good appetites and much less coughing, the zoo said.Zoo officials said they believe the animals were exposed by a keeper who had the virus but wasn’t showing symptoms at the time. Staffers who work with the cats have since started wearing infection-protection garb.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-cats-in-new-york-become-first-us-pets-to-test-positive-for-virus/story-sX7SXLJkEkNdIlZpEvcp6N.html
23-04-2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine trial set to begin in UK; scientist says 80% chance of success||The race to develop an effective vaccine against the novel coronavirus gathered pace this week, as clinical trials on humans were approved in Germany and launched in the UK.Though there are now around 150 development projects worldwide, the German and British plans are among only five clinical trials on humans which have been approved across the globe.In Britain, volunteers in a trial at the University of Oxford are set to be given on Thursday the first dose of a potential vaccine based on a virus found in chimpanzees.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Meanwhile on Wednesday, German regulatory body PEI green-lighted the country’s first trials on human volunteers for a vaccine developed by German firm Biontech and US giant Pfizer.The Oxford trial, run by the university’s Jenner Institute, will involve 510 volunteers aged between 18 and 55 in the first phase. Research director Professor Sarah Gilbert estimated that it has around an 80 percent chance of being successful. The institute aims to develop a million doses of the vaccine by September, so as to distribute it as quickly as possible after approval. The Oxford trial is part of a nationwide effort in the UK which since Friday has been spearheaded by a government taskforce. Also read: Covid-19 deaths could be much higher than known, say reportsIn Germany, meanwhile, the PEI said its approval of the Biontech trial marked a “significant step” in making a vaccine “available as soon as possible”.In the first phase, it will see “200 healthy volunteers aged between 18 and 55 years” vaccinated with variants of the vaccine, while the second phase could see the inclusion of volunteers who belonged to high-risk groups. On Wednesday, Biontech CEO Ugur Sahin told a press conference that tests would begin “at the end of April”.He added that the firm expected to have collected first data by “the end of June or beginning of July”. Biontech also said that they and Pfizer hoped to gain regulatory approval soon to test the same vaccine candidate in the US. The PEI meanwhile claimed that “further clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccine candidates will start in Germany in the next few months”.‘Normalcy’There are currently no approved vaccines or medication for the COVID-19 disease, which has killed more than 170,000 people worldwide and infected more than two million.Experts estimate that it will take at least 12 to 18 months to develop a new vaccine. Last week, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said a vaccine was the only thing to return “normalcy” to the world, and called for development projects to be accelerated.A UN resolution adopted on Monday, meanwhile, called for “equitable, efficient and timely” access to any vaccine that might be developed.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayAside from Biontech and Oxford, three other clinical trials on humans have been approved worldwide since mid-March, with Chinese and US developers among the first to move. Beijing approved the first trial for a vaccine developed by the military-backed Academy of Military Medical Sciences and Hong Kong-listed biotech firm CanSino Bio on March 16.That day the US drug developer Moderna said it had begun human tests for their vaccine with the US National Institutes of Health.Another US lab, San Diego-based Inovio Pharmaceuticals, began first phase human trials on April 6.Yet while Biontech hailed what it called a “global development program” on Wednesday, the search for a vaccine has also been a cause of friction between countries. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Last month a newspaper report alleged that the US had attempted to buy exclusive rights to vaccine research being carried out by CureVac, another German firm. Though CureVac and US officials dismissed it as unfounded, the newspaper report caused outrage in Berlin, and prompted Economy Minister Peter Altmaier to declare that “Germany is not for sale”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-vaccine-trial-set-to-begin-in-uk-scientist-says-80-chance-of-success/story-nySPwDtoDXbtwmnyQUIaSI.html
23-04-2020||World||Trump ‘disagrees strongly’ with Georgia’s plan to reopen||President Donald Trump said Wednesday that he “disagreed strongly” with the decision by Georgia’s Republican governor to reopen salons, gyms and other nonessential businesses later this week, saying, “It’s just too soon.”Trump’s comments at a daily White House briefing marked an abrupt shift in tone. Just last week, the president urged his supporters on Twitter to protest against statewide closures in three Democratic-led states — at the same time that mostly Republican governors like Brian Kemp were taking steps to lift stay-at-home restrictions.Kemp announced earlier this week that as of Friday, elective medical procedures could resume in Georgia, and that barbershops, nail salons and gyms could reopen with restrictions. Limited in-restaurant dining is scheduled to resume on Monday.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe announcement immediately prompted pushback by Atlanta’s Democratic mayor, other political opponents and health experts who warned that the state has not yet taken the steps recommended under federal guidelines to reopen the economy safely.Georgia ranks in the bottom 10 U.S. states in per capita testing for the coronavirus. Officials are struggling to increase testing for new infections and boost tracking of those in contact with infected people. If that isn’t done, health officials said, the state risks a quick rebound of COVID-19.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“The virus moves faster than government does,” said Dr. Jennifer Nuzzo, an epidemiologist at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. “So if I had to bet on who would come out of the gate faster, it would be the virus.”Trump has been stressing the importance of reopening states sooner than later to get the US economy back on track and his administration recently announced a three-phase plan for making that happen. He also had health experts working with his administration present a lengthy briefing last week to show that states would have the testing capacity necessary to track and contain infections and start lifting restrictions.But on Wednesday, he said he told Kemp that he had misgivings over the governor’s plan to reopen quickly. He also said that he would not stand in his way.“I want him to do what he thinks is right,” Trump said. “But I disagree with him on what he’s doing. ... I think (opening) spas and beauty salons and tattoo parlors and barbershops in phase one ... it’s just too soon.”Kemp responded in a tweet Wednesday night that he appreciated Trump’s guidance but would move forward with his plan.“Our next measured step is driven by data and guided by state public health officials,” the governor said. “I am confident that business owners who decide to reopen will adhere to minimum basic operations, which prioritize the health and well-being of employees and customers.”Trump’s reopening guidelines recommend 14 days of declining new infections before moving to the reopening phase that Kemp has called for. That means testing health care workers and people showing symptoms, as well as screening others not showing symptoms.The number of tests administered in Georgia had plateaued between 3,500 to 4,000 a day. However, on Wednesday, the state reported almost 6,000 tests over 24 hours, with Kemp saying on a conference call with Republican US Sen. Kelly Loeffler that Georgia was “really ramping up” its capacity.State Public Health Commissioner Kathleen Toomey said the state will expand its ability to “aggressively” trace the contacts of infected people.“This is the way we’re going to keep spread from occurring, even as we begin to gradually open up the state,” Toomey said.As of Wednesday, more than 21,000 people in Georgia had been infected with the virus and more than 840 had died, according to the state Department of Public Health.Sean Bear, an epidemiologist with the department’s eight-county district that includes Savannah, said intensive contact tracing has likely helped slow infections in his region. Bear said the coastal district kept tracking contacts, unlike areas where rising caseloads forced officials to largely stop.The state hasn’t said how many people are tracing contacts now, how many it seeks, or how quickly the state’s 18 public health districts can ramp up.Toomey and Kemp said the state will use a cellphone app to track infected people, and ask those people to voluntarily share cellphone data so that the state can find other contacts.In announcing his reopening plan, Kemp remarked, “There are a lot of people that are hurting really bad right now on the financial end of things — our hard-working Georgians. And we’re trying to do all we can to allow them to start moving back into the work force in a limited and safe way.”Many businesses and workers are holding back for fear of illness.Dewond Brown, 42, was laid off in March from an Atlanta-area restaurant as a line cook making $16.40 hourly.Worried about his high blood pressure, he said he wouldn’t go back if his employer reopened. He said he would want to know coworkers tested negative and see a sharp drop in new cases.“I understand everybody wants to get back to normal, but you hear the medical people say everyday it’s not time yet,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-disagrees-strongly-with-georgia-s-plan-to-reopen/story-4Hm7kAiesbmX29kHuZmDkL.html
23-04-2020||World||Trump tells Navy to destroy Iranian gunboats if they ‘harass’ American ships||President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he had instructed the U.S. Navy to fire on any Iranian ships that harass it at sea, but said later he was not changing the military’s rules of engagement.Close interactions with Iranian military vessels were not uncommon in 2016 and 2017. On several occasions, U.S. Navy ships fired warning shots at Iranian vessels when they got too close.“I have instructed the United States Navy to shoot down and destroy any and all Iranian gunboats if they harass our ships at sea,” Trump wrote in a tweet, hours after Iran’s Revolutionary Guards Corps said it had launched the country’s first military satellite into orbit.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicWhile the Navy has the authority to act in self-defense, Trump’s comments appeared to go further and were likely to stoke tensions between Iran and the United States.In a briefing at the White House later on Wednesday, Trump said the military would not be changing its rules of engagement.“We’re covered, we’re covered 100 percent,” Trump saidSenior Pentagon officials said that Trump’s comments on Iran were meant as a warning to Tehran, but suggested that the U.S. military would continue to abide by its existing right to self-defense instead of any changes to its rules.“The president issued an important warning to the Iranians, what he was emphasizing is all of our ships retain the right of self-defense,” Deputy Secretary of Defense David Norquist told reporters at the Pentagon.The United States should focus on saving its military from the coronavirus, an Iranian armed forces spokesman said on Wednesday.Earlier this month, the U.S. military said 11 vessels from the IRGCN came close to U.S. Navy and Coast Guard ships in the Gulf, calling the moves “dangerous and provocative.”At one point, the Iranian vessels came within 10 yards (9 m) of the U.S. Coast Guard cutter Maui.While such interactions at sea occurred occasionally a few years ago, they had stopped recently.Tensions between Iran and the United States increased earlier this year after the United States killed Qassem Soleimani, the head of Iran’s elite Quds Force, in a drone strike in Iraq.Iran retaliated on Jan. 8 with a rocket attack on Iraq’s Ain al-Asad base where U.S. forces were stationed. No U.S. troops were killed or faced immediate bodily injury, but more than 100 were later diagnosed with traumatic brain injury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-tells-navy-to-destroy-iranian-gunboats-if-they-harass-american-ships/story-I1BPGV9eh5vRRsZPRWM4OM.html
23-04-2020||World||Trump signs ‘very powerful order’, suspends issue of new green cards for 60 days||US President Donald Trump has signed an executive order pausing immigration for 60 days to protect the jobs of Americans laid off due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The temporary suspension of immigration will affect those who are legally seeking entry into the United States for employment purposes but not the ones who are already living in the country, the order said.Describing it as “a very powerful order” Trump told reporters during his daily news briefing at the White House on Wednesday that he signed the order before coming for the press briefing. “By pausing immigration, we’ll help put unemployed Americans first in line for jobs as America reopens. It would be wrong and unjust for Americans laid off by the virus to be replaced with new immigrant labour flown in from abroad,” he said.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe executive order, a copy of which was released by the White House, said the new provisions apply to foreign nationals outside the US who do not have an immigrant visa that is valid on the effective date of proclamation.It also applies to those foreign nationals who do not have an official travel document other than a visa that is valid on the effective date of proclamation or issued on any date thereafter that permits him or her to travel to the US and seek entry or admission. The suspension, the executive order said, does not apply to those foreign nationals already inside the country on a green card. It provides exemptions to healthcare workers, or seeking to enter the US as a legal permanent resident under investment category.Spouses of a US citizen, 21 years and younger kids of American nationals, or those who are under the process of being adopted are also exempted from this temporary suspension of immigration.Also read| Covid deaths could be much higher than known: ReportsTrump said he was determined that, without this measure, the US faces a potentially protracted economic recovery with persistently high unemployment if labour supply outpaces labour demand. “Excess labour supply affects all workers and potential workers, but it is particularly harmful to workers at the margin between employment and unemployment, who are typically ‘last in’ during an economic expansion and ‘first out’ during an economic contraction,” he said in his executive order.“In recent years, these workers have been disproportionately represented by historically disadvantaged groups, including African Americans and other minorities, those without a college degree, and the disabled.These are the workers who, at the margin between employment and unemployment, are likely to bear the burden of excess labour supply disproportionately,” he said. The White House in a statement said that this is a temporary pause demanded by the crisis being faced as a nation. “The pause will be in effect for 60 days, and the administration will continue to monitor the labour market to amend or extend the proclamation if needed,” it said. “There will be exemptions for medical and other essential workers to combat the outbreak, spouses and minor children of American citizens, and certain other aliens,” it said.Trump is also asking his administration to review guest worker programmes to assess whether additional measures should be taken to protect American workers. The White House further said that mass migration of low-skilled labour into the US disproportionately harms historically disadvantaged Americans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-signs-executive-order-temporarily-suspending-immigration-into-us/story-ZvmaJBXJTtJLuLCNhAxw9N.html
23-04-2020||World||World could face many famines of biblical proportions: UN||The head of the UN food agency has warned that, as the world is dealing with the coronavirus pandemic, it is also “on the brink of a hunger pandemic” that could lead to “multiple famines of biblical proportions” within a few months if immediate action isn’t taken.World Food Programme executive director David Beasley told the UN Security Council on Tuesday that even before Covid-19 became an issue, he was telling world leaders that “2020 would be facing the worst humanitarian crisis since World War II”. That’s because of wars in Syria, Yemen and elsewhere, locust swarms in Africa, frequent natural disasters and economic crises including in Lebanon, Congo, Sudan and Ethiopia, he said. Beasley said 821 million people go to bed hungry every night all over the world today, and a new WFP analysis shows that as a result of Covid-19, an additional 130 mn people “could be pushed to the brink of starvation by the end of 2020.”He said WFP is providing food to nearly 100 mn people on any given day, including “about 30 mn people who literally depend on us to stay alive”. Beasley, who is himself recovering from Covid-19, said if those 30mn people can’t be reached, “our analysis shows that 300,000 people could starve to death every single day over a three-month period” - and that doesn’t include increased starvation due to the coronavirus pandemic.“In a worst-case scenario, we could be looking at famine in about three dozen countries, and in fact, in 10 of these countries we already have more than one million people per country who are on the verge of starvation.” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-could-face-many-famines-of-biblical-proportions-un/story-6appZ3W8mb9GKvS5uHWo5J.html
23-04-2020||World||Drug touted by US president has no benefit, warn experts||A panel of experts called by US government’s top agency on infectious diseases on Tuesday recommended against the use of a combination of an antimalarial drug and an antibiotic that US President Donald Trump has been touting as a potential “game-changer” in the hunt for a treatment for Covid-19.The experts’ panel said in guidelines for treatment that except for the purposes of clinical trials, it “recommends against” the use of the antimalarial drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) plus Azithromycin, an antibiotic, “because of the potential for toxicities”.But the US body left open the use of HCQ or another version of it, chloroquine, saying there is insufficient data to recommend for or against their use. The panel warned clinicians that if they did administer HCQ or chloroquine, they should “monitor the patient for adverse effect”.Also, an analysis published on Tuesday on the use of HCQ to treat coronavirus patients in US Veteran Affairs hospitals showed no benefits and caused more deaths. Researchers and experts have said the study was not rigorous enough and more data is required.The panel of experts that issued the guidelines was convened by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, a federal agency headed by Anthony Fauci, a member of Trump’s White House task force on the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/drug-touted-by-us-president-has-no-benefit-warn-experts/story-iY8y6ZN0b9NEHD8IUFG1zL.html
23-04-2020||World||Covid deaths could be much higher than known: Reports||There may be tens of thousands of more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic around the world than currently established, according to reports by the New York Times and the Financial Times that analysed cumulative mortality figures.The estimation is based on the “all cause excess mortality”, which looks at the rise in deaths due to any cause compared with a historic average for that particular period.In the case of the UK, the total missing Covid-19 deaths could be more than double the actual number, according to the FT, which cited official data showing a 75% increase in deaths in the week ending April 10. The pandemic has already caused as many as 41,000 deaths, the report claimed, on a day when the official Covid-19 fatality figure was pegged at a little over 17,000.The NYT said that the analysis of all cause mortality data from 11 countries, including the UK and the US, showed that 25,000 more deaths may have taken place in the last month than acknowledged officially.“In the last month, far more people died in these countries than in previous years, the New York Times found. The totals include deaths from Covid-19 as well as those from other causes, likely including people who could not be treated as hospitals became overwhelmed, the report said.Total death numbers offer a more complete portrait of the pandemic, the report added citing experts, because most countries report only those Covid-19 deaths that occur in hospitals.These numbers are usually delayed or hard to come by, both reports noted. In the case of Indonesia, for example, the NYT assessment used the average number of burials for its calculations.“Whatever number is reported on a given day is going to be a gross underestimate,” NYT quoted Tim Riffe, a demographer at the Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research in Germany, as saying. “In a lot of places, the pandemic has been going on for long enough that there has been sufficient time for late death registrations to come in, giving us a more accurate picture of what the mortality really was,” said Riffe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-deaths-could-be-much-higher-than-known-reports/story-sPzRaTzaR997AiD6s5MglN.html
23-04-2020||India||Decision on new Parliament building to be announced soon by environment panel||The Union Environment Ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) on constructions, townships and area development projects met on Wednesday to consider environmental clearance for various infrastructure projects including the expansion and renovation of the existing Parliament Building.The contentious project which will cost Rs 922 crore according to estimates by the Central Public Works Department and involve transplantation of at least 233 trees from the existing site was discussed in detail by the 13-member committee but the decision cannot be shared immediately, experts said.“The decision is not final until minutes are drafted. It will take a week. We have to hear 15 more projects tomorrow and day after also,” said T Haque, chairman of the panel over phone.The renovation of the Parliament building is a segment in the Centre’s larger Central Vista project which includes a new Parliament house, a new Central secretariat complex for ministries, and new residences for the Prime Minister and the Vice President. The entire project is expected to be completed by 2024.Several concerns have been raised by architects and urban planners regarding the project. One of them is that despite Central Vista being a single development project, it has been broken into parts for ease of obtaining environmental clearance. CPWD has listed the Parliament building as an “individual project” in the environment impact assessment documents. It also states that there are no “interlinked projects”.HT had reported on February 21 that the new Parliament complex is proposed on a plot adjacent to the existing building and yet it is being considered by EAC only as a renovation project. The land use of the 9.5-acre plot has been changed from “recreational” to “Parliament” by the Delhi Development Authority last month.DDA last December had changed the land use of a 15-acre plot from recreational to residential on Dalhousie Road near South Block where the PM’s new residence has been proposed.LokPATH (people for Appropriate Transformation of Habitat), a collective of urban development experts and civil society members has raised these issues and asked why such a huge amount of money was being invested in the Parliament building during the Covid-19 pandemic.“As you are aware this project is not just about renovations to the existing Parliament but involves the construction of an entirely new building of an additional 65000 sq.m on a separate plot next to the present parliament,” LokPATH wrote to EAC on April 21 adding that “as per the applicant, the present cost of the project is Rs 922 crores. At a time of the Covid-19 pandemic, we need to prioritise government spending for medical facilities and public health infrastructure. Since the global and Indian economies are also very fragile, it would be wasteful and cruel to allow such a project to come up when millions of fellow citizens in the agriculture, fisheries and other basic sectors are struggling to cope financially.”On Wednesday, LokPATH again wrote to the Central Vista Committee that the approval by DDA for land use change of the area by DDA has come through when there are cases pending in courts on the matter. The land use change can alter the character of open and public use spaces and allow extensive building activity in the area, apart from restricting public access, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-on-new-parliament-building-to-be-announced-soon-by-environment-panel/story-Oyw0S6nPC8Qzy2U118wD0L.html
23-04-2020||India||Cricket will emerge a different sport in post-Covid world: Sachin||Sachin Tendulkar never publicised intimate personal events in a pre-social media world, and is not known to make a fuss about them post-Instagram either.April 24, his birthday, was always a quiet affair even in his heyday, coming as it did at a time of the year with hardly any action on the international cricket calendar. The one time this day held a major international tri-series final was in 1998, when he played an innings for the ages: The 134 that came on the back of a 143 and capped a performance that came to be known as the Desert Storm (alluding to a sandstorm that disrupted play in the desert venue Sharjah). Tendulkar took India to the final and then won that final on his own. He turned 25 that day; on the receiving end, Australia great Shane Warne aged a decade.But even by Tendulkar’s standards, this Friday will mark his quietest birthday ever, which he will spend with his family under lockdown in Mumbai. As a mark of respect for the city’s front-line workers fighting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, he says he will not celebrate.Talking to HT a day before his 47th birthday, Tendulkar said cricket would emerge a different sport in a post-Covid-19 world and detailed the changes the game could witness. “The method of shining the ball is going to change now,” Tendulkar said, referring to the age-old method of shining one side of the ball with saliva to make it swing. “Celebrations also... one can’t do high-fives or hug each other. The game will restart after we overcome this challenge, but I feel that element [of fear] will stay somewhere in the back of the mind. To maintain certain hygiene levels not just during this phase, but post this is also going to be critical for everyone.”It is widely expected that when sports does resume, most of it will happen in empty stadiums at the beginning. Cricket Australia has spoken about the possibility of holding the T20 World Cup, scheduled in October, behind closed doors.“It would be a strange feeling to play inside an empty stadium,” he said. “Because you draw a lot of energy from the crowd. It may seem like net practice.”Along with international sports, the domestic cricket circuit too has come to a standstill, with the 2020 Indian Premier League postponed indefinitely.“It will be unfair to single out just the IPL as a tournament and say so many people are losing their livelihoods. We need to understand why this is happening. This is all happening in the interest of our nation, and nothing comes above that,” said Tendulkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cricket-will-emerge-a-different-sport-in-post-covid-world-sachin/story-whxV4pHoxjnWp4P78ABAkI.html
23-04-2020||India||Virus spread slowed by a month of lockdown: Govt||Medical experts and government officials steering India’s battle against Covid-19 said on Thursday that the country’s prophylactic measures have led to a reduction in the disease’s doubling rate, while allowing the ramping up of testing and the bolstering of health care preparedness.Detailing India’s evolving strategy against the pandemic, environment secretary CK Mishra, All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria, and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Dr Balram Bhargava stressed that the focus has been on expanding the testing base, tracing contacts across the community to detect the spread of infection, and scaling up health care infrastructure to prepare for a spike in cases.They said infections were growing at a slower rate, larger numbers of people were being tested, and more medical facilities were being readied.Mishra admitted that the measures taken so far were not enough, and that efforts need to be further intensified.Thursday marked the 30th day of a national lockdown, a tough measure to halt the spread of the disease that has killed at least 187,000 people across the world and infected about 2.7 million. In India, 22,997 people have so far been infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.Mishra, who is leading one of the 11 Covid-19 empowered groups, said there were several positives in how India had handled the pathogen so far. “The growth of Covid-19 cases has been more or less linear, not exponential; this indicates that the strategies we have adopted have succeeded in containing the infection to a particular level,” he said.“Despite a 24-fold increase in testing, the percentage of positive cases is not rising. The percentage (4.5%) of positive cases as a ratio of testing is more or less the same as that a month back,” he added, prompting Dr Bhargava to allude to this figure to later say that “curve could be flattening”.Experts, however, warn that the real curve in question is the one of new cases and deaths, and that the testing percentage may not mean all good news. They suggest that once testing is massively scaled up, the percentage of those testing positive should ideally drop in order to avoid hospitals being overrun by patients.Mishra said that while the number of tests in the country stood at 14,915 on March 23, the figure rose to over 500,000 by April 22. “Post lockdown, while the number of new positive Covid-19 cases has increased by 16 times, testing has increased by 24 times,” the chairman of the second empowered group, which deals with the availability of hospitals, isolation and quarantine facilities, disease surveillance, and testing and critical care training.“The facts show that our testing strategy has been focused, targeted and continues to expand; this is an evolving strategy based on our learnings as we go along... As the challenge kept expanding, strategy too kept expanding,” Mishra added.The number of Covid-19 cases in India rose above the 22,000-mark on Thursday, but the rate at which the grim milestone was crossed – it took about nine days for the tally to double – was a sign that the country may have been able to largely avoid the initial deadly spectre of the pathogen that has ravaged countries across the world.The World Health Organization (WHO) has, however, warned that the worst is yet to come, with more waves of the infection expected once countries lift lockdowns in difficult decisions to jumpstart economic activity.The environment ministry secretary also shared comparative data from other nations to explain where India stood in its response to the disease. At 500,000 tests, the number of confirmed cases in the US was 80,000. It was 100,000 for Italy, 120,000 for the UK and 80,000 for Turkey at the same point. For India, there were 20,000 cases for 500,000 tests, he said. “India has done better than majority of developed countries, with respect to the percentage of test cases yielding positive results,” he added.Dr Bhargava, the head of India’s apex biomedical research body, said that the philosophy of India’s effort has been “more labs, more tests and more resources”.“From about 100 labs at beginning of the lockdown, we have 325 laboratories testing for Covid-19. Our strategy has been to detect the virus and then save lives,” he said.Dr Bhargava said a supply chain has been created and the Centre has been working with states to ensure required reagents are supplied to testing labs in a timely and calibrated fashion. “The gold standard for Covid-19 testing remains and has remained the RT-PCR test, which detects the virus.”The RT-PCR detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection. India has also deployed rapid tests that detect antibodies in the blood and indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed immunity to the virus; they can show results within 30 minutes. However, antibody tests are currently on hold as the government tries to check batches being supplied from China for efficacy of the kits.Mishra said that the number of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals increased 3.5 times since last month and isolation beds rose by 3.6 times in the same period. “These numbers are increasing, being added continuously... We need to evolve our strategy based on the latest position.”“Our first goal as regards hospitalisation has been to ensure that the minimum number of people need to come to the hospital, using social distancing, discipline and taking care of the vulnerable such as the elderly and those with co-morbidities.”“The second goal is to ensure enough infrastructure so that every person who needs to come to hospital is treated well, cured and sent back. Every district in the country is now working towards that.”Since oxygen support is essential in treating Covid-19 patients, the government is making arrangements to increase beds with adequate oxygen support and intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilator support. India currently has 3,773 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, with 194,000 beds, 24,644 ICU beds and 12,371 ventilators.A sweeping shutdown across the country has closed schools and colleges, thrown migrant workers out of daily-wage jobs and halted transport and economic activity. The lockdown will remain in place till May 3, but the government is understood to be working on opening some regions and industrial sectors to ease tough restrictions.Dr Guleria, director of India’s premier government hospital, said Covid-19 patients are facing a lot of challenges and stigma. “Recovered patients are symbols of victory, but we have stigmatised them, causing a huge problem.”“Due to the stigma we have attached, patients are not coming forward, they are coming very late when they have severe breathlessness issues, thereby increasing morbidity and mortality,” he said.“Many of these Covid-19 patients can be saved by just giving them oxygen; if they do not get oxygen, it can trigger various other problems, our strategy of expanding oxygen support is based on this,” Guleria added.He also expressed the appreciation of the medical fraternity to a new ordinance that make any attacks on health care workers a non-bailable offence in the time of an epidemic, and significantly increases penal action that can be taken against the perpetrators.But the officials and experts admitted that steep challenges remain across a few states that have become hot spots of Covid-19, with the Union home ministry terming the situations in these regions “especially serious”.The two western states of Maharashtra and Gujarat on Thursday accounted for about 39% of the total Covid-19 cases in India. Maharashtra, with 6,427 confirmed cases and 283 deaths, is the worst affected while Gujarat -- with 2,624 infections and 112 deaths -- has seen a nearly four-fold increase over the last nine days. The state of West Bengal has so far reported 456 positive cases and 15 fatalities, but has tested just around 87 people per million of its population. Dr Lalit Kant, infectious disease specialist and former head of ICMR, said: “The incubation period of Sars-CoV-2 is 5-7 days, and the range is 2 to 14 days. Lockdown is essentially a strategy to buy time; by restricting movement of infected individuals who may or may not be symptomatic, we are curtailing the chances of the person infecting large number of people. In various countries, lockdown has been given the credit to flattening the peak of the epidemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-spread-slowed-by-a-month-of-lockdown-govt/story-ukJLwlOlKyKgwESoMUBSnK.html
23-04-2020||India||Harvest of pulses, potato complete: Centre||The Union agriculture ministry said on Thursday that the harvesting of rabi pulses and potato was completed, while that of wheat, sugarcane and onion was on track and will soon be concluded.The government said that the arrival of staple vegetables in mandis saw a jump compared to last month. There was a six-fold increase in arrival of onion, a statement by the agriculture ministry said.In the lockdown clamped to control the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the government exempted agriculture activities. “In the major wheat growing states, the status of harvesting is encouraging,” the statement said.As reported by state governments, about 98-99% of wheat crop has been harvested in Madhya Pradesh, 88-90% in Rajasthan, 75-78% in Uttar Pradesh, 40-45% in Haryana, 35-40% in Punjab and 82-84% in other states, it added.The statement came on a day the Punjab government decided to slow the pace of procurement to avoid a glut in grain markets and to coordinate the lifting and movement of food grain out of the state by issuing fewer passes to farmers.“From Sunday, we will issue 60,000 passes a day to farmers for bringing their produce to mandis for procurement,” said additional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna, who heads the state committee on wheat harvest and procurement. He added that he was satisfied with the pace of procurement, but the movement of grain from the state to other consuming states was also a priority.State food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said a steady pace of crop arrival had been maintained at between 4.5 lakh tonne and 6 lakh tonne a day on average, but this would be slowed to streamline the backlog in lifting and the grain outflow from the state.The state-owned Food Corporation of India (FCI), meanwhile, transported a record 2.8 lakh tonne of food grains on Wednesday through trains to consuming states for distribution through ration shops.FCI set a new benchmark on April 22 when it moved 102 train loads carrying about 2.8 lakh tonnes of food grains, the food ministry said in a statement. Maximum movement was from Punjab, which loaded 46 train loads, followed by Telangana with 18.“Wheat and raw rice was moved from Punjab and Haryana to various parts of the country, boiled rice was moved from Telangana to Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harvest-of-pulses-potato-complete-centre/story-8ZyCxAA4STHgUF9lOpU1eN.html
23-04-2020||India||Allow power projects in rural areas: Centre||The Centre has advised states to allow construction in power projects outside municipal limits during the lockdown. It comes following the ministry of home affairs’ guidelines on activities exempted from the extended lockdown till May 3. The sector has been under stress since the lockdown with a dip of 30% in demand for power due to absence of commercial activity. The Centre also directed Coal India Limited (CIL) to stick to its coal offtake target at 710 million tonnes (MT) for this fiscal. Union minister for coal Pralhad Joshi held a meeting Wednesday to set the performance targets for the state-run company keeping in mind the roadmap for a post-lockdown scenario, officials said. “The demand of coal will pick up again after coronavirus lockdown, so I have directed CIL to keep the production and offtake targets at 710 MT for financial year 2020-21 in line with its goal to achieve 1 billion tonne coal production by year 2023-24.” Pralhad Joshi said on Thursday.Railways freight loading for coal, one of its prime commodities, has dipped since the lockdown. Its earnings for coal and coke dipped by 48.25% to 1,880.61 crore, since the lockdown.In the letter written to the states, union territories, District Magistrates and police authorities, the power ministry said, “As per MHA’s guidelines, construction of all kinds of industrial projects in rural areas, i.e., outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities have been allowed to be carried out with effect from 20th April, 2020. This is also applicable for ongoing construction activities in Thermal/Hydro Power Generation Projects outside the limits of Urban Local Bodies (ULBs).”On April 15, the home ministry had allowed continuation of works in construction projects, within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, where workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought from outside from April 20 onwards. “However, these additional activities will be operationalised by states/union territories/district administrations based on strict compliance to the existing guidelines on lockdown measures,” the guidelines had said. Movement of all personnel travelling to place of work and back in the exempted categories as per the instructions of the state/union territory were also allowed.The power ministry has also requested to allow the intrastate and interstate movement of construction materials, equipment, spare parts and consumables for these under construction power projects. “It has been emphasised that resumption of project works at sites may be carried out while taking all mandatory precautions and norms of social distancing as well the advisories issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health and Family welfare from time to time with regard to Covid-19,” the ministry said in a statement Thursday. The home ministry had, in a fresh set of guidelines, added exemptions including activities in farming/plantation, construction and banking sectors. Construction activities in rural areas, water supply, sanitation, and laying of power, telecom lines were also exempted from the lockdown.“The economic costs of the lockdown are rising each passing day with the impact being felt across sectors. The situation requires immediate, across the board intervention from the government.Under lockdown, economic activity has slowed down significantly across most sectors. In manufacturing, only food processing, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment are operational, while construction and mining activities have halted completely. Within services, majority of trade, transportation and hospitality remains closed, while financial, IT and government services remain partially operational. Even in power sector which can operate, significant reduction in demand owing to lockdown is having an adverse impact,” said Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General, Confederation of Indian Industry. “Commercial power tariffs remain high in India, further affecting industry’s competitiveness. Further, the state power distribution companies are running at huge losses. Taking forward the reforms and privatization of the Discoms is necessary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-power-projects-in-rural-areas-centre/story-Zl9ofKWk8xdo2nZ0O1u5MO.html
23-04-2020||India||US tightens norms for nuclear exports to Pak||Washington The United States has suspended the export of nuclear byproducts under its blanket general licensing system to Pakistan, whose history of nuclear proliferation has been a concern and has led to the blacklisting of many of its government agencies and private contractors.The decision announced in a government gazette called the Federal Register on Wednesday does not prohibit export of these nuclear materials —  that are used as radionuclides embedded in devices — altogether, but make it mandatory for exporters to seek government’s permission every time and for every specific consignment. Radionuclides are radioactive elements used widely, among other fields, in medicine and for irradiation of food.  “The US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is issuing an Order suspending the general license authority under NRC regulations for exports of byproduct material to Pakistan,” said the announcement in the register. “Exporters are no longer authorized to use the general license to export byproduct material to Pakistan and now must apply for a specific license pursuant to NRC regulations.”It did not ascribe any specific reason other than that the Trump administration has determined that the suspension is “necessary to enhance the common defense and security of the United States and is consistent with the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act”.The order did not say so, but under relevant rules, a country’s proliferation record can be ground for cancellation of the export license. “The Commission will closely monitor these countries and may at any time remove a country from a general license in response to significant adverse ,developments in the country involved,” says the code of federal regulations for the energy sector. “A key factor in this regard is the nonproliferation credentials of the importing country.”A response was awaited from the US Nuclear Regulator Commission (NRC) to a request for the reasons for the suspension.The announcement came the President Donald Trump and Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan talked on phone about the coronavirus pandemic. Trump mentioned the call at the daily briefing of the White House task force but gave no details. It could not be ascertained if the nuclear export development figured in their discussion.Pakistan’s s history of nuclear proliferation has been a major concern for the United States, as for the rest of the world. The nuclear black market established by AQ Khan, who built Pakistan’s nuclear bomb with stolen technology that he then passed on to Iran, Libya and North Korea, is thriving.The Trump administration has continued to pursue Pakistani government agencies, private contractors and fronts, who have sought to find a way around US rules and conditions, with unmitigated urgency and unchanged priority.The immediate trigger for Wednesday’s action  could not be ascertained. But Joshua White, a former top White House official for South Asia who first flagged the Federal Register announcement, said, “We can’t be certain what prompted this move by the NRC. It may have been undertaken in response to a series of technical violations or regulatory oversights, or it may be in response to broader US concerns related to Pakistan’s nuclear programs or non-proliferation commitments.”The US justice department indicted five Pakistani and Pakistani-descent men in January for using front companies to procure American goods for Advanced Engineering Research Organization and the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission, both Pakistani government agencies that are on the US “Entity List” of exporting destinations whose activities have been declared “contrary to US national security or foreign policy interests”.In 2018, seven Pakistani organizations were added to the US that “Entity List”, a US commerce department blacklist of governments, government agencies, private companies and individual viewed as a threat to US national security and the export of sensitive US material to whom are tightly controlled and are subject to specific government clearance.The Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control, a non-partisan, and non-profit body that seeks to end proliferation by tightening export control regimes in source countries such as te United States, said  in a report in September 2019, that since 2014, the US commerce department has added 40 Pakistani or Pakistani-related entities to that list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-tightens-norms-for-nuclear-exports-to-pak/story-SyVRJRi1dzpmJrXK6NwB1L.html
23-04-2020||India||FAC members favourable to hydro project in Dibang Valley||New Delhi: The environment ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC) on Thursday discussed the issue of forest clearance for the Etalin Hydroelectric Project (3097 MW) which will involve clearing of 2.7 lakh trees in what is described as “subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest and subtropical rain forests” in the committee’s own documents.A senior member of FAC who didn’t want to be named said that though a decision on granting forest clearance to the project is yet to be taken, most members have a favourable view of the project because it is a large “clean energy project” which can replace dirty energy. “We had a long discussion and all views of members have been taken on record. Most members had a favourable view, so did the sub-committee that visited the site,” he added.HT reported on April 23 that a sub-committee of FAC which visited the site in February has recommended in its report dated April 21 that Etalin Hydroelectric Project of 3097 MW be allowed with a condition that the developer deposit money that will g towards wildlife conservation in the area.Meanwhile, scientists who have worked in Dibang Valley wrote to the environment ministry on April 22 after they came across the FAC’s sub-committee report on the Parivesh website. Umesh Sreenivasan, assistant professor at Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Nandini Velho, wildlife biologist cited scientific studies that established that tigers are present outside the Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary in Dibang Valley and are at risk from the Etalin project.The sub-committee report submitted on April 21 was of the view that there are no tigers in the project area.This was based on a multi-seasonal study by the Wildlife Institute of India , which deployed 78 camera traps during a four-month survey and captured no tiger images. “Further no pugmarks or scat of tigers was found during this survey. Therefore, the tiger presence in study area was not established,” the sub-committee said in its report .Scientists have pointed out that this observation contradicts FAC’s earlier observations where it referred to an independent study by a wildlife researcher that captured images of 12 individual tigers and 8 individual clouded leopards at various locations in Dibang Valley. “A large majority, above 60%, of the camera traps were placed outside Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary which shows that both species are not only abundant but also very widespread in the district,” FAC noted. The project area also falls under “vital tiger area” in ministry’s own documents. Velho and Sreenivasan also point out in their letter that the sub-committee failed to take note of peer-reviewed studies showing Dibang Valley’s outstanding rich biological diversity. “The most notable are the six different colour variations of the Asian golden cat (Schedule I) which are found throughout the district. Dibang Valley hosts the highest colour variation of any wild cat species in the world, making it a globally significant area both for conservation, and to study ecological adaptability and evolution,” they write referring to a study published on the Asiatic Golden Cat in the Ecological Society of America’s ‘The Scientific Natural’ journal last year.Scientists working in the area told HT that the Idu Mishmi community (the dominant population in the valley) wrote to the National Tiger Conservation Authority in 2018 about tiger presence across the valley. According to a local news report cited by United Nations on its website the Idu Mishmi Cultural & Literary Society (IMCLS) wrote to NTCA, stating that the community wishes to be consulted during deliberations on the Dibang tigers as the organization has forwarded a cultural model of tiger conservation. “Based on years of empirical research on ecological and social aspects of tigers in Dibang Valley, we strongly believe that the right strategy for Dibang tigers would be to develop a new kind of tiger reserve that is built not with fences and armed patrol guards, but around a cultural model, a culture which has so far proven to be effective in saving the tiger,” the representation said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fac-members-favourable-to-hydro-project-in-dibang-valley/story-qUaazlvv4le06y1Q1qAWrJ.html
23-04-2020||India||India studying Trump’s new immigration order: Officials||India is studying the executive order signed by US President Donald Trump to suspend new immigration for 60 days, though it believes such visa programmes have benefited the economies of both countries, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.Trump told reporters on Wednesday he had signed the “very powerful order” aimed at protecting the jobs of Americans laid off because of the Covid-19 crisis. The order said the suspension of immigration will affect those legally seeking to enter the US for employment but not people who are already in the country.“We have taken note of the order which was signed yesterday and are studying it. It doesn’t cover non-immigrant visas and these programmes have benefited the economies of both countries,” said one of the people cited above on condition of anonymity.People-to-people contacts are the bedrock of relations between India and the US and New Delhi’s expectation is that visa programmes which have benefited both sides will continue, the people said.Indian officials have said in the past that Indian immigrants in the US have played a key role in the development of the American economy, especially in the IT and services sectors.The Indian side recently asked the US to extend the validity of visas, including H-1B and other types of visas held by Indian nationals who have been hit by the economic downturn caused by the pandemic. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla took up the matter during his telephone conversation with US deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun on April 8, when the two sides also discussed ways to enhance cooperation to counter the pandemic and ensure the availability of essential medicines and equipment.Following the sharp economic downturn and suspension of business operations triggered by the pandemic, a lot of US firms employing H-1B visa holders had laid off numerous employees.If an employer terminates the contract of H-1B visa holders, the employees need to find new employment within 60 days to retain their status or face the prospect of being deported to their home countries. This existing rule has exacerbated the problems of H-1B visa holders who were laid off.Explaining the reasons behind the executive order, Trump told reporters on Wednesday: “By pausing immigration, we’ll help put unemployed Americans first in line for jobs as America reopens. It would be wrong and unjust for Americans laid off by the virus to be replaced with new immigrant labour flown in from abroad.”Trump said without the order, the US would face a protracted economic recovery with persistently high unemployment, if labour supply outpaced demand.The White House also said in a statement the administration would monitor the labour market and decide whether the order should be extended after 60 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-studying-trump-s-new-immigration-order-officials/story-kb1iaAkSXBBMbGfCv9woHM.html
23-04-2020||India||Will care for Indian workers: Singapore||New Delhi Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong assured his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on Thursday that his government will care for Indian migrant workers amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The two leaders discussed the Covid-19 situation in their countries and “agreed to work together on the challenges posed by the pandemic, keep supply chains intact, and keep essential supplies flowing”, according to a statement posted by Lee on Facebook.As of Thursday, Singapore has recorded more than 11,000 Covid-19 cases, with a majority of them linked to work permit holders living in foreign worker dormitories, Channel News Asia reported. A total of 21 of these dormitories have been designated as isolation areas as the coronavirus was continuing to affect migrant workers.“I thanked PM Modi for India’s help when we brought home some Singaporeans from India recently. I assured him that we will care for Indian migrant workers here, just as we care for Singaporeans,” Lee wrote in the Facebook post.“The migrant workers made personal sacrifices to come to work here. They have made many contributions to Singapore, so we have a responsibility for them,” he added.Lee also said he appreciated Modi’s “affirmation of our efforts in looking after the migrant workers, and his assurance that they will not forget this”.Modi tweeted that he had exchanged views on the Covid-19 pandemic with Lee and “thanked him for the support and care being extended to Indian citizens in Singapore”. The India-Singapore strategic partnership can contribute to stability and prosperity in the post-Covid world, he added.Lee noted that Singapore was in the midst of a “circuit breaker” while India had implemented a nationwide lockdown since late March, “not a simple decision in a huge country of 1.3 billion people”.Meanwhile, external affairs minister S Jaishankar discussed the Covid-19 crisis and ways to overcome the pandemic during phone conversations with his counterparts from the US, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Oman and Brazil on Thursday.“The changing world of #corona era diplomacy. Strong friendships thrive even virtually. A busy day talking to Foreign Ministers of Russia, Brazil, United States, Saudi Arabia and Oman,” Jaishankar tweeted.He said he and US secretary of state Mike Pompeo had discussed the Covid-19 responses of the two countries and the “importance of international cooperation” and working closely on the implications and consequences of the pandemic. They also exchanged views on the Afghanistan situation, he said.State department spokesperson Morgan Ortagus said Pompeo and Jaishankar discussed bilateral and international cooperation to contain and mitigate Covid-19, including “ensuring the availability of pharmaceutical and medical supplies”. Jaishankar tweeted that he and Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov discussed the forthcoming BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) foreign ministers’ meeting and reviewed recent developments pertaining to Afghanistan. “Our cooperation on #coronavirus reflects our special friendship,” he said.During his conversation with Oman’s foreign minister Yusuf bin Alawi, Jaishankar expressed his appreciation for Oman taking care of Indian expatriates and assured him of India’s support in the collective fight against the Coronavirus. The conversation also assumed significance as an Omani princess clarified on Wednesday she had no connection to a fake tweet posted by a person impersonating her.Jaishankar thanked Saudi Arabian foreign minister Faisal bin Farhan al Saud for taking care of the Indian community in the kingdom and discussed “our shared interest in ensuring health and food security”.In his phone conversation with Brazil’s foreign minister Ernesto Araujo, Jaishankar reviewed the follow up of President Jair Bolsonaro’s visit to India in January and exchanged notes on global issues, including the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-care-for-indian-workers-singapore/story-hNpBnfyaUpZ6Jr8vpWR6DK.html
23-04-2020||India||Kerala plans quarantine for vulnerable sections||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala is planning to introduce a “reserve quarantine” mechanism that will involve isolating the most vulnerable people--the aged or those with underlying health conditions and compromised immunity--to monitor their indicators and protect them from contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a top state official said on Thursday on condition of anonymity.The mechanism is likely to be introduced as the Covid-19 cases have gone up after dipping for a while. It will be apart from the “track, trace, and treat” regime the state is following. The health department official cited above said the state has realised it is in for a long haul and needs a multipronged strategy to fight the virus.Kerala was the first state in the country to report a Covid-19 case in January. It was the worst-hit until Maharashtra overtook it as the state with the highest number of Covid-19 cases last month. Officials believe the state will be able to check a higher mortality rate through the mechanism in case of a community spread of the disease by isolating vulnerable people. The community spread involves individuals contracting a contagious disease in a particular location without any known contact with other infected individuals or travel history to an area where the illness has been documented.People above 60 accounted for around 15% of the state’s 33.4 million population as per the 2011 census. According to the latest state economic review, better health care facilities have led to a higher life expectancy in the state and the number of elderly people has grown.Officials said the mechanism will be implemented through local bodies and they will be tasked with providing medicine, food, counselling and other assistance.They added many local bodies and grassroots accredited social health activists have started collecting details for the exercise, especially in Covid-19 hotspots.Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, a former principal of Vellore’s Christian Medical College, said as the pandemic spreads deeper into the community, “reserve quarantine” is one of the solutions expected to keep vulnerable people safe from the virus. “It does not mean that they will have to be moved to care homes. In their homes, they can be given separate rooms and their interaction with other family members can be controlled,” he said.He said immunity against Covid-19 depends on whether it generates neutralising antibodies and also how long they remain protective. “We need to accept a fact now... we cannot say when will it end. Not all viruses can be prevented by vaccines either. Some of the viruses like influenza antigens do change frequently, which poses a serious challenge to vaccine makers also,” said Muliyil.Experts say “reverse quarantine” is possible in Kerala since most people have their own houses and slums are uncommon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-plans-quarantine-for-vulnerable-sections/story-8TrPY3z6iXbEy6soxZu1OI.html
23-04-2020||India||Jharkhand family alleges boycott over Covid rumour||Ranchi: A family of five in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh has alleged it was facing social boycott over a rumour that they were suffering from Covid-19 and were not even allowed to drawn water from their village tube well.A video showing two hungry kids of the family crying for biscuits went viral on social media and prompted chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday to ask authorities to take immediate action and provide relief.“My appeal to people is that do not pay attention on rumours. In this epidemic situation, we can fight the Corona virus and rumour only with social support,” Soren said in a tweet.Geeta Devi, the mother of the two, said on April 18 a few villagers alleged she was suffering from Covid-19. “When I asked them how could they know? One of them alleged that my brother in-law came from Chattisgarh and he is suffering from Covid-19. I tried to convince them nobody came from anywhere,” said Devi, whose husband, Ishwar Kumar Mahto, a labourer, has been jobless due to the Covid-19 lockdown.She said the next day the villagers prevented her from drawing water. “No food was cooked that day in absence of water. To prove the villagers wrong, we went for a checkup on April 19. The report came negative but the health officials asked us to remain in home quarantine for 14 days,” she said. Devi added despite showing the report, the villagers asked them leave the village.“The next day, the villagers did not even allow me refill my LPG cylinder. They are not allowing us to even come out of our house,” Devi said. She sought police help on April 21.Dhananjay Kumar, the in charge of the local police station, said they helped the family get water and convinced the villagers ignore rumours. “If the family was harassed again, we will lodge a case against the villagers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-family-alleges-boycott-over-covid-rumour/story-ElAIzST4BV3urWY9eA9rhK.html
23-04-2020||India||Rohingya struggle to survive under curbs||Hyderabad: The fear of deportation to Myanmar has been haunting an estimated 6,000 Rohingya refugees in Hyderabad for years, but their very survival is now at stake because of the Covid-19 pandemic that has robbed them of their livelihoods. “Forget about going back to our country, our worry now is how to feed our families. There is no work to do as everything is closed. We cannot even step out of our settlement because the area has been barricaded. Whatever little money we had earned last month has now exhausted,” said Fareed Alam, a refugee.Most of the Rohingyas came to Hyderabad between 2011 and 2013 and have been eking out their living as ragpickers, cleaners, mechanics, and construction workers. They live in huts made of tin sheets and thatched roofs across five slums.Noor Basha, 36, another refugee, said he has been working at a stone crushing plant at Velgatur and his family is stuck in Hyderabad, over 200 km away. “Now, I have no work here as the plant is closed. I cannot go back to Hyderabad due to the lockdown and stringent police restrictions,” Basha said over the phone.Bash is surviving on food some locals are offering him. He added his wife and two children were virtually starving. “My 12-year old son is suffering from an eye infection and I have no money to send to the family for his treatment. He, too, is not a position to go to the hospital because of the lockdown.”Vikas Gora of Save the Children NGO, which has been working with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, said they have been providing groceries to the Rohingya. “We have distributed packets comprising rice, edible oil, wheat flour, dal, chillis, onion, salt and sugar, apart from hygiene kits to these families...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rohingya-struggle-to-survive-under-curbs/story-lpWx5kG9AjlHNF6Cg3PMJK.html
23-04-2020||India||Ramzan fast in coastal Karnataka from Friday after new moon is sighted||The month-long Ramzan fast will begin in coastal Karnataka from Friday with the sighting of the crescent moon on Thursday night which was followed by a declaration of the same by a leading religious figure, said a news agency.“As the crescent moon was sighted tonight (Thursday) over the coastal region, Qazi Twaka Ahmed Musliayar declared the start of the holy month of Ramadan, with fasting from Friday in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Kodagu districts across the southern state’s west coast,” an official told IANS quoting the priest.In Kerala too, Ramzan begins on Friday, while, in the rest of Karnataka, fasting will begin on Saturday after the moon is sighted on Friday night, the news agency added.Saudi Arabia, too, has announced observance of Ramzan from Friday after the sighting of the new moon.“Based on the sighting of the new month’s moon ... it has been decided that Friday is the start of the month of Ramadan,” Saudi Arabia’s royal court said in a statement cited by the SPA news agency.King Salman said he is saddened that Muslims cannot pray at mosques because of restrictions on gatherings, in place due to coronavirus pandemic.In India, the religious leaders of the Muslim community have requested devotees to offer prayers at home instead of Mosques or public religious places in view of the Covid outbreak.The Shahi Imam of Delhi’s Jama Masjid, Syed Ahmed Bukhari urged followers to respect the lockdown norms in order to contain the spread of the virus.“If we follow government’s instructions, we will be able to eradicate COVID-19 soon. The holy month of Ramzan is about to begin. Prayers have to be offered at homes itself and social distancing must be maintained. By following it, we will be able to protect everyone,” a news agency quoted Bukhari as saying.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe Wakf board has also asked the imams to dissuade devotees from visiting mosques for sahri, iftar and taraveeh till May 3.Minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, too, expressed confidence that the community will follow the lockdown norms and not step outside their homes till May 3.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Moulana Md Shafik Qasmi, the Imam of Kolkata’s Nakhuda Mosque, too, asked people to only venture out of their houses when extremely necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramzan-fast-in-coastal-karnataka-fromfriday-after-new-moon-is-sighted/story-RBNYBLC8mCrnfVYPbTzgEM.html
23-04-2020||India||India set to get lead role in WHO board||New Delhi India will move into a leadership role at the World Health Organization (WHO) headquarters after the annual meeting of the global health body next month, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.The appointment of India’s nominee as chairperson of the WHO’s executive board will come at a time the world and the United Nations agency are struggling to stop the highly contagious Sars-Cov-2 pathogen from spreading further.The Covid-19 pandemic has already killed more than 180,000 people worldwide and infected 2.6 million, forcing countries to go into lockdown mode, which could cost the world upwards of $1 trillion this year.India will assume the lead position on May 22 at the executive board’s first meeting after the truncated World Health Assembly conference. India replaces Japan, which will complete its one-year term at the crucial job in May, diplomats in Delhi and Geneva confirmed to HT.That the chairperson’s position will come to India was decided last year when the WHO’s South-East Asia group unanimously proposed New Delhi to the executive board for a three-year term.The group also nominated India for the chairperson’s post held by rotation for one year among regional groups. That decision was made long before the world woke up to the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen which originated in China’s Wuhan and spread rapidly across the world.The World Health Assembly (WHA) that will formally elect the executive board members to fill vacancies is proposed to be held on May 18. But it will be a much shorter version than had been proposed earlier with 60 agenda items. Now, there will be only three.Apart from the opening of the assembly session, the WHA will have an address by Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus which will be focused on the Covid-19 preparedness and response. The assembly will then move to formally elect the executive board members and chair.As head of the 34-member executive board, India’s nominee would have to work closely with Director General Ghebreyesus. The board, one diplomat familiar with the working of the WHO said, is mandated to implement the decisions and policies laid down by the World Health Assembly.For all practical purposes, this implies that the Director General of the WHO has to get the chairperson on board for all important decisions, one of the diplomats cited above said.India will also be a member of the programme budget and administration committee, replacing Indonesia.At the WHO, a government official said, India is on the side of transparency and accountability in the Covid-19 outbreak and reforms in the global health body.By virtue of being on the executive board for three years, India will also have a say in the shortlisting of the next WHO director general when the incumbent’s five-year tenure ends in May 2021.The 34-member executive board is mandated to interview candidates to decide who will stay in the running and face the election at the health assembly.Earlier, the executive board used to have the last word on the appointment of the WHO’s Director General for all practical purposes. It would select the Director General and send the nomination to the general assembly for formal vetting.But this process was changed and the executive board was told to whittle down the list of candidates. This short list went to the annual ministerial gathering of WHO’s 194 member-states, World Health Assembly, for an election among the top three contenders by a secret ballot.This change followed stinging criticism that the previous WHO director general Margaret Chan had to face over the agency’s sluggish response to the devastating west Africa Ebola outbreak that spread across one of the world’s poorest regions in 2013 and killed 11,000, according to news agency Reuters.Quite like his predecessor, Tedros Adhanom has also been facing a barrage of criticism for the WHO’s initial handling of Covid-19. Unlike the Ebola that had impacted Africa, Covid-19 has hit the world’s richest countries. The United States is the hardest-hit country, with more than 46,500 coronavirus deaths and 840,000 infections.His critics -- US President Donald Trump tops this list -- accuse the WHO chief of playing down the disease at China’s behest and giving the world and the US flawed advice.It has been insinuated that Tedros Adhanom had allowed himself to be guided by China’s hand because Beijing had backed his candidature in 2017. Tedros Adhanom has rejected the allegations as well as suggestions that the WHO was slow to react.Tedros Adhanom was elected in 2017 at the end of an election campaign that, according to the Guardian, was dogged by mud-slinging and spin. David Nabarro, professor of global health at Imperial College who had served as UN envoy on Ebola, was his prime rival. The United States had backed David Nabarro, who was appointed as the WHO DG’s special envoy on Covid-19 in February.Tedros Adhanom has stated that the global coronavirus crisis will not end any time soon.“Make no mistake: we have a long way to go. This virus will be with us for a long time,” he said.“Most countries are still in the early stages of their epidemics. And some that were affected early in the pandemic are now starting to see a resurgence in cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-set-to-get-lead-role-in-who-board/story-SqrQmnyQEqWTDvHUWTN8zH.html
23-04-2020||India||BJP spreading virus of communal hatred: Sonia||New Delhi: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday attacked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for “spreading the virus of communal prejudice and hatred” when the entire nation should be united in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic.“Let me also share with you something that should worry each and every one of us as Indians. When we should be tackling the coronavirus unitedly, the BJP continues to spread the virus of communal prejudice and hatred,” she said in her opening remarks at a meeting of the party’s highest decision-making body, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), via video conference. “Grave damage is being done to our social harmony. Our party, we will have to work hard to repair that damage.”In a resolution adopted at the meeting, the CWC accused the BJP of seeking to “inflame communal divisions even as the entire nation battles the Covid-19 pandemic”.The resolution said the virus does not discriminate on the basis of caste, creed, religion or gender. “As a nation, we must be wary of forces that seek to polarise in times of crisis such as these. The onus lies on us to ensure that we stand together as one nation in the face of all odds.”BJP spokesman Shahnawaz Hussain said it is unfortunate that Gandhi is trying to give the pandemic a communal colour. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already said this virus does not differentiate on the basis of religion or caste. The entire country has to fight this challenge together. If the Congress cannot joint this fight against the challenge, it should at least refrain from giving it a communal colour.” Gandhi said the Centre does not appear to have a clear idea on how the situation will be managed after May 3, when the extended nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the pandemic is scheduled to end. “A lockdown of the present nature after that date would be even more devastating.”The CWC urged the Centre to come out with an exit strategy and a road map to ensure adequate infrastructure to deal with a potential spike in Covid-19 cases and for the economic revival (after the lockdown ends).Gandhi reiterated her commitment to extending constructive support to the government in dealing with the crisis.She said all sections of the society, particularly farmers, farm labourers, migrant labour, construction workers and those in the unorganised sector, continue to face hardship. She added that trade, commerce and industry have come to a virtual halt and millions of livelihoods have been destroyed.Gandhi said she has written several times to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and offered constructive cooperation and also made a number of suggestions.Gandhi told the CWC that the suggestions were formulated on the basis of feedback from different sources, including Congress chief ministers. “Unfortunately, they have been acted upon only partially and in a miserly way. The compassion, large-heartedness and alacrity that should be forthcoming from the central government is conspicuous by its absence,” she said.“We have repeatedly urged the Prime Minister that there is no alternative to testing, tracing and quarantine programme. Unfortunately, testing still remains low and testing kits are still in short supply and of poor quality. PPE [personal protection equipment] kits are being provided to our doctors and healthcare workers but the number and quality are poor.”The CWC said 110 million people, who need subsidised food, remain outside of the public distribution system and 120 million jobs were lost in the first phase of the lockdown.The CWC also discussed the issues of migrant workers, farmers, revival of Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises, and empowerment of states.“The fight must be bottom-up instead of the top-down, one size fits all policy is currently on display. The Centre can vastly bolster the states’ efforts by providing them with adequate financial support starting with releasing their full share of the Goods and Services Tax collected so far and allowing them greater fiscal space to borrow,” it said.In his address to the CWC, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said the success of the lockdown will be judged finally based on the country’s ability to tackle Covid-19. He added cooperation between the Centre and states is the key to success in the fight against coronavirus.Rahul Gandhi said the issue of migrant workers needs to be addressed on priority basis. “Lockdown is a mere pause button. As a nation, we need to think of a transition from a complete lockdown to lockdown only in disease hot zones and commencement of activities in green zones.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-spreading-virus-of-communal-hatred-sonia/story-VdyysT1WFinWMapXH90ASI.html
23-04-2020||India||Will viewers return to theatres after lockdown? asks Bengal’s film industry||2020 was supposed to be a good year for Bengal’s film industry. From highly paid stars to popcorn hawkers, millions supported by the industry were looking forward to a good run.But the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus has put paid to all that. While the business has taken its worst hit in recent history, stakeholders say that even after the lockdown, people may take months to overcome their fears and enter crowded theatres in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic . Till it was hit by the curfew to contain the coronavirus, Tollywood, named after Tollygunge, its nerve centre in south Kolkata, was hoping to retain its Rs 200 crore annual turnover from movies and more than Rs 100-odd crore from television series and reality shows.According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) 400 million people have lost jobs in India already. Now Tollywood stalwarts fear that their industry, too, may take more than six months, to be back to anywhere near normal.“I have around 15 films in the pipeline. When they had to be stalled, post-production work was on. Scenes for which I thought of foreign locations, like most of my projects, will have to now be shot in Kolkata. The crisis affects crew members, vendors, people who rent out cameras, studios, spot boys, et al” said Nispal Singh, director of Surinder Films, a top production house.“With zero returns, no producer can invest in new films till the pending ones are released. The Rs 200 crore industry will take a long time to recover. Satellite television and YouTube channels only return a fraction of the investment. But on the other hand, television entertainment will be back on track once the lockdown is over, because producers can start shooting and their viewers have not gone anywhere,” Singh added.Eminent director and producer Arindam Sil said, “Shooting for two of my films was on. Locations were arranged and hotels had been booked. Even if I manage to wrap up the projects, will you feel safe going to a theatre to watch them? One of the big multiplex chains in USA has declared itself bankrupt. I don’t see an easy way out.”A prominent exhibitor who linked food business to his enterprises, Arijit Dutta of Priya Cinema said, “How long can I pay my staff and how long can the big multiplex operators pay rent to mall owners? Moreover, if there are no new movies to exhibit, for whom will I open the theatres if lockdown orders are lifted tomorrow? The cascading effect of this outbreak will be felt for a long period.”“I am jobless right now. However, we are pulling our resources to help artists and technicians,” said prominent actor Saswata Chatterjee who has acted in several Hindi hits including Jagga Jasoos and Kahani.“To help actors with limited and irregular income as have raised around Rs 17 lakh with donation from fellow actors and production houses such as Shree Venkatesh Films. Even cricket star Saurav Ganguly helped us. Corporate houses have not come forward yet, but we plan to raise as much as Rs 40 lakh as a contingency plan for three months. The crisis won’t end with the lockdown. We have also given some funds to production assistants and technicians,” said Arindam Ganguly, general secretary, West Bengal Motion Picture Artists’ Forum, which has 3600 members. Popular actor Jeet has helped 15 people who serve tea in the sets, Ganguly added. “The earnings of my company have shrunk by more than 65 per cent. Shooting for eight Bengali serials has been held up. That involves around 250 people, including actors, who used to be paid according to their shifts,” said Eshita Surana, director of Aakash Aath, a television channel that produces its own serials and reality shows. “The focus has now shifted to news channels, and so have the advertisers. Surana, however, feels that this trend will change after the lockdown. On May 3, producer Atanu Roychaudhury’s company Bengal Talkies, a new entrant in the industry, was all set to release Tonic, starring popular actor Dev and septuagenarian Paran Bandopadhyay, who plays the protagonist. “The teaser was released and publicity materials were all ready. Now we are planning to release it on December 25. Hopefully, the crisis will be over by then and people will have found the courage to enter theatres.” “One of my productions, Rakta Rahashya, would have released on April 10. I don’t know when it will hit the theatres now. Another film, Barunabur Bandhu (starring Dadasaheb Phalke award winner Soumitra Chatterjee), was doing very well when the shows stopped,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-viewers-return-to-theatres-after-lockdown-asks-bengal-s-film-industry/story-NhCGFgvIsZEVSAtDHXHZKP.html
23-04-2020||India||Pakistan organises Saarc video conference on Covid-19||India was represented by a senior official at a video conference of health ministers of Saarc states organised by Pakistan on Thursday to discuss regional cooperation in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.The video conference, chaired by Pakistan’s de facto health minister Zafar Mirza, was held more than a month after the virtual meeting of heads of government of members of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 15.Pakistan was the only country that wasn’t represented by a head of government at the March 15 video conference, which witnessed the creation of a Saarc Covid Emergency Fund with an initial contribution of $10 million from India.India’s delegation at Thursday’s video conference was led by Rajiv Garg, the director general of health services.An Indian statement said “most Saarc countries were represented at the official level” at Thursday’s video conference, while a statement issued by Pakistan’s Foreign Office said it was joined by Saarc secretary general Esala Ruwan Weerakoon and ministers from three Saarc states.Though Pakistan contended Sri Lanka’s health minister joined the video conference, people familiar with developments said the country was represented by the deputy director general of public health.The Indian delegation, including experts from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Indian Council of Medical Research, built on the briefing made at the March 26 video conference of Saarc health experts and presented an account of the country’s response to the pandemic, including the stepping up of production of essential materials and medicines and enhancing capabilities for research on drugs and vaccines.India also highlighted the successful use of new and innovative technology-based solutions such as the Aarogya Setu app for community outreach and intervention. The use of the Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund, creation of a dedicated website by the Saarc Disaster Management Centre and stand-alone networking of health and trade officials for real-time interactions were among “visible practical steps”, members of the Indian delegation said. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIndia has also developed the “SAARC COVID19 Information Exchange Platform (COINEX)” for use by all Saarc states, and it will be used for the exchange of specialised information and tools among health professionals.The Pakistani statement said the conference also discussed real-time sharing of information and clinical data, training of medical staff, the supply of medicines and medical equipment, and enhancing cooperation with frontline international organisations, including the WHO.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-organises-saarc-video-conference-on-covid-19/story-b0OptkIsDuVgY0I69fguqI.html
23-04-2020||India||‘China, others should have no concerns about changes in FDI rules’: Govt||China and other countries shouldn’t have concerns about changes to India’s foreign direct investment (FDI) rules to bar opportunistic takeovers as they don’t impose a blanket ban on investments from any neighbouring nation, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.China had on Monday asked India to revise what it described as a “discriminatory” change in FDI regulations aimed at preventing opportunistic takeovers of Indian firms amid the economic downturn triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic.The Indian government brought China under the ambit of regulations preventing such acquisitions last week, with authorities saying Chinese investments would require the government’s approval. The revision of the policy came soon after China’s central bank bought a 1.01% stake in HDFC.“There should be no concern regarding the procedural changes made as a result of a review of the FDI policy as they don’t prohibit investments from any country that shares a land border with India,” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.The change only envisages that FDI proposals from countries sharing a border with India will be considered under the government approval route, and several other countries have taken similar steps, the people said.The change in Indian FDI regulations came against the backdrop of reports that Chinese firms were eyeing the acquisition of Indian companies hit by a fall in their valuation amid the economic slowdown.In a statement issued on Monday, the Chinese embassy contended the changes in FDI norms were tantamount to additional barriers for “investors from specific countries” and violated the WTO’s “principle of non-discrimination”. The statement added the changes also went against the trend of liberalisation and facilitation of investment.The people cited above also referred to the effectiveness of Coronavirus testing kits sourced from China, especially against the backdrop of complaints from several states, and said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is looking into the matter.The ICMR advised states to stop using Chinese-made rapid testing kits after wide variations – ranging from 6% to 71% – were detected in the accuracy of test results for positive samples. Officials said there was a need to carry out further investigations of these huge variations.Chinese authorities, on the other hand, have been insisting that India should only procure testing kits and other medical equipment from firms that have been certified for exports. The certification process was tightened after several other countries complained about the quality of Chinese testing kits and other medical equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-others-should-have-no-concerns-about-changes-in-fdi-rules-govt/story-Ge84j8jDLP7VCfezZodX2L.html
23-04-2020||India||CISF recommends use of Aarogya Setu app in Delhi Metro post lockdown||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has finalized its post lockdown plan for the Delhi Metro in which it has recommended use of the Aarogya Setu app and mandatory use of masks for all passengers entering the platforms.The force has also stated that after thermal screening, which will be conducted at all entry gates, if any entrant is found with abnormal temperatures or symptoms of cold, cough or flu, they he or she will be denied entry in the metro train.“Aarogya Setu app with inbuilt e-pass feature could be employed for identification of suspected persons (having Covid-19 infection). Persons with high risks for both spreading as well as contracting infections should be discouraged from using the metro,” the CISF’s security plan states.However, if anyone doesn’t have a phone or fails to download Aarogya Setu app, he/she won’t be denied entry. DG CISF Rajesh Ranjan told HT – “Aarogya Setu app is a good technology based solution to track possible Covid-19 victims instead of people giving declaration. We have recommended that every passenger should have Aarogya Setu app which will work like an e-pass. Identifying Covid-19 patients is important to stop its spread. The success of such initiative depends on truthfulness of people as to what information they provide in their app.”HT had reported on Wednesday first that CISF is preparing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for Delhi Metro and airports for post lockdown security checks in which it will recommend use of Aarogya Setu app by all the passengers.CISF has further suggested that all passengers will have to take out metallic items like belts and buckles before frisking and keep them in their bags which will be scanned by an x-ray machine. “Strict distancing norms will be followed throughout the station area and proper queuing area before the security screening point will be maintained,” it said.It added that passengers should maintain at least two meters distance between the security screening place and line-up points and a meter distance between passengers waiting at the security screening place.It has also proposed that the entire station area be sanitized with chemicals and security fixtures; equipment and x-ray tables should be sanitized every 30 minutes.CISF is deployed at around 160 metro stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-recommends-use-of-aarogya-setu-app-in-delhi-metro-post-lockdown/story-6gaNpxCzdAH0PkuO2y8EeM.html
23-04-2020||India||With tourism down, clamour to restart mining in Goa gets louder||With Covid-19 bringing the country to a halt and the tourism sector to its knees, a clamour has started for the resumption of mining -- the other industry that is considered the backbone of the Goan economy. The Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association (GMOEA) has pitched itself as the potential saviour of Goa’s ‘debt-ridden-economy’ and promised that the government coffers will be full if mining restarts. In a letter to the state government, Ambar Timblo, the president of the GMOEA, has said that in the time of lockdown, the mining industry was a safe bet for the revival of Goa’s economy.“At present, it is not possible to restart the tourism industry unless the contagion is overcome globally. However, in so far as mining is concerned, the same can be undertaken even during the present period of lockdown with certain safety procedures and practices. Goa is uniquely positioned for the immediate resumption of operations as all workforce, infrastructure, and relevant statutory clearances are in place,” Timblo said. Mining in Goa came to a halt in March 2018 after the Supreme Court ruled that the Goa government’s decision to renew mining leases in 2015 was ‘unduly hasty’ and was contrary to its earlier directions for the grant of fresh leases instead of renewals. However, rather than granting fresh leases -- a process that now involves an auction after the Government of India amended the MMDR Act in 2015 -- the Goa government has been hoping to get the Supreme Court to change its mind. Parallelly, Vedanta Ltd which acquired Sesa Goa, the largest mining company operating in Goa, has filed a petition in the Supreme Court arguing that its request for a 50-year extension of its lease with effect from the year 1987 should be allowed. The Goa government had disallowed Vedanta’s request claiming that its hands were tied as the Supreme Court clearly mandated that all mining operations in the State of Goa be stopped until fresh mining leases or other renewals and fresh environmental clearances are granted.Vedanta’s plea before the High Court against the State Government’s decision was also rejected and is now pending before the Supreme Court. Apart from the revenue loss due to the suspension of mining operations, the Goa government has seen its debt mount over the last one year owing to slashing of the GST rates for the hospitality sector including on hotels and restaurants. In a bid to shore up revenues, the Goa Government hiked excise duty on liquor as well as VAT on fuel but has still seen debt balloon to Rs 20,000 crore. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has expressed his inability to run to the aid of business sectors that were facing losses on account of the shutdown. “Right now we are not in a position to declare any kind of package for everyone. The state itself is going through a bad position; we should all understand that the government itself is going through an economic crisis. At this stage, it is wrong to expect a relief package from the state government,” Sawant said. “This sharp increase in debt levels can be attributed to shutdown of mining activities which has led to revenue loss of Rs 7000 crores in the last 2 years. The state tourism sector, which is already reeling under huge losses, is expected to witness a major fall in the number of tourists coming to the state over the next 3 quarters. The contraction in tourism will lead to additional losses for the State as well as an increase in unemployment to the tune of almost 75,000 jobs,” said Timblo, who has now been appointed on the Goa government’s economic revival committee. Despite the clamour to revive mining, voices against the resumption of mining persist. The transportation of ore mined before March 2018 has been allowed by the Supreme Court for six months, leading to vocal protests by those affected by it. “We are observing about 200 laden trucks plying per hour on the village roads. This makes the mockery of lockdown. We all are aware that COVID-19 positive cases in our neighbouring states are increasing day by day, especially in Belgaum district of Karnataka State. We were expecting the authorities to be very cautious about the movement of people,” Rupesh Velip from Caurem village in South Goa which has seen the movement of ore, said. Goa Foundation’s executive director Claude Alvares, too, questioned the move during the lockdown.“Lakhs of Goans have been told to stay at home by the Prime Minister of India and to wear masks. However, heavy and uncontrolled movement of mining trucks on open roads through human settlements makes nonsense of these directions. This is sheer hypocrisy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-tourism-down-clamour-to-restart-mining-in-goa-gets-louder/story-PmcKZwKrULDoiQOlV0uJZI.html
23-04-2020||India||Omani princess blames impersonator for tweets targeting India||The tweets posted by a person impersonating an Omani princess were aimed at disturbing social harmony in India and disturbing New Delhi’s ties with countries in West Asia, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.Sayyida Mona bint Fahd al Said, the Omani princess whose name was used by the impersonator, issued a clarification on Wednesday that she had no connection to the tweets regarding the purported expulsion of Indian workers from Oman.The people cited above, who spoke on condition of anonymity, also said it was “deeply regrettable” that the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) was levelling accusations of Islamophobia against India. They described these accusations as factually inaccurate and misleading.Earlier this week, a Twitter user apparently based in Pakistan had changed the name of the account to that of the Omani princess and tweeted that Indian workers in Oman would be expelled if the Indian government “doesn’t stop the persecution of Muslims”. This account was subsequently deleted.There was also an instance of a Twitter user posing as a Saudi princess to tweet similar content, the people said.In a statement in Arabic, Princess Sayyida Mona said: “First of all, I thank you for your concern to verify what was published through an account impersonating me, which you are sure that I have no connection with.” Noting that such activities “are not acceptable to the Omani society”, she added her presence on social media was restricted to two accounts on Instagram and Twitter.One of the people cited above said the princess’ clarification made it clear there is a “deliberate design to disturb social harmony” within India and impact the special relations between India and West Asian countries. The heads of Indian missions in West Asian countries have appealed to Indian expatriates not to be swayed by such “malicious propaganda”, the person said.The people said it was “deeply regrettable the OIC continues to make factually inaccurate and misleading statements” about the harassment of Muslims in India. The OIC shouldn’t “communalise” the global fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, they said.The people said the repatriation of Indian nationals stranded in West Asia would not be possible at this point of time as the country continues to be under lockdown. The issue can be considered if there is a review of the lockdown, and Indian missions are in touch with the host governments regarding the welfare of Indian workers, they said.The situation continues to be dynamic and the government will continue to support the stranded Indians, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omani-princess-blames-impersonator-for-tweets-targeting-india/story-MVo763TYN1hhZuLskm3PuO.html
23-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Here’s the full list of Delhi’s 92 containment zones||The total number of containment zones in Delhi have jumped to 92 on Thursday evening with the addition of two localities in Mehrauli. Shamsi Talab and Lake View Apartments in the South Delhi area have been added to the Covid-19 hotspots in the capital. Yesterday, five neighbourhoods were added to the list. Delhi has recorded 3020 positive cases so far including 48 casualties. The containment zones have been set up to restrict the movement from these areas to prevent further spread of the disease.Here is the full list of Delhi’s 92 containment Zones as of Thursday:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone10. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II11. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi13. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi14. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave15. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi16. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash17. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi18. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash19. B Block Jhangirpuri20. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri21. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri22. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave23. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur24. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 11009225. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension26. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj27. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension28. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension29. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar30. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave31. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden; G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri32. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony33. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony34. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh35. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi36. Sadar Bazaar, Central District37. Chandni Mahal, Central District38. Nabi Karim, Central District39. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi - 11008440. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar, New Delhi 11001541. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar42. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar43. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden44. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Pashchim Vihar, Delhi - 11006345. In and around area of A-280, JJ Colony, Madipur46. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 11000847. Shop No.- J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki village, New Delhi48. Jain Mohalla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi49. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No- 11950. Gali No 1, 2 and 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No 112B, Gali No 2, New Delhi51. Entire gali starting from house number G-54 to F-107 and Entire gali starting from house number CN-854 to 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlaqabad Village, Delhi52. 1100 Wali Gali (house number 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (house number 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (house number 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi53. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi54. Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi55. House number-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi56. G,H and I Block of Police Colony, Model Town57. Street no. 6, A block, Abu Fazal enclave58. Shaheen Bagh59. Street no.s 3-5, East Ram Nagar60. Shahdara61. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar62. In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar63. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No.2, Nangloi64. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar65. Gali No. 26 and 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 and Gali No. 27 and 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083, Tughlakabad Extension66. Entire effected area around H.No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar67. H.No. 153/B, 4th floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi68. H.No. 716 to 785, H.No. 786 to 860, H.No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jahangirpuri, Delhi69. A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony70. Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari71. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri72. Oberoi Apartment73. G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden74. E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park75. T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri76. A-97,98,99 near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park77. Plot No. 1294 in Theke Wali Gali opposite DC Office in Kapashera78. EA Block in Inderpuri79. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi80. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area)For Coronavirus Live Updates81. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092, Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi82. Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi83. West Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar84. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 11009185. Gali No. 2, 3 & 4 Devli Extension, Delhi86. H.No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No. 1 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali), Harsh Vihar,Hari Nagar Extension, Delhi87. H. No. 300, Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi to H.No. 739/16 Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi88. F-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sari and F-274, 2nd Floor of Lado Sari,New Delhi89. F-258, Campa Cola Gali Lado Sarai, New Delhi90. RZF-756/7, Gali no 1 Band, Raj Nagar II Dwarka New Delhi91. H. No. 15 to 101 Dayanand Vihar, Delhi-9292. Entire affected area of Samshi Talab, Mehrauli including A-3, lake of view apartment, Mehrauli, DelhiThe HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-the-full-list-of-delhi-s-92-containment-zones-is-here/story-9DzIpzpIZi3XZ3nMu8kt8L.html
23-04-2020||India||Kerala CM says more tests needed after 10 more new cases of Covid-19||With ten new cases the total number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala has gone up to 447, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday.He said the government will accelerate tests in the coming days. “The shortage of kits and spare parts had delayed tests in the state and it will be speeded up with fresh kits provided by the Union health ministry,” Vijayan said.The CM said that in two months health authorities could conduct only 21,000 tests and some of the states which started tests much later had done more than that. He said the state government has placed orders for 10 more real time PCR machines.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Out of 10 new cases four were reported from Idukki district. The CM said Idukki will be taken out of the green zone in view of these cases and will be designated as an orange zone. Out of 447 cases, 318 have recovered and 129 people are in hospitals, he said adding strict lockdown will continue in red zones. Four districts of north Kerala are under red zone - Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikkode and Malappuram. “We expected a sharp rise in cases but things are under control. We still feel community spread did not take place. But the threat still persists. We have to be careful,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-says-more-tests-needed-after-10-more-new-cases-of-covid-19/story-zkMlGTS7WwNkTBJgGiwFZP.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Delhi reports 128 new cases, total goes up to 2,376||Delhi recorded 128 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of infections in the national capital to 2,376 while two persons died to take the casualties to 50, the state government said in its health bulletin.Eighty four people were declared recovered from the infection on Thursday to take the total number of recoveries to 808. The number of active cases in Delhi is now 1,518.It said 1,548 of those infected or 65.18% are people who are less than 50 years of age while 16.17 % or 384 people were between 50 and 59 years of age. Over 18% or 443 of Covid-19 cases were people who are 60 and above. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Among the casualties, 10 were less than 50 years of age and nine (90%) had co-morbidity. The mortality rate of this age group was 0.64%. Thirteen of the dead were in the 50-59 years age group and nine (69.23%) of them had co-morbidity factors. This age group’s mortality rate was 3.39%. The highest mortality rate was for the 60 year plus age group at 6.09% with 27 casualties out of which 24 (88%) had co-morbidity factors. The overall mortality rate was 2.1% and the co-morbidity factor was 42%. A total of 30,560 people have been test for Covid-19 so far out of which 2,376 tested positive, 24,538 tested negative and 3,068 results are pending. Government labs have tested 22,766 people while private labs have carried out 7,794 tests so far, the bulletin said.The 128 new cases were among samples that reported positive against a total of nearly 1,953 samples processed during last 24 hours, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-delhi-reports-128-new-cases-total-goes-up-to-2-376/story-hvS9LHxgtpPmjghEm3A9AO.html
23-04-2020||India||Andhra Pradesh reports 80 Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths today||Andhra Pradesh projected a grim picture of Covid-19 pandemic with three more deaths and a whopping 80 new cases being reported in the state in the last 24 hours.The latest figures took the death toll in the state to 27 and the cumulative number of positive cases for Covid-19 to 893, a health bulletin released by the state medical and health department on Thursday afternoon said.The figure of 80 positive cases is the highest in a single day in both the Telugu states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the earlier highest figure was 75 each.In the last one week, Andhra Pradesh reported an alarming rise in the number of deaths due to Covid-19 in the state by 13 and the number of cases by 459.The health bulletin said Kurnool recorded the highest number with 31 new cases, apart from two deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases in the district to 234 and deaths to seven.As many as 18 new cases were registered in Guntur taking the overall number of positive cases to 195. It is also the highest number of eight deaths in the state. Neighbouring Krishna district reported only two new cases and a total of 88 cases, but it also registered the third death in the state in the last 24 hours. It has so far registered seven deaths.Chittoor has registered 14 new cases and total number of 73 cases. Nellore with 67 positive cases, Prakasam with 50 cases and Anantapur with 43 cases and three deaths are on the top of the list.The state government claimed that it had conducted tests on 6522 samples. At the same time, 21 patients got discharged, taking the number of overall discharged patients to 141. “In all, 725 patients are still under treatment,” the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-reports-80-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-today/story-Lgqi9ULn8nR1gEwKMbvlPO.html
23-04-2020||India||Maharashtra sees 778 Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths in biggest single-day jump||Maharashtra registered a staggering count of 778 coronavirus positive cases on Thursday, the state’s highest single-day jump so far taking the total Covid-19 tally to 6,427, health officials said.Fourteen Covid-19 patients died on Thursday, taking the death toll due to the deadly pathogen in the state to 283, the officials said.Of the new Covid-19 cases, capital city Mumbai registered 522 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, taking the city’s coronavirus positive patients’ tally to 4,205. At least, 167 people have died due to the highly infectious disease so far in Mumbai. ALSO READ |‘Mission Dharavi’: Covid-19 battleground in country’s biggest slum in MumbaiTill date, 840 coronavirus patients have recovered and been discharged in the state, according to state health department data.India’s total number of coronavirus cases climbed to 21,700 on Thursday with the number of deaths at 686 across the country, according to data from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. A total of 1,229 new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the last 24 hours.At least 34 people have died due to the deadly infection since Wednesday.A day earlier on Wednesday, India had breached the 20,000 mark with 20,471 Covid-19 positive patients in the country. Among the states, Maharashtra is the worst-affected state with the maximum number of Covid-19 patients, followed by Gujarat and national capital Delhi coming in third.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-highest-single-day-jump-with-778-new-cases-state-count-at-6-427/story-Ci7kAXnjbaFBya1finnnLP.html
23-04-2020||India||Ahead of panchayat meet, PM Modi’s reminder on their key role as Covid warriors||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote to Panchayati Raj Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday, a day before he interacts with Gram Panchayats across the country through video conferencing on the National Panchayati Raj Day.Prime Minister Modi highlighted the important role a strong rural economy can play in the growth of the country and also the emphasis put on rural development by his government as evidenced in several schemes. His letter also praised the role of Gram Panchayats in fighting coronavirus at the grassroots level through social distancing and other measures announced by the government.“We are going through an unprecedented situation, when coronavirus pandemic has emerged as a challenge in front of the entire humanity. All Indians are united in our fight against this disease. All those members of the Panchayati Raj, who have fully committed themselves like brave warriors to combat this illness, are a source of inspiration for us,” Modi said.PM will launch a unified e-GramSwaraj Portal and Mobile App tomorrow on the occasion of the National Panchayati Raj Day.The portal will provide the Gram Panchayats with a single interface to prepare and implement their Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP).PM Modi will also launch ‘Swamitva Scheme’ on the occasion. It is meant as a tool for integrated property validation in rural India. Swamitva or Ownership scheme will ensure the demarcation of inhabited land in rural areas with the use of the latest surveying methods including the use of drones.Every year best performing Panchayats/states and union territories (UTs) across the country are rewarded for good work in the area of service delivery and public goods. This year three such awards namely, Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar (NDRGGSP), Child-friendly Gram Panchayat Award (CFGPA) and Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP) Award have been finalized. The details of award winners will be shared with the concerned states.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesNormally, National Panchayati Raj Day is commemorated as a grand event on a big scale. It was to be organised as a national event at Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh this year and PM Modi had confirmed his participation but the outbreak of Covid-19 led to the decision to hold a digital version of the event. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-panchayat-meet-pm-modi-s-reminder-on-their-key-role-as-covid-warriors/story-p9HBfoCR4r3ShsjuyfRUhK.html
23-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: India studying Trump order barring immigration and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India studying Trump order barring immigrationThe Indian government is studying the executive order signed by US President Donald Trump to temporarily stop immigration for 60 days though it believes such programmes have benefited the economies of both countries, people familiar with developments said on Thursday. Read more. India to get lead role at WHO next month amid global Covid-19 crisisIndia will move into a leadership role at the World Health Organisation (WHO) headquarters after the annual meeting of the global health body next month, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times. Read more. ‘Mission Dharavi’: Covid-19 battleground in country’s biggest slum in MumbaiThe 125,000 slum-dwellers living under a lockdown so strict that drones monitor their moves and alert police if they attempt to leave home are at the heart of India’s push to contain coronavirus. Read more. India slowed doubling rate of Covid-19 cases, ramped up testing: OfficialsMedical experts and government officials steering India’s battle against Covid-19 said on Thursday that the country’s prophylactic measures have led to a reduction in the disease’s doubling rate, while allowing the ramping up of testing and the bolstering of health care preparedness. Read more. Sona Mohapatra accuses Kartik Aaryan of planting negative stories about her in the press: ‘MCP ego flared up?’Singer Sona Mohapatra has accused actor Kartik Aaryan of having his publicists push negative stories about her in the media, after she criticised a video shared by him, in which he was perceived to have displayed misogynist behaviour. Read more. Mother’s Day 2020: Gifts for your mom that you can get right nowMother’s Day 2020 is right around the corner. But, thanks to the lockdown enforced in the country to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak, there is no going out to the market and giving your mom a saree from her favourite designer or a new smartwatch to take care of her health just yet. Read more. World Book Day 2020: How to read a book in the digital age while we stay home and practice social distancingFor the present-day reader, there are umpteen options across genres and one might even find themselves spoilt for choice if they’re unable to pick one book or title at a time. Read more. Tinder tweets Maya’s response to Monisha’s ‘humari setting ho gayi hai’. Whose version would you use?Think Maya Sarabhai and the image that will pop up in your mind will be a perfect mix of sass and sophistication. This upper middle-class mother-in-law character never held herself back from throwing some classic burns at her bahu, Monisha. Read more. Covid-19: What is herd immunity and how does it lower infection? ExplainedCoronavirus disease is a new virus that has never infected humans before. Humans have no immunity against it, so the virus spreads quickly. Herd immunity occurs when at least 70%-90% of a population have been infected and developed natural immunity against a disease, or have been vaccinated against it.To contain coronavirus disease, at least 80% people must have antibodies for herd protection to kick in. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-studying-trump-order-barring-immigration-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qiLzfEWxUjHPnvvLxhmHjK.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Sikkim closes Nathu La trade route with China, suspends Kailash Yatra||The Sikkim government on Thursday announced that it was closing the Nathu La (pass) trade route with China and the Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra through the pass this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The state government is also likely to continue the ban on entry of even domestic tourists till October. “Our government has decided to close the China-India trade route through Nathu La pass. The Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra through Nathu La will remain closed this year, ”B S Panth, Sikkim’s tourism and civil aviation minister, said.Under the Nathu La trade protocol, traders from Sikkim are allowed limited access to the Tibet autonomous region while Chinese traders are allowed a few kilometres into Indian territory.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“Very soon we will adopt a proposal and inform the Centre. Since China is the epicentre of the outbreak we will close the Nathu La trade route which is supposed to open on May 1,” the minister said. “The Kailash- Mansarovar Yatra is also not happening this year.”The much-hyped international trade route was reopened on July 6, 2006 after remaining closed since 1962. The Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra, organised annually by the ministry of external affairs from June to September through Nathu La was reopened in June 2015. Another route for the yatra is through Lipulekh pass in Uttarakhand. The international trade through Nathu La continues till end of November.Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case so far. The state was among the first to ban the entry of domestic and foreign tourists and migrant labourers. It sealed the international borders with China, Nepal and Bhutan and two of the four border check posts with West Bengal.The Nathu La trade pass and Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra are two major revenue earners for Sikkim. The state drew more than 12 lakh domestic tourists and 1,33,388 foreign visitors in 2019.Panth said Sikkim is unlikely to allow even domestic tourists till October. “If the situation improves we may rethink the issue,” he said. However the minister indicated that the ban on the entry of foreign tourists will continue. The state government gets an annual revenue of around Rs 10 crore from the tourism industry.On June 16, 2015, the then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj flagged off the first batch of 40 pilgrims from New Delhi who headed for Kailash-Mansarovar thought Nathu La. The announcement from the Chinese side was made by President Xi Jinping during his India visit in September 2014.In 2015, the Sikkim government sponsored two Sikkimese who took part in the yatra.More than 6,000 pilgrims from India take part in the pilgrimage every year. Most of them make their way through the Nepal-China border town of Khasa (Tatopani).Prime Minister Narendra Modi wanted the second route for Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra to be reopened in view of the difficult terrain through Uttarakhand and Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-sikkim-closes-nathu-la-trade-route-with-china-suspends-kailash-yatra/story-3Q30Wo1eZ9tqdUqMcUgzdN.html
23-04-2020||India||Centre delivers Covid-19 relief worth Rs 31,235 crore under PM scheme||The union government on Thursday said more than 33 crore citizens had already received direct benefits worth Rs 31,235 crore from the Rs 1.71 lakh crore relief package announced under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package to mitigate against the economic impact of the coronavirus outbreak.A government release said Rs 10,025 crore was disbursed to 20.05 crore women holding Jan Dhan accounts, Rs 1405 crore had been distributed to about 2.82 crore old age persons, widows and disabled persons, Rs 16,146 crore was transferred to 8 crore farmers as the first instalment of PM-KISAN and Rs 3,497 crore worth of financial support was provided to 2.17 crore building and other construction workers.The centre said that the above benefits were transferred using fintech and digital technology ensuring swift, efficient and direct transfer to the beneficiary ensuring there is no leakage of the relief.The government has announced a slew of financial packages to deal with the impact of coronavirus, the largest among them being a 1.17 lakh crore relief package announced by the finance minister in the month of March.Government had also announced free LPG cylinders for three months to the beneficiaries of Prime Minister Ujjwala Yojana scheme and it claimed on Thursday that total 3.05 crore LPG cylinders have been booked under the scheme so far and 2.66 crore free cylinders have already been delivered to the beneficiaries.The government added that approximately 6.06 lakh members of EPFO have also availed of Rs. 1,954 crores worth of nonrefundable advance against 75% of the outstanding balance in their PF accounts or 3 months’ wages.Apart from the above facility, the Centre had announced that it would fund three months PF contributions—both from the employee and the employer side—amounting to 24% of wages of EPFO members who earn less than Rs 15000 per month in establishments that have up to 100 workers.Centre said an amount of Rs.1000 crore has already been released to EPFO for the above scheme taking care of the contributions for the month of April, 2020. A total of 10.6 lakh employees have benefitted so far and a total of Rs. 162.11 crore has been transferred in 68,775 establishments.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe government added that it had distributed free food grains to 39.27 crore beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana. It added that 1.27 crore person’s man-days of work have been generated under the national rural work guarantee scheme MNREGA and Rs 7300 crore has been released to states to liquidate pending dues of both wage and material.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The insurance scheme announced for health workers employed in the government hospitals and health care centres has also been operationalised by New India Assurance covering 22.12 Lakh health workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-delivers-covid-relief-worth-31k-crores-to-33-crore-citizens-under-pm-scheme/story-9jtz8BMLDLyBjUyTAiFHXJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Coronavirus spread slowed by a month of lockdown: Govt||Medical experts and government officials steering India’s battle against Covid-19 said on Thursday that the country’s prophylactic measures have led to a reduction in the disease’s doubling rate, while allowing the ramping up of testing and the bolstering of health care preparedness.Detailing India’s evolving strategy against the pandemic, environment secretary CK Mishra, All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria, and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Dr Balram Bhargava stressed that the focus has been on expanding the testing base, tracing contacts across the community to detect the spread of infection, and scaling up health care infrastructure to prepare for a spike in cases.They said infections were growing at a slower rate, larger numbers of people were being tested, and more medical facilities were being readied.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageMishra admitted that the measures taken so far were not enough, and that efforts need to be further intensified.Thursday marked the 30th day of a national lockdown, a tough measure to halt the spread of the disease that has killed at least 185,000 people across the world and infected about 2.7 million. In India, 21,700 people have so far been infected by Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, according to the Union health ministry data till Thursday evening.Mishra, who is leading one of the 11 Covid-19 empowered groups, said there were several positives in how India had handled the pathogen so far. “The growth of Covid-19 cases has been more or less linear, not exponential; this indicates that the strategies we have adopted have succeeded in containing the infection to a particular level,” he said.“Despite a 24-fold increase in testing, the percentage of positive cases is not rising. The percentage (4.5%) of positive cases as a ratio of testing is more or less the same as that a month back,” he added, prompting Dr Bhargava to allude to this figure to later say that “curve could be flattening”.Experts, however, warn that the real curve in question is the one of new cases and deaths, and that the testing percentage may not mean all good news. They suggest that once testing is massively scaled up, the percentage of those testing positive should ideally drop in order to avoid hospitals being overrun by patients.Mishra said that while the number of tests in the country stood at 14,915 on March 23, the figure rose to over 500,000 by April 22. “Post lockdown, while the number of new positive Covid-19 cases has increased by 16 times, testing has increased by 24 times,” the chairman of the second empowered group, which deals with the availability of hospitals, isolation and quarantine facilities, disease surveillance, and testing and critical care training.“The facts show that our testing strategy has been focused, targeted and continues to expand; this is an evolving strategy based on our learnings as we go along... As the challenge kept expanding, strategy too kept expanding,” Mishra added.The number of Covid-19 cases in India rose above the 22,000-mark on Thursday, but the rate at which the grim milestone was crossed – it took about nine days for the tally to double – was a sign that the country may have been able to largely avoid the initial deadly spectre of the pathogen that has ravaged countries across the world.The World Health Organization (WHO) has, however, warned that the worst is yet to come, with more waves of the infection expected once countries lift lockdowns in difficult decisions to jump-start economic activity.The environment ministry secretary also shared comparative data from other nations to explain where India stood in its response to the disease. At 500,000 tests, the number of confirmed cases in the US was 80,000. It was 100,000 for Italy, 120,000 for the UK and 80,000 for Turkey at the same point. For India, there were 20,000 cases for 500,000 tests, he said. “India has done better than majority of developed countries, with respect to the percentage of test cases yielding positive results,” he added.Dr Bhargava, the head of India’s apex biomedical research body, said that the philosophy of India’s effort has been “more labs, more tests and more resources”.“From about 100 labs at beginning of the lockdown, we have 325 laboratories testing for Covid-19. Our strategy has been to detect the virus and then save lives,” he said.Dr Bhargava said a supply chain has been created and the Centre has been working with states to ensure required reagents are supplied to testing labs in a timely and calibrated fashion. “The gold standard for Covid-19 testing remains and has remained the RT-PCR test, which detects the virus.”The RT-PCR detects the virus’s genetic material (RNA) in swabs to diagnose a current Covid-19 infection. India has also deployed rapid tests that detect antibodies in the blood and indicate if a person has been infected in the past and has developed immunity to the virus; they can show results within 30 minutes. However, antibody tests are currently on hold as the government tries to check batches being supplied from China for efficacy of the kits.Mishra said that the number of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals increased 3.5 times since last month and isolation beds rose by 3.6 times in the same period. “These numbers are increasing, being added continuously... We need to evolve our strategy based on the latest position.”“Our first goal as regards hospitalisation has been to ensure that the minimum number of people need to come to the hospital, using social distancing, discipline and taking care of the vulnerable such as the elderly and those with co-morbidities.”“The second goal is to ensure enough infrastructure so that every person who needs to come to hospital is treated well, cured and sent back. Every district in the country is now working towards that.”Since oxygen support is essential in treating Covid-19 patients, the government is making arrangements to increase beds with adequate oxygen support and intensive care unit (ICU) beds with ventilator support. India currently has 3,773 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, with 194,000 beds, 24,644 ICU beds and 12,371 ventilators.A sweeping shutdown across the country has closed schools and colleges, thrown migrant workers out of daily-wage jobs and halted transport and economic activity. The lockdown will remain in place till May 3, but the government is understood to be working on opening some regions and industrial sectors to ease tough restrictions.Dr Guleria, director of India’s premier government hospital, said the Covid-19 patients are facing a lot of challenges and stigma. “Recovered patients are symbols of victory, but we have stigmatized them, causing a huge problem.”“Due to the stigma we have attached, patients are not coming forward, they are coming very late when they have severe breathlessness issues, thereby increasing morbidity and mortality,” he said.“Many of these Covid-19 patients can be saved by just giving them oxygen; if they do not get oxygen, it can trigger various other problems, our strategy of expanding oxygen support is based on this,” Guleria added.He also expressed the appreciation of the medical fraternity to a new ordinance that make any attacks on health care workers a non-bailable offence in the time of an epidemic, and significantly increases penal action that can be taken against the perpetrators.But the officials and experts admitted that steep challenges remain across a few states that have become hot spots of Covid-19, with the Union home ministry terming the situations in these regions “especially serious”.Dr Lalit Kant, infectious disease specialist and former head of ICMR, said: “The incubation period of SARS-CoV-2 is 5-7 days, and the range is 2 to 14 days. Lockdown is essentially a strategy to buy time; by restricting movement of infected individuals who may or may not be symptomatic, we are curtailing the chances of the person infecting large number of people. In various countries, lockdown has been given the credit to flattening the peak of the epidemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-slowed-doubling-rate-of-covid-19-cases-ramped-up-testing-officials/story-Mlasg1KnlqnAkKUFqWniLI.html
23-04-2020||India||India studying Trump order barring immigration||The Indian government is studying the executive order signed by US President Donald Trump to temporarily stop immigration for 60 days though it believes such programmes have benefited the economies of both countries, people familiar with developments said on Thursday.Trump told reporters on Wednesday he had signed the “very powerful order” aimed at protecting the jobs of Americans laid off because of the Covid-19 crisis. The order said the suspension of immigration will affect those legally seeking to enter the US for employment but not people who are already in the country.“We have taken note of the order which was signed yesterday and are studying it. It doesn’t cover non-immigrant visas and these programmes have benefited the economies of both countries,” said one of the people cited above on condition of anonymity.People-to-people contacts are the bedrock of relations between India and the US and New Delhi’s expectation is that visa programmes which have benefited both sides will continue, the people said.Indian officials have said in the past that Indian immigrants in the US have played a key role in the development of the American economy, especially in the IT and services sectors.The Indian side recently asked the US to extend the validity of visas, including H-1B and other types of visas, held by Indian nationals who have been hit by the economic downturn caused by the pandemic.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had taken up the matter during his telephone conversation with US deputy secretary of state Stephen Biegun on April 8, when the two sides also discussed ways to enhance cooperation to counter the pandemic and ensure the availability of essential medicines and equipment.Following the sharp economic downturn and suspension of business operations triggered by the pandemic, a lot of US firms employing H-1B visa holders had laid off numerous employees.If an employer terminates the contract of H-1B visa holders, the employees need to find new employment within 60 days to retain their status or face the prospect of being deported to their home countries. This existing rule has exacerbated the problems of H-1B visa holders who were laid off.Explaining the reasons behind the executive order, Trump told reporters on Wednesday: “By pausing immigration, we’ll help put unemployed Americans first in line for jobs as America reopens. It would be wrong and unjust for Americans laid off by the virus to be replaced with new immigrant labour flown in from abroad.” Trump said without the order, the US would face a protracted economic recovery with persistently high unemployment, if labour supply outpaced demand.The White House also said in a statement the administration would monitor the labour market and decide whether the order should be extended after 60 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-studying-trump-order-barring-immigration/story-IrAU4G8z8YcAebhuYui5kI.html
23-04-2020||India||‘Mission Dharavi’: Covid-19 battleground in country’s biggest slum in Mumbai||The 125,000 slum-dwellers living under a lockdown so strict that drones monitor their moves and alert police if they attempt to leave home are at the heart of India’s push to contain coronavirus.But with only a handful of people tested so far in the country’s biggest slum, fears are growing that “Mission Dharavi” -- a term coined by officials working there -- may not prevent the virus from raging across the densely packed neighbourhood.Dharavi is home to an estimated one million people, who eke out a living as factory workers or maids and chauffeurs to the financial capital Mumbai’s well-heeled residents.Its narrow alleys, crowded housing and poor sanitation offer the perfect breeding ground for the virus.“The biggest challenge is Dharavi itself... 10 to 15 people stay in one room. How is it possible to enforce social distancing?” asked city official Kiran Dighavkar.He is overseeing an effort involving some 2,500 people, including medical workers, cleaners and volunteers, who are fighting to keep cases -- at nearly 200, with 12 deaths -- from spiralling out of control and overwhelming hospitals.The severe lockdown imposed in five virus hotspots in the slum since the first cases were reported in early April is a key part of that undertaking.“No-one is allowed to go in or out,” Dighavkar told AFP, adding that “everything, including grocery shops, is shut”.“Police are using drones to make sure people obey the rules,” he said.A state-run school, a sports complex and a formerly defunct hospital are being used to house patients and as quarantine facilities.Around 40,000 people have undergone thermal screening over the past week at so-called fever camps.And Dharavi’s 225 public toilets -- a lifeline for its residents -- are disinfected daily, he said.‘In a panic’Mumbai is even considering handing out hydroxychloroquine -- an anti-malarial drug touted by US President Donald Trump -- “as a preventive measure” to Dharavi residents in quarantine facilities, said Daksha Shah, a senior health official with the city authority.“Right now the community is in a panic... so we have to be a bit careful,” she told AFP, adding that they were awaiting approval from New Delhi.Officials have partnered with non-profits to distribute food and medicine in the area, also home to thousands of migrant workers left jobless by a weeks-long nationwide lockdown.Although the restrictions ordered across India are less severe than those imposed in Dharavi’s hotspots, they have had a lethal impact on the poor.The Roti Bank Foundation’s operations manager Jayandrath Tambe told AFP the non-profit organised 4,500 meals daily for Dharavi’s confined residents and was feeding 32,000 people across Mumbai with the help of local hotels.Social worker Imran Idris Khan turned to YouTube to upload videos explaining relief efforts in Dharavi and used WhatsApp to inform residents about where to find food.“Many families are still sitting at home or people are stuck in factories without any idea about food-packet distribution drives and therefore going hungry,” he told AFP.“This should not be happening.”‘I feel helpless’The capital of Maharashtra state, which has the highest number of COVID-19 cases in India, Mumbai has recorded over 3,000 infections among its 18-million-strong population.The central government has reported more than 20,000 cases so far in the nation of 1.3 billion people.Maharashtra’s chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday tweeted that around 70-75 percent of coronavirus cases in the state “have very mild symptoms or are asymptomatic”.Officials in Dharavi tried to ramp up testing by including residents without symptoms, but Mumbai city authority spokesman Vijay Khabale-Patil told AFP New Delhi rejected the move.Under the central government’s guidelines, asymptomatic people are tested only if they are high-risk or have come into direct contact with an infected person.Just 657 people have been tested in the slum, raising fears that hospitals -- reportedly already at full capacity -- might struggle to cope if there’s an unexpected spike in severe cases.One Dharavi resident receiving treatment for coronavirus said he had no symptoms for three weeks spent almost entirely indoors, before developing a sore throat and fever which refused to subside.He has now been in hospital for nine days.“I feel helpless at times and worry about my family and neighbourhood,” the 24-year-old told AFP on condition of anonymity as he fears being stigmatised for being sick.“Looking at so many people losing lives due to infections makes me feel terrible. Will we ever recover from this?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mission-dharavi-coronavirus-battleground-in-india-s-biggest-slum/story-W4vXSPyUef7YidghCDhTLK.html
23-04-2020||India||Bengal cop fires 15 rounds in police camp after allegedly being denied leave||A constable fired at least 15 rounds from his rifle inside a police camp at Jhargram, about 170 km southwest of Kolkata on Thursday, a police officer said.The constable who has been identified as Ratan Kumar is said to have climbed to the terrace of the building and opened fire from his rifle.“No one has been injured but there could be some senior officers trapped inside the building,” the official said. The shooting started around 1:30 pm. The top brass of state police including the Director General, ADG and superintendent of police of Jhargram remained tightlipped on the incident. The constable allegedly went berserk after he was denied leave. He had two magazines with him.A large police contingent rushed to the spot. Drones and armoured anti-mine vehicles were brought in. The constable fired even at the drones and vehicles.It is not known if the reinforcement that was sent in, engaged the policeman.Villagers initially thought that elephants have raided the village which is why crackers were being burnt to ward off the animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-cop-fires-15-rounds-in-police-camp-after-allegedly-being-denied-leave/story-Y5XzMifdvfidVT23s2RLPL.html
23-04-2020||India||FAC members are in favour of hydropower project in Dibang Valley: Environment ministry||The environment ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC) on Thursday discussed the issue of forest clearance for the Etalin Hydroelectric Project of 3097 MW which will involve clearing of 2.7 lakh trees in what is described as a “subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest and subtropical rain forests” in FAC’s documents.A senior member of the FAC who didn’t want to be named said though a decision on granting forest clearance to the project has not been taken yet, most members had a favourable view of the project because it is a large “clean energy project” which could replace dirty energy, he said. “We had a long discussion and all views of members have been taken on record. Most members had a favourable view, so did the sub-committee that visited the site,” he added.HT had reported on April 23 that a sub-committee of the FAC which visited the site in February has recommended in their report dated April 21 that Etalin Hydroelectric Project of 3097 MW be allowed with a condition that the developer deposit money for wildlife conservation in the area.Meanwhile, scientists who have worked in Dibang Valley wrote to the environment ministry on April 22 after they came across the FAC’s sub-committee report on the Parivesh website. Umesh Sreenivasan, assistant professor at Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Nandini Velho, wildlife biologist cited scientific studies that established that tigers are present outside the Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary in Dibang Valley and they are at risk from the Etalin project.The sub-committee report submitted on April 21 was of the view that there are no tigers in the project area. Based on a Wildlife Institute of India multi seasonal study which had deployed 78 cameras during a four month survey, no tiger image was captured. “Further no pugmarks or scats of tigers during this survey were found. Therefore, the tiger presence in study area was not established,” the sub-committee report has said.But scientists pointed out that this observation contradicts FAC’s earlier observations where they have referred to an independent study by a wildlife researcher captured 12 individual tigers and 8 individual clouded leopards at various locations in Dibang Valley. “A large majority, above 60%, of the camera traps were placed outside Dibang Wildlife Sanctuary which shows that both species are not only abundant but also very widespread in the district,” FAC had noted. The project area also falls under “vital tiger area” in ministry’s documents.Velho and Sreenivasan also point out in their letter that the sub-committee failed to take note of peer-reviewed studies showing that Dibang Valley’s outstanding rich biological diversity. “The most notable are the six different colour variations of the Asian golden cat (Schedule I) which are found throughout the district. Dibang Valley hosts the highest colour variation of any wild cat species in the world, making it a globally significant area both for conservation, and to study ecological adaptability and evolution,” they write referring to a study published on the Asiatic Golden Cat in the Ecological Society of America’s ‘The Scientific Natural’ journal last year.Scientists working in the area told HT that the Idu Mishmi community (the dominant population in the valley) had written to the National Tiger Conservation Authority in 2018 about tiger presence across the valley. According to a local news report cited by United Nations on its website the Idu Mishmi Cultural & Literary Society (IMCLS) had written to the NTCA, stating that the community wishes to be consulted during deliberations on the Dibang tigers as the organization has forwarded a cultural model of tiger conservation.“Based on years of empirical research on ecological and social aspects of tigers in Dibang Valley, we strongly believe that the right strategy for Dibang tigers would be to develop a new kind of tiger reserve that is built not with fences and armed patrol guards, but around a cultural model, a culture which has so far proven to be effective in saving the tiger,” the representation had read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fac-members-are-in-favour-of-hydropower-project-in-dibang-valley-environment-ministry/story-AXEBlEsufgjKgWC85dbq6N.html
23-04-2020||India||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel looks to distribute food grains as part of MNREGA wages||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel wrote a letter to Union Minister for Rural Development Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday, requesting him for permission to distribute food grains as a part of wages to casual labourers who are working under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The casual labourers are one of the hardest-hit sections of the society because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were initially enforced on March 25 for 21 days and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3, to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak.Baghel pointed out in his letter that the wages paid under the MNREGA get directly credited to the casual labourers’ bank account directly through National Electronic Fund Management System (NEFMS).MNREGA caters to 31.5 lakh families in the state, he added. The scheme is being implemented while complying with all restrictions related to the enforcement of the ongoing lockdown. Currently, around 5 lakh casual labourers are being employed under the scheme, the CM said.Baghel suggested an alternative mode of payment such as the distribution of food grains for these casual labourers as this would help them strictly follow the social distancing norms amid the viral outbreak. Besides, the CM cited that accessibility to banks in remote parts of the state, which is also hamstrung by poor internet connectivity and hit by Left-wing extremism, is still a major logistical challenge.The CM informed Tomar that adequate food grains are available with the state government and an effective distribution mechanism is already at work. He requested the Central minister’s permission to distribute food grains among the casual labourers in a bid to ensure their food security amid the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-bhupesh-baghel-looks-to-distribute-food-grains-as-part-of-mnrega-wages/story-xR5wip9agGV6fqrx5e5NTP.html
23-04-2020||India||With 20 fresh infections, J&K tally climbs to 427||Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday reported 20 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total count in the UT to 427, officials said.Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal tweeted: “20 new cases reported today. One from Jammu division and 19 from Kashmir. Total count now 427— Jammu has 57 cases and Kashmir 370.”Officials said of the new cases, 18 were confirmed at SKIMS laboratory in Srinagar, one each at CD hospital and Udhampur command hospital.In Kashmir, nine fresh infections were reported from Shopian, four in Kupwara, three in Baramulla, two in Bandipora and one Budgam district.So far, the UT has witnessed five deaths—four from Kashmir and one from Udhampur.Kashmiri businessman tests positive, shifted to Jammu hospitalA businessman from Kashmir tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. He was among eight persons who were clandestinely trying to reach Valley in a truck but were caught in Ramban. He was shifted to the government medical college and hospital in Jammu while others have been quarantined.However, in a major lapse, the patient had visited a shop adjoining Doda district hospital where he had given his samples on April 21.Ramban district commissioner Nazim Zai Khan said, “The man along with others were headed to Kashmir in a truck. They had started from Delhi and then boarded a Kashmir bound truck but all of them were intercepted at Batote on April 16 and were kept in administrative quarantine.”According to Batote tehsildar Mehboob Khan, three policemen including a head constable of Batote Police Station and a cook, who were attending these eight men in administrative quarantine, have also been sent to a quarantine centre in Batote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-20-fresh-infections-j-k-tally-climbs-to-427/story-m6MV3e4u07gj8UtUIgJVbO.html
23-04-2020||India||Centre’s nod to egg and chicken amid Covid outbreak challenged in SC||Consumption of meat during Covid-19 pandemic despite the availability of agriculture-based food is jeopardising the existence of the entire human race, claimed a plea filed by a Jain organization before the Supreme Court seeking a blanket ban on the killing of animals, birds and fishes.The petitioner, Vishwa Jain Sangathan, challenged the central government’s March 30 decision to promote the consumption of chicken and eggs claiming that the said decision was in ignorance of the attempt by biologists across the globe to locate the ultimate source of Coronavirus.“This impugned circular dated 30.03.2020 advising people to eat meat in the midst of spread of this deadly virus is premature and has been issued when biologists all over world are still searching out its source and its interface with animals”, the petition stated.The Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying had sent a communication to all states and union territories on March 30 stating that eggs and chicken have no role in the spread of Covid-19 and their consumption should be promoted through campaigns on social media, television and radio.“The impugned circular, without any basis, succumbed to the pressure of meat lobby and without any necessity or jurisdiction called upon people to eat more and more meat”, the petitioner alleged.The petitioner also submitted that vegetarians are suffering due to the “violent barbaric eating habits of some people consuming both domestic and wild animals for mere ‘change of taste.’”The World Health Organisation, the petitioner submitted, had called upon nations to identify the role of animal species in the emergence of Covid-19. It also simultaneously urged countries to identify the risks linked to trade and consumption of potentially infected animal species.“However, before awaiting the result of this research, the impugned circular has been issued certifying chicken and meat as totally safe”, the petition said.The petitioner also cited constitutional provisions including Article 51-A(g) which makes it a constitutional duty of every citizen to “protect and improve the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers and wildlife, and to have compassion for living creatures.”The petition besides seeking empirical research on the role of animals in the emergence of Covid-19 also prayed that killing of all animals and birds including the slaughter of animals through halal should be completely stopped.“Issue an appropriate direction commanding the Union of India to frame National Policy for Welfare of Animal/Birds/Fishes, laying the road map for phasing out complete killing, torture or hurting of any other non-human species created by Nature except in case required for human survival”, the petitioner prayed.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-s-nod-to-egg-and-chicken-despite-covid-threat-challenged-in-sc/story-zY6baw1OTINqmsAX9TbHjJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Derogatory remarks against Sonia Gandhi: HP Cong leaders file FIR against Arnab Goswami||Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and Himachal Pradesh Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore on Thursday filed an FIR against Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami at Shimla Sadar Police Station for making derogatory remarks against All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Sonia Gandhi during a television show recently.Congress leaders have alleged that Arnab also tried to set off a wave of communal rights in the country during the show.They have demanded action against Goswami under Sections 117, 20B, 153, 153A, 295A, 298, 500, 504, and 505 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 66A of the IT Act.Congress leaders said that Sonia Gandhi is the supreme leader of a national party of the country whose devotion and allegiance towards the country cannot be questioned. Goswami vengefully has deliberately insulted Sonia Gandhi and has misused his powers and rights against which a stern action should be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/derogatory-remarks-against-sonia-gandhi-hp-cong-leaders-file-fir-against-arnab-goswami/story-SCRtOHkeG6yRjhp32hGD2M.html
23-04-2020||India||‘Allow construction activities in power projects’: Centre to states||The Centre has written to states advising them to allow construction activities in power projects outside municipal limits during the lockdown. The advisory comes following ministry of home affairs’ guidelines on exempted activities under the extended lockdown till May 3. The power sector has been reeling under stress since the lockdown with a dip of 30% in demand due to the absence of commercial activity in the wake of lockdown. The Centre has also directed Coal India Limited (CIL) to produce 710 million tonnes (MT) of coal as the company’s coal offtake target will also remain at 710 MT for this fiscal. Union Minister for coal Pralhad Joshi held a meeting to set the performance targets for the state-run company keeping in mind the roadmap for a post-lockdown scenario, officials said. “The demand for coal will pick up again after the coronavirus lockdown, so I have directed CIL to keep the production and offtake targets at 710 MT for financial year 2020-21 in line with its goal to achieve 1 billion tonne coal production by year 2023-24.” Pralhad Joshi said on Thursday.Railways freight loading for coal, one of its prime commodities has dipped since the lockdown. Its earnings for coal and coke dipped by 48.25% to 1,880.61 crore since the lockdown.In the letter written to the states, union territories, District Magistrates and police authorities, the power ministry said, “As per MHA’s guidelines construction of all kinds of industrial projects in rural areas, i.e., outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities have been allowed to be carried out with effect from April 20. This is also applicable for ongoing construction activities in Thermal/Hydro Power Generation Projects outside the limits of Urban Local Bodies (ULBs).”On April 15, the home ministry had allowed continuation of works in construction projects within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, where workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought from outside from April 20 onward. “However these additional activities will be operationalised by states/union territories/district administrations based on strict compliance to the existing guidelines on lockdown measures,” the guidelines had said. Movement of all personnel travelling to place of work and back in the exempted categories as per the instructions of the state/union territory was also allowed.The power ministry has also requested to allow the intrastate and interstate movement of construction materials, equipment, spares and consumables etc., for these under construction power projects. “It has been emphasised that resumption of project works at sites may be carried out while taking all mandatory precautions and norms of social distancing as well the advisories issued by Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health and Family welfare from time to time with regard to Covid-19,” the ministry said in a statement Thursday. The home ministry had in a fresh set of guidelines added exemptions including activities in farming/plantation, construction and banking sectors. Construction activities in rural areas, water supply, sanitation, and laying of power, telecom lines were also exempted from the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-construction-activities-in-power-projects-centre-to-states/story-2SYzfz0phChm8U2gPN9HBN.html
23-04-2020||India||Raj Thackeray advises Uddhav Thackeray to open liquor shops during lockdown||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Shiv Sena Raj Thackeray has demanded the opening of liquor shops to generate revenue for the cash strapped state government.Raj Thackeray in his letter to his cousin and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray stressed that the state should not be caught in moral issues and should ensure the opening of liquor shops.Raj said that it was uncertain how long this lockdown will continue. “In such times, by keeping open the wine shops, the state will start getting a bit of revenue. By keeping the wine shops open does not mean we are catering to the needs or looking after alcohol consumers. The only reason behind this is to start the process of income flow into the shrinking revenue of the state,” said Raj.He justified his stance saying that the state generates a liquor duty of Rs 1250 crore monthly which translates into Rs 14,000 crore annually and has already lost a substantial amount in this lockdown period.He further said that the state should not be caught in moral issues as there is no liquor ban in the state. He signed off the letter saying the state should seriously consider his plea in order to become economically reliant in such an environment.Earlier actor Rishi Kapoor had also demanded that the wine shops be kept open in view of depression and uncertainty all around and also outlined that the Government desperately needs money.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) regretted the stance taken by the MNS. “Right now the priority should be food and medical care for the poor, as well as to ensure that migrants are sent home safely. As usuaal, Raj Thackeray focuses on non issues. Now it is about liquor, which is very sad,” rued Priti Sharma Menon, AAP National spokesperson.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-thackeray-advises-uddhav-thackeray-to-open-liquor-shops-during-lockdown/story-VbjLYrQAlSlMw9LPYnGQ4M.html
23-04-2020||India||India to get lead role at WHO next month amid global Covid-19 crisis||India will move into a leadership role at the World Health Organisation (WHO) headquarters after the annual meeting of the global health body next month, people familiar with the development told Hindustan Times.The appointment of India’s nominee as chairperson of the WHO’s executive board will come at a time the world and the United Nations agency is struggling to stop the highly contagious Sars-Cov-2 pathogen from spreading.The Covid-19 pandemic has already killed more than 180,000 people worldwide and infected 2.6 million, forcing countries to go into lockdown mode that could cost the world upwards of $ 1 trillion this year.India will assume the lead position on 22 May at the executive board’s first meeting after the truncated World Health Assembly conference. India replaces Japan which will complete its one-year-term at the crucial job in May, diplomats in Delhi and Geneva confirmed to HT.That the chairperson’s position will come to India was decided last year when the WHO’s South-East Asia group unanimously proposed New Delhi to the executive board for a three-year-term.The group also nominated India for the chairperson’s post held by rotation for one year among regional groups. That decision was made long before the world woke up to the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen that originated in China’s Wuhan and spread rapidly across the world.World Health Assembly session truncatedThe World Health Assembly (WHA) that will formally elect the executive board members to fill vacancies is proposed to be held on 18 May. But it will be a much shorter version than had been proposed earlier with 60 agenda items. Now, there will be only three.Apart from the opening of the assembly session, the WHA will have an address by Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus that will be focused on the Covid-19 preparedness and response. The assembly will then move to formally elect the executive board members and chair including India.WHO’s Executive Board chairman positionAs head of the 34-member Executive Board, India’s nominee would have to work closely with Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. The board, one diplomat familiar with the working of the WHO said, after all is mandated to implement the decisions and policies laid down by the World Health Assembly.For all practical purposes, this implies that the Director General of the WHO has to get the chairperson on board for all important decisions, the diplomat said.India will also be a member of the programme budget and administration committee, replacing Indonesia.At the WHO, a government official said, India is on the side of transparency and accountability in the Covid-19 outbreak and reforms in the WHO.WHO Executive BoardBy virtue of being on the executive board for three years, India will also have a say in the shortlisting of the next WHO director general when Tedros Adhanom’s five-year-tenure ends in May 2021.The 34-member executive board is mandated to interview the candidates to decide who will stay in the running and face the election at the health assembly..Earlier, the executive board used to have the last word on the appointment of the WHO’s Director General for all practical purposes. It would select the director general and send the nomination to the general assembly for formal vetting.But this process was changed and the executive board was told to whittle down the list of candidates. This short list went to the annual ministerial gathering of WHO’s 194 member states, World Health Assembly, for election among the top three contenders by a secret ballot.This change followed stinging criticism that the previous WHO director general Margaret Chan had to face over the agency’s sluggish response to the devastating west Africa Ebola outbreak that spread across one of the world’s poorest regions in 2013 and killed 11,000, according to news agency Reuters.Tedros Adhanom, and the Covid-19 criticismQuite like his predecessor, Tedros Adhanom has also been facing a barrage of criticism for the WHO’s initial handling of Covid-19. Unlike the Ebola that had impacted Africa, Covid-19 has hit the world’s richest countries. The United States is the hardest-hit country, with more than 46,500 coronavirus deaths and 840,000 infections.His critics - US President Donald Trump tops this list - accuse the WHO chief of playing down the disease at China’s behest and giving the world and the US, flawed advice.It has been insinuated that Tedros Adhanom had allowed himself to be guided by China’s hand because Beijing had backed his candidature in 2017. Tedros Adhanom has rejected the allegations as well as suggestions that the WHO was slow to react.Tedros Adhanom was elected in 2017 at the end of an election campaign that, according to the Guardian, was dogged by mud-slinging and spin. David Nabarro, professor of global health at Imperial College who had served as UN envoy on Ebola, was his prime rival. The United States had backed David Nabarro, who was appointed as the WHO DG’s special envoy on Covid-19 in February.WHO’s Covid-19 outlookTedros Adhanom has declared that the global coronavirus crisis will not end any time soon.“Make no mistake: we have a long way to go. This virus will be with us for a long time,” he said.“Most countries are still in the early stages of their epidemics. And some that were affected early in the pandemic are now starting to see a resurgence in cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-get-lead-role-at-who-next-month-amid-global-covid-19-crisis/story-8DfVkLrQdoYYjQFns0mvUJ.html
23-04-2020||India||South Kashmir’s Pulwama district becomes Covid-19 free||Pulwama in south Kashmir has become the first district in the valley to be declared coronavirus-free as all three patients have recovered from the infection, according to a bulletin issued by the Union territory’s administration on Thursday.However, officials are worried about the increasing number of cases in the neighbouring district Shopian.Three Covid-19 cases were reported in Pulwama from two villages – Khaigam and Chandpora. The first case was detected on March 10 and two more cases were reported earlier this month. Since then, no case has been reported from the district.Pulwama district hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Jameel said, “All three coronavirus patients in Pulwama district have now recovered from the infection. The patients who were undergoing treatment at SKIMS have been discharged from the hospital.”Pulwama district magistrate said that exact field status shall be known once the door-to-door survey is completed in these areas which will commence from Friday. “The community needs to understand that it is very premature to draw any inference at this stage and appealed the people for universalisation of usage of face masks and adoption of safety measures like social distancing and sanitisation,” he said adding that rapid antibody testing may start soon at an intensive scale when instructions are received in this regard from the government.The administration is keeping a strict vigil on public movement in the areas bordering Shopian and Budgam where many villages have been declared as red zones. Shopian has the highest number of positive cases in the district at 46, of which six have recovered.The major roads connecting these districts are on a regular guard and villages Heerpora, Beminpora, Meemendar, Palpora, Sindishirmal, Kanipora, Sedow and Kanidajan, Palar and Batpora have been declared as red zones in the two districts.Pulwama’s chief medical officer Dr Haseena Mir in a statement said that more than a hundred people are under quarantine and continuous testing is being done to rule out any positive Covid-19 case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/south-kashmir-s-pulwama-district-becomes-covid-19-free/story-OKaHiTgqHPCeq7ectqp9CM.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19: India’s coronavirus cases climb to 21,700; 686 dead||India’s total number of coronavirus cases climbed to 21,700 on Thursday with the number of deaths at 686, according to data from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. A total of 1229 new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the last 24 hours.At least 34 people have died due to the deadly infection since Wednesday.A day earlier on Wednesday, India had breached the 20,000 mark with 20,471 Covid-19 positive patients in the country. On April 14, the number of coronavirus cases had hit the 10,000 mark amid a nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the disease.ALSO READ | Coronavirus growth in India linear, not exponential, much better than US, UK, says govtA total of 4,325 patients across states have recovered from the deadly infection so far and have been discharged. One person has migrated. At present, India has 16,689 active coronavirus cases.Among the states, Maharashtra is the worst-affected state with the maximum number of Covid-19 patients, followed by Gujarat and national capital Delhi coming in third.Though the total number of coronavirus cases soared to 21,700 on Thursday, nearly 20 per cent Covid-19 patients have recovered so far in the country, according to health ministry data. . This takes the recovery percentage of Covid-19 patients positive to 19.89 per cent.India currently has 12 districts that have not reported any fresh case in the last 28 days or more. “There are now 78 districts in 23 states/UTs, which have not reported any fresh cases during the last 14 days,” a health ministry official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-india-s-coronavirus-cases-climb-to-21-700-686-dead/story-kzRTm37YhPhvOt2wv8Ux2H.html
23-04-2020||India||Hunger, disease and despair marks Rohingyas lives during lockdown in Hyderabad||Till the other day, it was the fear of being deported back to the strife-torn Myanmar that was haunting the thousands of Muslims settled in the old city of Hyderabad, following the talk of enforcement of National Register of Citizens (NRC) across the country in the name of weeding out illegal immigrants.Now, their concern has shifted to surviving the national lockdown triggered by Covid-19 pandemic.Living in very sub-human conditions in make-shift huts made of tin sheets and thatched roofs that are covered with polythene sheets in the slums of Balapur, Hafeez Baba Nagar, Pahadishareef, Kesavagiri and Chandrayangutta, nearly 6,000 Rohingya Muslims have been leading pathetic lives for the last seven to eight years, with the fear of being deported to their country constantly haunting them.“Forget about going back to our country, now, our worry is how to feed our families. There is no work to do, as everything is closed. We cannot even step out of our settlement because the entire area has been barricaded by the police. Whatever little money we had earned last month, has now been exhausted,” lamented 42-year old Fareed Alam, father of three daughters and a son from Hafeez Baba Nagar.Most of the Rohingyas, who had migrated to Hyderabad in groups between 2011-13, have been eking out their living as rag pickers, rod bending workers, cleaners at local Irani cafes, bike mechanics, construction workers, and labourers in small industries.Some of them, like the 36-year old Noor Basha, travel to far off districts to earn a living for the family. “I had been working in a stone crushing plant at Velgatur in Jagityal district about three months ago and my family is stuck up in the settlement near Balapur in Hyderabad. Now, I have no work here as the plant is closed; nor can I go back to Hyderabad, about 230 km away from this place due to lockdown and stringent police restrictions,” Basha said.While he is surviving on the food donated by some locals in Jagitial, his family, comprising his wife and two children, is virtually starving. “My 12-year old son is suffering from an eye infection and I have no money to send to the family for his treatment. He, too, is not in a position to go the hospital because of the lockdown,” Basha said.Thanks to some NGO volunteers, these Rohingyas could get some groceries a few days ago. “We have distributed packets comprising rice, edible oil, wheat flour, dal, chilli, onion, salt and sugar, apart from hygiene kits comprising sanitisers, hand washes and masks to these families in the first week of April. We hope that would suffice for a month,” said Vikas Gora, deputy director of Save the Children, a popular NGO, which has been working in collaboration with United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) for the rehabilitation of Rohingya refugees.“In any conflict or disease outbreak, children and women are the worst victims and our effort is to reach out to them to ensure food security and child protection. We have also been conducting COVID awareness campaigns amongst the refugees using audio and video messages,” Gora said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHowever, there are several Rohingyas, who say they haven’t got any help even from the NGO activists. “Most of the distribution of food and other essentials is being done for the people on the roadside. We are in an interior location and nobody has come to our settlements because of the restrictions,” a Rohingya Muslim, who preferred anonymity, complained.Gora, however, said his NGO had reached out to the maximum number of families and done door-to-door distribution of groceries and other material. “We shall cover all families in the coming days,” he said.While the Rohingyas have still been facing the stigma of “being outsiders” settled in India, the episode of last month’s Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin has cast a shadow on them as the police and health department authorities started probing whether any of these Rohingyas had attended the Jamaat.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Enquiries revealed that only four Rohingyas attended the Jamaat conference and they along with their close contacts had been kept at a quarantine centre at Rajendranagar on the city outskirts. We shall not allow them into the settlement again, unless they produce a certificate that they got completely cured,” Fareed Alam said.The Hyderabad police, too, are extending all possible help to the NGOs to carry the relief material to the Rohingya camps. “We appreciate the support of the Telangana government and various departments in respecting the rights of the refugees,” Gora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hunger-disease-and-despair-marks-rohingyas-lives-during-lockdown-in-hyderabad/story-HkTb0EKbC3Llg0DdiysQTN.html
23-04-2020||India||Delhi gallery sells works of masters, raises Rs 1 crore for Covid-19 relief||The DAG, a modern and contemporary gallery, has raised Rs 1 crore for Covid-19 relief work by selling 51 works by masters, including Nandlal Bose, MF Husain, Krishen Khanna, Jamini Roy and Krishna Reddy, among others. The amount will be sent to either the PM CARES fund or the Chief Minister’s relief fund, depending on the buyer’s discretion.Among the 51 works — all owned by the gallery —were oils, acrylics on canvas, serigraphs, works on paper and board, as well as a photograph and a sculpture. The online fixed sale which began April 20 was slated to end on April 30, but all the works were sold within a couple of days, DAG managing director and CEO Ashish Anand said. The works were all priced lower by between 25-35% to facilitate the sale, Anand said. In all 32 buyers picked up the works, which ranged between Rs 50,000 and Rs 500,000.HT spoke to Anand regarding the sale, and the pandemic’s likely impact on the Indian art market. Read edited excerpts.Q. What did you think about the sale, as it happened during the pandemic?A. It was a fixed price sale, not an auction. So the sale was a combination of the quality of work and competitive pricing and also because all of us have been hit by Covid, and we were in a mood to contribute. Q. Let’s unpack the phrase, competitive pricing. Are these the prices that would have been fixed if we hadn’t been hit by a pandemic?A. Our gallery prices are higher. So for example, if we’re selling the Nandlal Bose for Rs 250,000, probably at the gallery, it would have been priced about Rs 350,000. So we also brought the prices down to make it lucrative for anyone to buy. The decision became so much easier for people, as they would have realised they are getting a good deal and the money is going towards the efforts of nation building. The prices of all works were reduced in the range of 25-35%. All the work sold in the first 48 hours.Q. What, according to you, is the impact the pandemic could have on the art market?A. In the short term, there will be a lull in the market. But it will gain its momentum. A lot of business, in the art market too, will move online. People will start having virtual exhibitions, online viewings, and that means a larger base will view the works... and the market will expand. How many people come and view exhibitions in a brick and mortar gallery? A handful. Art is an underpenetrated asset class. There are not more than 2,000 buyers who buy art in India, and the market is less than Rs 1,500 crore. That’s small for a country like India. Q. How would DAG pivot itself in the future, if as you predict, the market expands, the base of buyers increase? We’re also looking at a recession in the near future.A. People have lost a lot of wealth across all the asset classes. Temporarily yes, the impact [on the art market] will be visible. There will be a temporary lull. I think it boils down to democratising art. If more and more people get involved, galleries do virtual exhibitions, more people start looking at art as an asset class, I don’t see any impact on prices. Art remains isolated from impact of this kind because the market is very small. When you have such a small number of buyers, the prices may come down — it’s an immediate shock — but the only way is up. It should be the first asset class to pick up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-gallery-sells-works-of-masters-raises-rs-1-crore-for-covid-19-relief/story-ZhH8CuzVuaJmJKkJ4A6ZIJ.html
23-04-2020||India||World Bank approves ₹585 crore for Himachal roads project||The World Bank has approved $82 million (₹585 crore) for State Roads Transformation Project (HPSRTP) for Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Thursday. While presiding over a review meeting of the public works department here, Thakur said the project envisages upgradation of major roads as well as modernisation of the department. He said works of 45km Barotiwala-Baddi-Sain-Ramshehar; 14.5km Dadol-Ladraurr road; 28km Mandi- Riwalsar-Kalkhar; and 3.5km Raghunathpura-Mandi- Harpura-Bharari will be undertaken with first tranche of project funds. Works related to construction and maintenance of road projects in the state have been adversely affected due to the lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, he said, stressing on efforts to fix renewed targets taking a realistic view of the situation. The CM also emphasised on optimal utilisation of locally available labour so that work on ongoing projects could be expedited. “The state government has decided to allow inter-district movement of trucks carrying construction material from mining sites to project areas,” Thakur said, adding that the government will soon consider opening of hardware shops so that works do not hamper for want of construction material. He said the government will also consider inter-district movement of road construction machinery to the sites. The government will also contemplate to allow movement of concerned field staff as jurisdiction of national highway division was in more than one district, he said, adding that special thrust should be made on maintenance and repair of roads. “Roads reflect the developmental picture of any State thus special emphasis should be laid on their periodic repair and local labour can be deployed for such activities,” he said. During the meeting, it came to fore that a target of construction of 900km road length was fixed for the year 2019-20 but only 800-km was achieved as works were halted due to Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown. Also, construction of 4,960-km roads has been fixed under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna (PMGSY) for the year 2020-21 for which financial allocation of ₹1,666 crore had been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-bank-approves-585-crore-for-himachal-roads-project/story-E1oGU1uqRKzbgP3Pff5HQP.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Quarantine, strict lockdown only way forward for Mumbai’s hotspots: BMC||With almost 60% of Mumbai’s total Covid-19 positive patients reported from 7 of the 24 wards in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is trying tooth and nail to bring down the positive cases in these few wards, in order to stabilise Mumbai’s Covid-19 figures. The hotspots for the Covid-19 outbreak in the city are Worli, Dharavi, Byculla and Mazgaon, Kurla, Wadala and Andheri west. As of April 21, 2045 Covid-19 positive cases were reported from wards corresponding to these areas, of the total 3,445 cases reported in Mumbai till that day. A senior civic officer said, “We are closely monitoring our strategy for these few wards. Even though the same kinds of measures are taken across Mumbai to curb the outbreak, the measures in these wards are more intensified.”Another officer added, “The good news is, that shows us we are doing something right, is the new positive cases progressively discovered daily, in these wards are among people who were already institutionally quarantined by BMC. These people were quarantined as risk contacts after the first Covid-19 cases were discovered in the respective areas. There are very few stray surprise cases outside of those already being monitored by BMC.”The solution for BMC going forward is quarantining more people who are contacts of Covid-19 positive cases. As of now, there are 245 type one Covid-19 care centres (for asymptomatic but positive cases) with a bed capacity of 16,000. There are another 79 type two Covid-19 care centres (high risk but non-positive cases) with 9000 beds. BMC will scale up the number of quarantine centres for Covid-19 suspects or asymptomatic positive persons soon - today itself, and an announcement will be made this evening, an officer said. Another method of containing the outbreak in these areas is monitoring human movement with drone images. “We are flying drones every day, all the time, and carefully inspecting feed from them for any crowding, lathering, or even one or two stray humans walking around. Police or ward staff is immediately intimated, and these people are moved indoors. Food packets are delivered on time to ensure people are not prompted to venture out of home for any food.” Kiran Dighavkar, Assistant Municipal Commissioner of G north ward (Dharavi, Mahim and Dadar), said, “We are increasing our quarantine facilities and ensuring that our hotspot areas and containment zones have a regular supply of food and medicine requirements in order to make sure that people in these areas do not step out of their homes. There are 49 containment zones in G north ward, of which 37 are in Dharavi alone.”As of Wednesday, there are 817 containment zones in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-quarantine-strict-lockdown-only-way-forward-for-mumbai-s-hotspots-bmc/story-Idxd6dINla8qTIuR2ZTncK.html
23-04-2020||India||Coronavirus growth in India linear, not exponential, much better than US, UK, says govt||The government on Thursday said that the coronavirus growth in India has been more or less linear and not exponential due to the success of certain strategies and the country had fared much better than developed countries like the United States and the UK on this count. Centre also noted that the country’s recovery rate of covid cases has been rising steadily to reach close to 20% with 4,257 people out of total 21,393 infections have been cured so far including 388 who were cured yesterday.An analysis of India’s containment strategy was presented during the daily briefing by the officials of health and home ministry, which was also attended by C. K Mishra. Mishra is the chairman of the second of the 11 empowered groups formed by the government to channelize country’s response to the contagion.The government officials pointed out another positive development seen in the addition of eight new names to the list of districts across the country that have not reported any new coronavirus case in the last 14 days. The list of such districts has now swelled to 78, said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.He added that a total of 1409 additional positive coronavirus cases were reported in the last 24 hours taking the total number of active cases to 16,454.Mishra said that the last 30 days of national lockdown indicate that India’s containment efforts have been successful to a large extent.“We have been able to cut transmissions, minimize the spread and increase the doubling rate. We have also been able to consistently ramp up our testing and have utilized this time to prepare ourselves for the future challenges the virus may present,” he said. He added that the percentage of positive cases vis-a-viz the number of tests conducted has stayed almost the same during the last 30 days in India which suggested that there was no exponential jump in infections.“The growth of the virus has been more or less linear and not exponential due to certain strategies that have helped India contain the spread to a particular level,” said Mishra.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19It is important to note that both the number of tests and positive cases have risen in the last month.The official said that India has far less number of positive cases per 5 lakh tests done compared to Italy, UK, US and Spain. He added that South Korea was one major country that had done even better than India on that parameter.Shedding further light on the containment strategy, the government official said that India had successfully decentralized its response to the virus by roping in the private sector and empowering districts to be at the forefront of disease fighting.“We have expanded the testing base, expanded the test base and we have mobilized all resources in the public and private domain. We have decentralized our response to coronavirus by mobilizing the private and the private sector. We will expand our testing further to a much higher level in the days to come,” the official said.He added that the government’s first strategic goal is to ensure that people don’t have to visit hospitals for treatment of coronavirus and it is achieved through social distancing, lockdown and taking care of the elderly.The government’s second goal, he said, is to create enough infrastructure and health facility for every person who has to visit hospital for Covid care. For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-growth-in-india-linear-not-exponential-much-better-than-us-uk-says-govt/story-N39scsza6Ci51cBVLKLIwJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Rajasthan only state with 6 districts with more than 100 Covid-19 cases each||Rajasthan has become the only one with six districts that have more than 100 cases of Covid-19, according to the government’s data.In Maharashtra, which has the highest number of Covid-19 infections in the country, only four districts have more than 100 cases.The number of Covid-19 infections in Tonk and Ajmer district crossed 100 on Wednesday. Tonk now has 115 cases and Ajmer 104. Jaipur has the highest number of cases with 737, Jodhpur has 307, Kota has 118 and Bharatpur 103 cases of Covid-19. By Thursday afternoon, Rajasthan had recorded 1890 cases of Covid-19.Follow coronavirus live updates here.From detecting four cases in a day, on April 1, in Tonk, the number of cases increased constantly thereafter and crossed 100 on Wednesday, but in Ajmer, which recorded its first case on March 29, there was a sudden spurt in the last two days with over 75 cases.Kota and Bharatpur had also witnessed a sudden increase in number of case. The education hub, Kota reported its first case on April 6. Four days later, 14 cases were reported and on April 15, 34 cases were reported. Similarly, in Bharatpur, the first case was reported on April 1, but sharp increase started from April 17.Rajasthan health Minister Raghu Sharma said more people testing positive is not a concern but it is helping to get the real picture of the pandemic.“Under a strategy it was decided to conduct maximum number of tests across the state. Our testing capacity was zero on March 2, which we have increased to 4,700 per day and in coming time will take it to 10,000 in a day. Next in agenda is developing testing facility at all district headquarters,” he saidDespite the rising number of positive cases in the state, Rajasthan has one of the lowest mortality rates in the country amongst the similar situated state. According to the health department data, Rajasthan with 1890 cases and 27 deaths has a mortality rate of 1.43%, and stands at 15th position after states such as Punjab, Jharkhand, MP, UP and Delhi.The highest mortality rate of 8.33% has been recorded in Meghalaya, which recorded 12 cases and a death; and lowest in Kerala of 0.68%, the state has recorded 438 positive cases and three deaths.Data shows that around 27 districts across 10 states in the country have more than 100 cases, of which maximum six are from Rajasthan . Other states with maximum affected districts are Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh with four districts each, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu with three each, Madhya Prahesh, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala two each and Telangna and Karnataka one each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-only-state-with-6-districts-with-more-than-100-covid-19-cases-each/story-11GQ5gZFIctIZ3XmDukf1I.html
23-04-2020||India||Blood shortage for Thalassemic children in Jharkhand looms during Covid lockdown||At least 560 children from across Jharkhand suffering from Thalassemia, a genetic blood disorder which requires regular blood transfusion, are staring at a possible shortage of blood since donations have dried up due to the lockdown.Atul Gera, founder of Life Savers, a voluntary group which organises blood donation camps for a daycare centre associated with a Ranchi hospital said that “they could not afford not to get donations done, not even for a day”.Since the lockdown, the group has only managed to get 248 units of blood through six outdoor donation drives. Before the lockdown, they would have received at least 450 units.Thalassemia is a genetic blood disorder characterised by less haemoglobin and fewer red blood cells in the body than is required. The delay lowers the haemoglobin levels leaving the patient weak and prone to damage to other vital organs. Therefore, thalassemic persons need regular blood transfusion.The daycare centre started in July 2018 at the Ranchi Sadar Hospital. Life Savers, a sister concern of the Jharkhand Thalassemia Foundation, organizes blood donation camps for this centre. Gera said that there are an estimated 5000 thalassemic children across the state.While the children are currently getting blood from the hospital’s blood bank, and other arrangements have been made, the decrease in blood donation is a worrying trend even in a post-lockdown scenario.“Getting donors is the primary and critical requirement to run this centre. In order to cater to the needs of all the registered children, we need at least around 750 units of blood donated every month. It’s a challenge as even in normal times we are only able to get around 450 donations a month. Since the past one month, we are down to around 250 units,” Gera said.The hospital has a blood bank, but Life Savers organises outdoor blood donation camps in the city, which are the main source of donations. Before the lockdown, they would hold camps every day; since March 25, however, only about six have taken place so far.For Coronavirus Live Updates“The outdoor camps which we conduct with different organisations, residential societies are the main source of donations because people are generally reluctant due to various reasons to travel all the way to the blood bank,” Gera said.At present, most of the donations are being done at the indoor facility in the hospital. Donors are given masks and sanitisers and asked to maintain distance from each other.Ranchi district civil surgeon, Dr. BB Prasad, said though there has been a dip in blood donations, the hospital is managing by acquiring blood from other hospitals.“It’s a new facility but we make sure that requirements are met. We send required blood from RIMS (Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences),” he said.Special arrangements have been made to ensure blood donation drives continue to take place: An e-pass is issued by the blood bank and sent to the donors through WhatsApp. The donors are required to carry an identity proof along with the e-pass, valid for two hours, to establish their identity.In case any outdoor camp is held, their details are also posted on social media tagging the administration, police authorities and concerned authorities so that they are in the loop. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“Donors are checked at various points but luckily no one has complained of being stopped till now,” Gera said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blood-shortage-for-thalassemic-children-in-jharkhand-looms-during-covid-lockdown/story-thMjFjlTyACnhiPoxN7ddK.html
23-04-2020||India||Dearness allowance hike for government staff paused till July 2021, no arrears||The Centre on Thursday held back a revision of the dearness allowance paid to all Union government employees for 18 months and proposed a similar move by state governments to collectively save about Rs 1.20 lakh crore to fund the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, two officials with direct knowledge of the matter said.The department of expenditure, an arm of the finance ministry, on Thursday issued an order freezing dearness allowance (DA) payments to central government employees and dearness relief (DR) to pensioners until July 2021, citing the “ crisis arising out of Covid-19”. “However, Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief at current rates will continue to be paid,” the order said.DA and DR will be restored prospectively after June 30, 2021, but no arrears for the period from January 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021 shall be paid,the order said.Thursday’s decision will save Rs 37,530 crore, the officials mentioned above said, requesting anonymity. To fund the increasing expenditure on Covid-19 testing and treatment, and social spending, amid a decline in revenue caused by the lockdown enforced to stop the virus’s spread, the central government has put in place several austerity measures including a 30% cut in the salaries of ministers and MPs, and suspension of the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS). President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu had opted for pay cuts soon after.State governments have also ordered pay cuts to trim spending. The Union government is separately working on a similar proposal for the state government employees that would save about Rs 82,566 crore. “Normally state governments follow the Central government’s order on DA and DR at a time when a major increase on health and welfare expenditure is anticipated,” one of the officials cited above said.A senior official in Bihar government said requesting anonymity, “Cash-strapped states have no option but to follow the directive of the Centre. But, some states may give DA to their staff if they have surplus funds. Normally, states follow the Centre’s template on this matter.”The Union cabinet had last month decided to raise the dearness allowance (DA) by 4 percentage points, from the existing 17% to 21% of basic pay or pension of employees to compensate for a price rise.But formal orders on the DA increase weren’t issued after Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered the national lockdown within a fortnight of the cabinet’s decision.The Centre is also considering cutting one day’s salary of its staff every month for 12 monthsThe government announced a Rs 1.7 lakh crore welfare package on March 26 to provide immediate relief to the poor because of the lockdown. While the government will continue to provide required help to farmers, daily wagers, and micro and small industries, it will also take some regulatory and fiscal measures to boost the economy and that would require a vast amount of money, the two officials mentioned above said.According to industry estimates, a Rs 16 lakh crore economic stimulus package, inclusive of the Rs 1.7 lakh crore already announced, is needed to boost the economy so that millions of jobs and livelihoods are protected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dearness-allowance-hike-for-government-staff-paused-till-july-2021-no-arrears/story-j4uPyzNGi73vzHu31Ab9AO.html
23-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rajnath Singh unveils DRDO-powered mobile lab to speed up Covid-19 screening and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajnath Singh unveils DRDO-powered mobile lab to speed up Covid-19 screeningDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday unveiled, via video conference, a mobile virology research and diagnostics laboratory (MVRDL) that will speed up coronavirus disease screening and other Covid-19-related research and development activities, the defence ministry said in a statement. Read more. Maharashtra deputy CM seeks trains for migrant workers, cites law and orderMaharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal seeking special trains to take migrant workers home as he fears a law and border problem. Read more. Centre freezes dearness allowance till July next yearThe Centre on Thursday announced that additional dearness allowance (DA) due to the central government employees from January 1, 2020, will not be paid due to the Covid-19 crisis. It also announced the freezing of dearness relief to pensioners from January 1. Read more. ‘Had stuffed up for RCB two years ago’: Shane Watson recalls redemptive ton for CSK in 2018 finalFormer Australia batsman Shane Watson on Thursday recalled his match-winning century for Chennai Super Kings in the Indian Premier League 2018 final. Read more. Anil Kapoor has told Abhishek Bachchan ‘jo jo films daddy nahi karenge, send them to me’Actor Anil Kapoor has found an interesting way to source roles in films. In a recent interview with Film Companion’s Anupama Chopra, Anil shared how he has roped in Abhishek Bachchan for the job. Read more. Bill Gates lauds India’s Covid-19 tracker Aarogya Setu: Here’s how you use the appMicrosoft co-founder and billionaire Bill Gates has praised the Indian government and PM Narendra Modi for the recently introduced Aarogya Setu app. Read more. Living a Zoom life? Here are some relatable memes that’ll make you LOLOnline video conferencing apps are popular instruments of communication for many these days. Among these apps is Zoom which not only helps people get on endless video calls, it’s also providing people with something else, hilarious memes. Read more. Deepika Padukone, Anushka Sharma, Katrina Kaif: Throwback to the best looks created by SabyasachiFrom classic printed sarees to richly embroidered lehengas, from elegant ethnic suits to co-ords, the designer’s design narrative is an ode to nostalgia, heritage and classic art traditions. Read more. IIT Hyderabad’s CfHE invites applications for fully-paid fellowship program, check detailsCenter for Healthcare Entrepreneurship (CfHE), Indian Institute of Technology- Hyderabad on Thursday invited applications for the Fifth Batch of its fully-paid Fellowship program. Read more. Mumbai to modify anaesthesia machines into ventilators for mild Covid-19 symptomsMaharashtra recorded 431 cases in the last 24 hours. The state’s total is now 5649. The BMC has decided to convert anaesthesia machines into ventilators to save time in procurement. These machines will be used as oxygen supply aids for Covid-19 patients. A panel of anaesthetics experts recommended this solution to the BMC Commissioner on Wednesday. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rajnath-singh-unveils-drdo-powered-mobile-lab-to-speed-up-covid-19-screening-and-all-the-latest-news/story-OE5YK9RS5i6FtuJEelYE7L.html
23-04-2020||India||Cooperation between Centre, states key to tackle Covid-19: Former PM Manmohan Singh||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Thursday said the success of the ongoing lockdown restrictions would be judged on the country’s ability to tackle coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Singh made the remark while addressing the Congress Working Committee (CWC) through video-conferencing, while highlighting the key to success in the combat against Covid-19 would be the cooperation between the Centre and states.“It is necessary to focus on a number of issues in this fight and that will depend upon the availability of resources,” added Singh.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageFormer Congress president Rahul Gandhi said the issue of migrant workers needs to be addressed on a priority basis. “Lockdown is a pause button. As a nation, we need to think of a transition from a complete lockdown to lockdown only in hotspots and commencement of activities in green zones,” he added.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said the Centre was yet to release Rs 4,400 crore of Goods and Service Tax (GST) dues. “In place of 100,000 rapid testing kits, we’ve received only 10,000 and that too of Chinese make. Their authenticity is yet to be tested,” he added.His Rajasthan counterpart Ashok Gehlot said his government had repeatedly emphasised the need for rapid testing but unfortunately the test kits turned out to be below par.“There is an urgent need for centralised procurement of kits and ventilators in a bid to assure their availability, quality, and quantity. We gave an advance pension to 80 lakh pensioners. We transferred Rs 2,500 each among the poor and destitute. We’re also distributing 10 kilograms of wheat to each household,” he added.Gehlot said the fight against Covid-19 could never be won unless the Centre provides financial support to states. “Normalcy can’t be restored even after lockdown restrictions are lifted till the Centre announces a comprehensive financial package for states,” he added.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said out of 36 Covid-19 positive cases in his state, all but eight have recovered. “We’ve given rations for two months (April-May) ration of 35 kilograms free to 56 lakh families (2.44 crore people). We’ll provide free ration for June as well. The 35-kg free ration includes rice, gram, jaggery, and salt,” he said.Baghel expressed concern about students and migrant labourers from Chhattisgarh, who are still stuck in other states because of the ongoing lockdown restrictions. “There needs to be a policy by the central government for the return of migrant workers and students. Unfortunately, the Centre is silent on this,” he added.Baghel also demanded financial assistance from the Centre. “How will we win the fight against Covid-19 unless the Centre gives us financial aid?” he said.Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy said his government has given Rs 2,000 to every household, Rs 5,000 to every farmer, additional Rs 2,000 to every construction worker, and Rs 10,000 to every woman self-help groups from its own kitty.“The Centre hasn’t given the Rs 600 crore of GST compensation and Rs 2,200 crore of the finance commission’s share to us. It hasn’t given any assistance to us. How will a state survive in times of crisis? We’re not enemies. We’ve to act and work together,” he added.Senior leader Ahmed Patel said the conditions to fight Covid-19 were not satisfactory. “The Centre needs to find solutions to the financial crisis being faced by all states. Our doctors and health workers are also facing several challenges,” he added.Former finance minister P Chidambaram said the finances of states were in dire straits and they need urgent assistance. “The health infrastructure also needs to be addressed and a humane policy formulated for the return of migrant workers,” he added.Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said crude oil prices have fallen to rock bottom yet the Centre refuses to give any relief to the common man. “The Congress must aggressively take up the issue,” he said.Former defence minister AK Antony said, “It’s our responsibility to act as watchdogs and ensure course correction. A large number of Indians are stuck abroad. They must be permitted to return home after they undergo tests. State governments must be consulted and special flights arranged to evacuate them. Why isn’t the Centre doing so? he asked.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra said compassion is the key to fight the pandemic. “There should be no hostility towards Covid-19 patients. We need to permit migrant workers to return to their homes after they undergo tests and take due precautions,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cooperation-between-centre-states-key-to-tackle-covid-19-former-pm-manmohan-singh/story-Rdn6BkOckmWOpNZN3mnPlL.html
23-04-2020||India||Rajnath Singh unveils DRDO-powered mobile lab to speed up Covid-19 screening||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday unveiled, via video conference, a mobile virology research and diagnostics laboratory (MVRDL) that will speed up coronavirus disease screening and other Covid-19-related research and development activities, the defence ministry said in a statement.The MVRDL has been developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, Hyderabad-based Employees’ State Insurance Corporation hospital and private industry.The DRDO is among the several government agencies that have been at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus disease. It has developed several products to combat the pandemic, including ventilators, PPE kits, large area sanitisation solutions and Covid-19 sample collection kiosks.Singh appreciated the setting up of the ‘Biosafety Level 2 and Level 3’ laboratory in a record time of 15 days (in the ordinary course, it could have taken six months), the ministry said in a statement. The minister said the testing facility, capable of processing more than 1,000 samples a day, would strengthen the country’s capabilities to fight the coronavirus disease.“The lab is the combination of a BSL 3 lab and a BSL 2 lab essential to carry out the activities. The labs are built as per World Health Organisation and Indian Council of Medical Research biosafety standards to meet international guidelines. The system has built-in electrical controls, LAN, telephone cabling and CCTV,” the ministry said.Singh said the government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had taken a raft of timely measures because of which the spread of Covid-19 in the country was far less compared to many other countries. He also appreciated the contribution of the armed forces in the fight against Covid-19, with special reference to setting up of quarantine centres, providing healthcare facilities and evacuating Indian nationals from other countries.The video conference launch of the facility was attended by minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy, minister of state for labour and employment Santosh Kumar Gangwar and DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy.“The mobile lab will help carry out Covid-19 diagnosis, virus culturing for drug screening, convalescent plasma derived therapy, comprehensive immune profiling of Covid-19 patients towards vaccine development and early clinical trials specific to Indian population. The lab screens 1000-2000 samples per day. This lab can be positioned anywhere in the country,” the statement said.The DRDO acknowledged the contributions of M/s iCOMM for providing containers, M/s iClean for designing and building the BSL-2 and BSL-3 labs in a time-bound manner and M/s Hi Tech Hydraulics for providing the base frame.The DRDO last week shifted a key testing facility for carrying out quality checks on personal protective equipment (PPE) from Gwalior to New Delhi to cut down delays and ensure faster delivery of the safety gear to healthcare workers battling Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-unveils-drdo-powered-mobile-lab-to-speed-up-covid-19-screening/story-ElcyBOt2HPxcQgwL6tydMI.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Rajasthan spends Rs 2,440 on each person in quarantine centres||The Rajasthan government has set a daily limit of Rs 2,440 to be spent on each person in the state-run Covid-19 quarantine centres, according to an order of the disaster management department to district administrations. As on Wednesday, there were 23,437 people in government quarantine facilities across the state that began functioning from March 23. In Jaipur, out of 54 centres, 14 were running and with 1,643 inmates. Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 patients in the state has reached 1,935, with Jaipur alone accounting for 737 cases.Under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the state’s chief secretary is the chairman of the state executive committee (SEC) but on March 15, the government delegated the powers to the additional chief secretary (ACS), medical and health department. Under these powers, the ACS became the nodal authority for determining the number of centres and duration of stay in them.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The order which was issued some time earlier but became public on Thursday, said the maximum expense per person per day could be Rs 2,440. Payments will be made on actual or this limit, whichever was less.According to the order, Rs 600 is to be spent on food and beverages. This includes Rs 100 on breakfast, Rs 180 each on lunch and dinner, Rs 80 on water and Rs 60 on tea and snacks. The expenditure on linen and laundry is capped at Rs 60.The expenditure also includes Rs 500 on food for staff deputed at the quarantine centres and Rs 600 for personal protective equipment (PPE) kit for health care workers.Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, medical and health department, said part of the amount is for the quarantine centres themselves.“Technically, expenses on guards, PPE for health workers and food for staff can’t be counted as expenses per person.” The officer said Rs 2,440 was the upper limit set by the disaster management department. “There may be lesser expenditure at some places,” Singh said.A sum of Rs 550 is to be spent on cleaning and disinfection. The break-up includes Rs 50 for cleaner, Rs 50 for ward boy, Rs 70 for sanitizer, Rs 300 for N-95 mask, Rs 50 for triple-layer mask and Rs 30 for hypochlorite solution.An amount of Rs 100 has been earmarked for spraying machine and Rs 30 for a guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-rajasthan-spends-rs-2-440-on-each-person-in-quarantine-centres/story-9TPYYnsIT14QOXGD1SUuVI.html
23-04-2020||India||About 57,000 passengers, crew onboard ships mostly from China not allowed to disembark||Taking all precautions to contain the spread of coronavirus, the government has not allowed to disembark about 57,000 crew and passengers onboard 1,769 ships, mostly from China, an official said on Thursday. All these crew and passengers underwent thermal scanning, as per the WHO guidelines, the official added.“Adhering to all precautions and laid-down protocols to prevent any further spread of COVID-19, cargo was handled at Ports. No shore passes or daily passes were issued to these 56,727 crew and passengers on board 1,769 vessels reaching Indian Ports till April 21,” the official told PTI. The 1,769 ships reached the Indian ports with cargo between January 27 and April 21. Of these, as many as 1,401 ships reached major ports and were allowed anchoring at designated places for loading/unloading of export-import cargo.Of the 56,727 crew and passengers onboard these ships, 49,750 reached the major ports, the official said.India has 12 major ports -- Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Marmugao, New Mangalore, Cochin, Chennai, Kamarajar (earlier Ennore), V O Chidambarnar, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Kolkata (including Haldia) that handled nearly 705 million tonnes (MT) cargo in 2019-20. For maintaining smooth operations across ports, the shipping ministry has initiated a number of steps that include waiving of rentals. The government has asked all major ports to ensure that no penalties, demurrage, charges, fee, rentals are levied on any port user (traders, shipping lines, concessionaires, licensees etc) for any delay in berthing or loading/unloading operations or evacuation of cargo caused by the reasons attributable to lockdown measures from March 22. Besides, for existing and operational PPP projects, major ports can permit waiver of all penal consequences on a case-to-case basis along with deferment of certain performance obligations. The official said hospitals across the major port trusts have been supplied with personal protective equipment (PPE) and the arrangement of sufficient staff round the clock has been made. Ports and PSUs under the Ministry of Shipping have contributed more than Rs 52 crore from the CSR funds towards PM CARES Fund. Besides, employees of ports, PSUs and other offices of the ministry have contributed over Rs 7 crore from their salaries towards PM CARES Fund. The number of vessels handled by ports during 2019-20 was around 20,837 against 20,853 vessels in 2018-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/about-57-000-passengers-crew-onboard-ships-mostly-from-china-not-allowed-to-disembark/story-6yp8lShE37IGP1Ql74mRzJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Create exclusive Covid-19 facility, testing centre for Delhi Police personnel: LG Baijal||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has directed authorities to create a dedicated Covid-19 facility for Delhi Police personnel, news agency ANI reported.According to reports, Baijal has also directed the administration to set up an exclusive testing centre for Delhi police personnel who are working amid the coronavirus outbreak. The administration has already started screening media professionals after nearly 50 journalists in Mumbai and not less than 20 journalists in Chennai tested positive for Covid-19 recently.“Dear friends from media, Testing of media persons has started at a covid test centre. I wish u all very good health,” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Wednesday.Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has directed authorities to create a dedicated #COVID19 facility for Delhi Police personnel. LG has also directed setting up an exclusive testing center for Delhi police personnel working amid the #Coronavirus outbreak. (File pic) pic.twitter.com/1cpS81DiCcThis comes when the number of coronavirus cases in the national capital has crossed the 2,000-mark. On Thursday, as per the figures released by the Ministry of Health, Delhi reported 2,248 total cases of Covid-19 out of which 724 patients have been cured or discharged and 48 have died.  The national capital has a total of 89 containment zones.   Dear friends from media, Testing of media persons has started at a covid test centre. I wish u all very good health pic.twitter.com/ZRz1BOYFJWMeanwhile, the Delhi government has issued orders for strict compliance of its earlier order for landlords not to demand rent from labourers and students for one month.“District Magistrates shall undertake awareness campaign on the issue particularly in areas having higher density of workers/migrant workers/students to advise affected persons to lodge complaints to police control room by calling 100,” the order dated, April 22 read.India reported 1,409 new cases and 41 deaths in the last 24 hours, news agency ANI reported. Coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 21,000-mark with 21,393 cases across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/create-exclusive-covid-19-facility-testing-centre-for-delhi-police-personnel-lieutenant-governor-anil-baijal/story-2SGfoFYdUFefvL6FsG9bOP.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19 crisis: Kerala govt employees to face one-month salary cut, docs cry foul||Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said that 11 more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Kerala and that the state will step up its fight against the virus in view of steady rise in cases.For the last two weeks the state had reported minimum cases and often the number of recovered was double than new cases and experts said it was on the verge of flattening the virus curve. Sensing improvement, at one point the government was ready to resume operations across more sectors. However, the situation suddenly changed on Tuesday after the state reported 19 new cases.The health department has decided to test all expatriates in north Kerala who came back to the country after March 1. It was forced to take a decision after many returnees turned positive even a month after their return. Late onset of the virus and asymptomatic nature of patients are posing a big challenge to state which reported the first case in the country on January 30, a China-returned medical student.North Kerala’s district Kannur has emerged as the latest hotspot of the state reporting 58 active cases, following which authorities enforced the lockdown ruthlessly and arrested those who came out without valid reasons. Inspector General of Police Ashok Yadav, who has been given the special responsibility of the district, said police will adopt the same measures in the neighboring Kasaragod district to make a turnaround.“Stringent measures are taken to keep people inside their houses. We have given them emergency numbers and they can contact those numbers for any need. We will arrest those who come out of their homes,” said the IG.Giving details of fresh cases, the CM said out of 11 cases, seven (total cases 437) were reported from Kannur. Among the infected are two house surgeons and a health worker in Kozhikode. House surgeons had travelled on a train from Delhi in which some Tablighi Jammat members were travelling. Meanwhile, the government has decided to cut one month’s salary in five installments (five months) from government employees to meet the mounting Covid-19 expenditure. Many employees’ organisations owing allegiance to opposition parties criticised the move and said they will move the court. The state government doctors’ association has also decried the move saying it will take sprit out of overworked doctors and health employees. “Sad, the government should have spared health workers who are on the forefront of the war,” said association secretary Joseph Chacko. Salaries of legislators, ministers and board members will also be cut by 30% for one year, the CM said. “The pandemic has literally crippled our economy. We need money for health sector and other emergency services,” said the CM justifying the cut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-crisis-one-month-salary-of-kerala-govt-employees-to-be-cut-docs-cry-foul/story-rUq9NhcvdckLB55hotP0HM.html
23-04-2020||India||After slamming ‘Islamophobia’ charge, Naqvi says wrong to blame all Muslims||Minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Thursday advised against the demonisation of entire Muslim community for mistakes made by some individuals belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat.Naqvi’s comments are a reference to a big chunk of India’s coronavirus cases being traced to the Muslim sect that held a religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March allegedly in violation of social distancing norms. Several members of the Jamaat who returned to their respective states were responsible for spreading COVID-19 locally. “Entire Muslim community cannot be held responsible for one group’s crime,” Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi told PTI on the Tablighi Jamaat row.Naqvi’s comments assume significance since he had dismissed the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC)’s concerns of Islamophobia in India a couple of days ago and asserted that India was “a heaven” for Muslims and secularism and social harmony was “a passion” in India and not “a political fashion”. OIC’s Islamophobia comments were a reference to criticism in certain sections that attempts were made to single out the Muslim community for the spread of coronavirus through the targeting of Jamaat members.Naqvi hit out at the OIC and said that those trying to vitiate the atmosphere of prosperity of Indian Muslims, cannot be friends of Indian Muslims. On Thursday, he also repeated his appeal to the community to maintain social distancing and adhere to national lockdown measures during the holy month of Ramazan that begins on Friday in some parts, and on Saturday in most parts of India. “Confident that Muslims will fully adhere to lockdown and social distancing guidelines during Ramzan,” Naqvi told PTI.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Several bodies representing the Muslim community including the Islamic Centre of India and the Delhi Waqf Board have also appealed for daily prayers during Ramazan to be held at home and asked mosques to create awareness about official guidelines to fight the coronavirus pandemic.According to an advisory by the Delhi Waqf Board, people should stay at their homes to offer Namaz during Ramzan, however, Imams, Muazzins and Mutawallis can offer the prayers at mosques.It has also asked the mosques to announce the guidelines after each Azaan and also at other times through loudspeakers.Most state governments including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Maharashtra, Haryana, Gujarat and Rajasthan have asked state officials to ensure that there are no public gatherings at the time of the ‘sehri’ and ‘iftar’ rituals during Ramzan.The Association of All Goa Muslim Jamaats has issued an advisory asking Muslims in the state not to organise community ‘iftars’ and instead pray for health workers, police and those involved in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.For Coronavirus Live Updates“In these trying times please remember the entire Ummah, our nation, all the doctors, the frontline health workers, police and all involved in fighting this pandemic in your duas (prayers),” the advisory said.The governor of Rajasthan held a video conference with Khadims of Ajmer Dargah and requested them to advise devotees to practice social distancing and follow lockdown rules. The Dargah members in return promised all cooperation in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-slamming-islamophobia-charge-naqvi-says-wrong-to-blame-all-muslims/story-9TvgiAfpbuLYR1d7nDshZL.html
23-04-2020||India||Indigo rolls back pay cut in April salary of employees, heeds Centre’s appeal||IndiGo, the country’s largest airline by market share, announced on Thursday that it has decided to roll back the earlier announcement of a pay cut in employee salaries for the month of April.The decision is in deference to the Union government’s wishes, the top brass of the airline said. “In deference to our Government’s wishes of not reducing pay during the lockdown, we have decided not to implement the previously announced pay cuts during the month of April. However, Excom members and SVPs have volunteered to take pay cuts this month. For everyone else, you can expect your April salaries to be paid without the pay cuts,” Indigo CEO Ronojoy Dutta said in an email to all employee of the company.Earlier last month, IndiGo had announced that employees of the carrier would take a 25% pay cut along with Dutta himself leading from the front to take a pay cut.ALSO READ | IndiGo announces pay cut for senior employees, CEO takes 25% cut amid Covid-19 outbreakTo boost the morale of the employees and to generate hope amid the severe financial crisis which has hit the Indian aviation sector, Dutta further said, “Another area where we can exercise control is in shaping the nature of the customer experience as we take to the skies again. We are working actively with the Government, the airports, and our competitor airlines in defining the nature of this experience.”“Customers will probably start flying tentatively at first and we need to make sure that we instill enough confidence in the early users so that the first trickle of customers turns into a torrent,” he said.India has been under a nationwide lockdown since March 25 to check the coronavirus pandemic. All domestic and international commercial passenger flights have been suspended for this period. As a result, revenues of the Indian aviation industry have been hit hard.The aviation industry is in a complete lockdown mode with bookings being cancelled until any further orders. Aviation players across the globe have taken extreme measures to cope with the recent turmoil. Spice Jet’s Ajay Singh too took a 30% pay cut in the month of March owing to the coronavirus lockdown that has left the industry struggling to cope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-heeds-centre-s-appeal-rolls-back-pay-cut-in-april-salary-of-employees/story-ecbXDxVJUrYZ74Mu0TIp4I.html
23-04-2020||India||‘Rs 10 lakh insurance cover for journalists reporting during Covid-19’: Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday announced that the state government will provide insurance cover of Rs 10 lakh each to all journalists in Haryana who are reporting during the coronavirus pandemic, news agency ANI reported.Khattar’s announcement comes at a time when scores of media professionals have tested positive for coronavirus while performing their duties during the Covid-19 lockdown. Nearly 50 journalists in Mumbai and not less than 20 journalists in Chennai tested positive for Covid-19 recently.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that the administration will start testing media personnel for coronavirus. The testing began on Wednesday at a dedicated Covid-19 centre in Delhi.State govt has decided to provide insurance of Rs 10 lakh each to all journalists who are reporting during #Coronavirus pandemic: Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar (File pic) pic.twitter.com/9u7U8pi9lJ“Dear friends from media, Testing of media persons has started at a covid test centre. I wish u all very good health,” Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted out.The Karnataka government had also issued a similar order on the Covid-19 testing of media persons who are working in the field during the coronavirus crisis. In its advisory, the central government on Wednesday urged all media professionals to take care of their health and observe necessary precautions. “It has come to the notice of the Ministry that a large number of media persons have recently contracted with Covid-19 while covering the happening in certain parts of the country,” the statement read.Print and electronic media are part of essential services and professionals working in the field are exempt from the lockdown. India entered the ninth day of the nationwide coronavirus lockdown which will come to an end on May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-10-lakh-each-to-all-journalists-reporting-during-covid-19-haryana-cm/story-olFmT1uAB7oEkwFNTc06RN.html
23-04-2020||India||ICMR will continue restricted Hydroxychloroquine use despite critical US study: Official||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will continue with the restricted use of anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to treat critical coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients even though a US study has found it did not benefit a group of patients admitted in health centres, according to an official. “We are generating our own data, and will take a decision according to our own results. The study to check its therapeutic use will take about 2-2.5 months to complete which should provide us the evidence against or for it. It will be too premature to say anything at this stage even though we are closely looking at all the data coming from other countries,” said the official in ICMR who did not wish to be identified.In the US study made public on April 16, researchers analysed medical records of 368 hospitalised patients with the coronavirus infection at Veterans Health Administration medical centres. About 28% of these patients, who were given HCQ plus usual care, died. On the other hand, 11% of the patients, who got routine care alone, succumbed to the infection. The drug made no difference in the need for a breathing machine either, according to the study.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageHowever, Switzerland-based drug maker Novartis announced a few days ago that it had reached an agreement with the US FDA to carry out a Phase III trial assessing HCQ as a treatment for hospitalised Covid-19 patients, for which it will be recruiting about 440 patients in at least a dozen sites in the US.In India, the central drugs controller, towards the end of March, had approved the use of HCQ under the “restricted use” category, primarily for the studies that ICMR wanted to carry out.ICMR has said that it is conducting a two-arm study on the prophylactic (prevention) and therapeutic (treatment) effects of HCQ against Covid-19.As prophylactic, the drug has been recommended for asymptomatic health care workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed cases of Covid-19. As therapeutic medicine, it is being given to critically ill Covid-19 patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) to see if their dependency on oxygen support is reduced.In India, around 2% of Covid-19 cases need critical care in ICU, according to the health ministry.In prophylactic cases, the drug is recommended to be taken under strict medical supervision, considering all contraindications.The dosage given to people in India is 400mg, twice a day, for one day, and subsequently 400ml once a week. The course is recommended for seven weeks for prophylactics. In treatment purposes, it is being given in combination with the antibiotic azithromycin.“In positive patients, the medicine has shown to reduce the viral load, and our aim is to see whether it will prevent infection or not,” Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief, epidemiology and communicable disease, ICMR, said earlier.While results from the treatment cohort will still take time, the initial data collected from reactions found in health care workers showed two primary complains -- abdominal pain in about 10% of those who took the medicine and nausea in about 6% of them. “If the results aren’t satisfactory, the drug will be withdrawn, like it was previously done with HIV/AIDS antiviral drugs such as lopinavir and ritonavir that did not show much benefit,” the ICMR official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-will-continue-restricted-use-of-hcq-despite-critical-us-study-official/story-kDDh57aLzduGjTTOH6NMeN.html
23-04-2020||India||Civil servants’ initiative ‘CARUNA’ offers raft of suggestions to fight Covid-19||Bureaucrats have offered a raft of suggestions to the Central government to combat the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic such as determining a geospatial risk radius, turning shipping containers into intensive care units (ICUs), transforming stranded migrant labourers into human capital and using a unique disinfecting formulation called Medecide Antiviral Conversion Spray (MACS).The suggestions have been compiled in a report by CARUNA, the Civil services Association Reach to support National disasters, comprising 29 Central and All India Service Associations, which was submitted to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Wednesday. “It is a compilation of various reports,” said Sanjeev Chopra, vice-president, IAS Association. “It is a collective effort that required enormous collaboration. Many people from 29 associations, who are a part of CARUNA, have contributed to it,” he added.The 28 ‘ideas for action’ that have been suggested by the bureaucrats can be broadly categorised under agriculture, medical equipment, public grievances, migrant labour-related issues and lockdown easing policies. The group has recommended determining a ‘geospatial risk radius’ in a bid to limit activity and avoid exposure to SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, as part of lockdown easing solutions. Movement relaxation should be determined according to this radius that was calculated by correlating population density with respect to active cases. “For example, the population density of Himachal Pradesh is eight million with a population density of 144 per square kilometres and Covid-19 positive cases of 11 (assuming 10x, ie 110 undetected cases) --- this means the risk of encountering an active case is in a radius of 12.7 kilometres from a given location,” the report said. “If an area has zero known cases, a risk of one in 200,000 has to be assumed and limit movement to 21 kilomteres for the first 14 days of relaxation,” it added.It has recommended reducing the number of workdays and introducing flexible-timing for Central government offices. Shifts and incentives for officials coming to work, including enhanced life insurance coverage, and work from home for those staff, who are considered non-essential, has also been recommended. “Collection of a crop at a local level and rapid payment to farmers to ensure the availability of food and income... This will serve two purposes. Financial security to the local farmers and to the migrants who are living there,” the report suggested for the agriculture sector.District-wise helplines to help farmers sell their produce, storage issues and up to Rs 10 lakh loan for dedicated agencies who would procure fruits and vegetables directly from farmers and ensure a fair price for farmhands and consumers have been recommended. The report suggested CURA (Connected Units for Respiratory Ailments) using shipping containers as ICUs and also the production of low-cost ventilators.“Industry heavyweights, including Maruti Suzuki, Mahindra & Mahindra, Tata Motors, Kalyani Group, and Hyundai India, have been asked to explore the possibility of reconfiguring their plants to produce ventilators. Mahindra and Mahindra is working on an indigenous low- cost device,” it said. A unique disinfecting formulation called Medecide Antiviral Conversion Spray (MACS) for Covid-19 has been earmarked as “game-changer for India”. “It is water-based and easy to apply with traditional equipment and methods, including fogging and spray that lasts for 28 days. Medicide provides a new and unprecedented means of attack on the environmental spread of infectious diseases by binding to surfaces where applied, allowing the disinfectant molecules to actively fight and kill new pathogens that touch the surface, on a continuing basis. It kills the virus for 28 days after application and deters the contagion,” the report said.CARUNA also recommended the training of the second line of health workers to counter the pandemic.The group made a separate suggestion for vulnerable communities such as stranded migrant labourers, forest dwellers and fishing communities. “Migrant labourers can be used for the making of masks, construction of isolation facilities and movement of medical supplies after they undergo proper training,” the report added.The group has also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to appeal to those, who have savings of Rs 5 lakh and above, to contribute at least Rs 10,000 to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund. CARUNA suggested that the PM requests citizens to donate at least 10% of their earnings from fixed deposits earned last year to the fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-servants-initiative-caruna-offers-raft-of-suggestions-to-fight-covid-19/story-zy94tL4WXmBhYxaXs1vysJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Maharashtra deputy CM seeks trains for migrant workers, cites law and order||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal seeking special trains to take migrant workers home as he fears a law and border problem. In the letter, the deputy CM says that the migrant workers who have been staying at shelter camps will likely take to streets on May 3 on completion of the second phase of the lockdown.“This could lead to the law and order problem, like it happened in Bandra in Mumbai on the last day of the first lockdown,” read the letter.On April 14, nearly 1000 out-of-work migrant labourers gathered outside a railway station in Mumbai’s Bandra, hours after Prime Minister extended the lockdown to May 3 to check the spread of the coronavirus infections, demanding for trains to take them home.“The Railway ministry should plan well in advance for the special trains for these workers to various parts of the country. The trains should be operated from Pune and Mumbai,” the minister wrote.On Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray assured migrant labourers in the state that his government would ensure that they are sent home once the lockdown is lifted.“I give you my word that the Maharashtra government will take you to your homes, the day this crisis ends. I believe that when you go back to your homes, you should go back happily and not out of fear,” said the CM..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-deputy-cm-seeks-trains-for-migrant-workers-cites-law-and-order/story-C2fte98CZ0Bb85rKLU1g5O.html
23-04-2020||India||Bengal Governor questions Mamata Banerjee’s ‘red carpet’ to WHO team||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took to Twitter on Thursday to fire another salvo at the Mamata Banerjee government over the ‘red carpet’ treatment for a World Health Organization (WHO) team and asking the government about the outcome of the visit.“Urge @MamataOfficial to ensure seamless way forward for Central Teams. Concerned at Rebuff to Central Teams. Red Carpet visit of WHO to East Midnapur and Bishnupur. What outcome and gain of WHO visit? Declare! Time to take to Constitution. Let concerned handle Mikes/Brooms,” Dhankhar tweeted. Urge @MamataOfficial to ensure seamless way forward for Central Teams.Concerned at Rebuff to Central Teams. Red Carpet visit of WHO to East Midnapur and Bishnupur. What outcome and gain of WHO visit ? Declare !Time to take to Constitution. Let concerned handle Mikes/Brooms.His tweet came amid the visits by an inter-ministerial central team to Bengal that initially triggered a controversy with the state government criticising Centre’s decision to send these teams as ‘unilateral’ and ‘undesirable’.Also read: WB Guv Dhankhar requests Mamata to avoid confrontation with centre to combat Covid-19 crisisHowever, the state administration has started cooperating with the central team after a strongly-worded letter from the Union home ministry that warned the government that obstructing the central team amounted to violation of the Disaster Management Act and orders of the Supreme Court.A team of WHO representatives had visited the districts of East Midnapore, a Covid-19 hotspot in the ‘red zone’, and Bankura in the ‘orange zone’ on Monday. The state administration had fully cooperated with the WHO team during its one-day visit.Incidentally, the Bengal unit president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Dilip Ghosh, too, had criticised the Mamata Banerjee government for preferring “foreign advice” over those coming from the Centre.“She has formed a global committee of advisors that includes foreign nationals. It would be acceptable if the Prime Minister formed a global advisory panel. But why is a state government preferring advice and praise from abroad instead of cooperating with the Centre? This is because the government has a lot to hide that the Centre’s scrutiny would expose,” Ghosh had said on Wednesday.Governor Dhankhar has been taking pot shots at the Bengal government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. The ruing Trinamool Congress has mostly refrained from responding to the governor, saying that they would better ‘ignore’ him. The party’s Rajya Sabha leader and national spokesperson Derek O-Brien recently described Dhankhar without naming him as “a twitter-happy nominated person from New Delhi.” Also read: Amid lockdown, Bengal governor and government lock horns over ‘PDS scam’Dhankhar’s repeated swipes at the state government had also earned him criticism from Congress’ national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP from Bengal, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who recently targeted the governor in series of tweets. “Governors shd b seen ¬ heard. Latter only in official letters thru proper channels. They reign but do not rule (except during pres rule or govt formation). They shd be true friends, philosophers &guides, nt inimical to those elected to run state. #WB #Govnor #Dhankar,” Singhvi wrote. Governors shd b seen ¬ heard. Latter only in official letters thru proper channels. They reign but do not rule (except during pres rule or govt formation). They shd be true friends, philosophers &guides, nt inimical to those elected to run state. #WB #Govnor #Dhankar“Does nt behove #Governor #WB 2have presser nor say tht he “ warned” CM repeatedly & deprecates her “Centre bashing every morning.” Govnor cnot enter political fight btween #Centre & #WB. Has no power 2warn #CM on such matters. Cnot b more royal than King & v all know who tht is!,” Singhvi wrote in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-questions-mamata-banerjee-s-red-carpet-to-who-team/story-H2em7vr2KlXPXxyTZYenpN.html
23-04-2020||India||Bengal man dresses up like coronavirus to spread awareness against Covid-19||On Wednesday morning, the residents of Chinsurah in West Bengal’s Hooghly district, around 50 kilometres north of Kolkata, were in for a surprise. A man dressed up like coronavirus was moving around in the local markets to spread awareness against Covid-19.42-year-old Milan Pandey could not keep himself from dressing up as the virus and stepped out of his home despite the lockdown.  “Every day I could see people moving around on the streets despite the lockdown. Many of them might have had some urgency but some people had no reason to step out. They were not even maintaining social distance. So I decided to raise awareness,” he said.Pandey is a wage labourer and is out of work now due to the lockdown. A few days ago, he had approached the local police station requesting them to allow him to spread the awareness. The police asked him to stay home.“But I decided to do something for society. I prepared a placard, dressed up in red, prepared a cap with protruding sticks and made a loudspeaker out of paper. I then hit the road,” said Pandey.But that was not all. Pandey even wore a mask and tied some sticks around his waist to practice social distancing. In this manner, he roamed about in the markets of Chinsurah and spread his message.Large parts of urban and semi-urban areas of Hooghly district, along with some gram panchayat areas, have been declared Covid-19 containment zones by the state administration.“I told people not to crowd, not to spit on the roads, wear masks and maintain social distance,” he added.The locals welcomed Pandey’s move who, despite his unemployment and hardships, decided to spread awareness against the disease that has killed lakhs of people across the world.“It was really good to see that a man who was facing hardships hit the streets to raise awareness and save others,” said Taraknath Das, a resident of Chinsurah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-man-dresses-up-like-coronavirus-to-spread-awareness-against-covid-19/story-qUoc3Zm168paOt0W6nntdJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Family faces boycott over Covid-19 rumour, Jharkhand CM orders probe||A family in Jharkhand’s Ramgarh district is allegedly facing social boycott over a coronavirus rumour for the past five days. The family of four has alleged that they are not even allowed to use water from village tube-wells or wells.The incident came to light when a video of the kids crying in hunger went viral on social media. On Thursday, chief minister Hemant Soren took cognisance of the incident and asked Ramgarh deputy commissioner (DC) to take immediate action and provide relief to the family.“My appeal to people is do not pay attention to rumours. In this epidemic situation, we can fight the coronavirus and rumour only with social support,” the CM tweeted.The incident took place at Murudih village under Gola police station. Geeta Devi, the mother of two children, said, “I have been working in Didi Kitchen run under Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society (JSLPS) and feeding the poor during this period of lockdown. Many families in the village were suffering due to lack of PDS ration, I helped them get ration.”On April 18, when she was serving food to the poor through Didi kitchen, few villagers came and alleged that she was coronavirus positive.“I asked them how? One of them alleged that my brother-in-law came from Chhattisgarh and he is suffering from Covid-19. I tried to convince them that nobody came from anywhere at my home. But, they did not allow me to serve food,” said Devi, whose husband Ishwar Kumar Mahto is a labourer. The husband is presently jobless due to nationwide lockdown in place to check the spread of the coronavirus disease.The next day, when Devi went to a nearby tube-well for water, villagers stopped her from drawing the water. “No food was cooked that day for lack of water. In a bid to prove villagers wrong, all in the family went to Gola for coronavirus check up on April 19. The report came negative but the health officials asked us to remain in home quarantine for 14 days,” she said.Despite the negative coronavirus report, the family, she alleges, was asked to leave the village.“The next day on April 20, my LPG cylinder needed refilling, but the villagers did not allow it. They are not allowing us to even come out of the house for any necessity,” Devi said, adding, “I went to Gola police station on April 21”.The police visited the village on Wednesday evening. “The family was in deep crisis. We helped them to get water from the village tube well and convinced the villagers to not pay heed to rumours. If the family is tortured again, we will lodge a case against the villagers,” said Gola police station in-charge, Dhananjay Kumar.Devi said, “I have filled all my containers with water. So, I did not go out to take water today (Thursday). But, I do not find any change in the behaviour of villagers. We are living in fear that we may be beaten, if we go outside.”A section of villagers questioned as to why the family needed to be tested if they were not carrying the disease. “The family went for a Covid-19 check up. If they did not have coronavirus, why did they go for the test?” said a villager who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/family-faces-boycott-over-covid-19-rumour-jharkhand-cm-orders-probe/story-8XJDTzLkUOO3DrcvVaU6TK.html
23-04-2020||India||Security forces nab 5 ULFA bomb experts in Assam, bust recruitment drive||In two separate operations, Indian Army and Assam Police apprehended five hardcore United Liberation Front of Assam-Independent (ULFA-I) cadres and rescued seven minors recruited recently, the army and police said on Thursday.Five members of the proscribed outfit were nabbed by a joint team in Charaideo district of upper Assam early on Thursday and that led to the seizure of a large cache of arms.“Based on a tip-off we cordoned Tairai village on Wednesday night and nabbed the ULFA-I cadres who were holed up in the house of one Bhuban Gogoi,” Charaideo district superintendent of police Anand Mishra said.The arrested men were identified as Apurba Gogoi, Simanta Gogoi, Yogen Gogoi, Lakhyajit Gogoi and Siddhartha Gogoi.“All of them are hardcore cadres who are experts in bomb making as well. They were involved in several cases of murders, extortions, kidnappings since 2012 as well as the Republic Day blast this year in Sonari,” said Mishra.Though the cadres were unarmed at the time of their arrest their interrogation led to recovery of several assault rifles, pistols, ammunition and bomb making materials.In a separate operation, seven minors who were recently recruited by ULFA-I were rescued by the Indian Army and Assam Police in a joint operation.The teams were also able to nab four other members and six over ground workers of the proscribed outfit in the operation carried out in six districts of Assam on April 21 and 22.“Based on specific intelligence input, the joint teams launched a well-coordinated and intensive campaign spread over Golaghat, Jorhat, Sibsagar, Charaideo, Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts,” the army said in a statement.According to the army, the arrested ULFA-I cadres and over ground workers were actively involved in recruiting new cadres and had been successful in luring several youths to join the outfit.“The rescued youths belonging to well-to-do families were influenced and lured into joining the insurgent group through social media and online propaganda videos,” the statement said. Following their rescue, the seven minors were counselled and reunited with their parents. “They were rejuvenated to see their missing children especially in these tough times of Covid-19 pandemic,” the statement said.The four cadres and six over ground workers have been handed over to Assam Police for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-nab-5-ulfa-bomb-experts-in-assam-bust-recruitment-drive/story-radtHmHa8VvdKxPGEO0iuI.html
23-04-2020||India||Decision on green nod to Parliament building renovation may take a week||The Union environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) has not made public its decision regarding environmental clearance for expansion and renovation of the Parliament building following a meeting on Wednesday.The EAC on constructions, townships and area development projects met on Wednesday to consider environmental clearance for several infrastructure projects, including the contentious Parliament building project that will cost Rs 922 crore, according to estimates by the Central Public Works Department, and involve transplanting at least 233 trees from the existing site.The project was discussed in detail by the 13-member committee but the decision cannot be immediately shared, the panel’s members said.“The decision is not final until the minutes are drafted. It will take a week. We have to hear 15 more projects tomorrow and the day after,” T Haque, chairman of the EAC, said on phone.The renovation of the Parliament building is part of the Centre’s larger “central vista” project, which includes a new Parliament, a new central secretariat complex for ministries, and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The entire project is expected to be completed by 2024.Several concerns have been raised by architects and urban planners regarding the project. One of them is that despite central vista being a single development project, it has been broken into parts for ease of obtaining environmental clearance.The CPWD has listed the Parliament building as an “individual project” in environment impact assessment documents. It states that there are no “interlinked projects”.HT reported on February 21 the new Parliament complex is proposed to be built on a plot adjacent to the existing building, and yet is being considered by the EAC only as a renovation project. Land use for the 9.5-acre plot was changed from “recreational” to “Parliament” by the Delhi Development Authority last month.DDA last December changed the land use of a 15-acre plot from recreational to residential on Dalhousie Road near South Block, where the prime minister’s new residence is to be built.LokPATH (people for Appropriate Transformation of Habitat), a collective of urban development experts and civil society activists, raised these issues and asked why such a large amount of money is being invested in the Parliament building amid the Covid-19 pandemic.“As you are aware this project is not just about renovations to the existing Parliament but involves the construction of an entirely new building of an additional 65000 sq m on a separate plot next to the present Parliament,” LokPATH wrote to the EAC on April 21.It said that according to “the applicant, the present cost of the project is Rs 922 crore. At a time of the Covid-19 pandemic, we need to prioritise government spending for medical facilities and public health infrastructure. Since the global and Indian economies are also very fragile, it would be wasteful and cruel to allow such a project to come up when millions of fellow citizens in the agriculture, fisheries and other basic sectors are struggling to cope financially.”On Wednesday, LokPATH again wrote to the Central Vista Committee that the approval by DDA for land use change had been done when there are cases pending in courts on the matter. The land use change can alter the character of open and public use spaces and allow extensive building activity in the area, apart from restricting public access, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-on-green-nod-to-parliament-building-renovation-may-take-a-week/story-dTP0kr55nghk3RmZonRz2N.html
23-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: From medical emergencies to lockdown violations, citizen helpline deals with all and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.From medical emergencies to lockdown violations, citizen helpline deals with allFrom a host of medical emergencies like the requirement of cancer and arthritis-related medicines to neighbours alerting the authorities about quarantined patients violating guidelines, the Covid-19 crisis has citizen helplines ringing off the hook, for both the government as well as the social sector. Read more‘Entire world is praising PM Modi’s way of handling Covid-19 crisis’: Amit ShahUnion Home Affairs Minister Amit Shah on Thursday tweeted on the global praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis in India. Read morePrisoners on parole can mark attendance via WhatsApp call or sharing location: Delhi HCThe Delhi High Court has come up with a unique way for the prisoners to mark their attendance at the police station during the period of emergency parole by asking them to either WhatsApp video call or send their google location to the Investigating Officer (IO) to ascertain their location. Read more‘Kim Jong-Un’s exit wouldn’t change US goals’: Mike PompeoThe United States will keep seeking North Korea’s denuclearization no matter who is in charge in Pyongyang, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Wednesday, amid speculation about leader Kim Jong Un’s health. Read morePakistan batsmen’s 30s, 40s was for team, Indian players’ 100s was for themselves: InzamamFormer Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq played in an era where his side had a better record over India as compared to the recent times. Read moreApurva Agnihotri writes note for late actor Kushal Punjabi on his birth anniversary: ‘Ride on my brother, till we meet again’Actor Apurva Agnihotri is missing his friend Kushal Punjabi, who died last year. Taking to Instagram, Apurva shared a post dedicated to his late ‘brother’. The photo shows Apurva in a helmet and Kushal smiling bright. Read moreShakespeare Day 2020: Lesser-known facts, famous quotes by the Bard of Avon, William ShakespeareOne of the most prolific and iconic writers in the English language and also the world’s greatest dramatist, William Shakespeare was born this day in 1564. He is popularly called the Bard of Avon since he was born and raised in Stratford upon Avon, Warwickshire. Read more This woman who arranged a virtual blind date for her mother and prof is the best wingman you could ever wantVirtual class is the new norm of life for millions of students and teachers across the world. Recently, a student named Aly Oliver recorded some of her classes and for a very special reason. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-from-medical-emergencies-to-lockdown-violations-citizen-helpline-deals-with-all-and-all-the-latest-news/story-hz2WXXtZGrl1sJZtkHqJbJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Two held for attack on Arnab Goswami, political bickering begins||The police in Mumbai have arrested two people for an alleged attack on journalist Arnab Goswami and his wife, officials said on Thursday, in an incident that stirred a political blame game. Goswami, the editor-in-chief and owner of Republic TV, said in a complaint at NM Joshi Marg police station that the incident took place at Ganpatrao Kadam Marg around 12:15am when he and his wife were returning home from a studio in Bombay Dyeing Complex in Lower Parel. Both of them were unhurt.“Two men on a motorcycle overtook my car and tried to identify who was driving. They then blocked the path of my car with their two-wheeler. The pillion rider hit the right side driver window several times and after realising that the car windows were up, the pillion rider removed a liquid bottle from his pocket and threw liquid on the driver’s side of the car where I was sitting,” Goswami said in his complaint.The attackers were carrying a bottle of ink which they threw on his car, a police official told news agency PTI. Goswami’s security guards, who were behind in another car, caught hold of the two persons and handed them over to the NM Joshi Marg police, he added.Those arrested have been identified as Pratik Kumar Shamsunder Mishra and Arun Dilip Borade, both residents of Sion in Mumbai. “Both the accused were arrested immediately after the incident with the help of security personnel who were with Arnab,” Abhinash Kumar, the deputy commissioner of police (zone 3), said.The suspects have been arrested under the charges of wrongful restraint and intentional insult with the intent to provoke breach of the peace, among others.In his complaint, Goswami pointed fingers at the Congress. In a video posted after the alleged attack, Goswami said he was told by his security guards that the attackers were Youth Congress workers. There was no confirmation by the police.Goswami has faced flak over his remarks aimed at Congress president Sonia Gandhi during a discussion on the Palghar incident in which three persons, including two sadhus, were lynched.Senior Congress leaders, including chief ministers, have criticised Goswami, with the party’s chief spokesperson, Randeep Singh Surjewala, alleging that it was “deeply disgraceful that PM & BJP eulogize this brand of TV anchors”.Maharashtra energy minister and Congress leader Nitin Raut denied any role of the Congress party in the alleged attack on Goswami. The Congress shares power with the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party in Maharashtra.“I don’t think that any Congress worker can attack him because Congress has never worked in this manner. The party that has been created by the father of the nation, Mahatma Gandhi, has maintained both moderation and balance since the beginning,” said Raut, according to ANI. “But the way he (Goswami) has tried to insult Congress president by using indecent language…Who gave this right to him?” the Congress leader added. Centre’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including party president JP Nadda, condemned the alleged attack on oswami and targeted the Congress over the incident.“Shocking to see Arnab Goswami attacked after Congress CMs publicly threatened him. Sad to see such public hounding of a journalist for his freedom of speech. Congress shows it is the party that brought Emergency and continues its rich tradition of trampling free speech,” Nadda tweeted. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-held-for-attack-on-arnab-goswami-political-bickering-begins/story-PWkUO6w8LDXnQu3KmirT7M.html
23-04-2020||India||Karnataka partially eases curbs, NASA says pollution at 20-year low in North India amid lockdown: 10 points||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 21,000-mark on Thursday. The Ministry of Health updated the total number of positive coronavirus cases in the country to 21,393 on Thursday morning. The figure includes 16,454 active cases, 4,257 patients who have been cured or discharged and 681 fatalities.Gujarat has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases which now near the 2,500-mark. Delhi has more than 2000 coronavirus cases. 724 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the infection in the national capital.In Maharashtra, cases inch toward the 6,000-mark. 4 Indian states have more than 1000 coronavirus cases, these include Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.Here are the key developments: 1. Union Home Affairs Minister Amit Shah on Thursday tweeted on the global praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis in India. Shah stated that the “truth is self evident” as the entire world is praising the Prime Minister and his approach towards tackling the coronavirus outbreak in the country.2. Tablighi Jamat chief Maulana Saad has completed the 14-day quarantine and got himself tested for coronavirus disease Covid-19, his lawyer Fuzail Ayyubi told Hindustan Times. “He has completed his quarantine and undergone a test. The report is awaited,” said Ayyubi.3. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had said that the suggestions she gave to the government on tackling the Covid-19 crisis, were only acted upon partially. Her comments came during a meeting of the Congress Working Committee.4. Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh on Thursday said that success of lockdown will be judged on the country’s ability to tackle Covid-19. He said that cooperation between the Centre and States is the key to success in the fight against coronavirus.5. The Karnataka government partially relaxed Covid-19 lockdown norms in the state from Thursday. IT and IT-enabled services have been allowed to operate with essential minimum staff. Certain construction activities, manufacturing of packaging materials, courier services, have also been started.6. According to satellite data published by US space agency National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), air pollution over northern India has plummeted to a 20-year-low for this time of the year amid the Covid-19 lockdown. 7. First Lady Savita Kovind on Wednesday stitched face masks at Shakti Haat in the President’s Estate as part of the fight against Covid-19.8. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has alleged that the federal government was trying to malign the state and that “canards” were being spread about the state’s testing figures when the “real problem” was with the testing kits supplied to the state.9. Some industries and a few states have written to the union ministry of labour and employment to allow the use of funds collected under the ESI or Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) scheme, to cover wages or part of the wages for employees during the lockdown.10. Co-founder of Microsoft and billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates on Wednesday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to combat the coronavirus menace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-partially-relaxes-curbs-nasa-says-air-pollution-at-20-year-low-in-north-india-amid-covid-19-lockdown-10-points/story-EHvapf13hmquRb8TIHUaQN.html
23-04-2020||India||BJP continues to spread virus of communal prejudice, hatred: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said the Centre doesn’t appear to have a clear idea on how the situation will be managed after May 3, when the nationwide lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic is expected to end.“A lockdown of the present nature after that date would be even more devastating,” she said in her opening remarks at a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) held through video conference.Prime Minister Narendra Modi initially announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 25, and later extended it till May 3. A decision on lifting the lockdown is expected to be made after Modi’s meeting with chief ministers on April 27.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Sonia Gandhi said states and local governments are the in frontline of the battle against Covid-19 and alleged that funds legitimately owed to Congress-ruled states were held back.“Let me also share with you something that should worry each and every one us Indians. When we should be tackling the coronavirus unitedly, the BJP continues to spread the virus of communal prejudice and hatred. Grave damage is being done to our social harmony. Our party, we will have to work hard to repair that damage,” she said.“There are a few success stories and we should applaud them. Most of all we should salute every single Indian leading the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in spite of the absence of adequate PPE – doctors, nurses, paramedics, health workers, sanitation workers and all other essential service providers, NGOs and the lakhs of citizens providing relief to the most needy all over India. Their dedication and determination truly inspire us all,” she added.Sonia Gandhi reiterated her party’s commitment to extending constructive support to the government in dealing with the crisis due to the Covid-19 outbreak, but she said the situation had worsened since the CWC’s last meet.“Since our meeting three weeks ago, the pandemic has increased disturbingly – both in spread and speed,” she said. She said the focus must continue to be on successfully engaging with health, food security and livelihood issues.“We have repeatedly urged the prime minister that there is no alternative to the testing, trace and quarantine programme. Unfortunately, testing still remains low and testing kits are still in short supply and of poor quality. PPE (personal protective equipment) kits are being provided to our doctors and healthcare workers but the number and quality is poor,” she said. According to the health ministry, India has reported over 21,300 infections and 681 deaths as of Thursday morning.Sonia Gandhi, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and other senior leaders have repeatedly demanded scaling up of testing, calling it the biggest weapon against the Coronavirus. “If we don’t ramp up testing and go for aggressive testing, we will be forced to again go into lockdown,” Rahul Gandhi told a news conference last week.At the CWC’s meeting on April 2, the party’s highest decision-making body pledged to continue its unstinted support to the Centre and state governments in dealing with the situation. However, it criticised the Centre for “not giving any thought to the deteriorating” economic situation following the pandemic, and demanded a task force consisting of world renowned economists to suggest measures to deal with the crisis.With the lockdown being extended, Sonia Gandhi said all sections of society, particularly farmers, farm workers, migrant labour, construction workers and workers in the unorganised sector, continue to face acute hardship and distress.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage She said trade, commerce and industry had come to a halt and crores of livelihoods had been destroyed.She said since the lockdown began on March 25, she had written several times to the Prime Minister and offered her constructive cooperation and also made several suggestions to alleviate the suffering of rural and urban families.Sonia Gandhi has so far written six letters to Modi, mentioning the problems faced by construction and rural workers and migrant labour, and demanded financial packages for them. She also sought the suspension of the Rs 20,000-crore “central vista” project and transferring all funds from the PM CARES Fund to the Prime Ministers National Relief Fund (PM-NRF) to fight the pandemic.Sonia Gandhi told the CWC these suggestions had been framed using feedback received from different sources, including Congress chief ministers.“Unfortunately, they have been acted upon only partially and in a miserly way. The compassion, large-heartedness and alacrity that should be forthcoming from the Central government is conspicuous by its absence,” she said. Sonia Gandhi said the entitlement of food grains under the National Food Security Act have not yet reached beneficiaries, contending that 11 crore people in need of subsidised food grains continue to be outside the public distribution system.“It should be our commitment to provide 10 kg of food grains, 1 kg of pulses and half a kg of sugar to each person of the family every month, in this hour of crisis,” she added.She also contended that 12 crore jobs were lost in the first phase of the lockdown and insisted that unemployment is likely to increase further as economic activity remains at a standstill. “It is imperative to provide at least Rs 7,500 to each family to tide over this crisis,” she said. Referring to migrant workers, she said they are still stranded, jobless and desperate to return home. “They have been hit the hardest and must be provided with food security and a financial safety net in order to survive this period of crisis.” Farmers are facing serious difficulties too, Sonia Gandhi said, adding the weak and unclear procurement policies and disrupted supply chains need to be addressed without delay. “Necessary facilities must be made available to the farmers for the next round of kharif crops, which will begin in the coming two months,” she said.She said micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) employ nearly 11 crore personnel and make up a third of the GDP. “If they are to be protected from economic ruin, it is imperative that a special package be announced urgently for their survival,” she added.Sonia Gandhi has constituted an 11-member consultative group, headed by former prime minister Manmohan Singh, to deliberate on matters related to the Covid-19 outbreak, and frame the party’s views on various issues. Rahul Gandhi is a member of the panel.At its first meeting on Monday, the group discussed the revival of the MSME sector, smooth crop procurement and the issue of stranded migrant workers. The panel on Wednesday sought public suggestions for an economic stimulus package for MSMEs.The Congress has reiterated its demand for immediate direct cash transfer of Rs 7,500 in all Jan Dhan, pension and PM-Kisan scheme bank accounts to enable the poor to sustain themselves during the lockdown.In a video message issued last week, the Congress chief praised doctors, police, health and sanitation workers who are at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 despite the shortage of PPE, calling them “corona warriors”.She regretted reports of harassment of doctors in some parts of the country and urged people to adhere to the lockdown guidelines and social distancing norms.“This fight will weaken without your support, and we should not allow this to happen. At some places, I hear reports about ill-treatment meted out to doctors. This is wrong. Our culture and tradition does not allow this and we should support them,” Sonia Gandhi had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-trace-quarantine-model-has-no-alternative-sonia-gandhi-on-covid-19/story-U1QfumxreB2n5VUWwdqNVK.html
23-04-2020||India||Man allegedly refuses to take delivery from a Muslim, arrested||Ghanshyam Chaturvedi (51), a Mira Road resident, was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly refusing to accept grocery ordered online a day before from a delivery man, who belongs to a minority community, according to the delivery person’s statement to the police.The accused was produced before the Thane sessions court on Wednesday and released on bail of Rs 15,000 personal surety, said Sanjay Hazare, senior police inspector, Kashimira police station, under whose jurisdiction Mira Road falls.On Tuesday evening, the grocery items were delivered at the gate of the apartment complex because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which was initially enforced for 21 days on March 25 and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3, to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.The delivery person had taken all the precautions against Covid-19, as he was wearing the personal protective equipment such as mask and gloves. The customer and his wife came down at the gate to collect the grocery items.Trouble started when Chaturvedi asked the delivery man his name while his wife was going through the list of items that they have ordered. When he learnt that the man is from a minority community, he asked his wife to return the grocery items.“The delivery man was shocked about Chaturvedi’s behaviour and recorded the entire conversation on his cellphone,” Hazare said.“I risked my life to deliver all the essential items. But the man’s (Chaturvedi) behaviour was shocking and tragic, as he was focusing on my religion amid these hard times,” the delivery person told Kashimira Police authorities. He approached the police on the advice of his family members.“Chaturvedi was arrested under Section 295 (a) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli­gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli­gious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code,” Hazare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thane-resident-allegedly-refuses-to-take-delivery-from-muslim-man-arrested/story-lBSXCd8lO27rgKlPbEQDSJ.html
23-04-2020||India||‘Entire world is praising PM Modi’s way of handling Covid-19 crisis’: Amit Shah||Union Home Affairs Minister Amit Shah on Thursday tweeted on the global praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis in India.Shah stated that the “truth is self evident” as the entire world is praising the Prime Minister and his approach towards tackling the coronavirus outbreak in the country.Shah said that every Indian is feeling safe under PM Modi’s leadership and has trust in him. “’Truth is self evident! Entire world is praising PM @narendramodi, the way he is handling COVID-19 global pandemic, taking care of Indians and helping the world community in such challenging times. Every Indian is feeling safe and trusts his leadership,” Shah tweeted out. Truth is self evident!Entire world is praising PM @narendramodi, the way he is handling COVID-19 global pandemic, taking care of Indians and helping the world community in such challenging times. Every Indian is feeling safe and trusts his leadership. pic.twitter.com/caq5y8HjioCo-founder of Microsoft and billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates on Wednesday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to combat the coronavirus menace.“We commend your leadership and the proactive measures you and your government have taken to flatten the curve of the COVID-19 infection rate in India, such as adopting a national lockdown, expanding focused testing to identify hot spots for isolation, quarantining, and care, and significantly increasing health expenditures to strengthen the health system response and promote R&D and digital innovation.”Gates said he is glad that the Indian prime minister’s government tapped its exceptional digital capabilities as a formulated response to Covid-19. “I’m glad your government is fully utilising its exceptional digital capabilities in its COVID-19 response and has launched the Aarogya Setu digital app for coronavirus tracking, contact tracing, and to connect people to health services.”Earlier this month, World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus lauded steps taken by PM Modi to help the poor during the nationwide coronavirus lockdown.My appreciation to Prime Minister @narendramodi for announcing a $24 billion package to support 🇮🇳's vulnerable populations during #COVID19 crisis, including:-free food rations for 800M disadvantaged people-cash transfers to 204M poor women-free cooking gas for 80M households.“My appreciation to Prime Minister @narendramodi for announcing a $24 billion package to support ‘s vulnerable populations during #COVID19 crisis, including:-free food rations for 800M disadvantaged people-cash transfers to 204M poor women-free cooking gas for 80M households,” the WHO chief had tweeted out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/entire-world-is-praising-pm-modi-s-way-of-handling-covid-19-crisis-amit-shah/story-EnrUVQLXNUNkPo4VtwnljI.html
23-04-2020||India||Prisoners on parole can mark attendance via WhatsApp call or sharing location: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has come up with a unique way for the prisoners to mark their attendance at the police station during the period of emergency parole by asking them to either WhatsApp video call or send their google location to the Investigating Officer (IO) to ascertain their location.Generally, a prisoner or a convict on parole or furlough has to mark his attendance to the local police station. However, with the conditions of the lockdown, the court said that the prisoners can also use the feature of WhatsApp video call and google location.In a couple of orders passed on April 20, Justice AJ Bhambani said that the inmates can ‘drop-a-pin’ on Google maps so that the IO/SHO can verify their presence and location. The court also said that the prisoners cannot leave the city without the permission of the court.The order comes in two cases - one where a 73-year-old retired school teacher had moved the court challenging his conviction in a POCSO case for sexually assaulting a minor. In his plea, he had contended that he is old and is being treated for various ailments including hypertension, diabetes and bronchial asthma.However, appearing for the state, the additional public prosecutor opposed his bail stating that he has been sentenced to 10 years for a heinous crime and hence should not be granted any bail.Justice Bhambani, after hearing the arguments, said that “in the unprecedented circumstances of a public health emergency that prevail today and the consequent need to decongest prisons for the overall medical safety of all prisoners, this court is persuaded to grant to the appellant interim suspension of sentence for a period of three months with a list of conditions”.In a similar order, where the court was hearing an appeal by a man called Ompal, Justice Bhambani granted him interim bail. Ompal was convicted for administering intoxicating substance to other workers while he was working as the van driver that was loading money for the ATMs.He had moved the court seeking bail stating that his wife and three children have been facing problems in his absence. He contended that his wife, who works at a local school, has received no salary owing to the lockdown.The court allowed him bail at a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with similar conditions to mark his attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prisoners-on-parole-can-mark-attendance-via-whatsapp-call-or-sharing-location-delhi-hc/story-MR8N0bmS6kFywG6pnTZruK.html
23-04-2020||India||Petrol, diesel price hike temporary, says Assam minister; cites fall in monthly revenue||Assam finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has said that government’s decision to hike prices of petrol and diesel is an effort to protect the state’s revenue.“The increase in prices of petrol/diesel is an effort to cover some losses and partially protect our revenue. This is a temporary measure and there will be a roll-back once the coronavirus crisis ends,” Sarma said on Wednesday.The minister also said that due to Covid-19 lockdown, most people are unable to use their own vehicles and two-wheeler and also the owners of the other vehicles - like trucks and buses - running their automobiles in a limited way, people at large would not be affected.“Pain has to be shared by every one to overcome the crisis,” Sarma remarked.Assam earns an average of Rs 166 crores monthly as royalty from sale of oil. But due to prices coming down that figure would be less than Rs 50 crore per month, he added.The state government issued a notification on Tuesday notifying that the VAT (Value Added Tax) for diesel has been fixed at 23.66 paise in the rupee or Rs 17.45 per litre, whichever is higher, and VAT for petrol and other motor spirits at 32.66 paise in the rupee or Rs 22.63 per lire, whichever is higher.With this, the price of petrol increased from Rs 71.61 to Rs 77.46 per litre and of diesel from Rs 65.07 to Rs 70.50 per litre.The revised rates have come into effect from April 22 midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-diesel-price-hike-temporary-says-assam-minister-cites-fall-in-monthly-revenue/story-y6DmRwFisr6WfkEelLSbON.html
23-04-2020||India||From medical emergencies to lockdown violations, citizen helpline deals with all||From a host of medical emergencies like the requirement of cancer and arthritis-related medicines to neighbours alerting the authorities about quarantined patients violating guidelines, the Covid-19 crisis has citizen helplines ringing off the hook, for both the government as well as the social sector.Caremongers, a crowd-sourced initiative that started off as a conversation between school friends on March 20 has received over 50,000 requests for help from across and outside the country. Sample this. Dr. Priya Khanna, who lives in New York, was in urgent need of a plasma donor. Infected by Covid-19, she was lodged at Clara Mass Medical Center on April 10. It was with the help of Caremongers that Priya was able to find a donor within less than a week. “We have been receiving several requests for all kinds of issues,” said Mahita Nagraj, a digital marketing professional and founder of the Caremongers. “We try and connect people across the world so that help can provided as soon as possible.” The group now comprises of over 36,500 volunteers attempting their bit to help in ease the woes of the coronavirus outbreak. They have delivered groceries, medicines and connected others in need of assistance for obtaining a particular blood type.“In Mumbai, a large part of the problems are facing are medical issues,” said Keith Menon, a volunteer and architect based in Mumbai. “From cancer medication to hydroxychloroquine to help ease rheumatoid arthritis to people needing to reach hospitals, we are working overtime.” “We are also helping the vulnerable groups living in chawls (slums) and migrants obtain ration,” he added. The government, which launched a combined Covid-19 public grievance portal under the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, has received a total of 51,989 complaints as of Wednesday. Of these, nearly 25,000 complaints across ministries have been disposed off in a period of 1.57 days. “There have been many supply related complaints,” a government source familiar with the matter. “Chemists and medicine stores not being open and stores inflating prices of essential goods have come to our notice.” Among the quarantine-related incidents, there have been neighbours who have complained that those under home-quarantine are violating the terms of their isolation. “Then, of course, there’s police harassment and families not knowing where the officials took their relatives because they suspected that they were Covid-19 positive.”There have also been many cases of husbands trying to reach their pregnant wives who had just delivered a child. There have also been a host of migrant labour related issues (3457), salary and employment related issues (3427) and evacuation related issues (3033) that have been reported to the government. “A family from Chandigarh is stranded in Dubai as they would visit the city often,” said the above mentioned source. “They have asked to be evacuated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizen-helpline-deals-with-all-from-medical-emergencies-to-violation-of-lockdown-guidelines/story-fS0hZvCl52s9ijISrbbBJM.html
23-04-2020||India||Arnab Goswami attack case: Sad to see public hounding of a journalist, BJP chief Nadda takes on Congress||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda has said that public hounding of a journalist like Arnab Goswami is sad.“Shocking to see Arnab Goswami attacked after Congress CMs publicly threatened him. Sad to see such public hounding of a journalist for his freedom of speech. Congress shows it is the party that brought Emergency and continues it’s rich tradition of trampling free speech,” Nadda said on Twitter. Shocking to see Arnab Goswami attacked after Congress CMs publicly threatened him. Sad to see such public hounding of a journalist for his freedom of speech. Congress shows it is the party that brought Emergency and continues it’s rich tradition of trampling free speech.His comments came after a police complaint was filed by Goswami claiming his car was attacked past midnight on Wednesday in Mumbai by two unknown people.In his police complaint, the Republic TV chief said that the attack took place around 12:15 am. “Two men on a motorcycle overtook my car and tried to identify who was driving. They then blocked the path of my car with their two-wheeler. The pillion rider hit the right side driver window several times and after realising that the car windows were up, the pillion rider removed a liquid bottle from his pocket and threw liquid on the driver’s side of the car where I was sitting,” Goswami said in his complaint.Goswami’s wife was also present in the car when the incident took place. Both of them escaped unhurt.In his complaint, Goswami pointed fingers at the Congress and mentioned a tweet by party leader Alka Lamba “just three hours after the attack”.On Wednesday, Congress leaders had complained against Goswami accusing him of attempting to communalise the death of three persons in Maharashtra’s Palghar. Congress leader Nitin Raut also lodged a complaint against him in Nagpur on Wednesday. “It is an attempt to give religious colour to the incident by the media. Goswami is one of them. We have decided to request the CM to take action against him,” said Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arnab-goswami-attack-case-sad-to-see-public-hounding-of-a-journalist-bjp-chief-nadda-takes-on-congress/story-uieDOmw1sQczGJ7W8p68MM.html
23-04-2020||India||‘Govt acted on our Covid-19 suggestions in miserly way’: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi had said that the suggestions she gave to the government on tackling Covid-19 crisis, were only acted upon partially. At a meeting of party’s highest decision-making body, the Congress Working Committee, Gandhi said that “large-heartedness and alacrity from the Central Government is conspicuous by its absence”.“Since our meeting three weeks ago, the pandemic has increased disturbingly - both in spread and speed,” the Congress president said in her opening remarks.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “I offered our constructive cooperation and suggestions. Unfortunately, they have been acted upon only partially and in a miserly way. The compassion, large-heartedness and alacrity from the central government is conspicuous by its absence,” she added.She also said that certain sections of the society, like farm labourers, migrant labourers, construction workers and those in unorganised sector, are facing acute hardships. “Trade, commerce and industry have come to a virtual halt and crores of livelihoods have been destroyed.”“We have repeatedly urged the Prime Minister that there is no alternative to testing, trace and quarantine. Unfortunately, testing still remains low and testing kits are still in short supply and of poor quality. PPE kits number and quality is poor,” she said.Former prime minister Manmohan Singh, who was also a part of the meeting, said, “Success of lockdown is to be judged finally on our ability to tackle Covid-19. Cooperation between the Centre and states is key to the success of our fight against Covid-19.The Congress president has written a series of letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on different issues related to the coronavirus pandemic since March 23.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage In her letters, she has welcomed PM Modi’s decision to provide free 5 kg ration to a person in addition to the entitlements under the National Food Security Act from April to June, and offered suggestions to help counter the adverse impact of the lockdown on the livelihoods of the people.She has also formed a consultative group of the Congress party, headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, to deliberate on current matters related to the coronavirus outbreak and formulate the party’s views on various issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-acted-on-our-covid-19-suggestions-in-miserly-way-sonia-gandhi/story-ymbD5drk5K5rk9JYHMpSML.html
23-04-2020||India||Over 30 Covid-19 suspects go missing in Delhi, search underway: Report||Over 35 coronavirus suspects, who had been quarantined at two different facilities in Delhi, went missing in suspicious circumstances, HT’s Hindi language publication Live Hindustan reported. District police of Delhi’s neighbouring states have been alerted while a search operation is underway. The Delhi Police have also formed several teams to look for the missing suspects. According to Delhi Police sources, the incidents took place at Delhi’s Mukherjee Nagar and Azadpur Colony in Model Town.On April 15, more than 100 coronavirus suspects were admitted at a centre in Azadpur Colony of Model Town. Around Tuesday, night it was reported that three to four people disappeared from there. The complaint was lodged with the police on behalf of the centre in-charge as soon as the matter was detected.The second incident was reported from a centre in Mukherjee Nagar area. Around 125 people were admitted to the quarantine centre here around April 16. From here, more than 30 Covid-19 suspects were reported missing under mysterious circumstances sometime on Monday night. The incident was also reported to the concerned police station by the centre in-charge.According to Delhi Police sources, some Nepali origin suspects have also been reported to be among the missing Covid-19 suspects. All are being looked for. An investigation is also being done to find out the cause behind their escape. It is reported that no person from the respective quarantine centres helped these suspects in escaping.2248 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 48 people have died from the infection while 724 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-30-covid-19-suspects-go-missing-in-delhi-search-underway-report/story-4jEkJtsdBpqjnCZnDjSBvI.html
23-04-2020||India||‘Was attacked while returning home’: Arnab Goswami files police complaint||Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami and his wife were attacked past midnight on Wednesday in Mumbai by two unknown people while they were driving home from their studios, a complaint filed by the television journalist said.Goswami and his wife escaped unhurt in the attack.The Republic TV chief has filed a police complaint in which he said that the attack took place around 12:15 am. “Two men on a motorcycle overtook my car and tried to identify who was driving. They then blocked the path of my car with their two-wheeler. The pillion rider hit the right side driver window several times and after realising that the car windows were up, the pillion rider removed a liquid bottle from his pocket and threw liquid on the driver’s side of the car where I was sitting,” Goswami said in his complaint.He also said that the attackers were apprehended by Mumbai Police protection team.In his complaint, Goswami pointed fingers at the Congress and mentioned a tweet by party leader Alka Lamba “just three hours after the attack”.On Wednesday, Congress leaders had complained against Goswami accusing him of attempting to communalise the death of three persons in Maharashtra’s Palghar. Congress leader Nitin Raut also lodged a complaint against him in Nagpur on Wednesday. “It is an attempt to give religious colour to the incident by the media. Goswami is one of them. We have decided to request the CM to take action against him,” said Raut.An FIR was registered against him in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur after several complaints by Congress workers.Union minister Prakash Javadekar condemned the attempt to attack Goswami. “This is against democracy and it is really ironical that those who preach tolerance have become so intolerant. Therefore we condemn this attempt,” said Javadekar.He also called for action on the complaint.BJP president JP Nadda said it was shocking to see Arnab Goswami attacked after Congress chief ministers “publicly threatened him”.“Sad to see such public hounding of a journalist for his freedom of speech. Congress shows it is the party that brought Emergency and continues it’s rich tradition of trampling free speech,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-tv-chief-arnab-goswami-claims-he-was-attacked-while-coming-home-from-office/story-GOMwnfVNS0nGXqxIuYs7JL.html
23-04-2020||India||After proxy war in Kashmir, Pak launches cyber war against India and PM Modi||Indian security agencies have linked the spurt in social media messages targeting India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to a coordinated effort that has the “imprint” of Pakistani intelligence.According to an assessment handed to the government on Wednesday, the effort was designed to flood social media with messages to fuel anti-India sentiment, particularly in the Gulf countries, “by spreading false propaganda on Islamophobia in India”.The Pakistani deep state, the report said, was attempting to bring a schism between India and close allies in the Gulf by attacking PM Modi who has invested heavily to deepen India’s ties with the Middle-East.The assessment by North Block includes a long list of troll handles based in Pakistan and in the Gulf countries that were being used to achieve this objective.Also Read: From a Twitter handle, the story of Pakistan’s new terror group for KashmirThe spike in social media messages targeting New Delhi isn’t a first.Security officials had noticed a similar pattern last year when Jammu and Kashmir was placed under a communication lockdown last August, hours before Parliament took up legislation to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status under the Constitution.On social media and otherwise, Pakistan had made a concerted effort to embarrass India over nullification of Article 370 but didn’t get far, a government official said. Also Watch | Covid-19 | Ayurvedic drug trial; Pak PM test result; Amarnath yatra: 10 updatesThere was, as reported by Hindustan Times, also evidence how new terror groups funded by the Pakistani deep state first made their presence felt on social media even before it launched the first attack in Srinagar. All when the Internet was still banned in Kashmir.“What has been the novelty in the instant case is the use of prominent personalities in Gulf countries to scale up a systematic agenda of fake propaganda … This effort has clear imprints of the involvement of Pakistan ISI,” a top government official told Hindustan Times, citing the analysis of tweets that targeted New Delhi.On Tuesday, the hashtag that was powered by entities in Pakistan was “ShameOnModi”. A day earlier, the hashtag was “ChaosInIndia”.The campaign that targeted PM Modi was driven by systematically engineering circulation of video clips of isolated incidents of attacks or harassment of Muslim individuals in India to project as if the entire community was under attack.The assessment classifies the Twitter handles into four categories: among the hundreds analysed by security agencies, the report classifies aggregators, feeders, spreaders and influencers.Twitter handles classified as feeders collect the videos from aggregators, devise the appropriate messaging for the videos or photographs and then forward it to the spreaders. Officials said it was not a coincidence that the Twitter handles of most of these feeders were created recently - between January and April - and indicated there was a clear plan and organised effort to target New Delhi.Many of the handles classified as spreaders are based in Pakistan as well.Like the handle that has the picture of a 20-something. She (it could well be a male) had started her day on Twitter this Tuesday with a few posts remembering Iqbal, the pre-eminent poet revered on both sides of the border. Then, she got down to work. By the end of the day, she had posted 200-plus tweets and retweets; an average of one every three minutes with the same hashtag.The report listed scores of Twitter handles, each echoing tweets posted by the others, and using graphic images and videos - many of them several years old - to provoke outrage.This time, however, the report said, there were also spreaders located in different countries of Gulf Cooperation Countries: Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. These are all old but unverified Twitter handles, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-proxy-war-in-kashmir-pak-launches-cyber-war-against-india-and-pm-modi/story-81Ic2r5lwATXUKWyGiRAYI.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid, a mother Earth’s lesson to human beings in universal responsibility: Dalai Lama||The Dalai Lama on Wednesday compared the ongoing global fight against the Covid-19 pandemic with a “lesson in universal responsibility” being taught to human beings by the mother Earth and stressed upon the need to realise the importance of sustainable development. “On this 50th anniversary of Earth Day, our planet is facing one of the greatest challenges to the health and well-being of its people,” said the Dalai Lama, adding: “And yet, in the midst of this struggle, we are reminded of the value of compassion and mutual support.” “The current global pandemic threatens us all, without distinctions of race, culture or gender, and our response must be as one humanity, providing for the most essential needs of all,” he said.Drawing upon the Indian culture of treating the entire world as one big family – the Vasudahiav Kutumbkam, the Dalai Lama said, “Whether we like it or not, we have been born on this earth as part of one great family.” “Rich or poor, educated or uneducated, belonging to one nation or another, ultimately each of us is just a human being like everyone else,” he said. “Furthermore, we all have the same right to pursue happiness and avoid suffering. When we recognize that all beings are equal in this respect, we automatically feel empathy and closeness towards others,” he said. “And, out of this comes a genuine sense of universal responsibility: the wish to actively help others overcome their problems,” said the Dalai Lama, adding: “Our mother earth is teaching us a lesson in universal responsibility.” “This blue planet is a delightful habitat. Its life is our life; its future, our future. Indeed, the earth acts like a mother to us all; as her children, we are dependent on her,” he said, adding “In the face of the global problems we are going through it is important that we must all work together.Stressing upon the need to realise the criticality of sustainable development, he said, “I came to appreciate the importance of environmental concern only after escaping from Tibet in 1959, where we always considered the environment to be pure.” “Whenever we saw a stream of water, for instance, there was no worry about whether it was safe to drink. Sadly, the mere availability of clean drinking water is a major problem throughout the world today,” he pointed out. “We must ensure that the sick and the valiant health-care providers throughout the world have access to the fundamental necessities of clean water and proper sanitation to prevent the uncontrolled spread of disease. Hygiene is one of the bases of effective health care,” he added.“Sustainable access to properly equipped and staffed health-care facilities will help us meet the challenges of the current pandemic that ravages our planet,” he said. The Dalia Lama, however, saw the present global adversity as an opportunity. “It will also offer one of the strongest defences against future public health crises. I understand that these are precisely the objectives set forth in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals that address challenges to global health,” he said. “As we face this crisis together, it is imperative that we act in a spirit of solidarity and cooperation in order to provide for the pressing needs, particularly of our less fortunate brothers and sisters around the world,” he said. “I hope and pray that in the days ahead, each of us will do all we can to create a happier and healthier world,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-a-mother-earth-s-lesson-to-human-beings-in-universal-responsibility-dalai-lama/story-1dUj8uQv21PoL7EcrwaQYP.html
23-04-2020||India||Over 30% of patients recover in Delhi, Maharashtra near 6000 cases: Covid-19 state tally||The number of coronavirus cases in the country crossed the 21,000-mark on Thursday. According to the Ministry of Health, the total number of positive coronavirus cases in the country has jumped to 21,393. The figure includes 16,454 active cases, 4,257 patients who have been cured or discharged and 681 fatalities. Gujarat has the second-highest number of coronavirus cases which now near the 2,500-mark. In Maharashtra, cases inch toward the 6,000-mark. 4 Indian states have more than 1000 coronavirus cases, these include Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.Delhi has more than 2000 coronavirus cases. 724 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the infection in the national capital which is more than 30% of the total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi and second highest in the country after Maharashtra. Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 5652 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 269 deaths so far while 789 patients have recovered.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 2407 coronavirus cases and 179 recoveries so far. 103 people have died from the infection in the state.DelhiAs many as 2248 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. 48 people have died from the infection while 724 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 1890 on Thursday. The state has reported 27 fatalities, and 230 patients have recovered from the infection.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 1629 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 635 recoveries and 18 Covid-19 deaths.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 1592 positive cases of coronavirus. 80 people have died from Covid-19 here while 148 have recovered.Uttar Pradesh1449 people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 173 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 21 have died from the infection here.Telangana945 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. 194 people have made a recovery from the virus while 23 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 813 positive Covid-19 patients and 120 cases of recovery. 24 people have died.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 438 coronavirus cases on Thursday. Kerala has witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19 while 323 people have successfully recovered.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 427 Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths. 131 people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 407. 5 people have died from the infection while 92 were cured.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 262 and 251 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 16 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. 140 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 49 in Punjab.In West Bengal, 456 people have been infected by the coronavirus. There have been 15 deaths and 79 recoveries in the state. Odisha has 83 Covid-19 positive patients, 32 have recovered while one person has died. In Bihar, 143 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 46 patients have recovered.Assam has reported 35 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 19 people have recovered. Uttarakhand has 46 coronavirus patients, 23 patients have recovered from the infection. In Chandigarh, 27 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 14 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 18 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 36 cases of coronavirus and 26 people have recovered.Ladakh has 18 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 18 have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, 3 have recovered. Jharkhand has 49 Covid-19 cases, 3 patients have died and 8 have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur had reported two coronavirus cases, both patients have recovered. Tripura has two cases of coronavirus, one has recovered. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3.India entered the ninth day of the extended lockdown phase on Thursday. Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-30-of-patients-recover-in-delhi-maharashtra-near-6000-cases-coid-19-state-tally/story-uSMV2fAFSUAPfFGTcMIRhL.html
23-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 3 cities account for one-third Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.3 cities account for one-third Covid-19 casesThe ministry of health on Wednesday updated the number of cases of the Covid-19 across districts, showing that while the 18,000 patients are spread across 426 of the 731 districts in the country , just 12 districts account for half the cases in the country, indicating how the contagion has spread in clusters. Read moreTripura villagers clash with Mizoram police, security beefed up at inter-state borderAfter a clash between few villagers and Mizoram Police along the Tripura-Mizoram border, the Tripura Police has tightened security and deployed large contingents of TSR jawans to avert any further tension. Read more States request use of ESI fund for wages amid Covid-19 lockdownA clutch of industries and a few states have written to the union ministry of labour and employment to allow the use of funds collected under the ESI or Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) scheme, to cover wages or part of the wages for employees during the lockdown. Read moreAfter success in Tamil Nadu, government to roll out telesurvey to identify Covid-19 hotspotsAfter a successful pilot in Tamil Nadu, the government has started a pan-India telesurvey to reach out to people without smartphones to conduct a Covid-related search. Calls will be placed from the phone number ‘1921’ asking people questions about symptoms of the disease. Read more Thick blood clots in kidneys, lungs and brains of Covid-19 patients scare doctorsAs the novel coronavirus spread through New York City in late March, doctors at Mount Sinai Hospital noticed something strange happening to patients’ blood. Signs of blood thickening and clotting were being detected in different organs by doctors from different specialties. Read more World Book and Copyright Day 2020: History, significance, theme and quotes by famous authorsWorld Book Day, celebrated by UNESCO and other related organisations, is the global celebration of books and reading material observed in more than 100 countries. Read moreManoj Bajpayee’s Aligarh paved the way for Ayushmann Khurrana’s Shubh Mangal Zyaada Saavdhan; it deserves a reappraisalBefore there was Moonlight there was Aligarh. But unlike that film, which won the Academy Award for Best Picture in 2017 and made $65 million worldwide, Aligarh came and went largely unnoticed by the star-crazy Hindi film industry, not even a juicy controversy enough to attract audience interest in its same-sex love story. Read moreOn this day: Chris Gayle scripted history, blew away Pune Warriors IndiaThe Indian Premier League (IPL) has seen a number of brilliant knocks over the years but none of them were as explosive as Chris Gayle’s unbeaten 175 against Pune Warriors in 2013. The destructive innings from the West Indies opener remains the highest score in the tournament’s history and it was also the fastest T20 hundred at that point. Read moreWatch| ‘Virus with us for a long time’: WHO warns against complacency in Covid battle||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-3-cities-account-for-one-third-covid-19-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-tNGlb4AoGLJbBVJSjzoBpJ.html
23-04-2020||India||Number of Covid-19 cases breach 21,000-mark in India, fatalities at 681||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients reached 21,393 on Thursday and fatalities rose to 681, according to Union health ministry data.India now has 16,454 active cases and the number of people who have been cured stands at 4,257 the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8 am.Maharashtra reported 6,710 cases of the coronavirus disease, including 789 discharged patients and 269 deaths. Gujarat has now become the second-worst hit state with 2,407 active cases and Delhi follows with 2,248 infections.The government on Wednesday promulgated an ordinance to make attacks on health care workers non-bailable with maximum punishment of seven years in jail and Rs 5 lakh fine. The ordinance received President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent later in the day.The Union Health Ministry also advised chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories to adopt adequate measures in ensuring the safety of health workers involved in Covid-19 services.The Indian Medical Association (IMA) called off its proposed ‘white alert’ and ‘black day’ protests scheduled for April 22 and 23 following a meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah through video conference on Wednesday. The doctors’ body has been demanding that the Centre bring a law to protect healthcare workers from rising attacks at a time when they are battling Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-covid-19-cases-breach-21-000-mark-in-india-fatalities-at-681/story-ktmJdQNWX1mDndyZgEVGdM.html
23-04-2020||India||Tripura villagers clash with Mizoram police, security tightened at inter-state border||After a clash between few villagers and Mizoram Police along the Tripura-Mizoram border, the Tripura Police has tightened security and deployed large contingents of TSR jawans to avert any further tension.While the police declined to name the cause of the clash, the matter is under investigation.Two FIRs have been lodged on both sides of the inter-state boundary on the issue so far. Tripura Police arrested three villagers in connection with the case; they were later released by a local court.“An FIR was lodged at West Phaileng police station in Mizoram, claiming that two Mizoram police personnel were assaulted by some locals of Kanpui village on April 18. The village falls inside Tripura. We arrested three persons the subsequent day. One of them fled during a routine medical check-up in hospital. The rest two were released on bail after they were forwarded in the court on April 20,” said superintendent of police of North district Bhanupada Chakraborty. The third accused is still absconding.Kanpui village, located in Jampui Hills is around 200 kilometres from Agartala. It falls within Tripura’s North district. An abandoned house was burnt on April 20 night by some unknown miscreants. The officials said that no untoward incident has occurred so far, as security has been tightened along the inter-state boundary. “The situation is under control. No clash has been reported,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-villagers-clash-with-mizoram-police-security-beefed-up-at-inter-state-border/story-oreGdCSP4UOTyZ8qQVyRGL.html
23-04-2020||India||Doctors get legal shield, reports on casualties spark concerns: Covid-19 news today||In the backdrop of persistent attacks on healthcare workers who are at the front line of the battle against the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has approved an ordinance to make such attacks cognisable and a non-bailable offence, expedite investigation, imprison those convicted to up to seven years, and also impose stringent penalties on vandalism and damage to property. Meanwhile, reports by the New York Times and the Financial Times that analysed cumulative mortality figures have triggered fresh concerns, claiming there may be tens of thousands of more deaths due to the Covid-19 pandemic around the world than the toll numbers which are currently established.Covid warriors get bigger legal shieldIn the backdrop of persistent attacks on health care workers in the front line of the battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Centre has approved an ordinance to make such attacks a cognisable and non-bailable offence, expedite investigation, imprison those convicted to up to seven years, and impose stringent penalties on vandalism and damage to property. Read more Covid-19: All eyes on stimulus packageA key economic advisory council of the Union government will meet this week to brainstorm the public spending needed to revive the economy amid mounting demands for a fiscal stimulus. Read more Excruciating hours, bad PPE doctors’ key issuesDoctors and nurses at some of the main coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospitals have said that they continue to work with substandard protective gear, lack access to proper meals, and have to pull in long, gruelling shifts, giving details of how those at the front lines of the pandemic remain vulnerable – from the disease as well as contagion-wary citizens. Read more Covid-19: What you need to know todayThe US was set to temporarily stop the issuance of green cards (initially for 60 days, according to US President Donald Trump) but will not institute an immigration ban, as Trump had initially threatened. Read moreCurbs on movement needed as travel hubs become Covid-19 hotspotsThe 170 districts that the government identified last week as Covid-19 hotspots are home to seven in 10 people who migrate between states for reasons other than marriage, and nine in 10 of all domestic air passengers embark on their journeys from airports in these places, a Hindustan Times analysis showed, highlighting how containing these areas may be critical to India’s fight against the deadly pathogen. Read more Rapid testing on hold, govt plans to scale up PCR testsIndia is working on testing up to 50,000 people a day by the end of the month -- using the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction or RT-PCR test -- as the country approaches the May 3 deadline for the end of the ongoing lockdown, resulting in a potential increase in infections. Read more This is a battle between life and livelihood, says union ministerThe national lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 has left thousands of workers jobless, and forced many of them to leave big cities for their homes. Union minister of state for labour and employment (independent charge) Santosh Kumar Gangwar tells Smriti Kak Ramachandran in an interview about how the states and the Centre are coordinating to ensure the workers are paid and their interests are looked after. Read morePM Modi will meet CMs on April 27 to discuss post-lockdown plansThe meeting, officials indicated, is likely to review the set of relaxations of the federal lockdown allowed from April 20 and discuss the future roadmap that includes longer locking period for red or containment zones, as identified by the government. Read moreCivil aviation ministry HQ to be sealed as worker tests +veThe ministry of civil aviation, headquartered at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan in New Delhi’s Jor Bagh, is to be sealed after an employee tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Tuesday, becoming the first staffer at a central ministry to be confirmed as a Covid-19 carrier. Read more 3 cities account for one-third Covid-19 casesThe ministry of health on Wednesday updated the number of cases of the Covid-19 across districts, showing that while the 18,000 patients are spread across 426 of the 731 districts in the country , just 12 districts account for half the cases in the country, indicating how the contagion has spread in clusters. Read moreCovid deaths could be much higher than known: ReportsThere may be tens of thousands of more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic around the world than currently established, according to reports by the New York Times and the Financial Times that analysed cumulative mortality figures. Read moreNo mutation in important sites of virus, effective vaccine is possible: Dr Soumya SwaminathanIndia cannot depend on rapid antibody tests of unproven quality for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) diagnosis and molecular tests remain the gold standard, says Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the Geneva-based World Health Organisation (WHO) who is leading the global partnerships on scientific research on a vaccine and drug therapies for the infection. In a phone interview, Swaminathan said India, for now, is doing enough testing, but will have to scale it up as the numbers rise. Read more Four cases to 900 in 20 days: What went wrong in IndoreA government team is investigating what the city administration of Indore did wrong to lead to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases jumping from 4 on March 24 to 900 in 20 days. Read more Pandemic protocols as elite athletes plan training returnIndia’s elite athletes are eyeing a return to training after more than a month of staying at home, but under restrictive new pandemic protocols. Read moreMamata slams Centre over ‘faulty’ Covid-19 testing kitsWest Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that the federal government was trying to malign the state and that “canards” were being spread about the state’s testing figures when the “real problem” was with the testing kits supplied to the state. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-get-legal-shield-reports-on-casualties-spark-concerns-covid-19-news-today/story-z00t2VgwI7o01aswwDoViO.html
23-04-2020||India||Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad has tested for Covid-19, says his lawyer||Tablighi Jamat chief Maulana Saad has completed the 14-day quarantine and got himself tested for coronavirus disease Covid-19, his lawyer Fuzail Ayyubi has told Hindustan Times.“He has completed his quarantine and undergone a test. The report is awaited,” said Ayyubi.When asked if Maulana Saad is going to present himself to the police for questioning, his lawyer said, “The Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) does not ask someone to go and present himself that ‘ok, here I am’. There are steps to be taken by the police, and those steps have already been taken even during his quarantine.”“His house was searched in the presence of his son. He got two notices and he responded to those notices. He was asked to undergone the test, and he has undergone the test,” Ayyubi added.  Also watch| Covid-19: Has Tablighi Jamaat chief been tested? Lawyer ends speculationHe also said that Maulana Saad is communicating with the authorities.In an earlier interview to Hindustan Times, the Tablighi chief had told through his lawyer that he is willing to cooperate with the police, and that no illegal activity took place at the group’s markaz (centre), which is the biggest Covid-19 hotspot in India.“Markaz Nizamuddin is basically a masjid namely Bangle Wali Masjid, where normal religious sermons are given on a daily basis throughout the year. Being a masjid, I don’t think there is any requirement to seek permission to give sermons or to have other religious discourses within the building,” he had said.Maulana Saad also said in his response that it’s unfortunate that a few members have tested Covid-19 positive, but an overwhelming majority of the group’s members tested negative too. “Does that make Markaz responsible for the disease?”Police had filed a criminal case against Maulana Saad and six other top officials of the Jamaat on March 31 for defying a series of government directives, which curbed religious and large gatherings, issued to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease Covid-19 in the national capital.Delhi Police officers, requesting anonymity, had confirmed to Hindustan Times that they had added Section 304 in the FIR against Maulana Saad. Section 304 of the IPC, related to culpable homicide not amounting to murder, is a stringent section, unlike the other sections of Epidemic Diseases Act which had been levied in the FIR initially. His family haa, however said that the Tablighi Jamaat chief can join investigation on a three-day notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-chief-maulana-saad-has-tested-for-covid-19-says-his-lawyer/story-YjgVmBR5Y6DrtKQmIrJ4iN.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: President Ram Nath Kovind’s nod to promulgate ordinance to punish those attacking healthcare staff||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday gave assent to an ordinance brought in by the Narendra Modi government to make attacks on health care professionals a cognisable and non-bailable offence, turning it into a law.The new law will also provides for expediting investigation, imprisoning those convicted to up to seven years, and imposing stringent penalties on vandalism and damage to property.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Underlining its importance, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had tweeted on Wednesday, “The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 manifests our commitment to protect each and every healthcare worker who is bravely battling COVID-19 on the frontline. It will ensure safety of our professionals.” He also underlined that there could be “no compromise” on their safety.The government’s decision, following a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, came in the wake of assurances of safety given by home minister Amit Shah and health minister Harsh Vardhan to representatives of the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The IMA subsequently cancelled protests scheduled on Wednesday and Thursday.Later on Thursday, the home ministry also sent an advisory to all state governments to ensure adequate security to all health care workers, and take strict action against any individual obstructing their functioning of, and the performance of the last rites of these workers.Click here for complete coronavirus coverageThe new law has amended the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and comes after a spate of incidents in which doctors and paramedical workers, engaged in testing suspected Covid-19 cases for confirmation, or treating patients, were assaulted and their vehicles damaged by people who feared catching the infection or stigmatised and ostracised health care workers for their proximity to confirmed or suspected cases.The government, Opposition, and civil society have repeatedly called for honouring these professionals workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-president-ram-nath-kovind-s-nod-to-promulgate-ordinance-to-punish-those-attacking-healthcare-staff/story-f0HaDIpTxRD0mqOYJVIEaM.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: First Lady Savita Kovind stitches face masks for shelter homes in Delhi||First Lady Savita Kovind on Wednesday stitched face masks at Shakti Haat in the President’s Estate as part of the fight against Covid-19.These masks will be distributed at various shelter homes of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board. The First Lady was seen covering her face with a red colour cloth mask.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayBy stitching masks, the First Lady has given a message that everyone can fight the Covid-19 pandemic together.Health experts have recommended that people should maintain social distancing and other preventive measures in addition to wearing face coverings.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The masks, which are commonly in use since to contain corona spread, are cloth masks, three-layered surgical masks and N95 respirator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-first-lady-savita-kovind-stitches-face-masks-for-shelter-homes-in-delhi/story-DM6wcvp7Htdrlj3tp8xQuN.html
23-04-2020||India||73 cops quarantined after 5 Moradabad violence accused test positive for Covid-19||As many as 73 police personnel who came in contact with those arrested in connection with the Nawabpura stone-pelting incident here last week were quarantined on Wednesday after five of the accused tested positive for coronavirus, a police official said.The five accused are among the 17 who were arrested after a mob attacked a team of health workers in Nawabpura area here on April 15 to prevent it from taking a coronavirus-infected man to an isolation facility.Senior Superintendent of Police Amit Pathak said samples of all 73 police personnel, who have been quarantined at different centres here, have been sent for testing.“We have enough staff at Nagphani police station to tackle the situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/73-cops-quarantined-after-5-moradabad-violence-accused-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-LCVf7fTLVH3DXuSMAXJTEK.html
23-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The US was set to temporarily stop the issuance of green cards (initially for 60 days, according to US President Donald Trump) but will not institute an immigration ban, as Trump had initially threatened.An anti-immigration and anti-immigrant stance was at the heart of Trump’s successful 2016 presidential campaign, and with elections due this year in the US, his motivations are clear.Trump couched his moves as an effort to prevent Americans losing jobs to foreigners, but the fact is, businesses roiled by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the lockdowns it has necessitated — in the absence of a cure, this seems to be the only way — are merely laying off people, not replacing American workers with foreign ones.The US President touted the malaria drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) as a wonder cure but several studies and opinions from experts (including one on Tuesday from a panel of US experts asked to weigh in by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, headed by Dr Anthony Fauci) have recommended against its use. In India, too, the Indian Council of Medical Research said a clinical trial to judge the efficacy of the wonder drug doesn’t make sense simply because there isn’t any evidence that HCQ is a good prophylaxis.Isolation, quarantines, and lockdowns seem to be the best prophylaxis at this point in time, although the economic consequences are something governments will have to live with — and address by announcing relief and stimulus packages. India has announced a relief package aimed at the most vulnerable, and its central bank has infused liquidity into the system and ensured that too many loans won’t go bad, but the government is yet to announce a package, although there are reports that one was discussed during a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs at the Prime Minister’s residence on Wednesday.The current lockdown in India lasts till May 3, though there has been some opening up in terms of business activities — especially in areas with not too many cases of Covid-19.Last week, an analysis by Hindustan Times found that the 170 districts classified as red zones by the health ministry are also important centres of commercial activity. Another analysis has found that 90% of India’s air travellers start their journeys from an airport located in a red zone. Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Hyderabad Chennai, Pune and Ahmedabad are all in the red zone (if not entirely, then at least significant parts of the cities are).There have been reports including one in this newspaper, that interstate air travel may not be opened up immediately after May 3, even if there is no further extension of the lockdown. This data explains why it’s a bad idea to open up air travel when the pandemic is still raging through some cities (Mumbai and Ahmedabad, especially, have seen a rapid increase in cases over the past few days). Another city that has seen the number of cases soar is Indore, which, not too long ago, was winning awards for being India’s cleanest city. Interestingly, the primary reason seems to be a violation of the lockdown.That the fight against Covid-19 isn’t easily won is evident in the experience of Agra — whose initial efforts at fighting the disease’s spread were so successful that they gave birth to a so-called Agra model. On Wednesday, the number of Covid-19 cases in the city of the Taj crossed 300 . It is equally evident in the case of Kerala: 19 cases were recorded on Tuesday, after only 2 and 6 were reported on Sunday and Monday respectively. The state, which currently tests around 624 people per million of its population, plans to start community testing and strictly enforce the lockdown.It’s almost become a cliché now, but the only things that work seem to be widespread testing, and staying in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-OQT1iPpaK0aWEKHEdBK6hI.html
23-04-2020||India||States request use of ESI fund for wages amid Covid-19 lockdown||A clutch of industries and a few states have written to the union ministry of labour and employment to allow the use of funds collected under the ESI or Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) scheme, to cover wages or part of the wages for employees during the lockdown.According to an official aware of the details, these industries, mostly in the micro, small and medium sector, have pointed out that the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is an extraordinary situation, and employers are facing difficulties in paying wages even as their establishments are shut, affecting their revenue generation.Among the states that have raised the issue of allowing ESIC funds for the payment of wages are Himachal Pradesh and Punjab. According to the functionary aware of details, the states and the industry bodies have pointed out that they should be given some sort of financial aid to be able to adhere to the union home ministry’s advisory issued on March 29, to ensure that wages are paid in full and on time during the lockdown, now extended till May 3.In a representation to the ministry, Himachal Pradesh has, for instance, said many sectors, including the industrial sector, have expressed difficulty in complying with the order of the government to pay wages during the lockdown. “Most of them are MSMEs with limited financial ability to sustain prolonged closure and still meet their obligations towards their employees. It may also jeopardise the industrial growth and productivity in the state. I would, therefore, like to make a special request to you to please directions to the ESIC to bring in proposed changes to providing unemployment benefits like release of financial assistance to the workers registered with the employees State insurance Corporation for the lock down period [sic],” the letter written by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur reads.Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had, on April 10, written to Santosh Gangwar, minister of state for labour and employment (independent charge), suggesting the utilisation of ESIC, MGNREGA and other such funds by the Centre to provide part of the wages or lump sum financial assistance to industrial workers during the lockdown.He insisted that the industrial sector in Punjab, which largely comprises MSMEs, was already under a lot of stress and stretched for resources, and hence it would be impossible for them to implement the union home ministry’s March 29 directions that all employers pay wages to their workers on the due date without deduction.A functionary of the ministry said no decision on the issue has been taken so far.The ESI is a self-financing health insurance scheme for workers in the formal sector and offers compensation in the form of cash up to three months of unemployment. The social security scheme offers full medical care to the insured person and his or her family with no ceiling on expenditure on the treatment. It offers benefits during sickness, maternity and disability. It also offers unemployment allowance under the Rajiv Gandhi Shramik Kalyan Yojana to those rendered unemployed because of the closure of a factory/establishment, retrenchment or permanent invalidity; equal to 50% of wage for a maximum period of up to two years. And under the Atal Beemit Vyakti Kalyan Yojana, the ESIC offers cash compensation up to 90 days, once in a lifetime, to be claimed after three months during one or more spells of unemployment with certain preconditions.CK Saji Narayanan, president of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, however, said the ministry should not consider the demand to divert funds from the ESI: “It is a bad move, the funds are created from the sweat and toil of workers and it is for their health and other benefits. The funds cannot be diverted for wages as it is bound by an act, and without the consultation of the ESIC board it be ultra vires [sic],” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-request-use-of-esi-fund-for-wages-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-sfF03g4V0RSggIPEViJoCP.html
23-04-2020||India||3 cities account for one-third Covid-19 cases||The ministry of health on Wednesday updated the number of cases of the Covid-19 across districts, showing that while the 18,000 patients are spread across 426 of the 731 districts in the country , just 12 districts account for half the cases in the country, indicating how the contagion has spread in clusters.A separate analysis based on HT’s own data showed that one in every three cases reported in the country has come from three cities – Mumbai, Delhi or Ahmedabad. To be sure, the data released by the ministry accounts for only 18,330 cases. According to HT’s dashboard, which is based on data from the Covid19india.org tracker and state health departments, there were 20,004 cases as of Tuesday night. According to the ministry’s data, 12 districts across eight states – Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Indore, Pune, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Thane, Surat, Chennai, Bhopal, Agra and Jodhpur – account for 50.8% of all 17,250 Covid-19 positive cases for which district is known. The remaining 1,080 cases are people who have been found positive from Tablighi Jamaat members who were quarantined in Delhi. They have not been classified into any specific district. According to this data, the pandemic has now spread to 58.3% of the country’s 731 districts. There are 222 districts with up to 10 cases, 66 districts with 11-20 cases, 42 districts with 21-30 cases, and 96 districts with more than 30 cases.Interestingly, the concentration of cases in Delhi does not show up in this data as the national capital is not a separate district in itself like other high-caseload cities such as Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Indore and Pune are. Delhi, due to its complex nature of being the capital, is divided into 11 revenue districts. Three of these districts – Central Delhi with 184 cases, South East Delhi with 130 cases and West Delhi with 122 cases – feature in the 25 worst-hit districts in the country.In a separate analysis based on HT’s dashboard on Tuesday , Delhi, which was broken down in the ministry data into separate districts, reported 2,272 cases and stands only behind Mumbai (3,451 cases) as the worst-hit city in the country. Ahmedabad came in on the third spot with 1,378 cases. This also meant that 35.5% of all patients in the country can be traced to just these three cities.Only eight cities account for more than half (51.3%) cases in the entire country, highlighting the urban spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-cities-account-for-one-third-cases/story-0bLHYRODsG1bGXHzPLDgJM.html
23-04-2020||India||Kerala records a spike after downward trend||Kerala witnessed spike in Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row with 11 people testing positive on Wednesday, taking the tally of active cases to 127, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said.After reporting cases in single digits and higher number of recoveries for some days, Kerala recorded a spurt on Tuesday with 19 people testing positive and 11 on Wednesday.Seven out of the 11 new cases were from Kannur District, which has emerged as the latest hotspot for the disease accounting for state’s 61 cases.One new case each was detected from Malappuram and Kottayam, a Green Zone, the chief minister said.“With the 11 new cases, the total number of Covid-19 affected persons in the state has gone up to 426. A total of 29,150 people are under observation in the state with 346 in isolation wards at various hospitals,” Vijayan said.“On Monday, people came out in large numbers thinking lockdown norms were eased. It is not like that, we have to be careful. Sudden spurt in cases shows it,” said the CM.In Pathanamthitta, a person was tested positive on Tuesday after 36 days of observation. “It is really a worrying point. We have asked our experts to study such cases,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-a-spike-after-downward-trend/story-0BcWUHU3QV2zr5OD72DpVI.html
23-04-2020||India||Popular Odia comedian takes to selling vegetables to support kin amid lockdown||On most days, life is a struggle for 39-year-old Ravi Kumar. A mimicry artist who often does comic roles in Odia films, Ravi Kumar or Black Ravi as he is known among his peers for his dark complexion, does everything --- painting trucks, walls, doing stage shows - to feed his 11-member family including elderly parents.Last month, soon after the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic was announced, Ravi added another skill set to his repertoire. He turned a vegetable vendor hawking fresh vegetables by the roadside in Bhubaneswar and then selling the same door-to-door on his cycle.What sets Ravi and other vegetable vendors apart is the way he sells his vegetables using his mimicry skills. “I sell brinjal, bitter gourd, pumpkin, tomato and parwal while mimicking Bollywood actors Nana Patekar, Amitabh Bachchan, Dharmendra and Odia comedian Jayee. That draws a lot of people,” he said. As the coronavirus pandemic turned life upside down for crores of Indians, people like Ravi who earn their livelihood through their creative skills have been forced to look for alternative careers.“I could not just wait for the lockdown to get over to start earning. When the lockdown was announced I was shooting for an Odia movie called Bali. I also used to do wall-painting and paint trucks. As there was no opportunity to do the same during the lockdown, I took to vending vegetables in Samantarapur area of Bhubaneswar,” Ravi, whose unique mimicry has earned him a huge fan following, said.The popular comedian who has acted in more than 30 Odia films, 10 daily soaps and several video albums, said he was offered money by people to do wall painting, but refused as it would have amounted to violating the lockdown. “But I have a large family to feed. Apart from my two daughters, I have to look after 4 children of my deceased brother and sister-in-law and a younger brother. So I took to vending of vegetables as it is allowed during lockdown,” Kumar elaborated.Every morning, Kumar puts up the vegetable stall by the roadside till 10 am when the sun’s rays start hurting. He then takes the leftover vegetables on a cycle and hawks door-to-door till everything is sold. In the evening, he sells mushrooms and raw and boiled eggs by the roadside. With the money that he earns, he also supports a widow near his house.The comedian said he is also urging other people in his locality to take up vegetable vending as an alternative profession to run their family during lockdown. Another popular comedian Pragyan Khatua, who does a comedy show on an Odia TV channel, said Ravi is a person who would not beg before anyone. “His mimicry and anchoring skills are unmatched. He has seen difficult days and knows the value of living with dignity,” said Pragyan.The lockdown while affecting the income of comedians like Ravi has dealt a huge blow to the Odia film industry, already plagued by allegations of churning out sub-standard movies. The Utkal Cine Chamber of Commerce, a body of filmmakers and producers said the lockdown would hit the industry’s plans of releasing movies during the Raja festival. “We release much of our movies during Raja festival in June. Now shooting has stopped affecting the livelihood of 1,000 technicians, 800 producers and distributors, 140 cinema hall owners and 1,600 cinema hall staffers in Odisha. Once the lockdown is lifted, we are not sure how many people would come to cinema halls,” Dilip Mishra, chairman of the body said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/popular-odia-comedian-takes-to-selling-vegetables-to-support-kin-amid-lockdown/story-S0uP2tJBEb8kCP7EXtJKNM.html
23-04-2020||India||Odisha journalist taking sick son to hospital assaulted by cop for flouting lockdown||A journalist of an Odia newspaper in mineral-rich Keonjhar district was on Wednesday allegedly beaten up by a police sub-inspector while he was taking his ailing child to a hospital.Subrat Kumar Swain, correspondent with Odia daily Sambad, was heading towards the Keonjhar district headquarters hospital in his car with his 4-year-old son when sub-inspector Ashutosh Mohanty stopped him and allegedly hit him with his baton. Swain said he told the sub-inspector that he was going to hospital to consult a doctor as his son was feverish since the previous night.“Although I had the necessary lockdown pass and showed my identity card, the police officer misbehaved with me and beat me,” alleged Swain. Following this, the journalists in Keonjhar surrounded the police station demanding action against the cop.Keonjhar SP Mitrabhanu Mahapatra said he has asked the additional SP to inquire into the matter. Till the probe into the matter is over, the sub-inspector will not be deployed on road patrolling duty, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-journalist-taking-sick-son-to-hospital-assaulted-by-cop-for-flouting-lockdown/story-85O55zHwPDCdsbqWFtO1GK.html
23-04-2020||India||Excruciating hours, bad PPE doctors’ key issues||Doctors and nurses at some of the main coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hospitals have said that they continue to work with substandard protective gear, lack access to proper meals, and have to pull in long, gruelling shifts, giving details of how those at the front lines of the pandemic remain vulnerable – from the disease as well as contagion-wary citizens.The problems persist even as the government has taken several steps to prevent attacks faced by several health workers – doctors, nurses and workers who go to neighbourhoods for disease surveillance. The Union Cabinet decided on Wednesday to amend the epidemic disease act to lay down prison terms and fines for those attacking health workers.Health care professionals said while the decision solves one part of the problem, another big area of concern remains. In the less than one-and-a-half months since the Covid-19 outbreak began in Delhi, at least 87 health staff in private and government facilities have contracted the disease.In Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital, a resident doctor, who asked not to be named, said the personal protective equipment (PPE) bodysuits given to them is prone to tearing. Sharing images of his bodysuit torn from nearly chest to his waist, the doctor said: “I have not done much physical movement, the condition of the bodysuit is only from the regular checkups that I did today.“The quality problem appears to be particularly acute in suits that were donated to hospitals after reports of shortages gained attention last month. “Earlier, the problem was that we were not getting ample supply of PPE kits in hospitals, but now a lot of NGOs and private individuals are donating these kits. Though the gesture is appreciated, there is no way of ensuring the quality of these PPE and such problems have been highlighted by several doctors,” said Dr Parv Mittal, president of Maulana Azad Medical College and Associated Hospitals’ Resident Doctors Association. The association represents doctors of four hospitals: Lok Nayak Hospital, GB Pant Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences and Guru Nanak Eye Centre. Out of these hospitals, Lok Nayak is the biggest Covid-19-designated hospital in Delhi. It admitted 214 new positive patients on Tuesday.PPE kits include several items: a bodysuit, a pair of shoe cover, disposable goggles, gloves, disposable face mask, a collection in which they are meant to be discarded, and a hand towel. A second doctor, who asked not to be named, said several of these items are often missing from the kits or are damaged, needing them to use crude quick-fix solutions like adhesives.Multiple complaints have been sent to the hospital administration, central and state governments but the matter is still unresolved, the doctor added. “We have to reuse N-95 masks for three to five days at least. And we still do not know if those are N-95 masks at all. If questions are raised on the substandard quality of PPEs, we are asked to adjust or exchange the set saying that they are donated. If everyone is getting only donated items, what happened to the ones being procured by the government?” the doctor said.Things have improved in some hospitals, but the distribution of protective gear is still erratic and limited to only selected staff members, he added.Responding to the complaints, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said that since the donations of PPEs are made in bulk, some pieces may end up damaged. “One or two from a pack of 100 PPEs could have been damaged but how can we stop accepting kits because of that? The need of the hour is to protect our front-line workers, who are risking their life and safety to fight this pandemic,” Jain said while speaking to reporters.The shortage of PPE also forces doctors and nurses to spend their entire day in one overall, which means they need to avoid bathroom breaks and are forced to wear adult diapers. “We cannot remove our PPEs once we wear it, because there are not enough suits to change into. This means that we cannot even drink water during duty,” said a 38-year-old nurse at east Delhi’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, asking not to be named. “It is very hard. There have been days when I have spent my entire after-duty time drinking water because I am so dehydrated,” she said, adding that shifts usually stretch into 14 hours and the diapers are often at the verge of leaking. She said the meals offered to them are also insufficient and of poor quality. On Monday, she said, her only meal consisted of a bun with butter, a bottle of cold coffee and one bar of chocolate. “The food in the initial days was good and the portion size was enough to get you through the day. How do they expect people to keep working without proper food and water? In such a situation, if we fall ill no one will be there to even look after us,” she said.Mini Joseph, joint secretary, Joint Federation of Nurses, said: “If there are four nurses on duty, only one or two get PPEs, while the rest have to manage with only masks and gloves. Everyone from sanitation workers, to lab technicians and even nurses are risking their lives but not everyone is getting proper protection. Who gets to decide who gets safety gear and who doesn’t?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excruciating-hours-bad-ppe-doctors-key-issues/story-U3jUOdCylXTWKsLTT0twGL.html
23-04-2020||India||This is a battle between life and livelihood, says union minister||The national lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19 has left thousands of workers jobless, and forced many of them to leave big cities for their homes. Union minister of state for labour and employment (independent charge) Santosh Kumar Gangwar tells Smriti Kak Ramachandran in an interview about how the states and the Centre are coordinating to ensure the workers are paid and their interests are looked after. Edited excerpts:How is the ministry ensuring that workers’ demands and concerns are addressed by the states since labour is on the concurrent list?The ministry has set up a workers’ helpline and 20 control rooms across India. Seventy-five senior officers from the office of the chief labour commissioner (central) are addressing various wage and employment-related grievances under the central sphere, and also the issues of migrant workers. The coordinated efforts of central and state governments are required to resolve these grievances; so we have asked all states and Union Territories to sensitise officers of their labour departments about these control rooms, and designate nodal officers to coordinate with them. This will allow greater synergy between the Centre and the states, and a quicker resolution of complaints.Will you consider demands from states and industry bodies to use Employees’ State Insurance funds for payment of wages during the lockdown? The finance ministry has released a relief package. Presently, we are listening to the stakeholders and seeking suggestions. All of this will be shared with the finance ministry and all the ministries concerned. As for questions about a financial package, that should be dealt with and responded to by the finance ministry. We wrote to states and Union Territories on March 24 that they can use appropriate money from their portion of the Rs 31,000 crore accumulated from the building and construction cesses. We have informed the states that if they wish to, they can use a portion of this fund for eligible beneficiaries. A reasonable amount of money from the fund can also be transferred into the accounts of an estimated 35 million registered building and other construction workers.There are concerns that if workers are not paid, they may not enough money to survive.We have about 400 million people in the unorganised sector. The states will have to come up with ways to ensure they are also looked after. This is a battle between life and livelihood, but with the comprehensive efforts of citizens and the government, India will win the battle soon. We have to come out of this situation with practical solutions that benefit both the workers as well as the employers.The government has also made it possible for people to withdraw EPF (Employees’ Provident Fund). There has been a good response to that scheme because it has helped improve liquidity and put money into the hands of the workers. Further, support to a big section of employees and employers has also been extended. The expenditure of Rs 4,860 crore will be taken care of by the government through the 24% EPF contribution.What has are the kinds of complaints you have received on the helpline?In three days, we received over 300 complaints and about 60% of these pertain to states. We closely monitor these helpline numbers to assess the rate and quality of disposal of grievances/complaints/distress calls - whether they have been addressed in time or if there is an issue that needs to be dealt by any state government. A majority of the complaints have been about non-payment or delays in payment of wages, and action has been taken. We get real-time testimonies from people whose complaints are being resolved. Some of the other requests were for faster resolution of EPFO (Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation) claims. Several industry bodies have raised the issue of a shortage of manpower across sectors because of a large scale movement of the migrant workforce...The agriculture sector has largely been exempted from the lockdown, and there is no shortage there. I have been told that labour for agriculture is actually now available at a little competitive daily wage basis than before. But the situation will be better in future and the labour will eventually move where the job opportunities are available.People should not hesitate to lodge complaints with the helpline numbers. We are here to solve their problems; the numbers are provided on the website of the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-a-battle-between-life-and-livelihood-santosh-kumar-gangwar/story-LKRBsuhG978KvtL9A8YiRI.html
23-04-2020||India||Rajasthan task force seeks Covid fund, incentives||A Rajasthan government task force has sought the setting up of a national coronavirus disease (Covid) management fund, the suspension of Central permissions for setting up industries, except highly polluting ones, and the deferring of repayment of all state development loans by three months to revive the economy and improve the state’s financial health.For specific sectors, it has sought a revolving fund for self-help groups (SHGs), money as seed capital to provide financial aid to small and medium industries and a mandatory chief health officer to reassure people about safety, according to the task force’s report accessed by HT.The report also quoted a study by the International Labour Organisation to say that around 90% or 400 million people working in the informal economy are at risk of falling deeper into poverty during the crisis. “The latest CMIE report on job destruction due to Covid-19 states that about 12 crore Indians have already lost employment over the first lockdown [sic],” the report said, adding that medium and small enterprises and the service sector were “staring at bankruptcy.”The task force set up by chief minister Ashok Gehlot in the first week of April said that there would be a two to three percentage point decline in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, primarily because three of the four drivers of growth are seeing a huge “negative shock” in the first half of 2020. The three drivers that will see a fall are private consumption, investment and exports, the report said.“A temporary lockdown can have a permanent negative impact, especially in agriculture, animal husbandry, fishing and the service sector… A national strategy to minimise the impact of coronavirus on the economy must, therefore, counter the above negative effects,” the report said.The task force headed by economic advisor to the chief minister and former union finance secretary Arvind Mayaram had sought inputs from experts such as former RBI governors Raghuram Rajan and Urijit Patel, former chief economic advisor Kaushik Basu and industry captains such as Naina Lal Kidwai, chairman, India Advisory Board, Advent Private Equity, and Anil Agarwal of Vedanta Resources.At the national level, the task force suggested ramping up the interstate movement of goods and services, the immediate transfer of all the budgeted amount of Central Sector Schemes and Central Sector funds to the states, suspending prior approval under Central laws for setting up industries except polluting industries falling under red category and a Covid debt mobilisation plan, in which the amount equal to 4% of the GDP can be mobilised.The report also asked the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India to reschedule and defer all repayments and interests on State Development Loans (SDLs), for three months, with no penalty for deferred payment, and incentives to manage fiscal deficits, which are likely to increase in the current financial year because of the falling revenue and increase in Covid expenditure.“The most significant impact that the GOI can have on fighting the economic downturn rests in this coordinated use of fiscal and monetary policy, which only the GOI can do as it has vested sovereign powers. It must recognise that the front-line battle, where resources are urgently required, is at the state level. Therefore, in the spirit of co-operative federalism, states should be trusted with untied resources,” the report said.The report suggested introducing the position of Chief Public Health Officer (CPHO) to provide direction to medical, health and family welfare department staff, including medical professionals, scientists, and epidemiologists, as they plan and respond to the emergency, the report said.To boost the MSME sector, the report suggested providing seed capital as grant in aid, in addition to Mudra loans. The MSMEs may also be supported with reimbursement of salaries for three months by the government or given GST credit equal to 50% of the workers’ wage bill of six months (to be availed over the next two years), the report said.To support the local village economy, self-help groups (SHGs) could be given a revolving fund to lend money to their members as well as to migrants who have lost jobs because of Covid. The infusion of funds to the groups and their federations will meet their consumption needs and help them revive the livelihood of their members, as well as provide capital to improve consumption. Although the suggestions of the task force are aimed at restarting the economy in Rajasthan, the officials said the measures can be implemented anywhere in the country. The task force report will now be submitted to the Central government as the state’s inputs for reviving the national economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-task-force-seeks-covid-fund-incentives/story-gTwqsyRVb7ScoHzeCZ6zDM.html
23-04-2020||India||Debate over Chinese, Korean kits after states flag concerns||Hyderabad/Jaipur:After complaints of faulty Covid-19 kits prompted the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to suspend rapid antibody testing for two days, a debate has started over the efficacy of Chinese and South Korean kits being used in the states to conduct the tests that are supposed to deliver results faster than the time-consuming Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method.While some states such as Rajasthan and West Bengal received the Chinese rapid testing kits imported by ICMR, states such as Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh on their own have imported the kits from South Korea.Rajasthan and West Bengal governments have both complained about the efficacy of thousands of Chinese rapid testing kits, saying they were delivering faulty results after which the ICMR on Tuesday suspended the tests across the country. Only 6% of the samples that tested positive in the RT-PCR tests were found to have tested positive in the antibody testAndhra Pradesh, which has imported 200,000 rapid testing kits from South Korea, has had no complaints so far. The state’s medical and health commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar, said as many as 10,000 samples were tested using the South Korean kits and there had been no complaints by expert overseeing them.“The tests have been stopped following instructions from the Indian Council of Medical Research. We will resume testing after getting the nod from the ICMR,” he said.Bhaskar declined to reveal how many of the 10,000 samples had tested positive and negative. “We cannot reveal the details without approval from the ICMR,” he said. The health commissioner said the rapid antibody tests cannot be relied upon entirely to test whether a person was positive or negative for Covid-19. “It is only a screening test and not the final test to prove whether a person is Covid-19 positive or negative. You cannot take the result of these rapid antibody tests on its face value,” he said.Bhaskar said the rapid tests had to be done only on people who were suffering from Covid-19 related symptoms for at least 10 days. “If we do rapid antibody tests before this 10-day period, there is a possibility that it may give a false negative result. The person might test positive in the RT-PCR, which is an authentic test,” he said.The Rajasthan government, which was the first to say no to rapid tests using Chinese kits, said only 5.4% of the results of tests using the kits procured by ICMR were accurate. “The co-relation between the PCR test and rapid kit test should have been 90% but it was only 5.4%,” said Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma.Dr S Banerjee, head of the medicine department at Jaipur’s SMS Hospital, and a member of the panel formed to check the efficacy of the rapid testing kits, said when an antibody test is positive, two bands appear on a test card after a drop of blood from the sample is put on it. If a single line appears on the card, the test is deemed to be negative. “In the tests they conducted, the kit did not show two bands even for (Covid) positive patients,” he said.On Wednesday, West Bengal chief secretary Rajiv Sinha termed conducting tests with the rapid kits a “wastage of time,” alleging that the ICMR did not check the efficacy of the kits before sending them to the state. West Bengal has received 10,000 rapid testing kits, of which 220 were used.Bhaskar refused to comment on whether the Korean kits were superior to Chinese kits.“We have imported Korean kits and not Chinese kits. So it is not proper to talk about Chinese kits without using them,” he said. Special chief secretary (medical and health) K S Jawahar Reddy said recently that the state had preferred importing rapid antibody testing kits from a South Korean company because of doubts over the Chinese-made kits.Because of the increase in demand from Indian states, the South Korean company SD Biosensor Healthcare Private Limited has set up a kit manufacturing unit in Manesar, Gurugram, having the capacity to make 500,000 kits, a statement from the embassy of India in Seoul said on Tuesday.India is importing 500,000 kits from the South Korea, which are expected to reach India by April end. Some other state governments such as Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have also placed orders with South Korean firms for rapid testing kits. Purchase of rapid testing kits from China has been put on hold for the time-being, said ICMR officials.There is also a considerable price difference between the kits imported from the two countries. A Rajasthan government official said the cost of a Chinese kit was Rs 600; a Chhattisgarh government official said the state had procured the kits from a South Korea for Rs 337 apiece.(Joydeep Thakur in Kolkata and Ritesh Mishra in Raipur also contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/debate-over-chinese-korean-kits-after-states-flag-concerns/story-Fz3B8KfHUn4t97S8Z5NkcL.html
23-04-2020||India||Rapid testing on hold, govt plans to scale up PCR tests||New Delhi: India is working on testing up to 50,000 people a day by the end of the month -- using the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction or RT-PCR test -- as the country approaches the May 3 deadline for the end of the ongoing lockdown, resulting in a potential increase in infections. The move comes even as efforts to boost testing using rapid testing kits (RTKs) that do antibody tests have floundered. Experts have always warned that these aren’t good at early diagnosis and better used to track an infection’s spread in a population; the initial RTKs imported by India have also given readings with wide variations. causing the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to suspend on Tuesday their use for two days. Meanwhile, the ministry of health has equipped labs, acquired testing kits, and trained staff to work on two shifts to scale up Covid-19 testing using RT-PCR, the gold standard of tests for the disease. RT-PCR is used for qualitative detection of genetic material called nucleic acid (RNA) from Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and is the most accurate diagnostic test for infection. “Rapid antibody tests are surveillance tools, they are not tools for disease positivity. For diagnosis of Covid-19, we need RT-PCR, and a planned scale-up is happening. The Indian Council of Medical Research has approved 304 public and private labs to test for Covid-19 across states, and on Friday, we expect to cross 500,000 cumulative tests,” said CK Mishra, secretary, ministry of environment, and co-chair of the PM’s high-level committee on preparedness for medical emergency.“There is no shortage of machines, and reagents including RNA extraction kits and composite kits, and orders have been placed with domestic and international suppliers in anticipation of testing being increased over the coming weeks,” said Mishra.India has ordered 12 RT-PCR systems that can test up to 1,000 samples each in a single run, of which six are expected to be delivered in early May. These will add to two such machines in ICMR labs in Bhubhaneshwar and Noida.As of April 21, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has approved 47 companies to manufacture and import PCR kits, of which four are indigenously developed and manufactured; 16 are from China; and the rest are from other parts of Asia, Europe, and the US.The government has at least 300,000 RNA extraction kits in stock, along with an equal number of composite kits. The distribution of essential diagnostics supplies has also been decentralised to 15 depots across the country to ensure uninterrupted supply and prevent transfer delays.The Pune-based Mylab, which was the first Indian company to get an indigenously developed test approved by ICMR, plans to double its output over the next 10 days. “Since we got the CDSCO nod on March 23, we have dispatched three lakh tests and will increase this number to seven lakh by the time the lockdown lifts,” said Hasmukh Rawal, managing director, Mylab.Sachin Gulati, who is a partner at the Delhi-based Solutions One, imports CE- and ICMR-approved PCR kits from the Seegene in South Korea. “There’s no shortage, I have a revolving stock, and have 800-900 kits on demand, with each one testing 100 samples. More are on the way, and we supply to both government and private hospitals and labs,” said Gulati.But overlooked ancillary products needed for testing are threatening to play spoilsport. .“The machines and kits are available and we have several vendors to choose from, but ancillary products like swabs and viral transport media, which is needed to transfer swab samples to the lab, are in short supply. Getting these basics right is important, as we need nylon, dacron or flexon swabs for sensitivity; cotton ones can contaminate the sample and influence results,” said Dr Navin Dang, consultant microbiologist and founder of Dr Dangs Labs, which was among the first labs to get approved for Covid-19 testing in India.“Getting trained technicians is also proving to be a challenge in the private sector,” added Dr Dang. “Government labs have trained staff on call, but for us [in the private sector], adding staff is a big problem also because of the fear and stigma associated with Covid-19.” To increase diagnostic reach, ICMR has approved machines used to test drug-resistant tuberculosis for Covid-19 tests, with the Prime Minister’s empowered group identifying as many as 250 Gene-Xpert cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) and 150 Truenat machines.Truenat is a small battery-operated machine that can run 32 to 48 samples. It takes just up to 60 minutes from swab to confirmation and can be operated by health workers with basic training even at the Primary Health Centre, while CBNAAT are widely available across India. CDSCO has approved indigenous Truenat beta-CoV test as a screening test.“These machines give results in an hour, don’t need a sophisticated lab, and people trained to use them are there at the grassroots level, which will help deliver testing to underserved areas,” said a health ministry official, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-testing-on-hold-govt-plans-to-scale-up-pcr-tests/story-CwsoSHR5Pko6VBbtElqbUP.html
23-04-2020||India||Curbs on movement needed as travel hubs become Covid-19 hotspots||The 170 districts that the government identified last week as Covid-19 hotspots are home to seven in 10 people who migrate between states for reasons other than marriage, and nine in 10 of all domestic air passengers embark on their journeys from airports in these places, a Hindustan Times analysis showed, highlighting how containing these areas may be critical to India’s fight against the deadly pathogen.These numbers can also explain the need for barring interstate travel – flights, trains and buses have not been allowed to carry passengers for nearly a month now and the government has indicated that transport may not be allowed to resume immediately after the nationwide lockdown ends on May 3 – to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease.The government last week classified 170 districts, nearly a quarter of the country’s 731 districts, as Covid-19 hotspots. These include districts which have reported large outbreaks or multiple clusters of cases.Even though these hotspots comprise only about 23% of all districts, 29% of the country’s geographical area, and are home to about 37% of the country’s population, they have a relatively high share of migrant population. According to a Hindustan Times analysis of 2011 Census data, these hotspots were home to nearly 25 million people who have migrated from other states for reasons other than marriage. They make up an overwhelming 67% of all such interstate migrants in the country.To be sure, this is a close approximation for present times because the population figures would have changed since the Census was last conducted, and some district boundaries have also changed since then.Work, employment or business was a reason for migration for over a third of these 25 million migrants who live in these hotspots. About 2% migrated for educational purposes while the rest migrated for other reasons or with their families.That the hotspot districts are home to a majority of migrants is understood by the fact that nearly half of the population in these districts live in urban areas. The hotspot districts put together have about 48% urban population compared to 21% in other districts combined.This also makes non-agricultural economic activity more predominant in these districts. According to the Census figures, there were about 155 million full-time workers (or main workers) in the hotspot districts and only about 39% of them were cultivators or agricultural labourers. In contrast, nearly 59% of the 207 million full-time workers in other non-hotspot districts were cultivators or agricultural labourers.Allowing interstate travel also means allowing a large number of these migrants to travel to all corners of the country, thereby risking spread of the coronavirus disease in places which have not reported the infections yet.To be sure, it is not only the migrants who travel between states. These hotspots are also the hub of air travel in general. According to data from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) analysed by Hindustan Times, commercial airlines in India carried more than 123 million domestic passengers in the year 2017-18, of which 90% or nearly 111 million passengers embarked on their journeys from airports in the Covid-19 hotspots. Out of these 111 million people, more than 11 million, or 10%, travelled to airports in non-hotspot areas. Also, 92% of the 12 million passengers who began their journey from airports in non-hotspot regions travelled to airports in the hotspots.All the eight cities that saw the highest number of outbound domestic passengers are now Covid-19 hotspots. These are Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Chennai, Pune and Ahmedabad. Nearly 70% of all domestic air passengers began their journeys from one of these eight cities. Delhi and Mumbai are cities with the highest number of confirmed Covid-19 patients, and every one in three domestic air passengers begin their journeys from one of these two cities.Indian Railways, on the other hand, is a large network with rail routes spanning 67,415 kilometres and 7,321 stations. Its non-suburban trains carried nearly 3.7 billion passengers in 2018-19, which is 10 million passengers a day on average. According to Indian Railways statistics, more than 80% of these passengers travelled in second-class train coaches, which are usually overcrowded and carry risk of spreading infections if footfalls are not strictly curtailed.These figures explain why the government may find it difficult to resume interstate passenger transport services until proper measures to contain the clusters of outbreak are taken in the hotspot districts. A letter sent by the Union health secretary Preeti Sudan to district authorities on April 15 suggested that a hot spot district can be classified as a non-infected district only if no new case is detected for 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-on-movement-needed-as-travel-hubs-become-hot-spots/story-Q9vU45DeWbZEyMO2sDnSJL.html
23-04-2020||India||Four cases to 900 in 20 days: What went wrong in Indore||A government team is investigating what the city administration of Indore did wrong to lead to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases jumping from 4 on March 24 to 900 in 20 days.The spike in cases in Indore resulted mainly from people violating lockdown norms and the administration’s failure to engage with the community in an effective way, found a central team sent to review the situation a week ago.“People in Indore initially never thought they could get the disease as they were smug about their clean city tag. So the approach initially it seems was quite lax. The lockdown measures weren’t adequately followed, and since the virus had already reached the city, people were transmitting,” said a Union health ministry official in the know of things, requesting anonymity. Indore is ranked India’s cleanest city in the Union government’s cleanliness survey.One of the members of the investigating team told HT that people were on the streets during the lockdown, which led to the wide spread in infection.“The movement of people wasn’t effectively restricted and the local administration did not seem have managed to engage with the community effectively as their health workers met with a lot of resistance on ground. That also limited the implementation of preventive measures. Later when they woke up and started aggressive testing, the numbers had already shot up,” said the team member on condition of anonymity.The local administration, while agreeing that the sudden spurt of cases caught them off guard and admitting it should have started preparing to deal with the infection much earlier, said it is now on track to contain the spread.“Initially, we were caught off guard, and it took us some time to figure out a strategy and to build capacity to deal with the infection. Our response was later than what it should have been. The first case, a bunch of four people, came on March 24, but when the numbers kept on increasingly quickly we realised that the virus probably was in circulation since long. March 24 was too late to wake up as we had limited testing capacity then, and we were faced with a situation where we had a very limited time to ramp up capacity. It happened too suddenly,” says Mohammed Suleman, additional chief secretary, state health department.After about 30-40 cases started pouring in on a daily basis, the state government, which was working with one testing laboratory and Indian Council of Medical Research’s viral research and diagnostic laboratory in Bhopal, added 11 more labs within a month, and have also been sending samples for testing to National Centre for Disease Control in Delhi, and National Institute of Biologicals in Noida (Uttar Pradesh).“From one lab in March end to 12 testing labs in a matter of few weeks, we scaled up our testing facility literally on war footing to be able to conduct aggressive testing. Between April 7 to April 15 we have lifted 5,000 samples. Currently, within Indore we can test 2,000 samples a day but we need to test at least 1,000 more in a day. We are working on it but it will take some time,” said Suleman.As for people on streets, Suleman says initially there was a lot of interstate movement of people that took time to curtail.“Indore is a commercial city, and a lot of people come here on business. Since there was restriction on cargo movement, several people were hiding in trucks to make their way out of the city. We even tracked many of those people till the border. Within the city we managed to curb movement but it was this section that created problems,” he said.Another major challenge was engaging with the community. “Initially our healthcare workers met with a lot of resistance. Many localities here are congested and I thought of taking people out from these localities to spacious quarantine facilities to break the transmission chain but people weren’t willing to leave their homes, especially those who did not have symptoms. We had to involve religious leaders, and communicate through them to convince these people. That took a lot of effort and time,” said Suleman.Finally some 3,000 people were moved to various quarantine facilities in the city.The main focus for the state administration is now to further increase the testing facility as it is taking long for the results to come. “About 2,000 of my samples are in Delhi right now, that we send by air. In Bhopal also we lifted some 6,000 samples last week that will be tested in batches. We are in the process of increasing our testing capacity but it will take some time before equipment is bought, manpower trained and put on job. We are really hurrying up the process though,” said Suleman.Experts have reiterated the need for effective implementation of lockdown measures for breaking the transmission chain.“The incubation period of SARS CoV2 is 5-7 days. The range is 2 to 14 days. Lockdown is essentially a strategy to buy time. By restricting movement of infected individuals who may or may not be symptomatic, we are curtailing the chances of the person infecting large number of people. In various countries lockdown has been given the credit to flattening the peak of the epidemic. This is an extreme example of social distancing,” said Dr Lalit Kant, infectious disease expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-cases-to-900-in-20-days-what-went-wrong-in-indore/story-QnWhGzNg9FStVuN0UOYkfK.html
23-04-2020||India||No mutation in important sites of virus, effective vaccine is possible: Dr Soumya Swaminathan||India cannot depend on rapid antibody tests of unproven quality for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) diagnosis and molecular tests remain the gold standard, says Dr Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist at the Geneva-based World Health Organisation (WHO) who is leading the global partnerships on scientific research on a vaccine and drug therapies for the infection. In a phone interview, Swaminathan said India, for now, is doing enough testing, but will have to scale it up as the numbers rise. Edited excerpts:Is India testing enough people?Data from India shows that 4-5% people, mostly at-risk populations (symptomatics, contacts, healthworkers or people in containment zones), who have been tested in India are positive for Covid-19, compared to 30-40% in other countries. This indicates testing is appropriate to the situation, but it will have to be scaled up as numbers increase.India has suspended rapid antibody tests because of quality issues. How reliable are rapid tests?Quality serological tests take around six months to be developed with ample data and validation. There’s a flood of tests with unproven quality, which cannot be depended on for diagnosis.Molecular (polymerase chain reaction, or PCR) tests are the gold standard for diagnosis because they reveal current infection. This result is actionable, as it can be followed by isolation and treatment for the patient, and quarantine and testing for close contacts. Rapid antibody tests show past infection, and are useful as an epidemiological tool to map community infection and study Sars-Cov2 transmission.Are high summer temperatures expected to slow Sars-CoV2 transmission?We don’t know if temperature will have an effect. From what we know, it may reduce transmission by 10%-20%, but we can’t depend on it to stop transmission.Only 2-8% people in affected populations have antibodies against Covid-19, indicates early data. How many does herd immunity offer protection to?We are very far away from herd immunity. For diseases with high rates of transmission, a higher number of people need to be infected for herd immunity. This virus has an R0 of 2-3, so at least 80% people need to have antibodies against the virus for herd protection. (RO, or R-nought, is the basic reproduction ratio that gives the number of people infected by one case).South Korea has reported reinfection or reactivation in recovered patients. Will reinfection affect global efforts to develop a vaccine against Covid-19?There is no evidence reinfection can happen. Molecular tests often detect fragments of the virus RNA that is not viable (cannot cause infection) several days after patients have clinically recovered. Diagnostic results depend on several factors, on how samples are collected, how procedures are followed, and depending on which tests are used, can show false positives or false negatives. We need more studies of the natural history of this infection and what kind of immunity is generated by people.CEPI (Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations) has identified several promising candidates, including some that are already in clinical and pre-clinical trials. How soon can a vaccine be ready?Our goal is a vaccine before 18 months. Normally, it takes about a decade to develop a vaccine, but global partnerships (between health agencies, academics, donors, industry, nations and philanthropies) have helped hasten development of vaccines against emerging public health threats. A vaccine against Ebola took five years, the one against zika took less than two years. The global effort to develop a Covid-19 vaccine in less than 18 months is unprecedented and would be an amazing achievement.How has the virus evolved? Is the new vaccine expected to offer long-term protection?Over 10,000 viral genome sequences of Sars-Cov-2 have been shared by 70-80 countries with GISAID , which is a global initiative to share influenza data. Since the start of the pandemic, laboratories in countries across the world have generated viral genome sequence data with GISAID, which has enabled real-time progress in the research and development of vaccines and drug therapies.Some evolution in the virus is bound to happen, but the rate of mutations is lower than the influenza viruses. Scientists have identified three different closely related lineages, which give valuable insights into the origin of the virus and epidemiological data on how it is spreading across the world.None of the changes are on any important sites – the spike protein, polymerase or protease -- which are being targeted by potential vaccines and drug therapies. These sites have no major mutations, so an effective and long-lasting vaccine appears possible.What is the progress on WHO’s Solidarity Trial for Covid-19 treatment? Which are the most promising therapies?It’s too early for results. India is part of this trial, with 1,200 patients enrolled so far globally. The approvals have been obtained by the National AIDS Research Organisation in Pune, which will coordinate the study.How do you rate India’s Covid-19 response?India’s containment response was very prompt and robust and was rolled out very early, much before cases started rising. It’s exemplary, and the doubling rate of Covid-19 is now eight days. The challenge for India now will be to sustain the gains when the lockdown lifts and to ensure infection rates stay low across all states.New infection rate has dropped in some states like Kerala.Kerala has done a great job. Several things contribute to its success, such as a strong primary health system, a good panchayati raj system and local governance, high education levels and public participation. This was also evident during the containment of Nipah virus disease outbreak, when robust public health measures ensured infection did not spread to other states.Do you think Covid-19 has ushered in a new social reality for the world?I believe it will, at least for the next two to three years before we get a vaccine to the majority of the susceptible population. Social distancing will become the norm, which will change the way we work and socialise, with fewer conferences, events and large gatherings.The WHO warned of a second wave of infection on Monday. How high is the threat of resurgence after lockdowns lift?That’s really the question everyone is interested in and is impossible to predict. It depends on a number of things, and can be different in different countries. A lot depends on what steps are taken between lifting the lockdown and the steps post that, and most countries are going for a phased lifting. We see in China that it’s come down to a very low level of new infections, they still have infections. It’s important to get the infection rate down, as places like Taiwan, Hongkong, South Korea and Singapore have done. They still have new infections, but they are more localised outbreaks, which are quickly detected and contained.Will US President Donald Trump’s freeze on funding affect WHO’s work?The WHO will stick to its mandate and continue to support countries in implementing science-based measures to slow transmission, reverse and stop Covid-19. The 193 United Nations member-states recently pledged solidarity in the response to Covid and to support the WHO, in its global role to coordinate and give technical guidance on international health. It’s early days yet, and we hope this decision does not affect our important work too much.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-mutation-in-important-sites-of-virus-effective-vaccine-is-possible-dr-soumya-swaminathan/story-wPqzNPl29JBAODcyraBx2L.html
23-04-2020||India||Cabinet approves Rs 15k crore for Covid-19 emergency fund||The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved on Wednesday investments to the tune of ₹15,000 crore for ‘India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package’ to mount an urgent response for containing the spread of the virus in the country.The funds sanctioned will be utilised in three Phases. These interventions and initiatives would be implemented under the health ministry.In the first phase, the health ministry with the support of all the other line ministries has already undertaken several activities. An amount of ₹7,774 Crore has been provisioned for immediate Covid-19 Emergency Response and rest for medium-term support (1-4 years) to be provided under mission mode approach, an official statement said.The key objectives of the package include mounting emergency response to slow and limit Covid-19 in India through the development of diagnostics and Covid-dedicated treatment facilities, centralised procurement of essential medical equipment and drugs required for treatment of infected patients, strengthen and build resilient National and State health systems. These interventions and initiatives would be implemented under the overall umbrella of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the statement said.The Cabinet also approved fixation of Nutrient Based Subsidy rates for Phosphatic and Potassic (P&K) fertilizers for the year 2020-21. Expected expenditure for release of subsidy on P&K Fertilizers during 2020-21 will be Rs. 22,186.55 crore, the press information bureau said.The Cabinet also approved extension of relaxation of mandatory requirement of Aadhaar seeding of data in respect of beneficiaries of the States of Assam and Meghalaya and UTs of J&K and Ladakh for one year from 1st April, 2020 under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-15k-cr-for-covid-emergency-fund/story-oHwjtCo2KwLcmWvM3SMMlK.html
23-04-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi seeks ideas for MSME revival||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday sought public suggestions for an economic stimulus package to revive micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) that have borne the brunt of the 40-day lockdown to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.The suggestions, together with the Congress’s own, will be sent to the central government, which is soon expected to announce a stimulus programme to counter the impact of the pandemic on the economy . The Congress is crowd-sourcing the public suggestions on social media. “Covid-19 has devastated our micro, small and medium businesses. The Congress party needs your help. Send us suggestions and ideas for what an MSME economic stimulus package should cover on voiceofmsme.in or on our social media platforms,” he tweeted, using the hashtag “HelpSaveSmallBusinesses”.Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday formed a consultative committee under the chairmanship of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to discuss issues related to the viral outbreak, and formulate the Congress’s stand . At its first meeting on Monday, the 11-member group discussed the revival of the MSME sector,procurement and farm produce and the plight of migrant workers stranded by the lockdown.Former union minister Jairam Ramesh, a member of the group, said the panel will prepare a detailed plan for revival of MSMEs, smooth procurement of wheat, mustard and gram and measures to resolve stranded migrants’ problems,and submit the blueprint to the Centre.“We have worked out a very concrete MSME revival package which we will submit to the central government in a day or two,” Ramesh said, adding both Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi had insisted that absolute priority be given to the MSME sector, the second largest employer in India after agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-seeks-ideas-for-msme-revival/story-6WDTbvHjvwERUZ7kez3g8L.html
23-04-2020||India||Civil aviation ministry HQ to be sealed as worker tests +ve||The ministry of civil aviation, headquartered at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan in New Delhi’s Jor Bagh, is to be sealed after an employee tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Tuesday, becoming the first staffer at a central ministry to be confirmed as a Covid-19 carrier. The complex will be sealed “as per the prescribed protocol,” civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri told Hindustan Times, adding that all officials who had come in contact with the employee will be tested for the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19.The Delhi government is taking “appropriate steps” in line with the protocol for contact tracing and risk profiling, the ministry of civil aviation said in a statement on Wednesday.. “An employee of the ministry who had attended office on 15 April 2020 has tested positive for COVID19 on 21st April. All necessary protocols are being stringently followed on the Premises. All colleagues who came in contact are being asked to go into self-isolation as a precaution,” the statement said. The staffer who tested positive complained of a pain in his throat a few days ago after which he got himself tested on Tuesday, a government official said. The 46-year-old man lives in South Delhi’s Dakshinpuri. “He tested positive on April 21. We have put all his family members in home quarantine,” South Delhi district magistrate BM Mishra said. “We have informed the civil aviation ministry about it and asked them to check who all came into close contact with him and put them in home quarantine. We have also asked them to carry out measures to disinfect the building. We are trying to ascertain from where he got the infection.” The person also visited a milk booth in his neighbourhood which has been sealed.“We stand by our colleague at civil aviation ministry who has tested positive for COVID19 and have extended all possible medical help and support. Those in contact have also been asked to follow the laid down procedures.I wish him strength and speedy recovery,” Puri tweeted later in the day.Covid-19 reached Rashtrapati Bhavan and Parliament complex on Tuesday. A special housekeeper of the Lok Sabha, whose son works in Parliament too, and the daughter-in-law of a Rashtrapati Bhavan sanitation worker tested positive. A cluster of 125 residential houses in the Rashtrapati Bhavan estate was sealed and the New Delhi Municipal Council turned a large number of residential houses near Kali Bari Marg, where the parliament employee lived, into a containment zone.According to home ministry guidelines issued after the extension of the national lockdown until May 3, the government has ordered a phased return to office of central government ministry officials. The new guidelines call for 100% attendance by officers above the deputy secretary level and 33% attendance by junior staff Some junior staff have expressed concerns over commuting to work under the lockdown. “Commuting has been tough as there aren’t enough vehicles for junior staff. We are supposed to carpool with others and tying up {arrangements} gets a bit tough,” one government employee said, requesting anonymity. (With inputs from Risha Chitlangia:)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-aviation-ministry-hq-to-be-sealed-as-worker-tests-ve/story-o9vBnOLuyGBz68VdOEsc6H.html
23-04-2020||India||PM Modi will meet CMs on April 27 to discuss post-lockdown plans||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet state chief ministers on April 27, when the nationwide lockdown enters its final week.The meeting, officials indicated, is likely to review the set of relaxations of the lockdown allowed from April 20 and discuss the future road map that may include longer locking period for red or containment zones, as identified by the government.The meeting, which will be attended by all CMs, may also include Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah and a few senior officials of the Prime Minister’s Office.Officials said Modi will seek opinion of the CMs on how to consolidate on the gains achieved from the sweeping lockdown imposed from March 25 to contain the rapid spread of the highly contiguous virus. At the same time, there is a scope for a review of the relaxation measures that were taken to gradually restart some sectors of the economy.“The scope of the meeting is enormous. At this stage, the Prime Minister or the union government would not do anything without taking the states into confidence. Like, the extension of the lockdown was also announced after taking feedback from all CMs, public health experts and district magistrates,” said an official with knowledge of the developments.In his earlier meetings, Modi had categorically stated that the lockdown is the only option to save lives in India and that no one has advised him to lift the lockdown abruptly.Prime Minister Modi will address various Gram Panchayats across the country on April 24 to mark the National Panchayati Raj Day. Modi will also launch the unified e-GramSwaraj Portal and Mobile App on the occasion to provide an unified portal with a single interface to prepare and implement their Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP).The Pm is also expected to hail the work done by the panchayati institutions in tackling Covid-19 and especially the efforts of women self-help groups. According to an official, the self help groups have been the backbone of the government’s effort to tackle Covid-19 in the rural India.According to an official release, the PM will also launch the Swamitva Scheme for an integrated property validation solution for rural India. “The demarcation of inhabited land in rural areas would be done by the use of latest surveying methods – Drone’s technology with the collaborated efforts of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, State Panchayati Raj Department, State Revenue Department and Survey of India,” said the release.Modi is also expected to inform the people of the progress made against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and his views on the road ahead in his serial radio address –Mann ki Baat- on Sunday. In a statement, public broadcaster All India Radio (AIR) said the 11th instalment of ‘Mann Ki Baat 2.0’, a broadcast to the people of India by Modi, is scheduled for Sunday, 26th April at 11 AM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-pm-modi-to-meet-chief-ministers-on-april-27-to-discuss-next-steps/story-qODgNw2ls2QWCpihCVSJNK.html
23-04-2020||India||Karnataka allows IT, ITeS firms to reopen state’s economy from Thursday||The Karnataka government has decided to partially ease lockdown restrictions in the state to allow IT and ITeS companies to reopen offices with “essential minimum staff” from Thursday. Restrictions will be eased for select sectors starting 00:00 hours of April 22, according to a notification issued by the state chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar. While IT and ITeS companies will be allowed to reopen their workplaces, majority of their staff will have to continue working from home. The nod to IT firms is seen as a critical move since Karnataka is one of the largest exporters of IT and ITeS, and is the biggest employer in the organized sector in the state.In a detailed 14-page order, the chief secretary said that works under MNREGA, courier services, cold storage and warehousing services, private security and facilities management, self-employed electricians, IT repairs and other industrial projects can resume from Friday outside the containment zones. The list of services also includes plumbers, motor mechanics, carpenters, food processing industries in rural areas, manufacturing units of essential goods, packaging material and construction activities including metro rail, roads and irrigation works.More than 400 containment zones have been identified by the government across the state. The notification emphasized that wearing of masks, social distancing and other measures should be followed strictly and only local workers could be employed in these activities and fresh workforce cannot be brought in from elsewhere.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe government has been under immense financial pressure ever since the lockdown came into effect on March 24, paralyzing almost all revenue-generating activities across the state. However, apart from the above-mentioned exceptions, Karnataka’s primary and secondary education minister Suresh Kumar emphasized that lockdown in other sectors would continue till May 3 as announced earlier. This means schools, colleges, malls, theatres, metro, bus, train or flight services will remain suspended along with all religious places and gatherings.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-allows-it-ites-firms-to-reopen-state-s-economy-from-thursday/story-E5kwrIkPIfp4QcI9uuNhxO.html
23-04-2020||India||How India turned Covid-19 crisis into outsized global outreach exercise||When Kenyan Foreign Minister Raychelle Omamo called up External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday, the conversation was largely centered around the Covid-19 outbreak. Jaishankar’s counterpart was worried about the drug supplies with the virus now rearing its head in Africa and remote parts of the globe.Jaishankar told his Kenyan counterpart that not only would India provide hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol on a commercial basis but would also send some more as a gift, or assistanceIn another conversation with Armenian Foreign Minister Zohrab Mnatsakanyan, Jaishankar underscored that India is already in the process of airlifting drugs to his country.Jaishankar’s diplomatic outreach to other countries has been guided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s clear observation early this month that asked his team to positively respond to requests for help by other countries to fight Covid-19, people familiar with the development said.PM Modi had made the point that if you help someone when they need it to face a crisis, the gesture won’t be forgotten easily.It is this advice that has driven much of the response of Indian diplomats. Officials said India is flying out about 28 lakh hydroxychloroquine and 13 lakh paracetamol tablets to 32 countries as assistance. In addition, drug supplies are being made to 42 countries on a commercial basis.The Indian priorities have been clear with first supplies going to the SAARC countries and extended neighbourhood in Gulf. Europe, Americas, and the Indo-Pacific were covered in the next phase.After supplies reached these countries, India moved to supplying assistance to smaller countries and Island nations. These include Burkina Faso, Marshall Islands, Eswatini, Comoros, Dominican Republic, Seychelles and Jamaica.Global demand for hydroxychloroquine boosted after some studies indicated that the drug, when paired with azithromycin, helped clear patients of the virus at a much faster rate than seen usually.India, the largest producer of hydroxychloroquine, had initially banned exports last month before partially easing rules to allow the export of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol after meeting all domestic requirements. Health ministry officials have confirmed that the government had access to a lot more than the estimated requirements to cater to any eventuality.The government, officials said, was conscious that the battle against Covid-19 might end up to be a long haul, a lot longer than was initially expected. They said the government is priming up its health sector to not only tackle a sudden Covid-19 flare-up but also diseases accompanying the rains in India such as dengue, measles and cholera.“ We also have to be ready for a possible second wave of the pandemic later this winter,” said a senior official.Apart from drugs, India has also started sending wheat shipments up to 75 metric tonnes to Afghanistan through the Chabahar and has also offered both wheat and rice to Iran as humanitarian assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-indian-turned-covid-19-crisis-into-outsized-global-outreach-exercise/story-QfyRaVNWCOcPIj2shq56xO.html
23-04-2020||India||Agri supply chains get a reform boost in lockdown times||From a taxi aggregator-like app to book trucks, to an expansion of market points, the ongoing lockdown to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) appears to have given a fillip to some agricultural reforms that had been long considered but never implemented. The government has, in the past, made attempts to reform agricultural “marketing” (the market, or mandi, system that controls buying and selling of farm produce). But not many came through. One reason for this, a government official said requesting anonymity, is that supply agents in bulk markets exert outsize influence over farmers.But, a second official said, since the lockdown has disrupted traditional farm-to-fork supply chains, the void created has enabled the government to quickly move in with reforms to keep supplies going. The government has taken initiatives to boost direct selling, the first official cited above said. Usually, farmers have to go through smaller crop aggregators to access bulk buyers. Over time, this has spawned layers of intermediaries spanning the farm-to-fork supply chain. This results in a large “price spread”, or the fragmentation of profit shares due to the presence of several middlemen. Farmers often get the lowest shares. Amid the lockdown, the Union government has recommended states to sidestep the mandi system by suspending some archaic provisions of the agricultural produce marketing committees (APMCs) Acts. According to the PMO, in one of a series of meeting with state chief ministers he held this earlier month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed direct marketing of crops. Agricultural marketing in India is a complex system, with a mix of organised and unorganised markets. Farmers mainly sell in mandis, which are state-run market yards known as APMCs. There are about 585 such highly regulated APMCs in 16 states and two Union Territories.But the government had last month allowed agri-businesses, known as farmer producer organisations (FPOs), to buy directly from farmers. Ushered in during the 1960s, APMC regulations require farmers to only sell to licensed middlemen in notified markets, usually in the same area as the farmer, rather than directly to buyers elsewhere. Now farmers are virtually free to sell to any buyer.“To hold these lockdown-induced reforms over the long term, some change in laws would be required. Many of the provisions are now being tested on an emergency basis,” said R Mani, an economist with the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. Another key reform, ushered in on March 26, is the granting of warehouses the status of legal selling points. Since buying and selling can now happen at warehouses, farmers need not incur costs in transporting grains to mandis.FPOs have now been incorporated into the National Agricultural Markets system, which is an online platform.The government has also explored the app ecosystem to push reforms. It has launched the cab aggregator-style app-based hiring of trucks through Kisan Rath, an android application. Tech teams, with help from the private sector, will also be pressed to digitise neighbourhood kirana or general provisions stores in 25 cities, the second official soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agri-supply-chains-get-a-reform-boost-in-lockdown-times/story-Gq4iR4WFvhoJmOrx3nGZdP.html
23-04-2020||India||Salute to this brave mom who puts nation first!||To ensure that the lockdown is implemented and we stay safe, women cops working long hours have no option but to bring their children to work. With her one-year old crying in the background, police constable Chitralekha starts to converse with us on a phone call.In Uttar Pradesh’s small town, Mainpuri, the 25-year-old is performing her duty with her one-year-old child in tow. She says, “It is my duty to serve the people of the nation. During such distressing times, it’s all the more important to serve the nation. It is my top priority right now.”Deployed on the bypass road in Mainpuri since the lockdown began, she adds, “My duty entails spreading awareness about the deadly virus. People of Mainpuri are cooperating with us and are following all rules of the lockdown.”Chitralekha is on duty for 12 hours every day. She covers her toddler with a cloth when she travels with him. She says, “I keep washing his hands and always keep a sanitiser ready.”For a new mother, to travel with her kid is not easy but Chitralekha has been doing it since her baby was six months old. She adds, “Through this exercise, I think I have instilled the values of patriotism in my kid, unknowingly.The police constable is grateful for the support she has got from everybody including her colleagues, senior officials and people in general. She says, “Everyone is working hard to ensure that Indians remain safe and sound. We don’t want our people to suffer. The police and the doctors are working tirelessly to make sure the curve is flattened and we don’t end up like other countries .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salute-to-this-brave-mom-who-puts-nation-first/story-sDVampnU5ZdtxLYyAOvvBP.html
23-04-2020||Editorials||Prejudice versus humanity||The Centre has significantly strengthened legal protection for frontline health workers in the light of the persistent attacks on them even as they battle the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Amending the antiquated Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the government has made attacks against health workers a non-bailable offence, expedited the duration of the investigation, instituted a prison sentence for the convicted up to seven years, and provided for fines ranging from Rs 2 to Rs 5 lakh. The ordinance will cover doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and accredited social health workers, who have faced increasing attacks on the grounds that their work makes them “carriers” of the virus. Housing societies have denied them accommodation; they have been physically attacked; and, in one particularly heart-rending case, mobs attacked the ambulance carrying the body of a doctor, who had died in the course of duty, to his burial site. The proposal to appoint nodal officers to register any concerns that health workers have regarding their safety is a welcome measure too. Misinformation on social media, ignorance, prejudice and disregard for the law have contributed to the appalling stigma. To its credit, the government has consistently lauded the role of health workers and emphasised their indispensability in the fight against the virus. The prime minister himself has taken the lead with his public calls to honour health workers.The government must now disseminate the provisions of the ordinance widely using all the tools at its disposal. Political parties should use their extensive cadres to inform constituents of the new measures. Much will depend on the efficacy of implementation, which has so often been a gap in enforcing the law. The government will need to ramp up security presence both in medical facilities and outside as they conduct screening operations. But at the end, this is not just a question of legal safeguards; it is a moral imperative that we respect and protect those who are saving lives at great risk to their own. This is a test of Indian society and its values; prejudice and irrationality should never be allowed to win over humanity and science.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/prejudice-versus-humanity/story-C04qIOySVuMHyO7NrmqW4N.html
23-04-2020||Editorials||The new normal of social distancing||With over 2.6 million cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the world, states are battling the most severe public health emergency in a century. The most preferred route to deal with it is lockdowns. These are often necessary, but not sustainable. At best, they give an opportunity to break the chain of transmission and improve the health infrastructure. But restrictions will eventually ease — either because the pandemic subsides (as has happened in Wuhan, China, already), or because poor communication and partisan politics erodes the support of citizens for extreme measures (as visible in parts of the United States), or because the associated economic costs are too high (as increasingly felt by both businesses and labour in India). But that cannot mean a return to business-as-usual. With an uncertain future and with no cure in sight, a group of Harvard researchers ran computer simulations modelling how the pandemic can play out. They suggest that some form of social distancing may be needed till 2022. This will ensure that when a second wave of infection emerges, after restrictive measures are lifted, health systems aren’t overburdened with new cases. This demands there must be a radical shift in everyday lives — in the way people meet, socialise, travel, educate, study and work.As the end of the lockdown in India draws near, this lesson is valuable. Restrictions will be eased, facilitating greater mobility and economic activity. But the importance of social distancing will not diminish. This is easier said than done, given India’s poverty and high-density of population. Governments will have to frame policies accordingly. Citizens will need to see themselves not just as potential victims, but as potential threats, and adopt best practices, for themselves and for others. Institutions will have to create new work systems. The end of the lockdown will not lead to normalcy, but will create a “new normal”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-new-normal-of-social-distancing/story-Xi8QzeppCNbI0wv1bsKOYM.html
