26-04-2020||News||What must India do now to address the coronavirus crisis | Opinion||While the Covid-19-induced lockdown has yielded mixed and spatially diverse results so far in terms of disease containment, the socio-economic impact has been uniformly devastating across states in India. This warrants a careful appraisal of the lockdown strategy and a reorientation of the role being played by the Centre and state governments in the subsequent phases of lockdown. India still appears to be some distance away from the peak of new cases, but different states have been affected at various speeds and intensity. This warrants a calibrated, decentralised and state-specific lockdown exit strategy, in contrast to the top-down manner introduced about a month ago. The day-to-day implementation of lockdown measures depends largely upon state governments. The necessary containment measures like testing, contact-tracing, isolation and treatment are also being administered by states. Although performances of state governments vary significantly, they remain in the best position to determine the nature and extent of restrictions required to contain the pandemic in their respective domains. The resumption of inter-state travel and transportation should be decided by the Centre, but unless disease containment attains a uniform outcome threshold across states, normalisation of such activities may remain unfeasible.While ceding decision-making space regarding the lockdown exit to states, the Centre should continue to support, coordinate, advise and monitor state governments’ containment efforts. However, issues still remain with the adequacy of quality testing kits and Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs). States with weak public health systems need additional financial and institutional support. In fact, greater transparency and accuracy in reporting the state-wise data by the Centre and promotion of best practices by states can help bring convergence in disease containment efforts.The Centre must step up its efforts manifold in addressing the livelihood crisis, which is likely to persist much longer than the pandemic. While India’s lockdown has been most stringent, the Centre’s macroeconomic and welfare policy response has been the weakest among the major economies. According to the International Monetary Fund’s estimate, India’s actual spending measures announced so far by the Centre and states combined is Rs 1.42 trillion, which is about 0.7% of GDP, much less than the Rs 1.7 trillion announced by the Union finance minister on March 26.How much of this has been spent on actual transfers under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana needs to be clarified. Reports suggest major shortfalls and exclusions in cash transfers and food entitlements in different states. The monthly cash transfers of Rs 1,000-2,000 to old-age and other pensioners, female PM Jan Dhan Yojana account holders, and farmers, or a mere Rs 20 per day wage hike for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act workers are simply inadequate. Ninety per cent of the 490-million strong workforce in India is in the informal or unorganised sector, and around 81% of them earn less than Rs 15,000 a month. These incomes have simply evaporated due to the lockdown. The additional five kg of free food grains for each National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiary is also insufficient to meet basic nutritional requirements, given the severe constraints on food availability. Moreover, the promised one kg of free pulses per family has not even been delivered to most states. It makes little sense to restrict food allocations to beneficiaries of NFSA, which covers only 67% of the 2011 population, ie around 830 million out of the current population of over 1.35 billion. The distressed working population needs two things on an emergency basis: Adequate food and cash income. The Centre must universalise food entitlements, with at least 10 kg food grains, two kg pulses and one litre cooking oil per head delivered to the beneficiaries’ homes. Cash payment of at least Rs 7,500 per household must be made along with home-delivered food rations.Rather than transferring digital cash droplets to bank accounts, the State machinery should be geared towards door-to-door delivery of food and cash entitlements with minimum exclusion criteria. If the bottom 80% of Indian households are covered, the entire relief programme should cost not more than Rs 5 trillion (around 2.5% of GDP). The damage caused by the Covid-19 pandemic to the global and the Indian economy cannot be estimated properly at this stage, because there is a fundamental uncertainty regarding the longevity of the pandemic globally. It would be rational to prepare for a fresh interim budget as the revenue and deficit projections of the February 2020 budget have already become infructuous. State finances are under severe strain, and unless the Centre rethinks its fiscal conservatism, the economic crisis will engulf every sector, causing widespread insolvencies. Austerity measures and pay cuts will only depress aggregate demand and deepen the crisis. The unprecedented and multi-dimensional nature of the economic crisis, which can be compared with the Great Depression of the 1930s, calls for a radical departure from economic orthodoxies, as was the case with the Keynes-Kalecki revolution in economics. We require a similar overhaul of the government’s fiscal and monetary strategy, going beyond the measures taken by the previous government in the wake of the 2009 recession. The Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act should be junked forthwith, alongside the “inflation-targeting” framework of the Reserve Bank of India. A significant expansion of the fiscal deficit, financed by low-interest government borrowing and printing more money, is the only viable solution in the short-run. If the economic contraction can be avoided through deficit-financed public expenditures and indirect tax cuts in this financial year, direct tax rates on incomes, profits and wealth can be enhanced in subsequent years to restore fiscal balance. Rather than opting for convenient routes, the Centre must act responsibly in making hard but substantive choices.Dipa Sinha teaches economics at Ambedkar University, Delhi; Prasenjit Bose is an economist and activist; and, Rohit teaches economics at CESP, JNUThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-must-india-do-now-to-address-the-coronavirus-crisis/story-GueMxig2vrXCYyqJj6B2FN.html
26-04-2020||News||Learning to live with coronavirus, writes Praveen Chakravarty||To exit the lockdown or not, that is the question” — William Shakespeare’s paraphrased poem best captures the nation’s dilemma. Unlike Prince Hamlet, this is not a question of one’s own life but a billion other lives. It is critical to make this decision on sound facts and evidence, not fear or hope.When Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day total national lockdown on March 24 to combat the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) epidemic, half a million people in the world were infected, 20,000 people had died, and the virus was rampaging through nations. Epidemiologists warned of alarming deaths and hospitalisations. Without a vaccine and in the grip of panic, world leaders, in herd behaviour, adopted the Wuhan model of locking down citizens to combat the epidemic. India followed suit with Modi assuring the nation that social distancing was the only way to counter the virus and a lockdown would break the chain of infection. March 24 was just a month ago, but it is eons in Covid-19 time, as the world learns more about the disease every day. There is now greater information, data and evidence to assess the lockdown strategy and chart the next one.India now has over 25,000 cases, up from 500 at the time of the lockdown announcement, with an average of 1,500 new cases reported daily. But this is a misleading metric. The total number of cases is simply a function of the number of people tested. The more the number of tests, the higher the number of cases. For example, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal account for one-third of India’s population but only one-tenth of all Covid tests and cases. Does anyone believe that Bihar, with 120 million people, has almost the same number of Covid cases as Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh with half a million people? It is highly likely that a more intensive stratified testing strategy would have revealed multiple times the cases than reported. It is now clear that the lockdown has neither broken the chain of infection nor is it a cure for Covid-19, as claimed.The other goal of the lockdown was to flatten the curve, in tandem with available hospital capacity. India has one hospital bed for every 2,000 people; Bihar has one for every 10,000. In the United States or the United Kingdom, there is one for every 300 people. Even if India had miraculously doubled the number of hospital beds in a month and slowed down the spread of the virus by half vis-à-vis other nations in lockdown, it would still not be enough. Flattening the curve in India’s context is simply not a viable goal.Did the lockdown achieve social distancing? The idea of distance is a luxury in a poor country. Nearly all poor households in India have six members or more. Hundreds of millions of migrant workers are often crammed into one room with six or more people in big cities. As reports show, locking people in their homes has proved counterproductive. So, the lockdown has not stopped the virus, flattened the curve or physically distanced the majority, the three objectives laid out by the PM. It is also well-established that the lockdown has imposed severe humanitarian costs. In the absence of full information, the lockdown at that time was the right strategy but it is now clear that it is not an efficient one for India.After 20 million tests, 2.5 million cases and a little under 200,000 deaths across the world, the following facts about Covid-19 can now be established.One, 99% of people below 60 years of age with no pre-existing disease are safe and need not fear the disease. Two, the Indian Council of Medical Research’s finding is that more than 70% of Covid-19 infected Indians are asymptomatic. Which means they will be unaware of their infection, unwittingly transmit it to others and unknowingly recover from it.Three, even for vulnerable people, the fatality rate of Covid-19 is not as high as it was initially estimated and is perhaps the same as severe influenza, as per recent studies. And four, contrary to belief, there is no evidence of either the weather or genes providing natural immunity for Indians. In short, a majority of Indians may get infected and recover from Covid-19, obliviously. There is no vaccine for the disease expected for at least 18 months. Until such time, a lockdown is neither a cure nor viable. India’s favourable demographics and a significantly lower fatality rate than estimated means learning to live cautiously with the virus is the only pragmatic strategy. This does not mean that India is free from the Covid-19 danger or that it should throw caution to the wind. Weighing the trade-offs with improved knowledge of the epidemic, returning to a “new normal” with adequate protection for the vulnerable, precautions of distancing and hygiene is the most optimum strategy.But there is extreme fear and panic, which is justifiable and understandable, given the sudden onset of a seemingly deadly new virus. People are petrified of contracting the infection and, unfortunately, there is also a social stigma associated with the disease. New evidence shows that such fear and panic are unwarranted and a gradual return to a new and safe normal is the best option. It takes tall political leadership to calm nations and lead people out of their deep fears. Just as President Franklin Roosevelt did in 1933 when he exhorted Americans to shed their fear of the Great Depression, with the words “There is nothing to fear but fear itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/learning-to-live-with-coronavirus-writes-praveen-chakravarty/story-agykD5a0T0n1QX03fWgkIL.html
26-04-2020||News||Businesses must reframe their purpose, priorities | Opinion||As the coronavirus pandemic rages across the world, even the most rigorous contingency planning and disaster management systems have gone awry. While we are far from overcoming the pandemic at this stage, the examples of China, Taiwan, South Korea and Singapore hold valuable lessons for businesses. An analysis of some of the companies at the forefront of taking effective actions offers some clues on the steps that could stand the test of time.First, early and decisive action is imperative. Learning from previous experiences, forecasting the impact on the organisations/ partners/ employees, and taking proactive steps will be critical in handling the crisis. Here is an example. Starbucks China closed 80% of its stores within days of news of virus breaking, prioritising the safety of its partners — and employees — above business. It also paid full wages and instituted a partner-assistance programme to help with insurance of its partners, employees, including the contract workers employed by individual stores, and even their family members. This helped shore up the confidence of all stakeholders and has allowed Starbucks to reopen these stores rapidly since the impact of Covid-19 has receded.Second, this crisis is an excellent opportunity for companies to refine their purpose, and frame the business as part of a larger human ecosystem with broader responsibility to the community. It is a moment to institute internal rules that help the company take more humane decisions. This is not just ethically right, but economically prudent. Companies must ensure that they don’t cash in and fall into the trap of short-term price gouging for immediate gains — such actions could harm their reputation and brand. Going above and beyond the profit motive will not only reinforce pride among employees and partners, but will also help enhance the stature of the company. For instance, Dyson, a global leader in air-flow technology, which is used for its household products, utilised its know-how to design an entirely new ventilator, named CoVent, and committed to supplying 10,000 units, all within ten days of the pandemic. Third, corporate leaders should assess their organisational flexibility and decision delegation to address market upheavals like this. Rallying the whole organisation together towards a few specific actions, and then getting the creativity of all team members, will stand a company in good stead. The Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown learnings can help in contingency planning for future shocks, to ensure that the company is better prepared as opposed to finding itself flat-footed. These actions may be aligned towards business continuance, but importantly they must give the freedom to teams to respond quickly, make making decision-making more democratic and in line with the company’s purpose. For instance, early in the pandemic cycle, Diageo India forecast the spike in the demand for protective products. Its India team repurposed their 15 factories to produce 300,000 litres of hand-sanitisers and donated 150,000 masks to five public health departments for use by health care workers. Additionally, it created a Rs 30 million insurance fund to support bartenders in this time of need. This is especially critical in countries like India where social security is minimal, at best.Fourth, businesses should apply a “through-the-cycle” strategy during this critical period. While the initial days of this pandemic crisis will be devoted towards ensuring the safety of teams and partners, the next stage presents the organisation an opportunity to think through-the-cycle and define initiatives that will allow it to come out stronger post the pandemic. Developing perspectives and projections on life post-Covid-19 can give companies a headstart when business emerges through the current trough. Refining the value proposition and business model, defining the online and e-commerce strategy, driving a more efficacious organisational structure and identifying new opportunities of growth can be the areas of focus.And, finally, it is a time for the investor community to rethink its company valuation models. It will become increasingly important to ascertain the resilience of the company rather than just its profitability. In a volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous world, the ability of an organisation to withstand shocks — in supply chain management, business continuity or regulatory mechanisms — should be treated as a critical aspect that the market will evaluate while ascribing the right value to the company. The human, social and economic toll of Covid-19 is still rising and it will be a long time before its true impact will be understood. Nevertheless, the above actions by companies will hold them in good stead and drive greater resilience in its future operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/businesses-must-reframe-their-purpose-priorities-opinion/story-hFBHTlJQ8pXXctyyfthSML.html
26-04-2020||News||Covid-19 has sharpened great power politics | Opinion||Even as the world grapples with the pandemic unleashed from Wuhan, China is back to the business of great power politics — building military infrastructure, conducting naval exercises and sinking the fishing boats of other nations. While the rest of the world has come to its knees, in no small part due to China’s behaviour, Beijing is busy reaping the dividends of this global disorder. If, at one level, it is using this coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to project itself as a global leader by supplying medical kits and expertise to nations in dire need, thereby trying to distinguish itself from an inward-focused Donald Trump administration, at another level, it is waging an information war in Europe, seeking to create internal rifts within the European Union. It is extraordinary to witness the full play of great power politics at a time which, according to most liberal institutionalists, should have been a case study of greater global coordination. Global pandemics were widely viewed as non-traditional security threats which would lead to greater cooperation among major powers, and not as arenas of contestation among major powers for relative gains. And international institutions were supposed to help the international community navigate these security challenges.But the state of the world today should disabuse us of all these fallacies. If anything, the fault lines between the United States (US) and China have been accentuated because of the crisis. Historically, China and the US have tried to work together to manage various global crises in the past. But not this time. Trump’s “America First” approach has meant antagonising even close allies by diverting medical supplies, outbidding the original buyers, or forcing American companies to stop exporting hospital-grade N95 masks. The lack of leadership shown by Washington has made China a necessity for many nations even in the West which had to import faulty Chinese medical kits for lack of any alternative. While a large part of the world remains furious with China for its initial concealment of adequate information, they are forced to take Chinese help. This has allowed China to expand its influence under the garb of helping the world during this pandemic, a crisis which would have been much less severe had the country behaved responsibly initially. Europe is now pushing back strongly with French President Emmanuel Macron questioning China’s handling of the outbreak, saying things “happened that we don’t know about” and British foreign secretary Dominic Raab suggesting that “hard questions” would have to be asked about how the outbreak started “and how it couldn’t have been stopped earlier.” Yet, the ability of these nations to take on China directly remains severely limited.As a result, the world will continue to transition to a phase where the jostling between China and the US will get exacerbated and the biggest loser will be global governance. The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) held its first session on the pandemic, some four months after the deadly contagion emerged as the biggest security challenge since World War II. After assuming the presidency of the UNSC last month, China’s Ambassador to the UN, Zhang Jun, made it clear that Beijing does not plan to discuss the pandemic situation in the Council during its presidency as there was no need to panic, even adding that the world is not far from the defeat of Covid-19 “with the coming of spring.” Washington and Beijing remain divided on the scope of the joint resolution with the US insisting that the UNSC resolution should be explicit about the origin of the virus in Wuhan, China, much to Beijing’s annoyance. But more serious has been how the World Health Organization (WHO) has dealt with this once-in-a-lifetime crisis. Far from being the nodal agency to coordinate a global response to this pandemic, it seems to have made itself subservient to Chinese interests, losing credibility in the eyes of its other stakeholders. WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus was forced to declare an international public health emergency only at the end of January after calling it off just a week earlier under Chinese pressure. Tedros repeatedly defended China’s handling of the crisis with the WHO even tweeting in mid-January that “preliminary investigations conducted by the Chinese authorities have found no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission”. Tedros suggested at the end of January that “WHO doesn’t recommend limiting trade and movement”. This has generated an intense backlash in Washington which is WHO’s largest single funder with President Trump not only accusing the UN agency of being “very China-centric” but also following it up by halting US funding “while a review is conducted to assess the World Health Organization’s role in severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus.” Though Trump’s move to cut funding has led to political bickering in the US, senior members of the US Congress have also called for a Congressional investigation into the WHO’s handling of the crisis, ostensibly in cahoots with the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Great power politics has continued unabated even when many expected greater global solidarity. The international order was getting fragmented and major power rivalry was beginning to shape the global contours before the present crisis. That process has been galvanised by the Covid-19 crisis. Where on the one hand, the CCP stands exposed for its shenanigans during the pandemic, the vulnerabilities of the US and the West in general too are out in the open.Nations like India should be prepared to navigate the externalities of this challenging environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-has-sharpened-great-power-politics-opinion/story-8XHoKpVGqO6MJbwz9jmxoL.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Dehydrated, dizzy, medical workers soldier on with PPE in humid, non-AC Covid wards||Spending hours in isolation wards wearing the life-saving personal protective equipment (PPE) is a difficult experience for health workers.Every medical worker deployed at an isolation ward is given a three-day training which also includes how to use and dispose PPEs. However, despite using them for a month, nurses and doctors find the protective gear uncomfortable and humid, especially with the temperatures soaring, as the air-conditions (ACs) in Covid-19 wards have been switched off to prevent the possibility of the virus spreading through the ducts. To avoid any contamination, the gears can be worn only once. If health workers use washrooms, they have to resort to a long-drawn procedure of disposing used PPEs and wearing new ones. As each of these suits cost around ₹1,200- ₹1,500, nurses limit the intake of water and food to avoid going to washrooms and put their own health at risk. Thus, many of them have developed dehydration.“In non-AC rooms, we sweat profusely in the plastic cover. This makes us dehydrated as we already restrict our water intake. Sometimes, I even feel dizzy,” said a nurse from Seven Hills Hospital, Marol.To ensure that every part is covered with the protective gear while attending a Covid-19 patient, health workers wear two layers of gloves, a mask, goggles and plastic protective cover on their footwear, which stretches to the knees. “We sweat profusely in the kit and the fogging of the googles makes the work difficult,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital.Specialised doctors do not stay for long hours to examine patients. Depending on the number of patients, they spend around two-three hours, which includes around 10 minutes to wear the PPEs and 15 minutes to take them off and dispose them. “More than us, it is the nurses who are making more adjustments to stay put in the suits for hours. Hats off to them,” said epidemiologist Dr Om Srivastava.Sumedha Boshle (name changed), 37, a nurse stationed at Kasturba Hospital’s isolation ward works from 8am to 4pm every day. She said donning the safety suit is a huge challenge but the health workers have to wear them as it is the only protective barrier between them and coronavirus patients. “The PPE is like rubber. In the beginning, I used to sneeze a lot because of the smell, but now I have got used to it. My body also smells of it. Everything comes with a price,” she said. There are precautions that need to be taken while taking off the PPEs and disposing them. The gears must be taken off in a designated area. “They are wrapped in yellow biohazard bags for disposal. By the time we take them off, our clothes get drenched in sweat,” said Dr Ajit Baviskar, head of emergency department and consultant critical care, Global Hospital. Despite all the precautions, health workers are scared that they would infect their families. Boshle has not seen her 10-year-old daughter for the past two weeks. Currently, she has been lodged at a temporary accommodation provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “Every day after my duty hours, I talk to my daughter on video calls. That’s the only time I get to see her,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dehydrated-dizzy-medical-workers-soldier-on-with-ppe-in-humid-non-ac-covid-wards/story-sBcaWwGDE41xrIV0hFMkLK.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Nurse at Mumbai’s Wadia maternity hospital tests positive for Covid-19||A nurse from Nowrosjee Wadia Maternity Hospital, Parel, has been diagnosed with coronavirus on Sunday. This is the first case of coronavirus among the staffers of the maternity hospital. Minnie Bodhanwala, the chief executive officer (CEO) of the hospital, has confirmed the development but refused to divulge any more information on the incident.On April 25, the samples of the nurse were sent to King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital to ascertain if she had coronavirus after she had developed symptoms. After the case came to light, several hospital staffers have been asked to be home quarantined and report immediately in case they show any symptoms. The staff at the hospital have been claiming that they have not been provided with adequate safety kits and are at a risk of getting exposed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nurse-at-mumbai-s-wadia-maternity-hospital-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-iqB7HeDNY9cYzB9k9Q5AZO.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER, GMCH staff testing positive for Covid-19 a worrying trend for Chandigarh||The last three days have revealed a worrying trend. Four out of nine persons testing positive for Covid-19 in the city are healthcare workers at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32 – both at the forefront of the battle against the virus.The four who tested positive in the last four days include a nurse from PGIMER; and a nurse, an operation theatre assistant and a ward boy from GMCH-32. Five others are primary contacts of the GMCH employee.This development comes even as Chandigarh recorded its biggest spike on Sunday with six persons testing positive, taking the count to 36.“It is a matter of concern that institutes at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 are now contributing to the number of positive cases,” said a senior UT official requesting anonymity.Nearly 30% of the city’s cases are either health workers of PGIMER and GMCH-32 or their primary contacts.In fact, of the total 36 cases confirmed positive so far, six patients are staffers at the institutes and five are their primary contacts. Tests of other contacts are awaited.Among positive cases reported earlier in PGIMER, a nurse tested positive on April 1; two workers on April 17 and one on April 19. A spurt in cases at Nayagon in Mohali, in fact, has been attributed by local authorities to “exposure” of PGIMER employees to the virus after a 30-year-old attendant from the institute first tested positive. His wife, mother, child, brother-in-law and a 25-year-old living in the same building as them at Adarsh Nagar have also tested positive.Then there’s the GMCH-32 operation theatre attendant from Bapu Dham Colony in Chandigarh who tested positive on Friday. His father, mother, two sisters and a child have also contracted the disease.FOLLOW PROTOCOL STRICTLYUT adviser Manoj Kumar Parida has admitted that the infections among hospital staff are a matter of concern and asked the institutes to follow safety protocols strictly.PGIMER directorDr Jagat Ram has said: “We need to minimise such instances.” Since healthcare workers were at huge risk, they should follow the guidelines and protocols laid down by the authorities, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-gmch-staff-testing-positive-for-covid-19-a-worrying-trend-for-chandigarh/story-wbgieBCIRLnHBGMua3iUxM.html
26-04-2020||City||Stigma: A challenge in Covid battle||Apart from battling the coronavirus, doctors, nurses and ward attendants attending to the patients are facing another challenge – stigma.In Mumbai, more than 250 doctors, including nurses and Class 4 employees, contracted the infection at work, which is leading to growing incidents of discrimination against medical staffers, some of whom are not even involved in treating coronavirus patients. Neighbours and flat owners are harassing the medical staff, threatening to evict them from their apartments.Dr Rohan Salunke, a radio oncologist who currently works at Mahatma Phule Charitable Trust Hospital and was earlier associated with the Tata Memorial Hospital, is one of the medical staffers who faced such harassment. “My housing society along with neighbouring buildings barricaded the lane in front of our building, although there was no positive case in the area. They weren’t letting anyone in or out. But I had cancer patients to treat. As I was stepping out, they saw my stethoscope and started to harass me.” They warned him that if he stepped out, they wouldn’t allow him back. After days of harassment, on April 2, he had to call Malwani police for help. “I am not even on Covid duty, but still, they heckled me. All I wanted was to provide radiation to cancer patients to save their lives,” he said.Nurses are among the worst-hit. In Mumbai, so far, 153 nurses, including nursing students, have contracted the infection. Pallavi Waghale, a staff nurse from government-run Sir JJ hospital, alleged that her neighbours verbally abuse her when she steps out for work daily. In a series of tweets to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, she stated that her neighbours assaulted her two-year-old son when she was away at work.A 26-year-old male nurse from the same hospital had to face the anger of his neighbours when he got home quarantined after getting exposed to a Covid patient. He said that everyday in the morning when the hospital bus would come to pick him up from his building in Kalyan, the residents would treat him like an “untouchable”. “They wouldn’t even cross my shadow in fear. Two days ago, when I got home quarantined, the society people insulted my parents and asked them to restrict their movement outside our flat,” said the nurse, seeking anonymity.The United Nursing Association is planning to raise the issue with the health ministry. “All staffers who are on Covid duty have been given alternative accommodation to stop any possible transmission of virus among their family members. Despite this, people are harassing those on non-Covid duty. They are working for the society,” said a member of the association. Class 4 employees, too, have similar complaints. A 50-year-old sweeper from Kasturba Hospital who was the second staff member from the hospital to contract the infection has tested negative in her swab test. Despite being discharged from the hospital, she has been forced to stay in a hospital ward because her landlord from Kalyan has warned her against returning to her room. “After I turned positive, the health department had to fumigate the chawl and quarantine the area. They fear that I might spread the infection. My landlord has asked me to stay at the hospital,” she said. The Maharashtra State Human Right Commission has also criticised the discrimination of staff members. MA Sayyed, acting chairperson of the commission, said, “It is important to be cautious, but humiliating or harassing medical staffers is unacceptable. No rule can bring such behavioural changes among people. This is in violation of human rights and should be condemned.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stigma-a-challenge-in-covid-battle/story-K00YoTvjNVakgc5bXhVU3L.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Curbs may continue in some areas after May 3: CM Uddhav||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that the state has succeeded in slowing down the spread of coronavirus due to the lockdown and indicated that the restrictions on movement are likely to continue in some areas even after May 3. Thackeray was addressing the state through various social media platforms.“Due to the lockdown, we have succeeded in the slowing down the spread of the epidemic. To an extent, the situation in the state is under control if compared with the other countries where cases are found multiplying on a daily basis. This has become possible because of lockdown,” the chief minister said.He said that the state government is considering to give further relaxations after May 3 but the decision is yet to be taken. “I will review and decide what more relaxations can be given after May 3. But one thing is for sure, we will have to avoid crowding,” Thackeray said.From April 20, the state government has provided some relaxations in the rural areas of the state by allowing operation of industries etc.“If we start doing politics now than we don’t need any other enemy. Elections will come and pass, power will also not remain forever but if we lose a life today, it is not going to come back,” he said and expressed gratitude to Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari for urging the Maharashtra politicians to cooperate with the state government.The chief minister also urged the Muslim community to stay at home while observing the fast and prayers in the holy month of Ramzan. Thackeray also assured the migrant workers that they will be allowed to go back to their native villages as soon as possible. He said that they are in touch with the central government and efforts are on to make some arrangements. The state government is arranging food, stay and medical health facilities for as many as 6 lakh migrant workers that are residing in various shelter homes across Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/curbs-may-continue-in-some-areas-after-may-3-cm-uddhav/story-64uGE0MWQfFvCNlMvBp2xK.html
26-04-2020||City||No fresh cases reported from Panchkula in six days, 7 family members of positive Sector 15 woman discharged||No fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case has been reported from Panchkula district in the last six days. The district count currently stands at 18. The last case was reported on April 20, when a 20-year-old Tablighi Jamaat attendee tested Covid-19 positive.Seven family members of the positive Sector 15 woman were discharged after the second test report came back negative on Sunday, bringing down active cases to eight.District Covid-19 nodal officer, Dr Rajiv Narwal said, “We are glad that seven family members of the Sector 15 woman have recovered and been discharged from Maharishi Markandeshwar Hospital, Mullana in Ambala, where they were admitted after testing positive on April 16.”Family members who tested positive are the woman’s 14-year-old daughter, two brothers,sister-in-law and her son, her sister and her daughter. The 44-year-old woman, who is currently admitted to a private hospital, tested positive on April 14, followed by her husband. On Saturday, the district health department had taken second samples from seven family members of the woman, and four jamaat men, whose first test results came back negative on Friday.The reports of the four men are awaited. They are among the six who are currently admitted to the civil hospital.Panchkula deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said samples of 1,417 people have so far been taken of which, of which 18 tested positive and 1,234 negative. He said reports of at least 144 samples are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-fresh-cases-reported-from-panchkula-in-six-days-7-family-members-of-positive-sector-15-woman-discharged/story-WYPJRMqH9aPvNzHkMIt7GO.html
26-04-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan man beaten to death on suspicion of theft; eight arrested||Eight persons from Rajasthan’s Udaipur district were arrested on charges of beating a man to death on suspicion of theft, police said on Sunday.Udaipur superintendent of police (SP) Kailash Bishnoi said that the deceased was identified as Mohan Lal, 30, native of Kankra Dungra village of the district.“Lal along with his accomplice Bhoora went to Bhanda village for burglary around 2am on Saturday in the house of one identified as Bheru Singh Garasaiya but the duo was caught. While Bhoora managed to escape, Lal was caught by the villagers and was tied to a tree and was brutally thrashed by the villagers,” said Bishnoi.The SP added that some locals informed the control room after which Bawalwara police team rushed the spot and took the deceased to nearby community health care center but in the meantime he succumbed to his injuries after which the family members were informed and a case against unknown accused was lodged under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.“The case was taken on priority and a special team was formed to investigate the case and later eight accused were arrested,” said Bishnoi, adding that the accused were presented before a local court in Udaipur on Sunday morning from where they were sent on one-day police remand.The eight arrested accused have been identified as Narayan Garasaiya (36), Nagendra Garasiya (19), Giriraj Garasaiya (21), Rameschand Garasiya (38), Mohan Garasiya (19), Shantilal Garsaiya (42), Rakesh Garasiya (24) and Shambhu Lal Garasiya (33).A cross case of theft has been registered against Lal and his colleague Bhoora who is still absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-man-beaten-to-death-on-suspicion-of-theft-eight-arrested/story-txCk8s1ZwrqudqmdYH1KjN.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||How Borivli, Mulund and Kalbadevi kept cases to less than 25||Three wards in Mumbai which cover Borivli West in the western suburbs, Mulund in the eastern suburbs, and Marine Lines, Kalbadevi and Chira Bazaar in the island city have recorded less than 50 Covid-19 positive cases as of April 25, even as the number of cases recorded in the city in a single day on Sunday were 358, and the total cases in the city touched 5,407.The R-North ward (Borivli) has seen the lowest number of cases so far at 29, followed by T Ward (Mulund) with 32 cases, and C ward in south Mumbai with 33 cases. The numbers are despite the 60% of the R-North ward being occupied by slums and congested dwellings, and 41% of the C ward housing old chawls with common toilets. The T ward has 35% slum population. These wards have managed to contain their cases mainly due to concentration of the cases to one or two families, and a single large hotspot, instead of many small and periodic outbreaks of the virus. All three wards also got a breather of three to four days that allowed them chance to respond to the outbreak.Sandhya Nandedkar, assistant municipal commissioner of R North ward, said, “We are taking all usual measures such as containment, quarantine, contact tracing, disinfection of common places such as toilets and slums. What has worked for my ward is that we have managed to contain all cases to a few small pockets where first Covid-19 patients were found.” The first case was reported in the R-North ward on March 28, following which six cases were found in the same area of Ambawadi. Following large scale quarantine and contact tracing, no new cases have been recorded so far. Nandedkar said, “Most of my cases are restricted to three slum pockets, including Ambawadi. Some health workers were quarantined in the hospital itself, and did not infect anyone else.”The health officer of C ward said, “We have got two large families that make up for 12 cases among the 33. The remaining cases have been restricted to families. We have 80% index patients, and remaining are contact patients restricted to a family in 28 pockets. None of our index patients transmitted the virus to others.” The first case was recorded on March 27, following which a few lot of cases were recorded five or six days later.In case of T ward, health officer Kishor Gandhi said, “My ward has only 10-11 high-risk contacts. The index patients in my ward did not transmit the virus to others. The transmission too has been within the family. Our cases are restricted to one big pocket called Ramgad slum, followed by small cases in Indira Nagar. We were able to successfully contain the outbreak to some areas. We also got some breathers of 2-3 days.” There are 17 containment zones in T ward. The T ward banned sale of vegetables and fruits on footpaths throughout the ward after a vegetable vendor tested positive for the virus. From the first day of the outbreak in Mumbai, in the beginning of March, the ward has been sanitising all community toilets in its slum pockets every few hours, with dedicated cleaners appointed at every toilet block.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-borivli-mulund-and-kalbadevi-kept-cases-to-less-than-25/story-8nHGd0y6YxMwkqpfGZAkEI.html
26-04-2020||City||With 89% recovery rate, GIMS one of the best Covid-19 hospitals in UP||NOIDA: Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, there is some encouraging news from Gautam Budh Nagar – one of the worst affected districts in the state.After discharging eight Covid-19 patients, including an 82-year-old woman and a six-day-old baby on Sunday, the isolation ward of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) at Greater Noida is left with only four patients. Interestingly, the hospital came into existence just about two years ago in July 2018.With a recovery rate of over 89%, the GIMS has emerged as one of the best government medical colleges in the state. Of 35 Covid-19 positive patients, 31 have been discharged from the hospital after being cured, officials said.The other two Covid hospitals in the district, Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute and Sharda Hospital, also have good recovery records. While the paediatric hospital has witnessed 44% (22 cured of 50 positive patients) recovery rate till date, the Sharda Hospital has recorded a rate of 24% (seven cured of 30). And, this is despite the fact that GB Nagar had maximum positive cases in the state when the nationwide lockdown was announced by the central government. Notably, the GB Nagar district has not reported any Covid-related deaths so far. However, 29 people have died due to Covid-19 in other parts of the state. GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta said that, to his best knowledge, GIMS has the maximum recovery rate among all the hospitals in the country. He, however, gives full credit for the remarkable achievement to his team of 30 doctors. “They are the real motivators, who have kept aside their personal lives in the war against the Covid-19 pandemic. They work in 12-hour shifts treating patients in the isolation ward. Only four to five senior doctors are allowed to go home, while others have to stay in one building,” Gupta said.According to the data collected from other districts of the state, the medical college at Meerut has a recovery rate of 35% (24 cured of 68 positive cases, five deaths) so far, and Agra medical college has recorded a rate of 24% (29 cured of 119 patients). Dr Saurav Srivastava, head of medicine department and the Covid-19 doctors’ team at GIMS, said that he has never seen a challenge like this in his career. “I have heard stories about an outbreak of plague in Gujarat in early 90s, but this appears much bigger. For a doctor, keeping hopes alive and having positive attitude is the biggest challenge in such pandemic situation. It was round-the-clock efforts of our team, comprising doctors and nursing staff, that we could achieve such a big success in the recovery of our patients,” he said.This team of 30 doctors in Covid-19 isolation ward includes 26 young resident doctors, who are working in 12-hour shift every day. There are two 12-hour shifts -- one from 8am till 8pm and another from 8pm till 8am. Six resident doctors are always on duty in each shift, the officials said, adding that each team of six resident doctors works for seven to eight days in one go and then goes under quarantine for 14 days to ensure safety of others. GIMS has also won accolades from the doctors of other medical colleges. Dr GK Aneja, the principal of SN Medical College, Agra, said that it is really a commendable job from a medical college, which came into existence just two years ago. “With no casualty, this nascent medical college has shown us the way that how the pandemic could be handled with a firm determination,” he said.Echoing similar views, Dr Ramesh Chandra Gupta, principal of LLRM Medical College, Meerut, said that the doctors of GIMS have done a commendable job in treatment of Covid-19 patients.Meanwhile, three more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the GB Nagar district on Sunday, taking the overall tally of positive cases to 115. Among the new cases, two are minors from Sector 8 in Noida and Achher village in Greater Noida, while the other one is 32-year-old male from Tilapta village in Greater Noida. All of them have been admitted to the isolation ward at Sharda Hospital. Till date, 71 patients have been discharged, the officials said. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-89-recovery-rate-gims-one-of-the-best-covid-19-hospitals-in-up/story-Vzb7dbw7UYefoGJAZK2XNK.html
26-04-2020||City||No separate facility for women patients at L3 Covid-19 hospitals||Female patients lodged at state government’s dedicated L3 category Covid hospital — Meerut Medical College — have been caught in a bind. They have been lodged along with male patients without any privacy in a single ward, which some of them claimed also didn’t have proper facilities. The dedicated L3 category hospitals have been identified and created by the UP government for treating critical Covid-19 positive patients.The UP government has come up with three-layered health care facilities – L1, L2 and L3 dedicated Covid hospitals – in order to fight the Coronavirus outbreak in the state.The L1 category hospitals deal with normal Covid-19 positive patients while the L2 hospitals are ones where patients are facing other complications along with Covid-19 are admitted. The L3 category hospitals are meant for admission of Covid-19 positive patients who require critical care. there are 6 L3 hospitals in the state, with one on Meerut“The major issue, which has been a cause of concern, is that both male and female patients are lodged in one dormitory-type ward and there is no privacy. The ward seems to have been recently opened after being shut for around six months. There is no fixed timing for food being served and paranthas and potato curry is served to us, which is not recommended for patients suffering from co-morbid conditions,” said a female patient from Ghaziabad, who suffers from cancer and tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this week.She said that there are no hangers available inside the bathroom and she had been using a wet towel as a sponge to clean herself, instead of taking a bath. She added that there was no space available for drying clothes.“Doctors at a private hospital where i was getting treated earlier had recommended timely food and proper diet in order to maintain my immunity. I am already weak after my chemotherapy sessions and there is a major disruption in my schedule here. There is not enough space to even take a walk here as advised by doctors. I would rather go back home and remain in isolation there,” she added.The husband of another patient from Ghaziabad said that his wife has cancer and had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 23.“Her cancer treatment was going on at a hospital in Delhi when she tested positive. We approached the Ghaziabad health department on Saturday and an ambulance shifted my wife on Sunday to Meerut Medical College. There, she has been lodged with other male patients in the same ward. There is no fixed schedule for food distribution and the ward is unhygienic ,” said the woman’s husband.“Such wards need to follow proper and regular sanitization, more so when cancer patients are lodged in them. Back home I installed an air purifier for her so that she can breathe properly. But here at the hospital, there is no proper ventilation as well,” he added.Dr TS Arya, the medical superintendent of the L3 hospital at Meerut, said that the shortcomings at the facility had come to his notice and proper arrangements will be made for women patients.“There is no segregation of male and female patients in the ward and we will look into that so that women patients get the privacy they require. At present we have shifted all women patients to a particular section of the ward. Regular sanitisation of ward is being carried out and we will try to reserve washrooms for women soon. The other issues l— ike timely food and type of food — will also be reviewed,” Dr Arya said.He added that the L3 facility has 38 Covid-19 patients at present, besides 7-8 suspected cases.“We have about 200 beds reserved for isolation with 20 beds at ICU. There are 40 other beds which are reserved for suspected cases. At present we are conducting the second round of Covid test on patients after 13 days. If it turns negative then another test is conducted within 24 hours. If two consecutive tests are negative, then the patient is discharged. But patients with comorbid conditions may require further treatment,” he added.According to the state health department officials, about 79.15% of male patients have got infected while the percentage of females is 20.85% across the state.In Ghaziabad, the health department officials also admitted that they have no separate arrangements for women patients at L1 and L2 facilities as well.“We have not reserved spaces or wards for women patients at our L1 category hospital at Muradnagar (30 beds). The L1 attached hospital (76 beds) at Sahibabad has different rooms which can be reserved for women patients. Likewise, the L2 category hospital at Sanjay Nagar (100 beds) also has different rooms which can be reserved for women patients. We will also reserve washrooms for them. I will issue directions to our government hospitals to reserve or separate facilities for women,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer at Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-separate-facility-for-women-patients-at-l3-covid-19-hospitals/story-GGObjVgC3Cfxkb7k5YB0SJ.html
26-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: All 900 flats of Niho Scottish Garden may be sealed; district sees 4 new positive cases||The district health department officials on Sunday said that four more people had tested Covid-19 positive, taking Ghaziabad’s total of virus-infected patients to 57. The district administration officials on Sunday also restricted and sealed the movement of residents of Niho Scottish Garden in Indirapuram. A tower of the highrise had been completely sealed on April 20 after a 71-year-old man tested positive for the virus there.“Despite the sealing, the movement of residents in the society continued unabated.The administration decided to put a restriction on that from today. All residents will get food and other essentials delivered to the gate of the society. We will talk to district officials and take a call on sealing all 900 flats in the society,” said Naresh Chhokar, president of Niho Scottish Garden AOA.Aditya Prajapati, the sub divisional magistrate for the area said the restrictions were placed on recommendation of the health department.“The restriction of movement amounts to sealing of highrise, which has about 900 flats. It is questionable why the sealing was not taken up on April 20? The officials cannot seal towers or buildings in an arbitrary manner,” said DK Maurya, former AOA president of the highrise.Meanwhile, of the four people who tested positive on Sunday, three belong to Kaila Bhatta area. The fourth patient is a 40 year old woman, who has cancer. She has been sent to the L3 Covid hospital at Meerut.“The three patients who tested positive for Covid-19 are men and came in contact with a woman who earlier tested positive. The fourth case on Sunday was of a woman from Loni who was under cancer treatment in Delhi when she tested positive. We have sent her to Meerut Medical College,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.“There were two other suspected cases of a doctor couple, but their reports are awaited. We have started a disinfection process at their home,” Dr Gupta added.On sunday, the number of cases in Uttar Pradesh rose to 1,843 with 289 patients discharged from different hospitals. At least 29 people had succumbed to the virus.“We now have 1,525 active cases in 58 districts of UP. The pool sampling tests has also been increased and on Saturday we tested 318 pools, which included 1,590 samples,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s principal secretary (health).On Sunday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that Covid-19 patinets must be treated only at dedicated hospitals and the staff attending to them must not attend to patients with other ailments. The UP government has prepared three tier-setup of L1, L2 and L3 dedicated Covid hospitals to deal with teh virus.The CM on Sunday, during a review meeting with the teams of government officials, said that all shelter homes and community kitchens to be geo-tagged.“It is very important to safeguard medical teams engaged in Covid-19 treatment. The doctors, nurses, paramedics and other support staff engaged in coronavirus cure should be protected against infection. So at the Covid hospitals, ensure stocks of more than sufficient PPE (personal protection equipment), N-95 masks. And at the same time, the Covid hospitals must be kept clean and sanitised all the time,” Yogi said.The CM has also directed for dedicated teams to be set up in all districts to check prevalence of infection prevention protocol in order to safeguard healthcare staff members working for treatment of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-niho-scottish-garden-sealed-district-sees-4-new-positive-cases/story-6UegawhOo3uDmUXZmhEJnL.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Pawar demands grant of ₹1 lakh crore from centre to overcome financial crisis||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has demanded a generous financial package for Maharashtra to tide over the economic crisis due to the lockdown imposed to arrest the coronavirus outbreak.Pawar, in a letter to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday, has sought an additional grant of ₹1 lakh crore for this fiscal. He said the state is estimated to face a shortfall of this amount due to the outbreak.He has also demanded a two-year moratorium on repayment against a loan from National Small Savings Fund (NSSF) citing that it will help in bridging the likely budgetary gap.The state makes repayment of ₹10,500 crore for NSSF loan every year. “So far, Mumbai is the hardest-hit city in the Covid-19 outbreak and the prolonged lockdown conditions. This has severely impacted the economy of Maharashtra and may have detrimental consequences on Indian economy if not addressed urgently,” Pawar stated in his letter.He said that there is an expected revenue shortfall of ₹140,000 crore. This is around 40% of the expected revenues and will leave a huge hole in the state finances.“As per the present borrowing limits (3% of GSDP), the state can borrow up to ₹92,000 crore, of which ₹54,000 has been planned for meeting the capital expenditure requirements. So, it is clear that state is going to face a shortfall of ₹100,000 crore to sustain projected expenditure,” he said.The veteran leader also suggested some other measures to help Maharashtra, including hiking the borrowing limit under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM), but cautioned that covering the entire shortfall only through borrowing will push the state towards a potential debt trap.Pawar said that cut in public spending can also be used as a measure, however, that would be counterproductive given the subdued economy. “There will be additional expenditure requirements in the area of public health and medical education and other public services,” he pointed out.“Almost all countries US, Spain, Germany, France, Australia etc have released financial packages of around 10% of GDP. Thus, a room can be created by the Government of India along with RBI for giving suitable financial package to states,” the letter states.“In the eventual recovery of the Indian economy the states will play a major role and if left out without any help the states will not be in a position to supplement the required national government efforts,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pawar-demands-grant-of-1-lakh-crore-from-centre-to-overcome-financial-crisis/story-OYVDxWQqyBVQVWdCGhVibL.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Dharavi records 34 new cases; two wards account for 1,000 cases in city||As the city crossed the 5,000 mark of Covid-19 cases on Saturday, two of the 24 administrative wards in the city (Worli and Byculla) itself accounted for 1000 cases alone. The G south ward (Worli-Lower Parel) has reached over 600 positive cases of Covid-19, whereas, E ward (Byculla-Mumbai Central) reported 466 cases as on Saturday. Each of the four wards which are K west (Andheri-Juhu-Versova), L ward (Kurla-Sakinaka), F North (Matunga-Sion) and G North (Dharavi-Mahim) have more than 350 cases of Covid-19.With 34 new cases, Dharavi recorded the highest number of positive cases of Covid-19 within 24 hours on Sunday. The total number of positive cases in Dharavi so far is 275 and have claimed 14 lives. The number of institutional quarantined facilities have been increased from 1000 to 2,300 and a private school in Dharavi has been turned into a 700-bed facility.“The focus will be on shifting and isolating maximum people into institutional quarantine and testing them,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North ward.From Sunday, the BMC added special services on its helpline number 1916 dedicated to Covid-19. As per their plan, the caller will get details of bed availability for a Covid-19 patient in any of the hospitals in the city, the caller can request an ambulance and can also talk to a doctor for guidance related to the coronavirus. A BMC official said that real-time information on the availability of beds for Covid-19 patients will be started in the next two days.Meanwhile, out of the 4,870 patients, who were found positive till Saturday evening, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) claims to have found 1,647 positive cases through contact tracing.They also claim to have identified over 1.19 lakh people, who came in touch with 4,870 positive patients, of which 19,089 are at high risk and 99,995 at low risk. Meanwhile, the total number of containment zones have gone up to 1,036. These zones are particularly sealed by the BMC with the help of police as a positive case or suspected cases are found in those areas. Essentials are supplied in the houses of these areas by authorities.As per BMC’s data, 94, 026 people are home quarantined and 25, 58 have completed their quarantine time. A senior civic official said that there are about 7, 195 people who have been shifted from their homes to institutional quarantine facilities out of the total people home-quarantined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-records-34-new-cases-two-wards-account-for-1-000-cases-in-city/story-oZX31oZQItwPWEuOKHKwNI.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray will remain CM after May 27, says Sena MP Raut||With Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari yet to give his nod to appoint chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray to the Maharashtra Legislative Council, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has now targeted the central leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the delay. In his weekly column Rokhthok in Sena mouthpiece Saamana, Raut called Koshyari a person with “morals”, and expressed confidence that Thackeray will remain the chief minister after May 27. The CM on Sunday also said that politics should be kept aside during the ongoing war against Covid-19.In his column, Raut said, “If the Governor decides to sign the nomination file, he can do so instantly. But for that, he would have to ask the BJP leaders in Delhi. Then, the Governor, as an institution, is not independent and impartial.” He also wrote that the opposition party in Maharashtra is egging the Governor to not sign the recommendation of the cabinet and let President’s Rule take over the state at a time when the Thackeray government is fighting a war against the coronavirus. Raut said that the Thackeray government has the support of over 170 MLAs and it will continue after May 27.Thackeray, who is not a member of either House of the state legislature, took oath as the chief minister on November 28. The Constitution allows a non-legislator to hold the post for up to six months. For Thackeray, this period ends on May 27, before which his nomination to legislature needs to be confirmed.This month, the state cabinet recommended that the Governor appoint Thackeray as a member of the Legislative Council (MLC) through his quota, to avoid a Constitutional crisis. The Governor has so far not taken any decision, leaving the three-party Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government on tenterhooks.“When the war against coronavirus was on, the Madhya Pradesh (MP) government was pulled down, and a month later the cabinet expansion was done. Similarly, a one-day session of the state legislature can be convened for the MLC polls. More importantly, if the [MLC] election will be done without any opposition, the Election Commission has to merely do it as a formality,” Raut mentioned in his column.He cited examples where governors in other states have nominated chief ministers and ministers and such nominations had stood the legality in the courts. Raut, a Rajya Sabha MP, added that Koshyari will weigh the “political good and evil”. “We have been blessed with a Governor who strictly follows the Constitution, morality, and political courtesy,” he wrote.Thackeray on Sunday said that political leaders in the state will have to keep politics aside at this moment. “If we focus on politics at this time, then we do not need any other enemy. Elections come and go, so does power, but if lives are lost, they will not come back. Therefore, no one should play dirty politics,” he said.The CM also thanked Union minister Nitin Gadkari for earlier saying that politics should be kept aside and “all should work closely with the Maharashtra government” during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-will-remain-cm-after-may-27-says-sena-mp-raut/story-snPgh0G3iseFmHk8WXBczL.html
26-04-2020||City||In absence of Covid PPE kit, Women Hospital staff use HIV protection kit for delivery of suspected Covid-19 patient||Ghaziabad: Doctors at the District Women Hospital in Ghaziabad had to perform the delivery of a suspected Covid-19 patient while wearing personal protection equipment (PPE) meant for protection against HIV, officials said. The hospital did not have any PPE kit that is used during treatment of a Covid-19 patient, they said. The 27-year-old woman is presently lodged in an isolation room of the hospital, and her samples were sent for testing on Sunday. The woman delivered a baby who is her third child, the officials said. “The woman, having mild labour pain, had come to the hospital with respiratory infection and fever. On Saturday afternoon, we sent her in an ambulance to the sampling centre at Sanjay Nagar hospital twice, but she was turned back from there. In the meantime, she went into labour and we decided to take her to the operation theatre. We had no PPE kits meant for protection against Covid-19, so we decided to go ahead with delivery with the help of kit meant for protection against HIV,” said Dr Deepa Tyagi, medical superintendent of the hospital.“During the delivery, there were three staff members inside. We had to take a decision in order to save her life, and would have faced complications,” she added.However, Dr NK Gupta, Ghaziabad chief medical officer (CMO), said that there were about 2,000 PPE kits available in the district till Sunday.“The hospital officials should have taken the kits from our department. Also, there is a separate budget which is allotted for purchase of kits to all the three government hospitals in Ghaziabad. Meanwhile, directions have been issued that such women patients, if tested positive for Covid-19, should undergo delivery only at OT of dedicated Covid hospital. Such provision is available at our L2 category hospital at Sanjay Nagar,” Gupta said.The CMO said that he will inquire why the samples of the woman was not taken up at the sampling centre on Saturday afternoon. The sampling centre at the Sanjay Nagar hospital was inaugurated earlier this month for taking samples of suspected Covid-19 cases.The state government has already said that all the Covid and non-Covid hospitals should be properly sanitized in order to keep away any medical infection. For the purpose of inspection and audit of hospitals, the state government has directed for formation of committees in all districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-absence-of-covid-ppe-kit-women-hospital-staff-use-hiv-protection-kit-for-delivery-of-suspected-covid-19-patient/story-gHs17bFIcKG16E47R7Ln5L.html
26-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad administration restricts travel to Delhi between 9am and 6pm for government employees||In order to further restrict the movement of commuters between Ghaziabad and Delhi, the Ghaziabad district magistrate on Sunday issued an advisory to all employees of Central government and Delhi government offices in the capital . The advisory stated that such commuters will have to leave Ghaziabad maximum by 9am and travel back home after 6pm, when their duty hours end.“The advisory has been issued in order to enforce lockdown norms. There has been movement of commuters who travel between Delhi and Ghaziabad throughout the day. We are required to depute police officials for round-the-clock checks. Therefore, we have issued the advisory for such commuters to restrict their travel timings,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate.Apart from the travel advisory, it has also been decided that officers of deputy secretary and above ranks, travelling between Ghaziabad and Delhi, will only be required to show their ID cards in order to cross the borders.The officials said that only 33% of the officers and staff have been allowed to attend Delhi government and Central government offices but some of them who fall under the Class-3 and Class-4 category of employees continue to commute between Ghaizabad and Delhi throughout the day on the basis of temporary ID cards.“Such employees should be issued passes by their respective offices and these could be availed on a daily or a weekly basis. Such staff members will not be allowed to move between Delhi and Ghaziabad only on the basis of their ID cards. We have issued the advisory letter to Delhi officials and the Delhi police to help them take necessary steps,” Pandey added.He added that mediapersons will be allowed commute only on the basis of valid ID cards.In a decision taken earlier on April 20, the district magistrate under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, had prohibited any travel between Ghaziabad and Delhi, except for those involved in essential services or having valid passes.The decision was taken on the basis of a report submitted by the health department, which said that about six Covid-19 positive cases have emerged after people had travelled to Delhi.After the directions, the Ghaziabad-Delhi borders were sealed and more police deployment was put in place. According to the officials, this led to a reduction in the traffic volume by about 40%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-administration-restricts-travel-to-delhi-between-9am-and-6pm-for-government-employees/story-GMhxKlmE8f9aCdU9YQ6a8N.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||In post-lockdown transit plan, trains should be restarted last: Experts||While the Covid-19 pandemic has halted local transport across the world, it has also called for cities like Mumbai to re-invent and re-plan their mobility strategies. Transport experts have stressed the need for the city to start planning its post-lockdown strategies, along the lines of those in Milan and Paris where roads will be transformed to make more space for cyclists and pedestrians.Madhav Pai, director, World Resources Institute (WRI), said, “It is becoming more evident around the world that cycling will be the best means to adopt both, social distancing norms and minimum physical activity. If we run a bicycle donation program in the city, we could donate them to many people who would happily cycle to work. Cycling eight to 10kms within the city should be easily manageable.”Cities across the world are adopting the ‘avoid-shift-improve’ method, said transport expert Amruta Ponkshe from the Observer Research Foundation. “Even in the post-lockdown period, cities in other countries are asking people to commute only when it is essential and avoid unnecessary travel. They are urged to shift from cramped transit modes like crowded buses to walking, cycling or e-bikes and improve the overall sustainability of transport by increased usage of e-buses or hybrid fuel vehicles.”Experts also said that this is a good chance for the city to experiment with more bus lanes. Ashok Datar, a transport expert said, “While buses must operate on 2/3rds their capacity with no one standing, we should experiment with bus lanes on arterial roads like the western express highway and eastern express highway.”Like cities around the globe, transit agencies must restart in a phased manner, said AV Shenoy from the Mumbai Mobility Forum. “Private vehicles, autos, and taxis can be started first, as they can also be controlled easily when it comes to adherence of social distancing norms,” Shenoy said, adding that the suburban railways and Metro must be opened in the final phase, as maintaining physical distance would be next to impossible in trains and the Metro. Suburban trains must also look at queue control and restricted access, Ponkshe said. “One thing that can be done across transit modes is to issue only 50% tickets. Railways will have to increase security to adhere to queue control and restricted access,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-post-lockdown-transit-plan-trains-should-be-restarted-last-experts/story-Q1TTp6O8eGAbYggF4XplrM.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||MVA, BJP tussle over legislature seat for Uddhav Thackeray||Amidst the state’s Covid-19 crisis, a bitter tussle is on between the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the ‘delay’ by Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari in accepting the state cabinet’s recommendation to nominate chief minister Uddhav Thackeray as a member of the Legislative Council (MLC).Thackeray will have to resign if he does not become a member of the state legislature by May 28. MVA leaders suspect a political conspiracy in Koshyari’s delay as the cabinet had sent its recommendation more than two weeks ago. While the Shiv Sena is building pressure on Koshyari, Thackeray urged politicians on Sunday not to play dirty politics in the current situation. The BJP hit back saying that the Sena should stop blaming it for its problems.“I am keeping politics aside. Power comes and goes. Nobody should resort to dirty politics. This is not the time for politics. There are lives at stake,” said Thackeray, as he addressed people through social media.He also lauded Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari for his advice to Maharashtra’s politicians to stand behind the state government in this time of crisis.“I thank Nitinji Gadkari for appealing to everybody to keep politics aside and support the state government in its battle against the coronavirus,” Thackeray said.Leaders of Shiv Sena as well as the other two parties of the MVA – Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) – are not sure whether the Governor will approve Thackeray’s nomination in time. This would mean the Shiv Sena leader may have to resign by May 28 since the Constitutional provision makes it mandatory for a minister or CM to be elected to the state legislature within six months of his swearing-in. Thackeray was not a member of the Legislature when he took oath as CM on November 28 after he decided to snap ties with pre-election ally BJP and joined forces with Congress-NCP after last year’s Assembly elections.“We suspect the Center wants to impose President’s Rule in the state. If Thackeray is not nominated by Governor, he would have to resign. The Governor may recommend President’s Rule if we insist on Thackeray again swearing-in as chief minister,” said a key MVA leader who did not wish to be named.Thackeray had planned to contest a by-election to the Legislative Council that was scheduled in April but was postponed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. As such, the cabinet on April 9 recommended that he be nominated to the Council on one of the two vacant slots under the Governor’s quota. The state cabinet wants Koshyari to consider Thackeray as a special case given the health crisis.Maharashtra revenue minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, said, “The confusion should be ended by the Governor. We trust him not to let uncertainty prevail in the middle of an emergency situation.”Senior BJP leader Ashish Shelar said the Sena should stop blaming others for its problems.“Getting Thackeray elected to the Legislature is the responsibility of the ruling party and not the Opposition. Why didn’t he opt to contest the election for the Yavatmal Council seat earlier this year? Why did his partner, the NCP, not include his name when it made the government recommend its two members for the Council? Further, why didn’t the Sena ask one of its legislators to resign so that Thackeray could contest the election,” asked Shelar. He added that the Governor would consider the constitutional provisions and accordingly take a decision.He also remarked that Thackeray should tell people why he is not taking opposition leaders into confidence regarding measures adopted to handle the Covid-19 outbreak instead of accusing others of playing dirty politics.Political analyst Pratap Asbe said, “Thackeray would have expressed his unhappiness because he is not happy with the way his government is being attacked by the BJP in the state. As long as Thackeray’s nomination to the legislature is concerned, the decision of the state cabinet is binding on the Governor. Still, if he chooses not to accept it, there could be a political crisis in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mva-bjp-tussle-over-mlc-seat-for-uddhav-thackeray/story-6Uwjz0gshOV4SSyv3rrq4J.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Thane auto driver provides ration to needy families||A 43-year-old auto driver from Thane, a nature lover who is part of Sadbhavna Hara-Bhara Foundation, has been helping auto drivers and their families with food during the lockdown.Purushottamlal Gupta has helped around 90 families of autorickshaw drivers in Thane with essentials. “Citizen activists associated with the foundation have donated funds with which my family has been distributing ration to the needy,” said Gupta, a resident of Indira Nagar.Gupta has recently planted around 200 saplings at Upavan area of Thane. “Before the lockdown, I planted around 200 saplings, which needs to be watered. I go around each area to water the saplings. The police allow me to go when I tell them about the newly planted saplings,” said Gupta.He started planting saplings in 2016. “My aim is to increase the number trees in the city. Citizens and nature lovers have joined the plantation drive. As we got a good response and donations, we started Sadbhavna Hara-Bhara Foundation,” said Gupta.Through the foundation, Gupta is now helping the underprivileged auto drivers with food and ration.“We will also start distributing food to labourers and migrants in Thane,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/thane-auto-driver-provides-ration-to-needy-families/story-SgwCDZSQwlyCnHJ6j99ZDI.html
26-04-2020||Gurugram||Fire at hand sanitiser production unit in Sec 37, no injuries||A hand sanitiser manufacturing unit in Sector 37 caught fire, due to a suspected short-circuit, on Sunday afternoon. No one was injured in the fire, which was put out by the fired department officials in a 70-minute operation. Fire department officials said they received a call about the fire at 1.50pm. Two fire tenders were sent from the Sector 37 fire brigade, located less than two kilometres from the spot.IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer, said that the fire took place at a manufacturing unit of Mirah Belle Naturals. He said that the company was primarily manufacturing hand sanitisers, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He said that the company workers had an off on Sunday, and nobody was present inside the building during the fire. “The security guards of the company informed us about the fire. Fortunately, we were able to contain the fire in the basement of the two-storey building and prevent it from spreading to the two floors above, where highly flammable chemicals used in the manufacturing of hand sanitisers were stored,” said Kashyap.Heavy smoke emission from the building caused a slight panic in the industrial area, initially, especially among workers staying in the vicinity, said officials.Kashyap said that it took fire department officials around 30 minutes to control the fire and by 3pm it was completely doused. Items used in packaging hand sanitisers, furniture, and large electrical appliances were gutted in the incident.Officials said that the company had a valid no-objection certificate from the fire department.“The fire was caused by a short circuit and there was limited damage due to it. The company is closed for operations on Sunday. We had called the fire department who quickly doused the fire,” said Shivani Kapur, owner of Mirah Belle Naturals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fire-at-hand-sanitiser-production-unit-in-sec-37-no-injuries/story-nE3VKwOpbmPnn6fn8jGoUL.html
26-04-2020||City||Over 600 migrant workers leave for their homes in western UP||Gurugram: More than 600 migrant workers, who were staying at different shelter homes in the city due to the lockdown, left for their home districts in western Uttar Pradesh on Sunday morning aboard 19 buses arranged by the Haryana government.The migrant workers were stopped by the police in the last week of March, while they were walking to their hometowns in UP, on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway, NH-8 and along the Delhi-Jaipur railway line, said a spokesperson for the district administration.Anu Sheokand, general manager, Haryana Roadways, said that these workers left for UP around 6.30am on Sunday. “We had received directions from head office in Chandigarh that arrangements had to be made for transport of these migrant workers to their state. Nineteen buses were made available to the district administration. It was ensured that all norms of social distancing were followed while sending them,” she said.The 634 workers, who left from Gurugram, are from Shamli, Mathura, Baghpat, Bulandshahr and Saharanpur districts of western UP, the spokesperson said, adding that they boarded Haryana Roadways buses that would drop them in their respective districts.According to the officials, some workers from Uttarakhand and Punjab stuck in Faridabad were also sent through the state-run buses from there. Around 950 workers, including 634, were lodged at shelter homes set up in the two cities. The remaining workers will continue to stay in the shelter homes as they have been living and working in the city for the past several years and went there due to lack of food or money, the spokesperson added.Naveen Dahiya, MCG councillor from ward number 12, who worked with the district administration in repatriation of stuck workers, said that 47 migrant workers had been found walking on the railway line around March 20 and were brought to community centres at Dhanwapur and Basai. “These workers were kept in quarantine. We made food and other essential items available to them. Today, they were able to get a bus to reach their villages in other states,” he said.Prior to their journey, a health check-up of these workers was done at the shelter homes and it was ensured that none of them suffered from any flu-like illness. Temperature of the workers was also checked and they were asked to wear masks compulsorily, said Dahiya.The migrants, who boarded the buses, also heaved a sigh of relief as most of them were short on money, and wanted to go back to their homes.Ali Jaan, who worked as plumber in Gurugram, lost his job during the lockdown period. He, along with his friends, decided to walk from Gurugram till Allahabad on March 28 only to be found by the Gurugram police who brought him to a shelter home in Sector 31. “I was crying in my rented accommodation as there was no food. Then I, along with friends, decided to walk down to my native place with no money in my pocket, but the police personnel brought us to a shelter home in Sector 31,” said Jaan. The 20-year-old said that he only wanted to reach home and didn’t think that he would ever come back. “My mother started crying when I had called her. I only want to be with my family,” added Jaan.Like Jaan, Asgar Ali, who stayed in Badshahpur, said that he could finally get a bus home. “I was determined to go back home after the lockdown period. Had the authorities not provided the bus service, I would have walked all the way till Allahabad,” said Ali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-600-migrant-workers-leave-for-their-homes-in-western-up/story-FFuU4fIY16XjXaZmow6sZN.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||Delivery boy arrested for stealing mobile, laptop from advocate’s house||A 21-year-old delivery agent with a food delivery app first offered a lift to a stranded advocate during the lockdown, won his trust and then stole cash, a laptop and a mobile phone from his home in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar, the police said on Sunday, after arresting the suspect.The suspect, Tushar Sansanwal, is a resident of Katwariya Sarai and was associated with the food delivery app as a rider.Earlier this month, Sansanwal had come across an advocate returning from Saket Court. “The advocate was stranded on the road without any transport, when he spotted Sansanwal riding a scooter. Since Sansanwal had a permit to ply on the road, he offered to drop the advocate back to his home in Malviya Nagar,” said a senior investigator. When they reached the advocate’s home in Malviya Nagar, the delivery agent shared his phone number with the lawyer and offered to help him if he needed anything during the lockdown. “Over the next few days, the delivery agent received multiple calls from the advocate and went to deliver several household commodities to his home,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (South). During one such visit on April 18, Sansanwal requested the advocate for a glass of water. “As the advocate went into the kitchen to get water, Sansanwal escaped with the man’s laptop, mobile phone and Rs 500 cash,” said the DCP. The advocate, after finding his belongings missing, contacted the police who registered a case and began tracking Sansanwal using his phone number. The suspect was finally caught on Saturday, based on his phone location. Police said the stolen mobile phone and laptop have been recovered and Sansanwal sent to judicial custody. “His brother too has a robbery case against him,” said another officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delivery-boy-arrested-for-stealing-mobile-laptop-from-advocate-s-house/story-BDuEsDnvULWMyLdqACArYP.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt creates special desk for Covid-positive police personnel||The Maharashtra government has formed a special desk and appointed nodal officers to address Covid-19 related health issues faced by the police force. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said that they have constituted a special desk to provide immediate medical help to police personnel in case they are infected with the coronavirus. For Mumbai, Naval Bajaj, joint commissioner of police, and for the rest of the state, Sanjeev Singhal, additional director general of police, have been appointed as nodal officers for the desk. The home minister also declared financial assistance of ₹50 lakh each to the families of the two policemen who died after getting infected with the coronavirus. A member from each of the families will also be provided with government jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-creates-special-desk-for-covid-positive-police-personnel/story-ia5RQLkY8MiRHXFSnQTFmM.html
26-04-2020||Gurugram||Beyond classes: Teachers make individual calls, cheer up students||With schools across the country closed in the wake of the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), children are keeping up with their lessons through online classes and remotely delivered assignments. While technology is allowing them to virtually connect with classmates and teachers, schools are also taking cognisance of the lockdown’s possible fallout on the students’ mental well being.To provide students with a stress-free learning experience, several private schools across the city are taking steps to ensure that children are not overwhelmed by remote classes and schedules.Parents of the students of Delhi Public School, Sector 45, were surprised when they received a video featuring the school’s principal and headmistresses dancing to songs while doing household chores, such as sweeping and cleaning. The video, they said, brought a smile to their children’s faces.Aditi Misra, principal of the school, said that the idea behind the video was to make children laugh at a time when they have been away from physical classrooms for over a month due to the unprecedented circumstances.“During the third week of the lockdown, students sounded low while attending one of the online classes. When I asked why, one of them said that they wanted schools to reopen soon. I realised that it was important to cheer students up, especially since there was no certainty around the resumption of offline classes any time soon,” Misra, who reached out to the school’s leadership team and headmistresses soon after, said. “We put together this video of us dancing and doing chores. The idea was to send out the message that household work is dignified work as well as make people smile. The video got a good response from parents too,” Misra said. The school has also asked children to share videos of them dancing, acting, and doing other activities, which are being collated on the school portal.Besides the video that was shared by the principal, teachers from the school have also been calling students individually to keep tabs on them. Komal Lalwani, a parent, said that teachers were making sure that parents and students didn’t worry too much about monthly tests or other issues. “Teachers are calling us and asking what the children have been up to at home. They ask us to send pictures and videos and keep motivating us. There is dialogue beyond academics,” Lalwani said.Amity International School, Sector 43, has pooled in resources with Amity University for a 24*7 helpline, where problems shared by children are recorded and responded to. “Sometimes, there’s a live exchange when a counsellor is available to talk. If not, someone calls the student back to discuss issues they want to share,” said Arora.She said that children, like everyone else, were experiencing emotional and mental pressures due to the lockdown situation. “Children, too, are used to their safe spaces, places where they can go out and interact with others their age, something that has not been happening since the lockdown began. They are learning to cope with the changed realities,” Arora said, adding that the school was continuously writing to parents and students to ensure that they can make sense of the situation.She said that psychologists were conducting regular counselling sessions for students in senior classes, while counselling had been integrated into value education classes for students in the junior wing. “Regular classes are conducted for students in the senior wing. Besides, the psychologist also pitches in with talks for the middle school. For junior students, the school has integrated counselling in the value education classes,” Arora said.Sonal Kaushik, whose son is a Class 9 student at Manav Rachna International School, Sector 46, said that the school had conducted a counselling session with students this week where issues related to stress and ways of dealing with it were discussed. “Insights on mediation and other processes that can help maintain composure were shared during the class. Children are beginning to miss school, their routine and their friends now. As parents, we are keeping calm and encouraging our son to do the same,” Kaushik same.At Heritage Xperiential Learning School, besides the daily check-ins during classes, school teachers have been calling students individually to ensure their well being during this difficult time, Vishnu Karthik, director, Heritage Group of Schools, said. Teachers at the school also held virtual assemblies and end-of-year closures for students to ensure that they were not deprived of meaningful experiences.Jyoti Raghavan, whose children study in two different private schools, said that both her daughters had been missing school a lot. “I had never thought that I would hear my children talk about going back to school. They are missing their friends, teachers and the environment. They are missing the routine of waking up in the morning and rushing to school,” Raghavan said. She said that while there was a difference in seeing each other onscreen and being with each other in person, children were using technology for staying in touch with their peers as a coping mechanism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/beyond-classes-teachers-make-individual-calls-cheer-up-students/story-HoPYwawqTvEuURHcE0EquN.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police starts 24x7 helpline for its personnel||The Mumbai Police have started a 24/7 Covid-19 helpline number — 9137777100 — for police personnel after a police constable died due to the disease on Saturday. The helpline, operating from the city police headquarters, was needed as a second death and 50 more cases were reported from across the city till Sunday with several instances of infected personnel being denied admission in public hospitals. When HT contacted the helpline, the attendee said, “The helpline provides all policemen and their families all the information related to Covid hospitals, including availability of beds, ICU, procedure of admission, release of medical advance of ₹1 lakh etc.” On Sunday, around 50 policemen had already called the number seeking help. In addition, a detailed standard of procedure has been sent to all the police stations.A police officer said the department has identified five private hospitals (Bombay Hospital, Marine Lines: Fortis Hospital, Mulund: SL Raheja Hospital in Mahim; Seven Hills Hospital, Andheri; and Hirananadani Hospital, Powai) where infected personnel or their families can get treatment for free under Maharashtra Police’s Kutumb Arogya Yojana. “Apart from the helpline, we have asked each additional commissioner of regions and deputy commissioners to keep in touch with their men, take follow-ups and ensure they do not face any kind of issues,” said Pranaya Ashok, DCP (ops) and Mumbai Police spokesperson. Symptomatic cop makes selfie video seeking help A police constable made a selfie video from KEM Hospital expressing his helplessness in finding an ambulance to carry him to Kasturba Hospital, despite showing multiple symptoms. The traffic constable, who is seen profusely sweating in the video, says he was posted in a hotspot in Wadala where he may have gotten infected. After the video went viral, he got admission in KEM Hospital.22 police personnel quarantined Bangur Nagar police have quarantined 22 police personnel on Saturday after an arrested person tested positive for Covid-19. The accused, Najeem Munshi, is accused of committing in a robbery and assault on April 21 in Bhagat Singh Nagar in Goregaon (West). As the place where the accused lived had reported Covid-19 cases, he was subjected to a test at JJ Hospital after his arrest. However, the test reports came positive after two days, after which Munshi was sent to JJ Hospital for quarantine and 22 personnel from the police station, including six officers, were sent to quarantine. They have been tested and the results are awaited. When asked if there will be a change in procedure after the incident, Ashok said, “The procedure will remain the same. We have provided them with personal protective equipment (PPE). Everyone will have to be more careful.” Constable tests positive, 14 others quarantined A 29-year-old police constable posted at Local Arms 4 in Marol, Andheri (East) tested positive following which 14 other personnel, who were in touch with him, have been sent to a quarantine facility in Andheri. S Jaykumar, additional commissioner of police, confirmed the development. According to the police, the constable was tested two ddays ago after he complained he was not feeling well and got admitted at trauma care hospital in Jogeshwari. Cases in state police touched 100 mark, 50 from MumbaiTill Sunday, a total of 100 police personnel (83 constables and 17 officers) from state police tested positive including a maximum 50 cases from Mumbai. Another seven (three officers and four men) have recovered from the disease. (Inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu, Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-starts-24x7-helpline-for-its-personnel/story-y4Uhqoxnx1ViVYze2iVZWJ.html
26-04-2020||Gurugram||Ramprastha City residents stand together amid the lockdown||Residents of Ramprastha City in Sector 37D had much to worry when the nationwide lockdown for containing the spread of the coronavirus disease came into force. With restrictions on people’s movement, the supply of essential items became a major concern for more than 800 families that live in the condominium as there is no grocery store within the society complex or in its vicinity. Residents usually depend on the Sector 10 market or markets at Sohna Road, which are around 5-10 kilometre away from the complex.In order to resolve the crisis, residents joined their hands, and with some support from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) came up with a temporary solution to end all woes. While initially, an MCG food truck would supply essential goods to the residents at a gap of four days, a temporary store was set up in the under-construction market area within the complex after the lockdown was extended till May 3. MCG vendors now operate from the store that runs from 8am in the morning till 1pm in the afternoon, catering to the various needs of the residents.“When the lockdown started, everyone was very worried. Keeping aside all differences, the builder, management, and residents came together to work out a solution. Initially, the MCG’s food truck used to supply essentials every four days. Since the past two weeks, MCG vendors have started operating from a makeshift shop within the complex on a daily basis,” said Pradip Rahi, president of the society’s resident welfare association. A list of prices of essential items such as fruits and vegetables sold at the store is sent by the MCG every day.Similarly, at the behest of the district administration, mobile ATM vans visit the complex once in a week to let residents withdraw cash. The facility was much needed as the nearest ATM is more than four kilometres away from the complex, and residents struggled had to face a shortage of cash in the early days of the lockdownIn view of the lockdown, the apartment has cut down the strength of its non-essential staff and provided rest of the staff members with boarding and lodging facilities within the flat to minimise their exposure with the outside world.“On normal days, the maintenance team has a strength of over 100 people, but we are managing with 50 people currently. While those who live alone are sharing a room with another person, workers with families have been given separate flats. Residents contributed towards a common fund which is being utilised for providing rations to the workers,” said Rahi.The condominium has barred the entry of part-time workers such as domestic helpers, cooks, drivers, and car cleaners. Food delivery agents, meanwhile, are allowed until the society’s entrance and residents are required to collect their orders from the entrance. All delivery agents are thermally scanned and are required to use sanitisers and wear face masks. Since the lockdown started, the condominium has been maintaining a record of people moving in and out of the society. Domestic helpers were called in batches in the first week of April and paid for the month. “We called domestic workers in small batches and gave them ration along with their salary. All residents were advised to pay salaries so that workers can survive the pandemic,” said Rahi.To ensure that physical distancing is followed at all times in the society, circles have been marked outside the makeshift shop. “Residents have been told to stay at an arm’s distance from each other, while they queue for purchasing essential items. The markings have been drawn 2 metres apart,” said Rahi. Guards have also been deputed near the shop and the entrance to ensure that the people abide by physical distancing rules. Three resident volunteers also keep a tab to ensure physical distancing norms are followed during the shopping hours.The condominium has also created a network of volunteers to take care of needs of all senior citizens, and helping them with medicines and other essential items. “Senior citizens and families with kids (younger than 3 years) in the complex were identified by the management. Members of the RWA interacted with these residents and asked them to reach out to volunteers whenever they needed help,” said Rahi.Ranjay Kumar Singh, a resident of the society, said people had been helping each other out and ensuring that everyone abides by the lockdown rules. “There were hiccups initially, but people dealt with the circumstances by coming together. Most people are staying inside their apartments. If we come across people venturing out or getting worried due to the situation, we talk to them and advise them in the best possible manner,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ramprastha-city-residents-stand-together-amid-the-lockdown/story-ac2OgDcNizCaEyLEC3zPqL.html
26-04-2020||City||Ghaziabad: Hospital transmission a major concern; new epicentres and hotspots emerge||There has been a steady growth in the number of hotspots and epicentres in different localities of Ghaziabad ever since the outbreak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was first reported in the district. The health department officials have now raised concerns that such cases will continue to rise and there is a risk of community transmission if the disease is not controlled in a timely manner.The Ghaziabad district at present has 17 hotspots, which include nine in the red zone (areas where new cases have been found in the past 14 days), five in the orange zone (areas where no fresh cases have been found in the past 14 days) and three in the green zone (where no fresh cases have been reported in the past 28 days since the time the last Covid-19 positive case came to light).The recently added hotspots in the district include Indirapuram, Khoda and Islam Nagar, along with Loni and Vaishali in the red zone. Medical transmission in the district“At present, the major concern is that infections are being contracted at the hospitals and healthcare workers are being infected by the patients. This may lead to community transmission if the spread of the disease is not controlled in a timely manner,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer(CMO).“Initially, most of the cases related to foreign travel and those who attended religious congregations. Such areas included Masuri, Pasonda etc. Now, the cases are being reported from areas, such as Indirpauram, Vaishali etc. We are also keeping a close watch on cases emerging from Khoda, Loni and Kaila Bhatta as these are densely populated regions,” Dr Gupta added.A number of cases related to hospital transmission have emerged after two resident doctors of Max Hospital were tested positive, although both later recovered. A 71-year-old man from Niho Scottish Garden in Indirapuram was reported to be positive, while a woman patient from ATS Advantage was also found to be infected. She was, however, later declared negative. Similarly, another woman doctor working at a hospital in Delhi was found to be positive for Covid-19 on Saturday while a 40-year-old woman from Vaishali, with comorbidities, also tested positive for the infection. Another 40 year old woman from Loni, who was undergoing cancer treatment in Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to Meerut Medical College during the early hours on Sunday, the officials said.Hotspots and epicentresThe number of hotspots in the district has increased to 27 and includes 14 in the red zone. These areas include residential apartments or colonies, such as ATS Advantage, Niho Scottish Garden, Exotica Elegance in Indirapuram, sectors 1 and 5 in Vaishali, Hayat Nagar in Khoda, parts of Kaila Bhatta, and Islam Nagar, among others.“On Sunday evening, we came to know of two more suspected cases pertaining to a doctor couple. We have informed the district officials to verify the cases. Several cases of medical transmission now emerging. To deal with the situation, we will be issuing advisory to all our member high-rises to reveal the names of healthcare professionals, who need to be in active and passive quarantine while at work and should therefore avoid their stay at high-rises,” said Alok Kumar, founder-member of the federation of association of apartment owners.According to officials, an area is demarcated as a hotspot if a Covid-19 positive case is reported from that area. The radius of one kilometre is identified as its containment zone and a 2km outer area is defined as the buffer zone. In case, the hotspot has more than one case, then a 3km area is identified as the containment zone, while a further 2km area further falls under the buffer zone.If further cases emerge from within a 3km or 5km radius of the hotspot, then the area is defined as the epicentre and is sealed as per the norms, officials added.In order to prevent medical infection, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to form district level committees, which will include officials of the health department, along with one officer from the pollution control board.“The emphasis now is to prevent medical infection. The chief minister has directed that doctors and healthcare professionals should be provided with PPE kits and N95 masks. Further, regular sanitisation of hospitals should be taken up. Dedicated teams have been formed in every district and will be working to stop such infections. The directions have also been given for safe disposal of biomedical waste,” said Awanish Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary (home).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-hospital-transmission-a-major-concern-new-epicentres-and-hotspots-emerge/story-aGh3vFPOGQoj4ZBdeHRDjI.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Farm-to-home: The new go-to for Mumbai||After more than a decade since the state government started ushering in reforms in the agriculture marketing sector, the Covid-19 lockdown has finally made way for farm-to-home concept to take off with more and more farmer companies and groups supplying produce directly to the doorsteps of Mumbaiites. In the six years that Arjun Mohan, a farmer and founder of Yashwant Essential Farmers Group, started supplying vegetables and fruits directly from farms in Nasik to the doorsteps of Mumbaiites, his regular customer base could grow only up to 1,000 families.However, over the last month, the farmers group has been supplying produce to more than 50 housing societies across Thane, Kalyan, Powai, Vikroli and Vile Parle. They make four trips weekly to Nasik to Mumbai to supply pre-ordered vegetables directly to housing societies; they do not accept orders from less than 50 families at a time.Currently, 350 to 400 farmer companies and groups across the state have started supplying vegetables and fruits directly to housing societies and consumers in metros like Mumbai, Pune and Nasik.The lockdown has increased demand for direct supply of farm produce to consumers while selling the produce at wholesale markets has become more tedious and complicated for farmers.“The lockdown has enabled farmer companies and groups to set up and formalise supply chains, which we hope will last even after this. Maharashtra has nearly 3,000 odd farmer producer companies, and currently 350 to 400 of them are actively engaged in marketing produce directly. The supply is going largely to big cities like Mumbai, Pune but also at a local level in Nasik, Ahmednagar, Aurangabad and Nagpur,” said Sunil Pawar, managing director of Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board.He said, “Farmers have linked up with customers through online registrations and mobile apps. We have also restarted 150 weekly farmers’ markets in both Mumbai and Pune by offering them space in each ward.”Mohan and his wife Gayatri, a business graduate who left her job to implement the farm-to-home concept, have walked a long road to make their business work. They managed to start their business and run it, but their customer base has suddenly mushroomed since the lockdown.“We would supply to four to five families each in around 30+ housing societies from Badlapur to Colaba. Now, we are supplying to all the residents at more than 50 housing societies. And we do not take orders for less than 50 families. Along the way, we are also learning to be more professional; such as replacing vegetables if there are complaints, better packaging and transport etc,” said Mohan. He said their customer base increased solely through word of mouth.Greenfield Agro Services, another farm producer company set up in 2012, which sources produce from more than 1,300 farmers, also supplies pre-ordered vegetables, fruits and now even groceries from Nasik to Thane.“The lockdown has led to a collapse of APMC markets and provided a much-needed scope for farmers to sell produce directly. We are currently supplying 3 tonnes of produce daily to housing societies in Thane. However, if the authorities set up a nodal desk or depute officer to deal with our issues, there is much more potential for farmers group to reach out to urban customers,” said Amol Gorhe, the owner.The first wave of marketing reforms in the state began in 2006 when the state adopted the model APMC Act, thus paving way for farmers markets, contract farming ventures. Around 10 years after this, in 2016 the former Fadnavis government amended the act to allow sale of vegetables and fruits outside APMC markets.However, the groups are of the view that the pandemic gave the farm-to-home marketing its real break.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/farm-to-home-the-new-go-to-for-mumbai/story-sP9pXqBJ0GzKYPQiLMoj6I.html
26-04-2020||City||Pension at doorstep: Anxious of Covid infection, beneficiaries in Ludhiana turning away postmen||Despite the department of posts taking precautions while delivering pension at doorsteps, beneficiaries in the district are refusing to give their thumb impressions for biometric verification to avoid catching coronavirus infection.Postmen in different areas of the district have complained to the department that pensioners instead wish to withdraw the cash from ATMs and turn them away. Thumb impression is requisite for verifying the authenticity of a beneficiary before making the transaction through Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS). AEPS is a system developed by the National Payments Corporation of India that allows people to carry out financial transactions on a micro-ATM by furnishing their Aadhaar number and verifying it with the help of their fingerprint/iris scan. Karamjit Singh, a postman working with Focal Point branch, said, “Many pensioners have told me they will withdraw the amount from their bank ATMs. Some have already withdrawn their pensions, and since we don’t have the calibrated data, we still need to visit every house.” “We use the masks and sanitisers provided to us by the department during our field visits, but it’s the beneficiaries’ will if they want to avail of our services or not,” he said.The department had started door-to-door distribution of pension in the first week of April to avoid financial difficulties to pensioners. UNNECESSARY QUERIES BURDENING SERVERThe residents are also inquiring about their bank balance, putting extra burden on the postal department servers. There are around 2.13 lakh pension beneficiaries in the district. Last month, the department had issued helpline number 0161-2772488 for people who wish to get their money from the bank accounts at their doorsteps. The requested amount, however, cannot exceed Rs 10,000 at once.OTHER DOOR-TO-DOOR SERVICESMeanwhile, the postal department is also delivering cash, medicine parcels, registered posts and essential items to the residents. Ludhiana senior superintendent of post office Amanpreet Singh said, “While the department is dedicated to the service of the masses in these difficult times, we request people to avoid calling about their balance, since it burdens the server used across the nation,” he said. “This leads to various kinds of technical glitches, delaying transactions. We have issued similar instructions to our postmen,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pension-at-doorstep-anxious-of-covid-infection-beneficiaries-turning-away-postmen/story-nGa0pcYpFL32MOTse2B59H.html
26-04-2020||City||No food, social distancing or security: Thane resident docs||The resident doctors at the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC)-run Rajeev Gandhi Medical College (RGMC) have complained of not getting food on Sundays and public holidays, as the college canteen is closed. They also rued about the lack of security and social distancing at the premises.The college has over 109 resident doctors, who are posted in both Covid and non-Covid hospitals in the city.Dr. Atul Khadke, vice president of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors, said, “The doctors have to depend on one canteen in the premises, which is closed on Sundays. With outside eateries closed and unsafe during the lockdown, they have to suffer. Moreover, on regular days the canteen opens at 10 am, by then most doctors have left for work.”He added that the association has written to the administration to arrange food for them. They also claimed that doctors’ safety is being sidelined.A resident doctor, on the condition of anonymity, said “Some doctors in our college work at Covid, while others at non-Covid hospitals. However, both these doctors have to share the same room, thus, no social distancing or isolation norms are being followed. The administration must allot separate rooms for doctors to control the spread of the virus.”He added that quarantine norms are also not being followed. “When any resident doctor comes in contact with a patient, he will be subjected to a swab test and once the test is negative, will be asked to join work in a day or two. The 14-day quarantine norm is not followed,” he said. Rajendra Ahivar, additional municipal commissioner, TMC said the corporation will ensure that no inconvenience is faced by medical professionals.“We have provided proper Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to all doctors working in isolation wards and quarantine institutions. However, if they want us to separate the doctors working in Covid and non-Covid hospitals, that rearrangement can be done at the hostel,” he said.Ahivar added that he was informed about the food problem on Sunday morning. “I came to know that the resident doctors are facing food problem on Sundays and public holidays. I have immediately asked the dean to make an alternate arrangement. We will ensure that the canteen either remains open on Sundays or food is provided in case the canteen is closed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-food-social-distancing-or-security-thane-resident-docs/story-qm3CIYDIsHLIma5qw9nOKL.html
26-04-2020||City||Man booked in Ambala for spreading fake rumour about death of Covid-19 patient on Facebook||The Ambala police have booked a man for spreading fake rumours about the death of a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patient, through a Facebook post, on Sunday.The accused has been identified as Yashpal Khabrilal, who later deleted the post, police said. A 42-year-old man from Tharwa Majri village, who was suffering from chronic kidney disease, was referred to PGIMER, Chandigarh, on April 23 from civil hospital in Ambala Cantonment, where he tested positive.The complainant, civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep said, “The accused, who claimed to be a media person, wrote in his Facebook post that the man from Tharwa Majri village died at PGIMER during treatment. Although the patient is sick, he is still alive and dialysis has been performed.” Superintendent of police, Abhishek Jorwal said, “We have also received a video where the accused can be seen talking about the death of the patient. A case has been registered and we are investigating the matter.” Khabrilal has been booked under Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 505 (1) (b) (intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act at Ambala Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-booked-in-ambala-for-spreading-fake-rumour-about-death-of-covid-19-patient-on-facebook/story-pDavyOVP0u1sewHOJ4P4fM.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||A month without work, 27,000 poor Chandigarh families await promised ration under PM scheme||Even as lockdown enters its second month, not all poor families have received the promised food grains and pulses under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKA) in Chandigarh. UT officials said it will take another ten days for every household under the scheme to get its share of ration. As part of the ₹1.70 lakh crore relief package, the central government announced free food grains and cash to women, poor senior citizens and farmers to ease their hardships during the lockdown.Under the PMGKAY, the poor will get 5 kg wheat per head per month, and 1 kg pulses per family per month for the months of April, May and June.Till Sunday, of the approximate 64,000 families eligible for getting food grains under the scheme, Chandigarh administration has been able to deliver dry ration to around 36,600 households. About 156 families under Antyodaya (AAY) and 63,457 priority households (PHH) will be covered under the scheme and more than 2.75 lakh persons are likely to benefit therein. Under AAY, the poorest among the below poverty line (BPL) families have been selected and issued AAY ration cards. Under the PHH, really poor and vulnerable sections of society such as landless labourers, marginal farmers and wage earners of informal sections of the economy are covered. The administration identifies such families on the basis of set parameters.Curfew in the UT was imposed on March 24, while it was designated as a red zone on April 15.Most of these families are daily wage earners who have no source of income during the curfew. In the absence of government ration, these families are depending on charities for their food. Cart vendor Prem Shankar Shah of Sector 49 said, “I am a yellow ration card holder. We are six in my family. I transport goods, malba in my rehri. Since the curfew put an end to work, we are struggling to meet our daily needs of food. The longer the delay in giving us ration, the tougher it becomes to feed our children.”Even though ration was distributed in his area, Shah said he didn’t get any. “We went to the place where ration was being distributed but we didn’t get any despite requests.”Secretary of food supplies, Vinod P Kavle, said the administration shares the concern of the people in the matter. “We are expediting the process of delivery of ration to households under the scheme. Meanwhile, we are also providing cooked food and are seeking cooperation from the public in the matter.”Adding that most states are distributing ration till June, Kavle said, “We have clubbed the distribution and are distributing it all at one go.”When asked by what time the administration would complete the exercise, Kavle said, “We expect to complete distribution in another ten days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/a-month-without-work-27-000-poor-chandigarh-families-await-promised-ration-under-pm-scheme/story-tHLl37gCyQeWdHhZfIu60N.html
26-04-2020||City||Lockdown blues: Ludhiana resource teachers get innovative to engage students with special needs||With an aim to improve fine motor skills of children with special needs (CWSN), the inclusive education resource teachers (IERTs) have come up with innovative activities to engage these students during the lockdown.IERTs have made short craft videos, showing how to make key holders and tissue paper stand from waste materials and thumb painting. Not just crafts, they are also giving them tips on preparing cold sandwiches and bhangra steps. There are 5,827 children with special needs in the district. They are covered under the inclusive education for disabled programme, Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan. In 82 resource centres of the district, 35 IERTs and 47 IE volunteers help the children learn through playway methods. Rajinder Kaur, district education officer, elementary, has hailed the efforts made by the resource teachers and urged them to engage these children in more artistic ideas. IERT Ritu Attri from the district resource centre, Government Primary School, Ahata Sherganj, said, “We started online classes for 52 students at our centre 20 days ago. We engage them in creative activities. Through WhatsApp videos, I show them craft activities, such as using ice-cream sticks, paint and brush to make a tissue paper stand. These activities are a big hit among the students, who show keen interest in participating and post back images and videos of their creations.”She said they had also made a sign language video to teach hearing impaired students about vegetables.At the resource centre in Khanna, there are 257 students. Harjit Kaur, an IERT at Khanna block 2, said, “I have made videos to help the kids improve their eye contact and motor skills. Besides handwriting tips, I also teach them thumb painting. We have urged the parents to help the children pick up these techniques.”Kamaljit Kaur from the Jagraon resource centre, said, “Many students have shown interest in learning bhangra steps. I have advised parents to ask students to take frequent breaks so they do not feel burdened.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-blues-ludhiana-resource-teachers-get-innovative-to-engage-students-with-special-needs/story-LOpO3nJPi7qAvA0yItUndM.html
26-04-2020||City||Navi Mumbai sees 23 cases in a day; 9 of a family test positive||A total of 23 Covid positive cases were reported in Navi Mumbai on Sunday – the highest single-day increase in the city.The total number of Covid positive cases in Navi Mumbai is 131.Nine cases were reported from Seawoods alone. They are the family members of a Covid positive doctor working at Prince Ali Khan hospital in Byculla.A 28-year-old nurse of Shatabdi hospital in Mumbai, living in Kopar Khairane has tested positive.A 55-year-old police constable from Shiravane has tested positive. He was posted at Bainganwadi police station in Mumbai till April 23.A 35-year-old journalist and his 30-year-old pregnant wife from Sanpada have tested positive.A 25-year-old waiter from Turbhe has tested positive. A 30-year-old ward boy of Terna hospital and a 31-year-old employee of a pharmaceutical company in Turbhe have rested positive. A 33-year-old delivery boy of an e-retailer living in Juhugaon has tested positive. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation is tracking those to whom he delivered goods in the past 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-sees-23-cases-in-a-day-9-of-a-family-test-positive/story-IvkDH8N6aWvYuf0POcfdWL.html
26-04-2020||City||72 combine operators return from MP illegally, truck intercepted in Bathinda||As a group of 72 combine operators, who were ferried in a truck illegally from Madhya Pradesh (MP) to Punjab, was intercepted here on Sunday, it brought forth the plight of hundreds of such operators stranded in other states where they had gone for wheat harvesting.The local residents spotted the truck carrying these combine operators on the Bathinda-Amritsar national highway. The operators, who belong to different districts of Punjab, had come back from Gwalior where they had gone for wheat harvesting. They reportedly paid Rs 2,500 per head to the owner of truck who ferried them illegally.Police have arrested the driver of truck, identified as Jagdish Singh, and booked truck owner Jaimal Singh under Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to orders duly promulgated by a public servant) of IPC and under the Disaster Management Act. Bathinda senior superintendent of police Nanak Singh said that after a medical check-up, these operators were sent to their respective districts in vehicles arranged by the Bathinda administration and they will have to be put under quarantine.Majority of harvester owners of Punjab and their workforce has come back to the state as the Centre had allowed the movement of farm machinery despite the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 outbreak. However, many of those who had gone to work on machines owned by residents of other states are still stranded as they don’t have any transportation facility to come back. Jagtar Singh, an operator from Dhipali village in Bathinda is stranded in a village in Satara district in Maharshtra, while Harpreet Singh from Duggan village in Sangrur district is stranded in another village in same district. Talking to HT over phone, Harpreet said, “It’s good that the Punjab government arranged buses to bring back pilgrims stranded at Hazur Sahib, but they should also carry us back. We can come to Nanded from where they can pick us,” he said. Jagtar Singh said that several operators are stranded in Maharashtra alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/72-combine-operators-return-from-mp-illegally-truck-intercepted-in-bathinda/story-6OdLpFpFGb08ET2t2piFrK.html
26-04-2020||City||Cop injured during shootout in Panchkula, four gangsters held||Punjab Police on Sunday arrested four gangsters, who were wanted in an attempt-to-murder case in Mohali, after an exchange of fire, in which a head constable was injured, in Haryana’s Panchkula district.A team of the Mohali police had received a tip-off that the four gangsters, including the prime accused, were hiding in Billa village in Chandimandir. They were wanted for the attempted murder of a 22-year-old milkman, Kamalpreet Singh of Chachumajra village in Kharar, who was shot by three motorcycle-borne men at Mohali’s Phase 9 on March 11, in what was reported to be the fallout of a college rivalry.The police team headed by inspector Rajnish Choudhary , station house officer (SHO) of Mohali’s Phase 8 station, raided the hideout at 5.30am.The team surrounded the place where the prime accused, Harsimran, alias Simu, of Naraingarh in Ambala, besides the other three — Dhruv Mohan Garg of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, Gurcharan Singh, alias Gunna, of Parwala village in Raipur Rani, and Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, of Dera Bassi — had been putting up for the last one month, said police.As the team broke the main door of the house, Simu opened fire, but the team managed to nab two of the accused, police said.The others ran upstairs and Dhruv shot at head constable Raspreet Singh, however, police nabbed them. Raspreet was rushed to the Panchkula civil hospital, but later was referred to GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh. The accused were handed over to the Panchkula police. Chandimandir SHO inspector Deepak Kumar said two country-made pistols with magazines, six live cartridges and two bullet shells were recovered from the accused.They were then handed over to the Sector 26 crime branch of Panchkula Police. They will be produced in a local court on Monday.A case was registered at Chandimandir police station under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 307 (attempt to murder), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Arms Act .Sources said two men from Kot Billa village in Chandimandir had got them the house on rent. Police said they will initiate action against the duo as well for harbouring the gangsters.Meanwhile, Panchkula Police officials said as per initial investigation, Simu and Gunna, were involved in the Mohali case along with an aide. “Both of them knew each other as they have been booked in an attempt-to-murder case in Naraingarh last year. Both are associated with Bhupi Rana gang and were involved in a brawl that took place in the Ambala central jail between the former gang members and Lawrence Bishnoi group last year,” said an official, privy to the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cop-injured-during-shootout-in-panchkula-four-gangsters-held/story-7cSfOKqZRRQw4pwrnraruJ.html
26-04-2020||City||First batch of 277 Sikh pilgrims stuck in Nanded returns||The first batch of 219 Sikh pilgrims, who were stranded at Takht Hazur Sahib Sachkhand in Nanded, Maharashtra, arrived in Punjab on Sunday.The devotees were aboard eight buses that started arriving since midnight.A team led by Bathinda administration officials supervised the medical screening of the pilgrims near Domwali village bordering Haryana’s Dabwali town in Sirsa district.Chief minister Amarinder Singh tweeted, “219 pilgrims have already reached their homes & another 643 will reach starting tonight. Besides, 80 buses of Punjab Government will reach Nanded tomorrow morning & start back with the remaining pilgrims immediately thereafter (sic).”On their arrival to Punjab, the pilgrims thanked the state government and various political and religious organisations for arranging for their safe return.Scores of Sikhs were stranded at the Nanded shrine, one of the five temporal seats of Sikhism, since the countrywide lockdown was enforced to combat the coronavirus outbreak.Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the pilgrims were from 13 districts of Punjab and one from Chandigarh.Of them 56 were from Amritsar, 32 from Jalandhar, 21 from Bathinda, 22 from Moga, 16 from Sangrur, 11 from Batala, while nine belonged to Fazilka district, an official said.“After medical screening, the pilgrims were allowed to move further to their places in the designated buses. All pilgrims were found asymptomatic for Covid-19. The Bathinda residents have been directed to strictly follow home quarantine protocol,” the DC said.Officials said another batch of pilgrims is expected to reach Bathinda on Monday afternoon.“Arrangements have been for screening and providing medical aid to the pilgrims arriving here in the next few days,” tehsildar Sukhbir Brar said.Back home, devotees hail state govt’s effortsHardeep Singh of Ghulal village in Ludhiana district’s Samrala thanked the state government and the gurdwara committee for ensuring all necessary arrangements for the pilgrims.“The government doctors in Maharashtra were carrying out screening of all the pilgrims once a day. Besides, the administration and the gurdwara committee provided langar to all,” he said.Amarjit Singh, a pilgrim from Gate Hakima locality in Amritsar, said, “We were forced to stay at Nanded for 40 days due to the lockdown and it was really tough for us even as we face no problem there in terms of accommodation and food.”“When we came to know about the efforts being made by the state government and religious bodies, and got phone calls from Punjab, our morale got high,” Kulwant Singh of Ramdas village of the district who will reach by midnight in the second batch of pilgrims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/first-batch-of-277-sikh-pilgrims-stuck-in-nanded-returns/story-c5SAOYEEBaBTe3ctWZKRtI.html
26-04-2020||City||Amritsar excluded from Rs 60,000-crore Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway project||In a major setback for the holy city, which is a hub of religious tourism in northern India, the entire Amritsar district has been excluded from the much-hyped Rs 60,000-crore Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway project, as per the official website of Union ministry of environment, forest and climate changeThough Amritsar has been excluded from the project, its name is still part of the project that is aimed at promoting tourism by linking two major religious shrines -- Golden Temple in Amritsar and Mata Vaishno Devi in Katra of Jammu and Kashmir, apart from opening the golden gate for boosting economy of northern region.The Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway is an under-construction 575-km controlled-access passage, which will connect Delhi with Amritsar in Punjab and Katra in Jammu and Kashmir. It will be constructed as part of the Bharatmala project.As per the website http://environmentclearance.nic.in of the Union ministry, Amritsar district is not part of execution of the project, which means the expressway bypasses the district in the alignment proposed for it.Taking serious note of this development, Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla on Sunday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, raising concern of the drastic change in the mega project.Observing that the entire Amritsar district is missing from the alignment of the expressway, he said, “I request you on behalf of all the residents, business owners, pilgrims and transporters connected with Amritsar to reconsider this project and make necessary amendments to reconnect Amritsar with the said highway”.Former BJP state president and Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik said, “I have also written to Union road and transport minister Nitin Gadkari to include Amritsar again in the project”.However, he blamed the Capt Amarinder Singh government in Punjab for exclusion of Amritsar. “I am sure the conspiracies of the Congress government led to the exclusion of Amritsar from the project”.Kulwant Singh Ankhi, patron of Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM), a local NGO, said, “Along with Amritsar, residents of Tarn Taran district are also pained as they feel cheated at the hands of higher authorities of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amritsar-excluded-from-rs-60-000-crore-delhi-amritsar-katra-expressway-project/story-UhoXln2PvVH4Yk91vpcbmN.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gets Rs 13 crore from Centre for mid-day meal||The Centre has released Rs 13.09 crore to the Punjab government for 13 lakh students of government schools across the state under the centrally-sponsored mid-day meal scheme.Of this amount, Rs 8.90 crore have been released by the Union ministry of human resource development as the Centre’s share of the cooking cost and Rs 2.47 crore for payment of honorarium to cooks-cum-helpers engaged in government schools. These funds are in addition to the state’s share of Rs 7.61 crore under the programme funded jointly by the Centre and the state government on 60:40 sharing basis.“Pending receipt of unspent balance as on April 1, it has been decided to release Rs 13.09 crore as first tranche of ad-hoc recurring assistance...the education department must release the Central assistance as well the state government’s matching contribution to the schools/implementing agencies within a week,” the Union ministry wrote in the release order.These funds are in addition to foodgrains released to the state for distribution of dry ration to 13 lakh children of primary and upper primary classes since all schools are closed due to curfew imposed in the state to check the spread of coronavirus. Cooking cost of mid-day meal will be transferred to the bank accounts of these children at the revised rate of Rs 4.97 per day for children of primary classes and Rs 7.45 per day for upper primary classes, which is an increase of 11% over the previous year.The Centre had on March 20 asked the states and union territories to provide hot cooked mid-day meal or food security allowance consisting quantity of foodgrains as per entitlement and cooking cost to all eligible children till their schools remain closed due to the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-gets-rs-13-crore-from-centre-for-mid-day-meal/story-ao4uFVu0PgWARrp9iK0gdL.html
26-04-2020||City||9 new cases in Jalandhar take Punjab tally to 322||Nine fresh cases of the coronavirus were reported in Jalandhar on Sunday, taking Punjab’s tally of those infected by the disease to 322. The officials said the patients tested positive on Sunday were close contacts of those found infected earlier. Among the new patients are a 55-year-old man and a 11-year-old boy of Raja Garden, three women aged 65, 20 and 9, residents of Basti Bawa Khel, and a 78-year-old man, all contacts of a Raja Garden resident found positive earlier. Others are a 54-year-old male resident of Karol Bagh, a 22-year-old girl from Basti Sheikh and a 67-year-old man from Sant Nagar locality. Of the 108 cases of Covid-19, including three deaths, in the Doaba region so far, Jalandhar has reported 78, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar 20, Hoshiarpur seven and Kapurthala three. Jalandhar has the highest number of positive patients among all Punjab districts with three deaths.The health department officials said of the 2,300 samples collected in the district, 1,575 tested negative while results of 653 were awaited. The district has reported 66 cases since April 10.Entry from other dists, states banned to SBS NagarThe SBS Nagar administration on Sunday ordered ban on the entrance of all outsiders to the district, except government employees, cases of medical emergencies and government-approved activities. District magistrate Vinay Bublani directed strict compliance of quarantine of outsiders. He said though the district has already ordered the outsiders to reveal their whereabouts at entry points and nearby police stations besides reporting to the officials concerned of their area to get into 14-day home quarantine even if they have no symptoms of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/9-new-cases-in-jalandhar-take-punjab-tally-to-322/story-26c8UEuEVpoWHpT07LNKZP.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 6 fresh cases in biggest single-day spike||Thirty-nine days after reporting its first Covid-19 case, Chandigarh on Sunday witnessed the biggest single-day spike with six people testing positive for the viral disease and taking the city’s total count to 36.Two of these infected people are health workers while the remaining four are contacts of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, employee who had tested positive on Friday. The number of active cases in Chandigarh stands at 19 while reports of 42 suspected cases are awaited. Earlier, with five fresh cases, the biggest spike was seen on March 30.A 25-year-old man who resides in Sector 32 and works as a staff nurse in the emergency ward of GMCH is among the new cases. According to officials, he is not a direct contact of the previous GMCH employee.Similarly, a 26-year-old female nursing officer who was posted in the emergency outpatient department of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has tested positive. She belongs to Haryana and was staying at Nivedita Hostel on the PGIMER campus in Sector 12.The other four are the mother, two sisters and a child related to the previous GMCH employee, who is a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26. His father and a colleague had also tested positive on Saturday.Meanwhile, 11 people living in separate households of the same building have been sampled in Bapu Dham Colony besides one living in Sector 52, who too was a contact of the GMCH employee. His two more relatives from Mauli Jagran are being sampled at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Their reports besides those of eight other relatives are awaited.Among his 20 workplace contacts, only one tested positive. Out of 124 community contacts, two have been sampled and their results are pending.Meanwhile, of three suspected patients who died at the PGIMER on Sunday, two have tested negative, while the report of one is awaited, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-6-fresh-cases-in-biggest-single-day-spike/story-WK8rjvS5A7j5aTUV7VtCEN.html
26-04-2020||City||Mohali police book Chandigarh woman constable after video of her arguing with cops goes viral||Mohali police have booked a woman constable after a video of her arguing with the police at naka in Nayagaon went viral.The accused has been identified as Usha Yadav, who is posted with traffic police in Chandigarh. The incident took place on April 21, when Yadav, who was riding an Activa scooter, started arguing with policemen when she was not allowed to take a road which had been sealed. The video of the incident went viral, following which action was initiated against her.Station house office of Nayagaon police station, Ashok Kumar, said a case has been registered against Yadav under Sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. Kumar said the sections are non-bailable and she will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-police-book-chandigarh-woman-constable-after-video-of-her-arguing-with-cops-goes-viral/story-TCf1Zy37dTP9kBpyJBWeCN.html
26-04-2020||City||PSPCL battles 40% dip in demand, 54% fall in revenue||Patiala Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is facing a double whammy with demand dipping 40% over the lockdown/curfew period from March 22 to April 22 and revenue collection at only 46%, compared to the corresponding period last year. Data with the Northern grid shows that the daily average power consumption of the state was 730 lakh units, against the consumption of 1,210 lakh units last year.“Due to lockdown and curfew, demand has nosedived in the entire country and PSPCL is also suffering. We have sold only 60% of what we sold during this period last year. Usually every year, there is a load increase of 10% every month after February. It hasn’t happened this year,” said a PSPCL official.He added that during discussion with industry, it was almost a given that it cannot run to full capacity in the near-term, as labour and raw material supply chain was missing.“Not only industry, even domestic demand has dipped as consumers are not using air conditioners yet, due to the covid-19 pandemic. We also anticipate 20% lower demand from cinema halls, malls, big hotels, restaurants and commercial joints, as these will not operate to their capacity.”The collection figure during the lockdown till April 22 shows that PSPCL got Rs 650 crore in its kitty, a fall of 54% over last year’s Rs 1,407 crore. Of the Rs 650 crore, Rs 60 crore is advance payment from industrialists upon which the PSPCL is to pay 12% interest. Due to the curfew, just few consumers have paid up and that too only online. PSPCL chief managing director Baldev Singh Sran said, “The government has been apprised of the financial condition of the PSPCL. The CM has also written to the Centre, asking for a package to help power corporations. Things will improve once the lockdown ends.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pspcl-battles-40-dip-in-demand-54-fall-in-revenue/story-eK6XPAHOiTeJ1r6gKYMlPL.html
26-04-2020||City||Nurse among 17 new Covid cases in Thane||Seventeen people, including a 43-year-old nurse from civic-run Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa, tested positive for Covid-19 in Thane on Sunday. The number of positive cases in the city is 226.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “The 43-year-old nurse, a resident of Lokmanya Nagar, had come in contact with another nurse of Kalwa hospital who tested positive two days ago. Both the nurses had come in contact with the 44-year-old man from Lokmanya Nagar who tested positive after his death.”Three more people from Lokmanya Nagar and four from CP Talao in Wagale Estate tested positive. They had attended the 44-year-old man’s funeral.Malvi added, “Among the others who tested positive include the 75-year-old wife and 24-year-old son of the 80-year-old doctor, who died on Friday. Three residents of Vartak Nagar also tested positive. No death was reported on Sunday and four people were discharged from hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nurse-among-17-new-covid-cases-in-thane/story-YpDoUQuxiOHakboeyAu9XP.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus lockdown: Panjab University to handover two hostels to Chandigarh administration by Tuesday||Panjab University has decided to handover two hostels to be used as isolation facilities for Covid-19 patients to the UT administration, by Tuesday.The decision comes a day after UT adviser Manoj Parida said only PU’s international students’ hostel will be used for the time being. “We have decided to handover the international students’ hostel and girls’ hostel number 10 to the Chandigarh administration by Tuesday,” PU registrar Karamjeet Singh said.Earlier, the Chandigarh administration had directed PU to handover four hostels to be used as isolation facilities and health care centres for Covid-19 patients. The move was widely criticised by students of the varsity. The university said hostel wardens will take care of keeping the belongings of students safe. “Once the two hostels are handed over to UT administration, no student will be allowed to enter,” an official spokesperson of PU said. A day after Parida’s tweet, the number of students visiting hostels to collect their belongings saw a steep decline. After 350 students visited the varsity on Saturday, only 45 turned up on Sunday, officials said.National Students Union of India’s PU president Nikhil Narmeta said, “We are not opposing the move, but it should have been done more systematically. Many students wanted to come and take their belongings, but they did not get passes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/coronavirus-lockdown-panjab-university-to-handover-two-hostels-to-chandigarh-administration-by-tuesday/story-T04ZdZoBgRRYOBLAdellVO.html
26-04-2020||City||Rain, shortage of gunny bags worry farmers||Even as 30.4mm of rain added to their woes on Sunday, farmers in Patiala claim that commission agents were telling them that there was shortage of gunny bags and labour. A farmer Harmel Singh of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ugrahan said, “Even as the turn of our curfew pass comes, we have to wait due to this.”So far, the district has procured 4.6 lakh tonne of crop, of which 1.78 lakh has been lifted. An agent at the Nabha grain market Nitish Goyal claimed, “Officials tell us that gunny bags are in short supply and play favourites.” “There is no shortage of sacks, but distribution has been rationalised as per passes. There is shortage of labour, so the lifting is slow,” said Patiala district food and civil supplies controller (DFSC) Harsharanjit Singh In Bathinda district, rain and hailstorm were witnessed in many villages in Rampura Phul on Sunday, adding to the woes of farmers who are engaged in harvesting of wheat. BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) leader Baljit Singh Poohla said the rain and hailstorm will damage the wheat crop which is yet to be harvested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rain-shortage-of-gunny-bags-worry-farmers/story-oRhImI4PcLRUgiKcs2Z19H.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s testing capacity to be raised to 3,800 a day: Soni||Punjab medical education and research minister OP Soni said on Sunday that the government would increase the daily number of covid-19 tests in the state from 1,050 to 3,800. He added that Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) at Amritsar and Patiala would soon be equipped to conduct 1,400 tests a day, with 1,000 samples a day to be tested at Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot. Now, the two GMCs are equipped to test 400 tests a day each with BFUHS testing 250. The minister added that currently the state had 5,346 extraction (manual) and 29,461 RT-PCR test kits available with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-s-testing-capacity-to-be-raised-to-3-800-a-day-soni/story-Cwk1wLRiXSpmFhZ60ZFiDN.html
26-04-2020||City||Guest Column: Reflections of a Covid-19 survivor||As someone who has suffered from and survived Covid-19 and after reading up extensively on it, I think there is no need to panic. Consider these thoughts of a layman, who is not a doctor, scientist, economist or an expert in financial matters.This disease is not the monster it’s made out to be and is a lot like any other virus, but only with a very aggressive spreading rate (highly contagious); and in some cases, the potentially deadly Covid pneumonia.Everyone will get this disease. It normally will not kill if you are proactive when you feel unwell by starting to monitor the symptoms, keep a check on some health parameters and take timely treatment. The two most important checks to be done are for fever and oxygenation (oxygen saturation in the lungs) using a thermometer and pulse oximeter. Both give immediate readouts. Fever means you are fighting some infection in your body and fall in oxygen saturation percentage indicates there is infection in the lungs preventing them from functioning normally. Oxygen saturation of a normal person is between 94% and 100% (smokers, people with asthma or damaged lungs or any other ailment are likely to have a lower oxygen saturation level).NEGLECT COULD KILLThe killer (or the ‘silent killer’) in this disease is Covid pneumonia, which is different from regular pneumonia with chest discomfort and breathing problems.Covid pneumonia starts silently and the person feels no chest/respiratory discomfort, pain or shortness of breath. There are absolutely no signs or sensation of breathing problems, but it can initially cause a form of oxygen deprivation – a ‘silent hypoxia,’ which is hard to detect.Respiratory discomfort is felt when the oxygen levels become alarmingly low and moderate to severe pneumonia sets in (50% oxygen saturation). This is a critical condition and develops into ‘acute hypoxia,’ for which the person has to be put on a respirator/ventilator. At this stage, chances of respiratory failure and multiple organ failure are high due to lack of oxygen causing death. This Covid pneumonia takes about two weeks to develop and reach a dangerous stage. Initial start might be slow, but later progression into acute hypoxia stage is fast.Only about 35% of the people who get Covid-19 get the Covid pneumonia, of which about 25% cases, like I have, recover as the pneumonia is detected at an early stage. About 8% to 10% go on to the ventilator of which about 3% die.WHAT TO EXPECTSPREAD: Covid-19 is very aggressive and spreads quickly. Everyone’s likely to get it unless we get a vaccine (which is not going to happen soon, the earliest being a year). Lockdown, isolation, personal protective equipment (PPE) and other preventive measures are only going to buy time for our countries/states to be better prepared to fight the pandemic and to some extent reduce stress on our hospitals and medical care systems.SYMPTOMS: From none to varied, with cough, cold, headache, bodyache, shortness of breath, fatigue, fever, loss of appetite, loss of taste and smell, diarrhoea, stiffness or stretched feeling around your chest and back. Some don’t feel unwell at all (and develop antibodies). Duration varies too with one feeling feverish for half a day and recovering and another for three to four days and yet another for two to five weeks. Some, unfortunately, do not survive.TESTING: The most common swab test is useless for the following reasons:1) It’s not in real time and you get the results after three to four days, which could mean the difference between life and death if silent hypoxia or Covid pneumonia has set in2) Results are 70% accurate.3) Acute shortage of test kits.4) Lack of information on testing centres, both in India and abroad for people who suspect they have got Covid.5) Testing expensive for the poor.I feel using a thermometer and pulse oximeter could be a better indicator as both give immediate readouts. A CT Scan or an X-Ray of the chest will further determine infection in the lungs or Covid pneumonia.TREATMENT: Viral infections have no treatment, only therapy (therapeutic treatment). Paracetamol is administered for fever and aches, antibiotics for any infection (pneumonia) and any other medication which would help, that the doctor advises. In my case I was given hydrochloroquine whereas a friend of mine being treated in The Hague was given codeine, an opiate used to treat pain, coughing, and diarrhoea.Being healthy and having good immunity is important to fight the disease. Older people and others with medical ailments have to be more careful. To win you need to detect Covid pneumonia and nip it in the bud quickly.Educating the public about the disease is vital. They have to be made to understand the disease and its novel characteristics which differ from other viral infections. Everyone should know that sooner or later they will get it. They have to be told not to take it casually but know that it will normally not kill if they monitor the symptoms, keep a check on health parameters and take timely treatment.I recommend that people also buy a pulse oximeter and log in readings taken twice a day in a spreadsheet to detect any drop in their oxygen saturation levels.The government should also set up small camps, booths in as many localities as possible for these checks and send suspected cases for treatment.A lockdown is only good for buying time.....so once the government has control over the situation, it should be lifted and business should be allowed to run as usual to prevent an economic crisis.(The writer is an actor and a captain in the merchant navy. Views expressed are personal. Any recommendations made in this article should be first checked with a doctor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/guest-column-reflections-of-a-covid-19-survivor/story-QnMvfGWpOUXOKzDOw8O9vN.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh school demands fee by April end; education dept seeks explanation||Ignoring directives of the education department, Moti Ram Arya School in Sector 27, Chandigarh, on Friday has asked parents of class 11 students to deposit school fees by end of April. Parents received an email from the school authorities on April 24, saying: “The provisional admission schedule to class 11 has been initiated. Parents who are willing to admit their ward in class 11 (non-medical stream) are requested to pay ₹18,140 by April 29, 2020, in the school account.”The email also says that online classes for class 11 will begin on April 30, 2020.The school is charging ₹7,695 as quarterly fees and ₹6,445 as annual charges. Additionally, admission charges of ₹3,500 were also levied on parents apart from ₹500 as refundable security. The school has fixed the total amount of fee for admission to class 11 at ₹18,140. The email also said that parents who cannot deposit the whole amount, could pay a minimum ₹11,695 at the moment, while “the rest should be deposited in the first week of June.” The email, however, stands in contradiction to the education department’s instructions to schools wherein it had directed them to defer payment of tuition fee for 2020-21 session because of the lockdown in Chandigarh. The department had said final dates for payment of fee would be announced once the lockdown is over, and parents would be given a month’s time for payment. The school principal Seema Biji said, “This circular was only for those parents who were enquiring about provisional admission to class 11, as we were also going to start online classes for them.” She also said that students of other classes “have not been asked to pay fees till further orders from the department.” Director of school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar told Hindustan Times that after seeking comments from the school about their move, it will be issued a show cause notice. Also, schools have been asked to submit their balance sheets for scrutiny before April 30 to the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-school-demands-fee-by-april-end-education-dept-seeks-explanation/story-17nxWMAl9vEGk3ZSzcwk6L.html
26-04-2020||Pune||Five deaths, 72 fresh cases reported in Pune on Sunday; city death toll now stands at 72||The city reported five deaths and 72 fresh cases of Covid-19 positive patients on Sunday. The death toll now stands at 72 in Pune city, while the final count of progressive cases stood at 1,139 on Sunday. Out of the five deaths, three were reported from Sassoon hospital. The three include, a 66-year-old male from Hadapsar who was admitted to the hospital on April 24 and died on Saturday night. He had type 1 respiratory failure with hypertension. The second death was of a 65-year-old male from Patil Estate, Shivajinagar, who was admitted to the hospital on April 20 and was declared dead on Sunday at 12:40pm. The cause of death is type- I respiratory failure with bilateral pneumonia with multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS), myocarditis and acute kidney injury (AKI) and the patient was Covid-19 positive.The third death was of a 40-year-old male residing at Kondhwa who was symptomatic since April 18 and was admitted to Sassoon on April 22. He was declared dead on Sunday at 3.40pm. The cause of death is stated to be respiratory failure with bilateral pneumonia with acute kidney injury, myocarditis, acute respiratory failure with hypertension along with him being Covid-19 positive.The other two deaths were reported from Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital. The first was a 77-year-old male from Ganesh peth who was declared dead on Saturday late night and apart from being a Covid-19 positive patient, the cause of death was stated as acute infective exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with multiple organ dysfunction syndrome with hypertension. The second death was of a 51-year-old male from Ganeshnagar in Yerawada, who died on April 24, but the swab reports had been received on Saturday late night confirming that he was Covid-19 positive. There are currently 44 critical patients in the city out of the 1,139 progressive positives. Six patients were also discharged after completing the incubation period of 14 days and testing negative for two consecutive tests within a 24-hour gap. Till date, 165 patients have been discharged after being declared as completely cured of Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/five-deaths-72-fresh-cases-reported-in-pune-on-sunday-city-death-toll-now-stands-at-72/story-aGv9rUSqczJ7A85wDETj1H.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGIMER docs monitor Covid-19 patients remotely through system built in-house||Doctors at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research Chandigarh (PGIMER) have started using a system built in-house to remotely monitor their Covid-19 patients.The system collects data from multiple devices – mainly vital sign monitors – the patient is hooked up to. The information can be checked from remote locations through mobile phones or computers and doctors alerted in case of a problem.Monitoring oxygen saturation levels of Covid-19 is vital because the disease affects the lungs, says Dr GD Puri, dean (academics) and head of the anaesthesia department. In case oxygen levels drop below dangerous levels doctors will be alerted at once through any of their devices. Real time values of heart rate, blood pressure and temperature of the patient being monitored are also transmitted to remote devices.Currently patients admitted at the intensive care unit of PGIMER are being monitored by senior doctors from remote locations, either in office or at home and even during the administrative meetings. “With this system we guide the team of resident doctors, nurses and technicians who constantly monitor the patients in the units. A record of patient history is also maintained,” Dr Puri adds.The idea is to create different levels of controls using technology. “We can even monitor the patients using CCTVs. However, we do not beam it directly to our mobile phones due to privacy concerns, so we have created a base in the Covid-19 Centre for all-round monitoring.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pgimer-docs-monitor-covid-19-patients-remotely-through-system-built-in-house/story-NXPb7ILf7Lj8gfaSgcp6UN.html
26-04-2020||City||Coronavirus lockdown: Drones to sanitise congested areas in Punjab||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu launched a sanitisation drive via drones from Jagatpura village in Mohali, on Sunday. Sidhu said the drive will be carried out all over the state soon. After Jagatpura, Green Enclave in Badmajra, Jujhar Nagar and Balongi were sanitised. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan was present during the drive. Sidhu said once material is loaded on the drone, it has a capacity of 10 litres and can fly at a height of 15 metres. He added that it can cover a diameter of 20 feet at a time and disinfect six acre in 10 minutes.The minister said the state government is making every effort to combat coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and drones can play an important part in the process. He added that sanitisation of densely populated and congested areas, especially slums, is the top priority of the government. Sidhu said sanitisation through drones would serve the twin purpose of keeping Covid-19 at bay, while also preventing dengue. Sanitisation through drones is already being carried out in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Chandigarh and Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh). Sidhu assured that Punjab is fighting the virus effectively, but, we can’t let our guard and must fight till we win the war against the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/coronavirus-lockdown-drones-to-sanitise-congested-areas-in-punjab/story-oFlRsm8Y1A2vXj3s69nZkJ.html
26-04-2020||City||Mohali fights back: Active Covid-19 cases drop to 39 in three days as 8 more patients discharged||Once considered a hotspot for the novel coronavirus, the district of Mohali is fighting back to regain lost ground. From 46 active cases of Covid-19 till April 23, the number has now gone down to 39 on Sunday.Eight persons including an 18-month-old boy, all from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi—a containment zone—were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur on Sunday, after they tested negative, twice. The patients will, however, not be sent home immediately and will instead be quarantined for 14 days as a precautionary measure at a centre in Sector 70 here.This development takes the number of recoveries in the district to 22.Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “We laud the entire health department for this achievement. The extensive contact tracing and sampling process are bringing in results with each passing day.”In the last one week, only one positive case was reported in the district; an employee of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, who resides in Nayagaon, Mohali.Of the 38 positive cases from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, 13 have already been discharged after recovery.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said no fresh case has been reported in the last three days. “We have begun the process of discharging patients from today and in a week’s time, another 10 patients will be discharged from Gian Sagar hospital in Banur. If their two consecutive samples return negative, we will discharge them. The good sign is all the patients are responding well to the treatment.”As of now, a total of 1,240 samples have been taken. Of these, 1,096 have been found negative while the number of positive cases is 63. As of today, the quarantine period of 2,343 people is over while 486 are still undergoing it, the doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-fights-back-active-covid-19-cases-drop-to-39-in-three-days-as-8-more-patients-discharged/story-Y7eQBS5m4aMy7HArH960jL.html
26-04-2020||City||Thane traffic cops collect ₹34L fines||The Thane traffic department has collected ₹33.82 lakh in fines after taking action against 5,000 vehicles during lockdown. “We took action against vehicles plying on the road without any reason and imposed a fine ranging between ₹200 and ₹500 against them. We collected ₹33.82 lakh in fines till Saturday,” said an officer from Thane traffic department. A total of 5,412 vehicles were seized, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-traffic-cops-collect-34l-fines/story-gvMduyQWqgEkQDofFkVF2H.html
26-04-2020||City||4 health workers, 2 cops among 12 new cases in Kalyan-Dombivli||Twelve new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Kalyan-Dombivli on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 129. So far, 45 patients have been discharged after treatment, said the KDMC health department.Among the new cases, four are health workers working in Mumbai, one mediaperson and two policemen who work in Mumbai.Kalyan (East) has recorded 27 cases, Kalyan (West) 15 cases, Dombivli (East) 47 cases, Dombivli (West) 32 cases and four cases from Manda-Titwala and four cases in Mohane.“Counter delivery is completely banned in Kalyan and Dombivli and our team is checking on those violating the order,” said Vivek Pansare, deputy commissioner of police, Kalyan. Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) sealed a medical-cum-general store on Gupte Road in Dombivli (West) on Sunday after the civic body found that the shopkeeper was operating from behind the shop.The rise in Covid-19 cases in Kalyan and Dombivli has led to strict action on shops operating in the city by the civic body and Kalyan police.The civic body has declared a complete ban on counter delivery this week. However, shops are still open for counter delivery.“We had sealed a medical store, which also sells other items. The shop was sealed last week for violations but the shopkeeper was found selling from behind the shop. We have sealed the shop completely,” said a KDMC official.A total of six shops in Dombivli (West) have been sealed for violating lockdown.The civic body has initiated action vendors selling vegetables and fruits on the road. While handcarts are allowed to sell, but they have to keep moving to ensure there is no crowding.The civic body has directed all shops to home deliver only. The shops can remain open between 5am to 2pm but no delivery at the shop will be permitted.The Kalyan police team is also visiting several places to check if shops are delivering at the counter. Some shops at Masoba Maidan area in Kalyan (West) were forcefully shut after they were found open and people crowding the shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/4-health-workers-2-cops-among-12-new-cases-in-kalyan-dombivli/story-KOT7DQ616L5mv5tVtDRoxJ.html
26-04-2020||City||Doc, who maintained social distancing, receives a warm welcome||A 33-year-old doctor from Kalyan, who maintained physical distancing from his wife and four-year-old son for almost a month and sanitised all the areas he had touched in his residential building as he was treating patients, was welcomed with claps and flowers as he returned after being cured of the disease. The doctor, who works in a private hospital in Dombivli, had tested positive on April 15 and was subsequently admitted at the Neon Covid Hospital set up by the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC). He had also sent his wife and son to Tata Amantra Housing, a quarantine centre. Both his wife and son returned home on April 18 after testing negative.Since April 1, the doctor had been taking extra care and measures to avoid infecting others in case he contracted the virus while treating patients. He used to sanitise all the places he visited including lift. When he would return home, he would not even ring the doorbell to maintain safety and then isolate himself in his room and practise complete physical distancing from his family.“When I returned from work, my wife would follow me to my room and apply sanitiser on the floor. I made sure that my child and wife do not get infected,” he said.“It was a task to maintain distance from my child. He doesn’t understand all this, but my wife helped me a lot. Similarly the entire building, where I live, observed a complete lockdown with not a single person coming in or going out. My neighbours were very co-operative,” he said adding that he will maintain physical distancing for another 14 days for safety measures.As due to the measures taken by him, not a single member from his building was exposed to the infection, residents as well as civic staff from nearby building went to the streets, while maintaining social distancing, to welcome him back upon his discharge from the hospital and showered flowers on him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/doc-who-maintained-social-distancing-receives-a-warm-welcome/story-m4FIo9GbmsJnR3r00pkvgP.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Fear of more rain gets farmers jittery amid delayed wheat procurement in Chandigarh||Over a week after procurement of wheat was begun at the New Grain Market in Sector 39, farmers are complaining that labour trouble along with other issues posed by the epidemic is affecting procurement at the mandi this year.As per mandi officials, close to 10,000 tonne wheat had been procured by the end of April, while this year, only 4,750 tonne wheat has been procured. Surjit Singh from Mohali district said many farmers have been affected as procurement was delayed this year. He said, “There were heavier rains this April as compared to previous years and due to delays in procuring it, some of our crop was damaged. No labour was available for harvesting so the process took place at a slow pace.”Jagdeep Singh from Mohali district said due to curfew restrictions they could not get adequate number of trucks in the city to transport their wheat. “We can take only a limited amount of wheat to the mandi at one go, which puts the rest of our stock at risk. The Zirakpur and Kurali mandis are too far so I have to come to Sector 39 mandi to sell my grain,” he said.Speaking about this, mandi officials said, “This year procurement began very late and is likely to extend till the first week of May. We are hopeful a similar quantity of wheat can be procured this year too.” However, farmers are not so optimistic. They say rain has already damaged some of the crop, and if it rains again, it will be disastrous. Some are choosing to come all the way to Chandigarh due to the fewer Covid cases, such as Paramjeet Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib district. “I keep my mask on at all times and maintain distance from labourers working to offload the wheat. Chandigarh has fewer cases and screening is more thorough here so it’s a safer option,” he said.Gabbar, a daily wage labourer who stays in Mauli Jagran, said most of the workforce had left the city before the curfew, which has resulted in a shortage now. Sunil from Sector 26 said many labourers from Sector 26 were worried because a youth from Bapu Dham Colony recently tested positive. “The administration is providing us meals so some people have decided to wait till the lockdown is lifted before working,” he said.Many expressed happiness at the Sector 26 mandi getting thoroughly sanitised. Mukesh Kumar from Dadumajra said the mandi looks spotlessly clean and he hopes the practice of sanitisation will be continued. As per mandi officials about 4,750 tonne of wheat has been procured in the city till now. “Nobody is allowed to enter the mandi without being screened or without a mask. Facilities have been set up here for workers to sanitise their hands,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fear-of-more-rain-gets-farmers-jittery-amid-delayed-wheat-procurement-in-chandigarh/story-dJABpNNTiiX8ZztwvawEZJ.html
26-04-2020||City||After a month of lockdown, MSMEs struggle to resume operations in Himachal||It has been more than a month since the lockdown was enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus, industries particularly Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), as well as small scale units, are struggling to resume operations as Himachal Pradesh stares at an acute shortage of workersThe industrial sector has been adversely impacted by the corona crisis. Industries in the state are battling with an acute shortage of labour after the government has been repeatedly asking them to start operations. The industrial sector in Baddi, Barotiwaala and Nalagarh in Solan district and Kalamb in Sirmaur district is the worst hit.The state government has made it mandatory that industries that have in-house arrangements for lodging of workers in order to resume functioning. Industries in Baddi, Barotiwaala and Nalagarh are mostly dependent on the migrant labourers who have returned to their native villages in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Bengal. Villagers on borders of Haryana and Punjab constitute a major workforce in Baddi and Barotiwala, while the industries in Parwanoo are dependent on the workforce from Pinjore and Kalka. The state government has sealed its border with Punjab and Haryana and those with valid permission from deputy commissioners of the respective district are allowed to travel.Colonel Shailesh Pathak, chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industries Himachal Chapter said that the HP government should allow labourers from adjoining states to travel to the state.“Big industries don’t have many problems while the smaller ones are facing the music. Big companies have in-house facilities for labourers and their workforce. Many industrial areas in the Nalagarh subdivision which also comprises Baddi and Barotiwala have been classified as red zones after six persons were found positive for Covid-19,” he said.Industrial sector performance is critical and plays a major decisive role in determining the overall growth of state output and employment through backward and forward linkages with other sectors of economy It contributes about 30% of the total gross value. There are nearly 54,310 industrial units in the state with an approximately ₹49,974 crore investment which provides employment to 4.52 lakh people. Of the total industries in Himachal, 140 are large and 628 are medium-small units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-a-month-of-lockdown-msmes-struggle-to-resume-operations-in-himachal/story-DAaHAIXwQxyFkOhPy5mJRL.html
26-04-2020||City||56 Sikh pilgrims stranded in Nanded return to Ludhiana||Two buses on Sunday brought back 56 Ludhiana natives stranded at Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra. While one bus arrived at 4am, another reached the city in the afternoon. A total of 174 pilgrims from the district will be brought back in batches.The passengers were straightaway taken to the flu corner at the Ludhiana civil hospital for Covid-19 screening.Thereafter, they were sent home under the supervision of PCR motorcycle squad. The health department has pasted home quarantine stickers outside their houses to caution locals.Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Geeta Kataria said all passengers were screened and directed to strictly comply with home quarantine rules.Hardeep Singh of Ghulal village in Samrala thanked the state government and the committee of Gurdwara Hazur Sahib, Nanded, for their safe return home.“Back in Nanded, doctors screened all pilgrims once a day. The local administration and gurdwara committee provided round-the-clock meals,” he added.Harleen Kaur and Jaspreet Kaur, residents of Field Gunj, were elated to return home after the long wait. “We finally met our families after waiting for a month. Though we were accompanied by some elders, we deeply missed our siblings and home,” said the duo.They thanked the gurdwara committee and the Maharastra government for providing the pilgrims AC rooms while they were stranded due to the lockdown.220 NRIs LEAVE FOR SPECIAL FLIGHT TO USAs many as 220 NRIs from across Punjab travelled to Delhi in seven buses to catch a special flight to the US. The buses left from Bhai Wala Chowk after the passengers were screened by a team from the US embassy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/56-sikh-pilgrims-stranded-in-nanded-return-to-ludhiana/story-PycZ6E2HsDyenElOEoL8VN.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||11-month-old, Chandigarh’s youngest patient, checkmates Covid||Chandigarh’s youngest Covid-19 patient, an 11-month-old baby girl, has recovered. The infant and her mother were discharged from Chandigarh’s Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Sunday after winning a hard battle against the virus, providing a beacon of hope for recovery to others battling the epidemic.With their discharge, the number of patients declared cured and discharged from PGIMER rose to nine. Holding her daughter in her arms, the Sector 33 resident said, “No words are enough to convey my thanks to the entire PGIMER team. There were phases of hopelessness and I thought I had lost the battle. But constant medical and psychological support had me sailing through.”Director PGIMER professor Jagat Ram complimented the mother-daughter duo on their successful recovery. It was a touching scene at the hospital as the duo were given a warm send off with showering of flower petals and gifts.Speaking on the occasion, Professor Jagat Ram said, “There is always a silver lining in dark clouds. In these challenging times, the moment, when any patient is discharged after being declared Covid-19-free, is a moment of triumph and jubilation not only for the patient and his family but for the entire medical team. Today, it is all the more special because treating the virus infected baby was a mighty task for the medical team due to her tender age.”The four recovered patients discharged today were all members of one family who tested positive and were admitted in PGI on April 3. The baby girl’s father was discharged a week earlier, the mother-daughter were discharged on Sunday, while the baby’s grandmother is still in isolation, but is stable.Professor Vipin Koushal, additional medical superintendent of the dedicated Covid-19 hospital, said, “It was the perfect birthday gift for me today. It is a joy to see the young angel cured. One cannot imagine how gruelling it must have been for the little one who could not even express her pain and anguish. Although we discuss all patients and their prognosis, but the team was emotionally attached to this little girl.” Elaborating the importance of psychological intervention along with pharmacological treatment to help a patient fight the virus, Dr Swapanjit Sahu from the psychiatry department said, “Though both mother and daughter were physically stable, it was very stressful experience psychologically to stay isolated from everyone. The mother reported significant distress during her stay and was consistently counselled via video. It was tressful for her as despite her testing negative, her baby tested positive again and again. This can be disappointing for anyone but regular counselling helped her through.”Although discharged from PGI, the mother and daughter will be home quarantined for 14 days as per the standard protocol to be followed by all Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/11-month-old-chandigarh-s-youngest-patient-checkmates-covid/story-XIJjUVLDLPr1U0qcleco9H.html
26-04-2020||City||Pre-monsoon nullah cleaning work in Thane likely to be hit||With the lack of manpower due to the lockdown, the pre-monsoon nullah cleaning work in Thane is likely to be hit. With migrant labourers either having left the city or unwilling to work in this situation, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has written to the state government to allow them to get labourers from tribal areas of Wada and Mokhada.TMC claimed this would not only give employment opportunity to tribals but also resolve their woes.A civic official requesting anonymity said, “We have finished the tendering process for nullah-cleaning work. However, the contractor is facing labour crunch. We need around 6,000 people for the work. Even with usage of machines, we still need manual labourers. We have written a letter to the state government to allow us to get labourers from tribal areas of Palghar district. This will also provide employment to the tribals.”The budget for this year’s nullah-cleaning work is ₹9.50 crore and is slated to start by the end of this week with the help of machines and available manpower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pre-monsoon-nullah-cleaning-work-in-thane-likely-to-be-hit/story-OYP0TojEdeWrkLfGkyGfPO.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Too early to reach conclusion about leprosy vaccine’s clinical trial on Covid-19 patients: PGIMER||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Sunday said that it is too early reach conclusion about the outcome of results regarding use of Mycobacterium w (heat-killed Mycobacterium indicus pranii) as adjunct to the treatment of critically ill Covid-19 patients.The Chandigarh premier institute along with the All India Institutes of Medical Education and Research (AIIMS), New Delhi and Bhopal has been selected for CSIR-supported clinical trial.Mycobacterium w (Mw) originally developed as an immunomodulator for leprosy, acts through the toll-like receptor pathway and enhances host-T cell responses.In a recently concluded multi-centre trial, researchers have found that Mw reduces mortality in ICU patients with severe sepsis. Mw can potentially decrease the cytokine storm seen in patients with Covid-19, and may thus be of potential benefit in managing these patients and decreasing mortality.“In the pre-study phase, we assessed safety of Mw in four hospitalised patients with Covid-19, and found no short-term adverse effects,” said Dr Ashok Kumar, PGIMER official spokesperson. The impact of Mw use on long term safety and efficacy will only be known after conclusion of this CSIR-supported clinical trial, which will be initiated soon at all three centres, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/too-early-to-reach-conclusion-about-leprosy-vaccine-s-clinical-trial-on-covid-19-patients-pgimer/story-GuOnSN3mIHpIFjxrRqFUIJ.html
26-04-2020||City||Thane singer entertains the quarantined||Kishor Pawar, a 40-year-old Thane resident, along with a posse of policemen visits housing societies which have been sealed and sings to entertain the residents. Pawar said, “In this situation, music can heal people. Our motto is to make sure everyone stays home and safe.” The musician had approached the police asking approval to entertain residents. Senior police inspector Shivaji Rathod said, “His voice is mesmerising and residents have given a good feedback.”Pawar along with the police team visited more than 15 housing societies and quarantines centres in the past five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-singer-entertains-the-quarantined/story-gJ5l4ZsmRUIQmhYwu0JtfJ.html
26-04-2020||City||Freedom fighter Bhajan Singh Sohal passes away at 95||Freedom fighter Bhajan Singh Sohal passed away at the age of 95 at his residence in Rajguru Nagar, where he had been living with his grandson and his family. He was laid to rest with full state honours at Sunet village, 8km from Ludhiana. Amandeep Singh Sohal, the grandson, said his grandfather always thought about the welfare of the country and never availed freedom fighter pension stating that he wanted to contribute to the country to the fullest. “My grandfather lived like a hero. He jumped into the freedom struggle at a very young age and participated in the Quit India movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi. He was arrested and jailed for nine months for participating in the movement. However, he again joined the freedom struggle as soon as he came of jail,” said Amandeep.“He proudly narrated the tales of freedom struggle and used to say how it was a matter of pride for a freedom fighter to be arrested,” he said, narrating: “Once when my grandfather was arrested, he had asked the British policemen to take him to the police station via Girjaghar Chowk near Chaura Bazar so that everybody can know that he was arrested. With his head held high, he had walked through the lanes of Chaura Bazar with handcuffs on.”In 1972, Bhajan Singh Sohal joined the Ludhiana District Congress Committee. He was the first president of the Punjab Youth Congress. He was said to be close to former President of India Giani Zail Singh and former chief ministers of Punjab — Bhim Sen Sachhar, Gopi Chand Bhargava and Beant Singh.Sohal was fond of reading the newspaper and writing diaries. He had written diaries from 1950 to 2003 and most of his writings are in Urdu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/freedom-fighter-bhajan-singh-sohal-passes-away-at-95/story-PUJlz5kK0YTyhHk2UwhWuL.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||105 FIRs lodged on Saturday, 54 for not wearing masks||The Mumbai Police on Saturday registered 105 FIRs against 179 people and arrested 113 people for lockdown violations. Of the cases, 54 were for not wearing masks. Since the lockdown, 1,657 people have been booked for not wearing masks with maximum cases reported from central and west regions, the worst-affected areas in the city. Of the cases filed on Saturday, 78 were from these two regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/105-firs-lodged-on-saturday-54-for-not-wearing-masks/story-41noMA73ocHEHQisJIvn2J.html
26-04-2020||City||Pak intruder shot dead near Attari border||The Border Security Force (BSF) personnel on Sunday gunned down a Pakistani national who was trying to sneak into the Indian territory near Attari border. According to a BSF official, the incident took place at around 5 am when the man was spotted walking towards the barbed fence near Pulmoran border outpost along the India-Pakistan border. “Our troops challenged the man, but he didn’t pay any heed, forcing the personnel to open the firing.” The troops later launched a search operation in the area, but nothing suspicious was found. The body of the intruder was handed over to Amritsar rural police. Sub-inspector (SI) of Gharinda police station, Amandeep Singh, said, “We have recovered 600 rupees of Pakistani currency from the accused’s possession.”He said the identity of the Pakistani national could not be ascertained as no article was found on him.The police have registered a case under Sections 3-4 of the Indian Passport Act and section 14 of the Foreign Act 1920 at Gharinda police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pak-intruder-shot-dead-near-attari-border/story-GmguMHTpVVBKHATPhMpl3I.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||More rain likely in region today||After light to moderate rain in most stations in Punjab, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted more rain on Monday, after which dry weather is likely.Patiala was worst hit in the region on Sunday with 30.4 mm rain till 8.30am, which affected wheat procurement. Amritsar saw 2.3mm rain, with just traces of rain in Ludhiana. In Haryana, Ambala recorded 5.8 mm rain in the morning, with another 2mm falling during the day. Karnal saw 8.8 mm rain.Officials said the influx of moisture from the Arabian Sea was likely to continue on Monday, and rain, in lower intensity, can be expected in the region. A drop in temperature was seen throughout the region. Due to the rain in Patiala, maximum temperature went down from 34.6°C on Saturday to 28.5°C on Sunday, 9°C below normal. In Haryana, Karnal saw the maximum drop, going from 35.4°C on Saturday to 26.4°C on Sunday.In Chandigarh, trace rain was recorded during the day. Maximum temperature, however, dropped to 29.7°C, 7°C below normal. It went below 30°C for the first time since April 7, when it had dipped to 29.6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/more-rain-likely-in-region-today/story-yq32EJhZ8PX4bZNagPCP9O.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||Rains, gusty winds bring mercury down in Delhi||Rains and high-velocity winds barrelling through the national capital brought the mercury down to 31.4 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the India Meterological Department (IMD) said.While the maximum temperature was seven notches below normal, the city recorded a minimum of 23.8 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year.The weather stations at Lodhi Road and Sports Complex recorded their minimum at 29.1 degrees Celsius and 30.7 degrees Celsius, respectively. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the national capital, recorded 2 mm rainfall till 5:30 pm.The Ayanagar and Najafgarh observatories recorded 23.2 mm and 5 mm rainfall, respectively. Weather experts said the rains over Delhi and neighbouring areas were result of a cyclonic circulation induced by a western disturbance over Jammu and Kashmir. Humidity levels oscillated between 57 and 79 per cent.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recorded the city’s air quality index at 120 at 4pm, which falls in the moderate category.The weatherman forecast light rains or thundershower with winds gusting up to 40 kilometers per hour on Monday.The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 33 and 21 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rains-gusty-winds-bring-mercury-down-in-delhi/story-EFIB8Uw9h96xbHxiNJ63EP.html
26-04-2020||City||Rupnagar health dept rolls out mobile Covid-19 testing unit||In a bid to conduct rapid sampling and testing for Covid-19, the Rupnagar health authorities have launched a mobile testing van.Deputy commissioner Sonali Giri flagged off the van at the local civil surgeon office.Giri said the mobile van will ease the process of sample collection of suspected Covid -19 patients, migratory population, slum areas, brick kilns and remote areas of the district.She said a total of 190 samples were taken till Sunday morning, out of which 84 turned negative and reports of 104 samples were awaited, while two Covid-19 positive patients had recovered.Rupnagar civil surgeon Dr HN Sharma said a doctor, lab technician and paramedical staff will be deployed in the van.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rupnagar-health-dept-rolls-out-mobile-covid-19-testing-unit/story-zQanZLMHiLEnAf6aVGlyKP.html
26-04-2020||City||Delhi cop’s 4 family members test positive for virus in Panipat||Two days after a Delhi police constable tested positive for Covid-19, four members of his family have also been found infected with the virus in Panipat. The infected members of the family include the cop's sister, who is an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) with the Panipat police, his father, mother and younger brother. Though they hail from Khoobru village of Sonepat, they will be counted as Panipat patients as their samples were taken here. Panipat’s tally is now at 12. 50 COPS QUARANTINEDThe development has come as a bad news for the police department as 50 cops posted at the Samalkha police station had to be quarantined as they had come in contact with the ASI, who had been on duty till her brother tested positive for the virus. She was isolated on April 24. The samples of 22 cops have been sent for testing. A sub-divisional judicial magistrate, posted in Samalkha of Panipat, was also quarantined as the ASI had produced an accused in her court on April 24.Panipat chief medical officer (CMO) Sant Lal Verma said the cop, who is posted in Delhi, used to frequent his native village in Sonepat. “His sister, who is also a cop, was also in regular contact with him and developed Covid-19, symptoms soon after her brother tested positive,” the CMO said, adding that the four members of the family have now been isolated at BPS Medical College Khanpur Kalan, Sonepat. Nine other members of the family have also been quarantined. The source of infection for the Delhi cop, has, however, not been ascertained yet as officials are still examining their contact history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-cop-s-4-family-members-test-positive-for-virus-in-panipat/story-uIfwZMnFmpwXbqJh2AnFhN.html
26-04-2020||City||Punjab govt offers help to Ludhiana residents stuck abroad||Natives of Ludhiana district stranded abroad can contact the district administration with relevant details if they wish to return to India, said additional deputy commissioner (development) Amrit Singh on Sunday.Such residents may include those working or pursuing higher studies overseas.“These people need to upload their details – name, father/husband name, mobile number, country of residence, current address, passport number, email ID, number of persons accompanying (in case of a family), address in Ludhiana district and the nearest airport – on the link bit.ly/2YaR54v,” she said.Singh added that all details will then be sent to the state government and special flights will be arranged for such persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-offers-help-to-ludhiana-residents-stuck-abroad/story-YJv5JbEgYh6Qphd35IHbOI.html
26-04-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 69 new Covid-19 cases, one death||A 60-year-old coronavirus-infected woman, with underlying medical conditions such as diabetes, died and 69 more people tested positive in Rajasthan on Sunday, bringing the number of confirmed virus cases to 2,152 in the state, an official said. Thirty-six COVID-19 patients have died in the state, with Jaipur accounting for 19 deaths. “A woman died in Jodhpur today. She was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension and kidney disease. As many as 69 fresh cases have been reported in 11 districts of the state, including 23 in Jodhpur,” Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. Besides Jodhpur, 20 new cases were reported from Nagaur, 11 from Ajmer, six from Jaipur, three from Kota, two from Dholpur and one each in Sikar, Bharatpur, Hanumangarh and Jhalawar. A total of 2,152 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said so far 518 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 213 have been discharged from hospitals. Jaipur has maximum number of 798 coronavirus positive cases in the state followed by 349 in Jodhpur. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-reports-69-new-covid-19-cases-one-death/story-47kE41N0NovfpD1pi6vlyM.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity to participate in indoor virtual run to raise funds for fight against Covid-19||To contribute their bit in the fight against Covid-19, the running community of Chandigarh and its satellite cities of Panchkula and Mohali — collectively known as the tricity — has come together to raise funds through an indoor virtual event. Breaking none of the lockdown rules, they will take part in the event from the confines of their homes on April 27. Of late, the tricity has seen a surge in the running community, with marathons and half-marathons being organised round the year and each witnessing hundreds of participants. For them, running has become a way of life. Since the lockdown, even while staying at home, there has been no alteration in their running routine. They are doing it in a room, on terrace or in balcony and even creating a track around the sofa and table in the living room or just running in one spot. Now, to put their zeal to some good use, Chandigarh Distance Runners — a club with over 500 active members in the tricity — is organising the ‘Run For Charity, Indoor Virtual Run’, wherein the participants will run for 30 minutes, anytime of the day, on April 27. There is a participation fee of Rs 200 per runner, and all the money collected through registration and other contributions will go towards a Covid-19 charity. For registration, you can log in to www.townscript.com/e/run-for-charity-321024.“Do you want to help the society in these difficult times, do you want to make the difference? Come join a virtual indoor short run on April 27. The funds so raised would be donated as charity to fight Covid-19. We have been running for ourselves; it’s the time to repay to society with this small contribution,” shared Ashok Giri, who is one of the founder members of Chandigarh Distance Runners, in the message circulated in the running community. “With this run, we will able to generate some funds that will be used to arrange food for the needy and simultaneously it will help to generate awareness about the healthy lifestyle. Even within the walls of our house, we can do regular workouts and sweat,” said Jaspreet Kaur, one of the core members of the running group, stressing on daily workout to boost the immune system — the key to fight Covid-19.Before taking to running in mid-2017, this mother of two had two worries — being overweight and starting the day with a pill to control her thyroid. Running helped her lose 18 kg — from 74kg to 56kg — and for the last one year, she has been able to go off thyroid medications as well. “Before the lockdown I had a thyroid test and the results were normal. Running can do wonders in our lives and I am an example,” said Jaspreet, who will be running again at her home on April 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-tricity-to-participate-in-indoor-virtual-run-to-raise-funds-for-fight-against-covid-19/story-2uAsDC4jzE20dVbvEayN3I.html
26-04-2020||City||3-year-old Covid-19 patient in Palghar returns home||A three-year-old girl, who tested positive on April 14, was discharged on Sunday afternoon. She received a warm send-off by the Cottage Hospital staff and was welcomed by the residents of Ganjad, Dahanu. Dr Abhijit Khandare, taluka medical officer of Palghar, said, “The girl’s parents are brick kiln workers and had come to Katale village after the lockdown. The girl tested positive and was admitted in the isolation ward of the hospital.”Over 200 people including 13 government doctors and nurses with whom she had come in contact with, were quarantined and their swab samples were sent for testing. All of them had tested negative. Four villages - Katale, Nihe Maswan, Lohre and Vandivli had been sealed, he said.The Palghar police are yet to trace the contact person from whom the girl contracted the disease. “The brick kiln owner was booked for disobedience, spreading infection under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and Disaster Management Act, 2005, as he continued to operate the despite the lockdown order,” said Dr Khandare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/3-year-old-covid-19-patient-in-palghar-returns-home/story-m0x5rW9noKIXT10KCQJPnN.html
26-04-2020||City||Punjab starts Covid-19 helpline for youth||The Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) has started a helpline for the youth to help them tackle depression, anxiety and stress during the Covid-19 lockdown.Chairman Sukhwinder Singh Bindra said, “The youth can send a text or a WhatsApp message on the helpline number 95772-00003 from 10am to 5pm.”He said, “The PYDB is committed to the welfare of the youth of the state and in view of the lockdown, initiatives have already been taken by the state government.”Bindra said, “The board has also distributed more than 1,000 PPE kits among healthcare workers, ration to the needy and coordinated with Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Gurdwara Sahib committee to prepare community meals for more than 2,000 people on a daily basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-starts-covid-19-helpline-for-youth/story-0bTRnP0q5nRC498mcDl8WJ.html
26-04-2020||Pune||Credit Suisse pledges funds for healthcare boost in Mumbai, Pune||Credit Suisse has pledged INR 45 million (US$590,000) to support the government and community efforts to address urgent healthcare needs arising due to the Covid-19 outbreak in Maharashtra. The aid is being deployed through the United Way Mumbai and Concern India Foundation, and will be used to fund the procurement of critical medical equipment and protective gear for 4,000 front-line healthcare workers across nine government hospitals in Mumbai and Pune. Through Concern India Foundation, Credit Suisse will procure similar items, as well as other critical medical equipment including ECG and portable x-ray machines, for the Intensive Care Units of the government-owned Sassoon and Sardar Vallabhai Patel Cantonment Hospitals in Pune, which have a combined capacity of 2,500 patients and employ at least 3,000 health workers in total. Additionally, Credit Suisse India employees will contribute to providing food and personal care kits to communities of dailywage earners and their families who have been among the worst affected by the economic disruptions caused by the coronavirus outbreak. With each kit, a family of four will have approximately one month’s worth of meals. Mickey Doshi, chief executive officer (CEO) India, Credit Suisse, said, “In these trying times, it is important that we come together to support our wider communities. Credit Suisse is privileged to support our local medical teams who have been working tirelessly to provide lifesaving treatment, and ensure they can continue to do so while safeguarding their own health.”Central Railway trains, educates staff about Covid-19 precautions Central Railway began its preparation to combat the spread of Covid-19 by educating, motivating and training its medical/health professionals, para medical staff and sanitary workers. Doctors along with paramedical staff and sanitary workers are fighting a battle against the virus round the clock at all the divisional railway hospitals in the state and in Pune. Paramedics have been trained in various relevant aspects such as operational aspects of PPE usage, intensive disinfection practices, among others. Sanitary workers/housekeeping assistants of the medical department form the first line of defence in the battle against Covid-19. They are proactively carrying out cleaning, fumigation and disinfection of railway premises, stations, residential quarters and public contact points. Further, the chief health inspectors carry out education and information campaign on preventive measures and the ways to combat the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/virus-snippets-pune/story-AnWBVWBpxUuqOYd0k8hF6M.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud case: CBI arrests Wadhawans from Mahabaleshwar||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday arrested Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan of DHFL group, who are allegedly involved in the Yes Bank fraud, from their bungalow in Mahabaleshwar.They will be produced before a special court on Monday where CBI will seek their custody. The duo, along with their other family members, were under home quarantine for 14 days since April 23, a senior official of the agency said.The CBI had obtained an arrest warrant against the two brothers after the family was caught holidaying in Mahabaleshwar. On April 18, the brothers had obtained a stay on the execution of an arrest warrant after their lawyer pleaded that the two should not be arrested amidst the coronavirus pandemic. The special court had granted them relief and stayed the warrant. The court order protected the two from arrest till May 5.However, CBI, which was not heard while staying the warrant, approached the special court to lift the stay. The Wadhwans’ interim relief was cancelled on Saturday and a CBI team from Mumbai reached Satara early Saturday afternoon to arrest the two bothers, a senior officer of the agency said.The agency was assisted by the Satara police. The two arrested men will be brought to Mumbai, the officer said.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh confirmed the arrests with a tweet.“A CBI team has arrested both Kapil and Dhiraj Wadhwan. Satara Police has given them all required assistance and an escort vehicle with one plus three guards up to Mumbai on a written request. The arrest procedures are going on,” Deshmukh tweeted.According to the CBI FIR, between April and June 2018, Yes Bank invested Rs3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). In return, the Wadhawans allegedly “paid a kickback of Rs600 crore” to Kapoor and family members in the form of loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.The CBI had obtained a non-bailable warrant against the two on March 17 but the two men had not been arrested. On April 9, the Wadhawans, with a group of 23 people, flouted the lockdown and travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala after a senior home department official gave them a free pass. They were put in quarantine once the news of their lockdown violation became public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-case-cbi-arrests-wadhawans-from-mahabaleshwar/story-aSLWGOimXGmTrS2PWh6ZIN.html
26-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurgaon MNCs may have to work from home till July end, some real estate projects can resume work: official||MNCs, BPOs and IT enabled services (ITES) in Gurgaon may have to allow their employees to work from home till the end of July, says Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority CEO V S Kundu.Kundu, who is also additional chief secretary of Haryana, added that several real estate projects, including those of DLF, have got the green signal to resume construction but within the norms of social distancing.Gurgaon, which is part of the National Capital Region, is known as the millennium city and is home to many BPOs, MNCs and technology giants, including Infosys, Genpact, Google and Microsoft.The Gurgaon district administration had issued an advisory in mid March asking MNCs, BPOs, IT companies, corporates and industries to allow work from home.“As of now it appears this advisory for work from home will continue till end of July. All those who have offices in Gurgaon should continue to work from home to the extent possible,” Kundu told PTI. Kundu, who is in charge of handling the COVID-19 crisis for Gurgaon district, said it is advisable that companies should ensure that as many employees as possible work from home.This might not be possible in the case of industries and the manufacturing sector but should be followed wherever possible, he added.Kundu said few construction sites at GMDA and NHAI projects have been allowed to resume work within the norms of social distancing. “Construction sites where labourers are already staying on the site or those where labourers stay within walking distance are allowed to resume work while adhering to social distancing norms,” he said. Such is the nature of the coronavirus pandemic that no one knows “when we will go back to previous normal”, the GMDA CEO said.“You may have to go to a new normal,” he added.Besides being a corporate hub, Gurgaon is also a hub for the automobile industry.It has reported 51 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 35 have recovered. It is in the red zone and is the worst affected district along with Nuh, Palwal and Faridabad in Haryana.The state has reported 289 cases (including 176 who have been cured, discharged or migrated) and three fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry on Sunday.Kundu described the situation in Gurgaon as “fairly under control” and said there is no evidence of community transmission.Gurgaon has effectively been under lockdown since March 22 – two days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a pan-India shutdown to stem the spread of the disease. This gave the administration a head start and enabled it to handle the situation effectively, the official said.The administration is working on the twin objectives of saving lives and ensuring livelihoods, he said.The district administration is conducting surveys and will start providing food coupons to poor families who don’t have ration cards. This will give them rations for three months.The district administration has been ensuring smooth supply of rations to them through its various channels, Kundu added.He said the manufacturing of personal protective equipment (PPEs) has also started. Two apparel firms have been given permission to manufacture PPEs in their plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurgaon-mncs-may-have-to-work-from-home-till-july-end-some-real-estate-projects-can-resume-work-official/story-ekhbZYKdFZDooTfhfRwdHK.html
26-04-2020||City||Himachal to open shops with 50% staff strength from Monday||The state government has decided to implement the Union home ministry’s latest guidelines on opening of shops, officials said on Sunday.In rural areas, all shops except those in shopping malls will remain open. In urban areas, all stand-alone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes, barring shops in multi and single-brand malls, will operate during the curfew relaxation time. However, the shops in markets or market complexes and shopping malls in urban areas will remain closed.The establishments that were earlier allowed to open shall also operate within the specified timings except for tyre puncture shops, which have been allowed to remain open from 10am to 5pm.A state government spokesperson said these shops will be allowed to open only with 50% strength of workers who will strictly adhere to prevention norms. These relaxations will not be applicable in containment zones.Shimla deputy commissioner Amit Kashyap also ordered opening of all shops, except malls and liquor vends in the district’s rural and urban areas between 10am and 2pm from Monday onwards.He said the order was issued following the revised guidelines of the Union home ministry and the subsequent instruction by Himachal chief secretary.In Hamirpur, district magistrate Hartikesh Meena on Sunday announced more exemptions in the lockdown norms for people except those living in containment zones. However, wearing masks while venturing out is mandatory for all. People will be free to take morning walks from 5.30am to 7am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/all-shops-except-malls-liquor-vends-to-open-in-shimla-today/story-VRSJE6Dov8tyQL0BM950VI.html
26-04-2020||Bangalore||2 foresters drown while fighting off fishermen in dam||Two foresters got drowned in the backwaters of Kabini dam in HD Kote in Mysuru district while preventing fishermen fishing there illegally, Principal Chief Conservator of Forest Punati Sridhar said on Sunday. “A case of murder has been registered against those fishing there. Police are investigating into the matter,” Sridhar told PTI. According to him, the two foresters got information that a fishing net has been cast in the Kabini river dam and went to the spot in a canoe on Friday. “When the foresters were removing the net, fishermen came in 10 or 12 coracles and tried to attack the two,” he said. One of the foresters fired in the air and somehow lost balance and both the men fell off the canoe. They landed in the waters and one of the foresters got entangled in the net and died, he said. The other swam and reached near the shore but also got entangled in the net. By then, other foresters reached the scene. They brought him and tried to resuscitate him but he too died, Sridhar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/2-foresters-drown-while-fighting-off-fishermen-in-dam/story-GMdkd0sLUqaSTvOUgYNhfK.html
26-04-2020||City||‘Stay home for us’, appeal Ludhiana police through videos on Facebook||“Help Punjab Police in Arresting Corona” and “We are on work for you and you stay inside for us” are some of the messages highlighted through the placards carried by cops in videos released by the district police on Sunday.Two short videos, one of 22 seconds and another of 54 seconds, have been uploaded by the city police on their Facebook page.One video shows around 28 women police personnel carrying placards highlighting the message, “Asi Tuhaade Lai Kam Te Haan, Saade Lai Tusi Ghar Vich Raho Ji. Ate J Asi Saare Kariye Hosla Buland, Asi Jaroor Jitaange Corona Khilaaf Jang (We are at work for you. You stay home for us and if we all stay strong, we will definitely win the war against Corona)”.Similarly, the other video shows eight policemen holding placards carrying the message “Othe Ik Serial Katil Hai. Bahar Sadak Te Agle Shikaar Di Bhaal Vich. Lokan Nu Bahar Aan Lyi Lubaaunda Hai. Usnu Girftaar Karn Vich Police Di Madad Karo. #CoronaNuGiraftarKro #GharAndar Raho (There is a serial killer roaming outside on the road to find its next target and it is persuading people to come outside. Help police arrest it. #ArrestCorona #StayAtHome)”.Already viewed over 7,000 times, the videos have received a flurry of comments from viewers appreciating efforts of the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stay-home-for-us-appeal-ludhiana-police-through-videos-on-facebook/story-AlX0qys0YyDSLRYymWDlxJ.html
26-04-2020||City||Ludhiana’s vet varsity observes World Veterinary Day||The faculty, staff and students of College of Veterinary Sciences, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), celebrated World Veterinary Day on Saturday.To mark the day, students participated in an online awareness campaign.The institution development programme (IDP) organised poster-making and quiz competitions on the theme “Environmental protection for improving animal and human health”.Prakash Singh Brar, dean, College of Veterinary Sciences, and also principal investigator of the IDP, said World Veterinary Day was celebrated all around the world on the last Saturday of April each year to promote animal welfare and educate the masses about the importance of the veterinary profession.“The concept of ‘One Health’ has also become important amid the fight against Covid-19,” he said.“The fact that novel corona has emerged out of animals warrants for an even larger role of veterinary profession. All stakeholders need to work in unison to address the emerging issues of environmental degradation, especially those related to the animal kingdom,” he said.RESULTSPritam Singh, Ginnee and Purnima won prizes in the poster-making contest and Rupinder Singh, Jashandeep Singh, Gurjot Singh and Satnam Singh won the quiz competition.Vice-chancellor AS Nanda congratulated the veterinary fraternity and others associated with animal welfare, health and production.He called for proactive participation of the scientists, farmers, civil society and government in addressing animal-oriented issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-vet-varsity-observes-world-veterinary-day/story-k3z8hL8cJBoDIVw1GQLjaN.html
26-04-2020||City||Bootleggers continue to cash in on lockdown to sell illegal liquor in J&K||At a time when liquor vends are closed due to the lockdown imposed to contain the coronavirus outbreak, the business of bootleggers in Jammu and Kashmir has flourished.Deputy commissioner of the excise department Amarjeet Singh said that since the lockdown was enforced in the UT on March 25, the field staff has conducted 12 raids in villages Chak Drab Khan, Kangrial, Budhi, Chardayala of Kathua district, Lower Judh, Upper Judh and Bala villages of Akhnoor in Jammu district, and Sasalkote, Doongi, Gharati villages of Rajouri district.“In these raids against the bootleggers, we destroyed 4600kg of Lahan and 75 liters of illicit liquor. Four bootleggers that included three women have also been arrested,” he said.Lahan, a yellow coloured viscose is a raw material for producing illicit liquor and it has to be distilled on a fire. It contains ethyl alcohol.“Since liquor vends are closed the menace of illicit distillation and subsequent sale has gone up during the lockdown but we are taking all precautions to curb it. This liquor is not safe to consume. To meet increased demand, bootleggers mix toxic materials that can prove fatal,” said Singh.Amid reports of excise department submitting a proposal to the administration to start home delivery of liquor, J&K excise commissioner Rajesh Kumar Shavan, said, “No such order has been issued yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bootleggers-continue-to-cash-in-on-lockdown-to-sell-illegal-liquor-in-j-k/story-BdnQz9jhC8jiOjOKqsuKfO.html
26-04-2020||Bangalore||Woman dies of Covid-19 in Karnataka; 3 new cases reported||Marking a dip, Karnataka on Sunday reported just three new Covid-19 cases while a woman died of the disease and and 24 people were discharged, the Health department said.The toll due to Covid-19 in the state rose to 19 while the total cases to 503, including 182 discharges.The state saw a drop in new cases after 26 people tested positive on Saturday, 29 on Friday and 18 on Thursday.A 45-year old woman, a resident of Bengaluru Urban district, admitted to the designated hospital on Friday with complaint of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), died on Sunday, a bulletin said.The woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday itself, also had pneumonia besides being a known case of diabetic with past history of tuberculosis, it said. Among the three new cases on Sunday, a 47-year-old woman was from Panemangalore in Dakshina Kannada and a 65-year-old woman and a seven-year-old boy were from Kalaburagi. Meanwhile, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa appealed to the ministers, MPs and MLAs and the officials to strictly adhere to social distancing and set an example for others. “Social distancing is the only way to safeguard against Covid-19 and prevent it from spreading further. Hence, the ministers, MPs, MLAs and officials should abide by it to set an example for others. Let us mandatorily follow the social distancing,” Yediyurappa tweeted. PTI GMS VS VS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-karnataka-3-new-cases-reported/story-kzXZehTtcrhrNolG6Gb1kK.html
26-04-2020||City||As J&K HC steps in, help pours in for 122 destitute children in Jammu||The J&K State Legal Services Authority (JKSLSA) on Sunday stepped in to help the 122 children of Balgran, a home for the destitute here, after HT reported about their hardships on Sunday.“Driven by a report by Hindustan Times on the difficulties being faced by the destitute children, JKSLSA, under the guidance of high court Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice Rajesh Bindal, decided to reach out to them,” said M K Sharma, JKSLSA member secretary.Sharma said he spoke to A K Khajuria, president of the society managing Balgran’s affairs, and visited the home on Sunday morning to enquire about the availability of food and other essentials.Following this, Sharma requested Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board CEO Ramesh Kumar to provide cereals, oil, ghee etc to the institution, who readily agreed and assured to drop the essentials at Balgran in a day or two.Thanking HT for highlighting the issue, Balgran president A K Khajuria said, “We have received donations in kind as well as in cash thereafter. Balgran is highly grateful to HT. District social welfare officer supplied pulses, soap, atta (flour), rice etc as per instructions of the principal secretary and social welfare department director.”The lockdown imposed due to coronavirus pandemic had made life difficult for the destitute kids as donations had stopped coming in.Majority of these children are orphans and have none to look after them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-j-k-hc-steps-in-help-pours-in-for-122-destitute-children-in-jammu/story-hbmkZk788gIBaiVFY31H2H.html
26-04-2020||City||Consumers will have to change their buying habits after Covid-19 lockdown||Covid-19 has necessitated a change in the way we shop and consumers need to remember this as we come to the last week of the lockdown and look forward to at least partial or gradual lifting of the restrictions.Since the threat of the dreaded virus is not going to disappear soon, we cannot bring down our defences and need to exercise utmost caution when we go shopping. Of course, as far as possible, it would be advisable to order goods online and have them delivered at home. And it’s better to pay online, rather than take the option of payment on delivery, so that you minimize your contact with the delivery person. But make sure that you are doing the transaction on a genuine site with proper safeguards. Do remember to wear a mask when the delivery person arrives, maintain safe distance and ask the person to keep the goods in a corner at the entrance of your home or just outside the door.Even where such home delivery services are not available, it might be better to give the retailer a list of all you need so that he keeps them packed and ready for you to pick them up. This will reduce the time that you spend at the store and minimize your contacts with various surfaces. Today, even a road side vegetable or fruit vendor has a cell phone and you can well order what you want on phone. Consumers usually prefer to pick the fruits and vegetables themselves in order to ensure quality, but that’s a habit that has to change. If the vendor delivers poor quality stuff, return it. Similarly, if you have a weighing machine at home, you can check the weight once in a while to ensure that he is not cheating on quantity. Once he knows that you cross-check the weight and will complain to legal metrology in case of violations, he will be careful. Also, if you are regularly patronizing a particular vendor, he is bound to be honest with you, to prevent you from going to a rival.In fact, the National Disaster Management Authority’s Covid-19 guidelines for grocery stores says that “as far as possible, a helper should take out the items needed by customers and not allow all customers to pick their own items, so as to avoid multiple contacts” . The guidelines also suggest that the helper frequently sanitize his hands. In large self-help stores, this may be difficult , so order your grocery in advance. Avoid staying too long in the air conditioned ambience.This is the appropriate time to say goodbye to plastic carry bags -research published in the New England Journal of Medicine has shown that the virus (SARS Covid-2) stays on plastic surfaces for two to three days.. So take your own cloth bag- ask the seller to put the purchases in it. The advantage of cotton is that you can wash it and dry it in the sun. As far as possible avoid using cash- there is enough evidence to show that they carry pathogens. Use instead, mobile wallets to pay the bill . Maintaining the required distance –either while buying or while paying- at all times is absolutely essential. In fact the NDMA guidelines require shop owners to make arrangements for ensuring that all customers wait outside at a safe distance. Similarly, they must maintain a distance of 1 meter to 1.5 metres from the cash counter and the person receiving payments (cash or card) should preferably sanitise the hand each time, says NDMA.Wear a mask at all times and if the seller or the shop assistants are not wearing masks, complain. It is meant to ensure your protection as well as theirs. As soon as you come out of the shop, sanitise your hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/consumer-will-have-to-change-their-buying-habits-after-covid-19-lockdown/story-mkLK9PL2AKimrudmBe6bLP.html
26-04-2020||Patna||Bihar govt orders 2 automatic RNA extraction machines from Singapore||Bihar government has ordered two automatic RNA extraction machines, said the Principal Secretary of Health, Sanjay Kumar on Sunday. “Right now the RNA extraction is done manually. The state government has ordered two automatic RNA extraction machines, one for RMRI and the other for IGMS. They have been ordered from Singapore, we expect them to be here by month-end or the first week of May,” said Sanjay Kumar. Earlier in the day, with nine more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, the total number of cases in the state reached 251.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-govt-orders-2-automatic-rna-extraction-machines-from-singapore/story-khQwFT5Udu5usloZ6T3PRK.html
26-04-2020||City||14-yr-old Ludhiana girl suffocates to death while playing with rope swing||In a freak accident, a 14-year-old girl suffocated to death after getting stuck in an indoor swing at her house in Ravidas Colony of Mullanpur Dakha on Saturday evening. The child’s father, a vegetable vendor, was away at work, while her mother was finishing chores outside when the accident took place. Her siblings, a sister, 16, and two brothers, aged 12 and six, were on the terrace.The deceased was a student of Class 9 at a government school in Dakha village. Her mother told the police that they had a rope swing installed in a ceiling grill. She was clearing the garbage outside, while her 14-year-old daughter was playing inside. On returning indoors, she was shocked to see her unconscious daughter stuck in the swing.As the woman raised the alarm, neighbours rushed to her aid and rescued the child, but she was already dead.The police were informed and the body was sent to the Ludhiana civil hospital for autopsy.Inspector Prem Singh, station house officer (SHO), Dakha police station, said prima facie, it appeared to be an accident. They had started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/14-yr-old-ludhiana-girl-suffocates-to-death-while-playing-with-rope-swing/story-Turya6XxndLJBQvEFhyYmN.html
26-04-2020||Patna||4 more Covid-19 cases in Bihar, state’s count reaches 255||Four new COVID-19 cases were reported in Bihar, taking the total number of cases in the State to 255, said Sanjay Kumar, Principal Secretary, Health, here on Sunday.All four cases were reported from Gopalganj district. “We are ascertaining their infection trail found during home screening,” said Kumar.In a tweet, Kumar said that 11 COVID-19 patients cured and discharged from the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital.“11 COVID-19 patients cured and discharged from Nalanda medical college hospital.3-nalanda,5-munger,1-bhojpur,1-buxar/1-nawada. total covid +ve-255/death-2/discharged-56 and active-197,” he tweeted.A total of 26,496 confirmed cases of COVID-19 have been reported in India so far including 19,868 active cases, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Sunday.824 people have lost their lives due to the infection in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/4-more-covid-19-cases-in-bihar-state-s-count-reaches-255/story-6yHahv33frBq7QEqBQn8rN.html
26-04-2020||City||With 2 more recoveries in HP, 11 cured of Covid-19 in 6 days||Himachal Pradesh is fast flattening the curve of active coronavirus cases as two more Covid-19 patients have recovered in the hill state, bringing down the tally of infected persons to 13.“Two Covid-19 patients from Chamba and Una districts have been discharged from the hospital after testing negative for the virus twice,” additional chief secretary (health) R D Dhiman said.The Chamba patient was a Tablighi Jamaat worker who had attended the Markaz congregation. The patient from Una was a primary contact of another Jamaat worker.Dhiman said both the patient will be kept under observation in an institutional quarantine facility for two weeks and will be discharged if they test negative after the observation period is over.A total of 11 patients have been discharged after being cured in Himachal in the past week.So far, Himachal has recorded a total of 40 Covid-19 cases.13 CONTACTS OF +VE DOC HOME QURANTINEDThirteen people from Kangra district, who came in direct contact with an infected woman doctor in Pathankot have been told to home quarantine. The private doctor had tested positive on Saturday after which the Pathankot administration traced her contacts and handed over a list of seven women and six men to the Kangra authorities.Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said the contacts belong to Nurpur, Indora, Fatehpur and Baijnath sub-divisions. “Their samples will be sent for testing today,” said Prajapati.GOVT ORDERS TO IMPLEMENT REVISED MHA RULESState chief secretary Anil Khachi in an order on Saturday night directed all deputy commissioners and superintendents of police to implement the revised guidelines of ministry of home affairs (MHA), which allow more activities and opening of shops during lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/with-2-more-recoveries-in-hp-11-cured-of-covid-19-in-6-days/story-L8wep6nFhVNWNRQCZKYyMJ.html
26-04-2020||Patna||12 killed in lightning strikes in Bihar||Twelve people were killed in lightning strikes in three districts of Bihar on Sunday, disaster management officials said.Nine persons were killed in Saran district while two died in Jamui and one in Bhojpur, they said.Eight people were also injured in Saran district and they are being treated at Chhapra Sadar Hospital, Superintendent of Police Hari Kishore Rai said.Chief Minister Nitish Kumar condoled the deaths and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the families of each of the deceased, an official release said.He prayed for the speedy recovery of those injured.“The loss of lives was comparatively less as people were indoors due to the lockdown,” Kumar was quoted as saying in the release.The chief minister urged the people to remain alert at times when the meteoroligical department has forecast bad weather and pay heed to advisories issued by the Disaster Management Department, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/12-killed-in-lightning-strikes-in-bihar/story-spAB8cBVTkHbONQZZpK8QK.html
26-04-2020||Ranchi||8 new Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand take state infection tally to 67||Eight more people tested positive for coronavirus in Jharkhand on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 67, health officials said.While five of these fresh cases were reported from Ranchi district, three were reported from Palamu district, they said.Palamu Deputy Commissioner Shantanu Kumar Agrahari said all three patients are from Lesliganj block of the district and have a travel history.All three of them were in quarantine after they returned to the state. Their test reports of their swab samples came back positive on Saturday, he said.So far, Jharkhand has reported two coronavirus deaths. Another person died after testing negative for the infection due to comorbidities, a Covid-19medical bulletin said.Ranchi has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the state at 42, followed by 10 in Bokaro, it said.Hazaribagh (3), Palamu (3), Dhanbad (2), Simdega (2), Giridih (1), Koderma (1), Deoghar (2) and Garhwa (1) are the other districts that have reported coronavirus cases, it added.So far, a total of 13 coronavirus patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/8-new-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-take-state-infection-tally-to-67/story-mOq46o4GWt116P5sKxsFzI.html
26-04-2020||Ranchi||13 Covid-19 patients have recovered in Jharkhand so far, says state health department||Thirteen COVID-19 patients have recovered in Jharkhand till now and the recovery ratio in this week was 18 per cent, the State Health Department said.Out of the total patients recovered, six are from Ranchi, four from Bokaro, two from Hazaribagh and one from Simdega. Meanwhile, the state has till April 25 reported 67 COVID-19 positive cases so far, according to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Total active cases in the state is 51 and there has been 2 deaths so far . The deaths due to comorbidites and other causes are 1.With 1,990 more COVID-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours, India’s count of coronavirus cases has reached 26,496, said Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/13-covid-19-patients-have-recovered-in-jharkhand-so-far-says-state-health-department/story-IR5pzhJK4Y53JF8WXpldjN.html
26-04-2020||Lucknow||Do not use Covid hospitals for any other medical needs: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said coronavirus patients should be treated only at the dedicated Covid hospitals and, at the same time, the staff of Covid hospitals must not attend to patients of any other ailments.Speaking at the Covid-19 management ‘Team-11’ meeting, Yogi ordered geo-tagging of all shelter homes, the way community kitchens were geo-tagged.The chief minister said: “It is very important to safeguard medical teams engaged in Covid-19 treatment. Under any circumstances, protect from infection the doctors, nurses, paramedics and other support staff engaged in coronavirus cure. So at the Covid hospitals, ensure stocks of more than sufficient PPE (personal protection equipment), N-95 masks and other similar paraphernalia. And at the same time, the Covid hospitals must be kept clean and sanitised all the time.”Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageHe said the dedicated team, formed for prevention of infections in hospitals, must keep a regular watch on the health of all those engaged in Covid treatment.Yogi asked additional chief secretary, revenue Renuka Kumar to get all shelter homes in the state geo-tagged the way community kitchens have been done. “Maintain details such as names, addresses, telephone numbers etc of all the people at the shelter homes and connect them on Aarogya Setu mobile app,” he said.Talking about pool testing, Yogi said it should be promoted as it would help in maximising tests for effective prevention of the virus’ spread. He said that biomedical waste -- Covid or otherwise -- must be disposed of carefully.“Because of some encouraging results, we should consider plasma therapy for treatment of Covid-19 patients,” he said.Yogi said social distancing must be ensured at all industrial units that have been allowed to operate, supply chain should continue to work effectively in future too and that a watch should be kept on health status of persons engaged in home deliveries. He also directed the officer to create a team of volunteers to spread social distancing awareness among people, maintain cleanliness at shelter homes and prepare a work-plan for facilitating jobs for people. “Do not allow any public gathering till June 30,” he told the officers.Yogi asked officers to encourage the use of RuPay and other cashless modes for transactions and create ‘customer service centres’ for providing all rural services at one place so that banks have less crowding.Chief secretary RK Tiwari, agriculture production commissioner Alok Sinha, infrastructure and industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon, additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, revenue Renuka Kumar; director general of police Hitesh Awasthi, principal secretary, medical education Dr Rajneesh Dubey, principal secretary, health Amit Mohan Prasad and other officers attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/do-not-use-covid-hospitals-for-any-other-medical-needs-yogi/story-ALOXS7QlfpC9HOxpJMg59L.html
26-04-2020||City||Hisar varsity designs app for locals to get help quick||The department of computer science of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, has designed an android application to streamline the process of food distribution. Through this app, NGOs and other corona warriors can know which family is in dire need of ration and which one has already been served. Elaborating about app, university spokesperson Bijender Dahiya said the app will also let small shopkeepers, fruit and vegetable vendors to receive orders online. He said this will help avoid unnecessary crowding outside the shops. Vice-chancellor Tankeshwar Kumar, who officially launched the app, said, “One can download this application for free from the google play store. There are two types of modules in this app. One is the “Easy Business” module, which is for shopkeepers, booksellers, chemist shops, fruit and vegetable vendors where they can create their account and receive orders. The second module is named “Easy”, which is designed for the customer, donor and corona warriors who are engaged in the delivery of requisite items. Payment can be made in cash as well online.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hisar-varsity-designs-app-for-locals-to-get-help-quick/story-4FXqtrYBVZp962GpPSzPuK.html
26-04-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police arrests over 10,000 people for violating Covid-19 lockdown||Uttarakhand police on Sunday arrested 391 more people for alleged violation of Covid-19 lockdown in the state, taking the total number of persons arrested so for the same to over 10,000, said police. On Sunday, a total of 39 cases were registered under section 188 of IPC for disobeying the government order on lockdown in which the 391 accused persons were arrested, said police. Ashok Kumar, director general (law & order) Uttarakhand police said, “So far the total cases registered in the state for the violation of the lockdown are 2,189 in which total 10,062 people have been arrested.”Kumar said, “Apart from the arrests, police have also seized total 5,296 vehicles and challaned 25,033 others under Motor Vehicles Act so far after they were found plying on the roads despite the prohibition on their movement during the lockdown.”“Police have also imposed a fine of total Rs 1.24 crore on the owners of vehicles against which action was taken in this lockdown,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-arrests-over-10-000-people-for-violating-covid-19-lockdown/story-fWW7gEwnFISIfxcs5M49gO.html
26-04-2020||Education||Bengal hasn’t received any communication from Centre on postponed exams: Edu minister||The West Bengal government has not received any official communication from the Ministry of Human Resource Development or the UGC about framing a guideline to hold examinations that have been postponed, state Education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Sunday.While the state universities have forwarded certain suggestions to the education department to ensure the academic future of the students was safeguarded, there has been no correspondence from the University Grants Commission (UGC) or the MHRD on chalking out an action plan about ways to conduct postponed semester examinations, he said.“I am clearly stating the state universities will take their decisions in the interest of students based on the discussion with the higher education department in light of the present situation,” Chatterjee said.“There has been no letter from either UGC or MHRD on the issue,” the minister added.He said the department is working in coordination with different state universities on the issue.Chatterjee also urged “a section of the media not to publish any news which will create confusion among students”, but did not elaborate.In a recent directive, UGC said universities and colleges would have to chalk out a plan of action to hold the postponed exams after getting the commissions guidelines.The state government has been asking the commission for sharing the report of its committees before going ahead with the recommendations given by it.The UGC, in a statement on April 25, said it has formed two committees to look into the issues being faced by the universities and colleges regarding teaching-learning processes, examinations, admissions, academic calendar and other related issues in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and nationwide lockdown, to avoid academic loss and take appropriate measures for the future of the students.“The first committee was given the responsibility to look into the issues related to examinations and academic calendar, whereas the second committee was asked to look into the issues related with promoting online education,” the UGC said.“It is further clarified that both the committees have submitted their reports on April 24 and the reports will be discussed in the UGC Commission meeting and based on the discussion of the committee, the UGC will issue guidance/advisories next week to the universities and colleges regarding the measures to be taken for the current academic session as well as next academic session,” the statement said.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee recently announced that universities will have to conduct only the last semester exams of final-year students and other semester exams for both undergraduate students would not be held this time.The semester exams were slated to take place in April-June.Banerjee made the announcement a day after the education minister held a meeting with vice-chancellors of different state universities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bengal-hasn-t-received-any-communication-from-centre-on-postponed-exams-edu-minister/story-PQnVxwsoYNahHTHSQFFDfM.html
26-04-2020||City||Woman dies after fire breaks out at Shimla’s Chirgaon||An 80-year-old woman died and seven houses and two temples were gutted in fire in Dugyani village of Chirgaon in Shimla district on Sunday.The deceased has been identified as Sodha Mani. The reason for the fire is yet to be ascertained.The fire broke out in the woman’s house and in no time spread in nearby houses.The villagers immediately informed the police and fire department who reached the spot and put out the fire within a few hours.Chirgaon station house officer Ashvani Kumar said that the cause of the fire and total loss are being ascertained.Governor Bandaru Dattatraya and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur have expressed grief over the death of the woman in the fire incident.CM assured help to those whose houses were gutted in the fire. After receiving the report of the incident, he immediately directed the district administration to start rescue operations and providing immediate relief to the families besides making arrangements for their food and shelter. Interim relief has been provided to the affected families. They have been shifted to another place and a community kitchen has also been established.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/woman-dies-after-fire-breaks-out-at-shimla-s-chirgaon/story-tZgFsbcsg2u9MsYmBY8RSL.html
26-04-2020||Education||National Digital Library opens up its digital contents; builds Covid-19 research repository||The National Digital Library of India has opened up its 3.5 crore-strong digital contents, such as e-books, questions papers and solutions, lecture materials and thesis among others to help students study at home.Also it has built a repository named ‘Covid-19 research resource repository’ to bring in latest research materials from across the world – a kind of a single window access to various types of materials related to Covid-19, be it data, research work, videos, challenges and funds.“During the lockdown, when schools and colleges are all closed. But students will need to study. Hence NDLI is opening up its contents to students, researchers, teachers and learners of all ages. Students can now access 3.5 crore digital contents in various languages,” said PP Chakrabarti, principal investigator of the library and a professor of computer science and engineering at IIT Kharagpur.The NDLI is the largest online library in the country especially for academic purposes. It was set up by the union human resource development ministry (MHRD) under its National Mission on Education through Information and Communication Technology (NMEICT) and is run and managed by IIT Kharagpur.Out of the 3.5 crore digital content, while 2.7 crore were open access document, another 77 lakh digital content has been made freely accessible to NDLI users through national license by MHRD. “The 3.5 crore strong digital content includes a wide range of materials in the form of e-books, audio books, lecture materials, thesis, reports, articles, journal papers, questions papers, solutions, data and simulation tools in addition to otherwise popular formats of video lectures and courses,” he added.The library has also put up a special button called ‘Corona Outbreak: Study from Home” that contains specially curated materials for school and college students covering Engineering, Science, Management, Humanities and Law.“While these are for students, for people interested in ongoing research work around the world on Covid-19, we have set up the repository. Already around 40,000 research-related work and documents have been uploaded,” said PP Das, a professor of computer science engineering and the joint principal investigator of NDLI.The repository may be used for literature survey, to access data to carry out experiments, to study reports, to look at videos, to know about journals and conferences for carrying out research on Covid-19 and its induced effects and to design related activities.Innovators, incubators and entrepreneurs may use it for ideation, to identify challenges, to look around funding options and to plan for startup around Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/national-digital-library-opens-up-its-digital-contents-builds-covid-19-research-repository/story-36M8asvDd9GSMiKXTMDN4H.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown helped Maharashtra contain coronavirus spread, says Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that the state has succeeded in slowing down the spread of coronavirus due to the lockdown and he will review the situation before taking any decision on giving relaxations. He also said that this is not an appropriate time for politics but some people are doing it when the state is in deep crisis. However, he didn’t name anyone.Thackeray was addressing the state live through various social media platforms.“Due to lockdown we have succeeded in the slowing down the spread of the epidemic. To an extent, the situation in the state is under control if compared with the other countries where cases are found multiplying on daily basis. This has become possible because of lockdown,” the chief minister said.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageHe said that the state government is considering to give further relaxations after May 3 but the decision is yet to be taken. “I will review and decide what more relaxations can be given after May 3. But one thing is for sure, we will have to avoid crowding,” Thackeray said indicating that restrictions are likely to continue in some areas of the state even after May 3 when nationwide lockdown is going to end.The chief minister also said that politics have to be kept aside at this point of time. “If we start doing politics now than we don’t need any other enemy. Elections will come and pass, power will also not remain forever but if we lose a life today, it is not going to come back. Do not indulge in low level politics, though some are still trying to do it,” he said and expressed gratitude for union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari for urging the Maharashtra politicians to cooperate with the state government and not to indulge in politics. The chief minister also urged Muslim community to stay at home while observing the fast and prayers in the holy month of Ramzan. “I urge all my Muslim brothers to continue to cooperate with the government. Do not gather for mass prayers at mosques or any other place. Stay at home and perform prayers inside,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-helped-maharashtra-contain-coronavirus-spread-says-uddhav-thackeray/story-TCBo0jhfOz9uI7UYPb3WvK.html
26-04-2020||City||12-year-old commits suicide after being scolded for playing PUBG||The body of a 12-year-old boy was recovered from the Bhakra canal near Shutrana on the Nabha-Patiala road on Sunday in what police say is a case of suicide. He had left home on April 20 after being scolded for playing online multiplayer game PUBG.A Class 7 student in a private school, he lived in Bharat Nagar colony. Model town police station in-charge Ronnie Singh said the boy was missing since April 20 after he left home at around 4pm.“His father told the police that since the Covid-19 lockdown the boy had started playing PUBG regularly. On April 20, furious at being scolded by his family members for playing the game for several hours, he left home at 1.30 pm, but was traced by them and brought back,” Singh said.On the same day, however, after he went out again in the evening his family members registered a missing complaint with the police after they could not find him, Singh said. When CCTV footage scans by police showed the boy walking towards the canal, located about 500 metres from his residence, a team of divers was called to the spot but he could not be found.“On Sunday, after receiving information from Shutrana that a child’s body had been recovered the police team and the family members rushed there and identified the body,” Singh said.Inquest proceedings have been started under Section 174 of the CrPC on the basis of the family’s statements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/12-year-old-commits-suicide-after-being-scolded-for-playing-pubg/story-VpUQID8sLg295hy2QkD3uK.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||Coronavirus doesn’t discriminate, affects everyone: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal appeals for plasma donation||Delhi chief minister on Sunday made an emotional appeal to people who have recovered from the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to donate their plasma for those fighting for their lives.The chief minister, while addressing a press conference through video, said he is personally talking to people who had recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma. “If a Hindu patient is very critical and his life is saved by the plasma of Muslim and vice versa. When God made the world, he made humans and all of them have two eyes, the same body and red blood with the same plasma in all,” the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader added.The walls and differences between people are man-made, he said. भगवान ने जब दुनिया बनाई थी तो उन्होंने इंसान बनाए थे, दीवारें तो हमने बनाई।अगर हमारे देश के सब लोग मिलकर प्यार मोहब्बत से काम करेंगे तो हमारे देश के आगे सारी दुनिया को झुकना पड़ेगा। pic.twitter.com/AZXACJBERl“Corona affects everyone. It does not distinguish between Hindu and Muslim. And, if the plasma from your body saves someone then a Hindus’s plasma can save a Muslim and a Muslim’s can save a Hindu,” he said.“We can learn from this corona disease. If all people of our country, Hindus, Muslims, Sikh, Christians and Buddhists work together with love and amity, no one can defeat this country,” he said.“But if we keep fighting there is no way out… If anyone of us ever feels any animosity towards people belonging to another community, we must remind ourselves that we might need the plasma of a person from a different religion in order to survive.”Also Read: Delhi will implement Centre’s guidelines on reopening of shops, says KejriwalConvalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma, which contains the virus-fighting antibodies, from people who have recovered from the infection to treat those who are severely ill with Covid-19. Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/coronavirus-doesn-t-discriminate-affects-everyone-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-appeals-for-plasma-donation/story-U7B9RZ4euQzLaLUeyo4zHJ.html
26-04-2020||Education||IIT Kharagpur creates online forum to reach out to stranded foreign students at institute||The IIT Kharagpur has created an online forum to help stranded foreign students at the institute share their problems faced during the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, a spokesperson of the institute said on Sunday.The Office of International Relations (OIR) is reaching out to the foreign students and is also sharing academic information on the forum, he said.The institute is presently hosting students and post- doctoral fellows from Afghanistan, Bhutan, Colombia, Ethiopia, France, Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria, Russia, South Korea, Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe, the spokesperson said.The OIR is also helping the students get an extension of their visas and is processing their scholarships so that they don’t face difficulties during the lockdown, he said.“Several foreign students are getting financial aid under international programmes run by us and outreach bodies of the Centre. We have ensured that they receive their scholarships on time.“We have assured them that they have nothing to worry and like other students of the institute, the IIT Kharagpur campus is their home away from home,” Associate Dean of International Relations, Professor Anandaroop Bhattacharya said.Tamim Boubou, studying MTech in Control System Engineering in the Department of Electrical Engineering, was planning to go home to Syria during the summer recess.But he is now utilising his time attending online video lectures.“The online video classes are interactive and helpful,” he said.The institute, through its official social media handle, is also networking with its alumni to reach out to current students, who got stranded in countries they had gone to for academic activities, the spokesperson said.A few days back, a student who had gone to the US for an internship, had tweeted seeking help from Indian authorities after getting stranded there, he said.The student’s friends from the IIT Kharagpur helped her get connected to the IIT KGP Foundation, the alumni body of the institute in the US, which is now helping her, the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/iit-kharagpur-creates-online-forum-to-reach-out-to-stranded-foreign-students-at-institute/story-QjA4Mz7DxzirZRisOmG6xJ.html
26-04-2020||Other||Caddies at Lucknow golf club struggling to make ends meet||If eking out a livelihood was tough in a city that’s a speck on the country’s golfing map, the lockdown has made survival tougher for the 200 caddies at the Lucknow Golf Club. Even when normalcy prevails and the golf course is busy, caddies find it difficult to make ends meet. Carrying a bag over nine holes yields just R120 and R240 for a complete round over 18 holes. Tips, if any, are a bonus. A month into the lockdown and their paltry savings all but gone, desperation is taking over. While some are into odd jobs like fixing punctures, others have taken to sewing clothes.With the pandemic showing no signs of subsiding, lives and plans are on hold. “I was to get married in May but have had to put it off since I’m struggling to meet daily expenses,” said Rishi, a caddie.Like most in his profession, Rishi hails from the Martinpurwa village, which also has a tradition of producing quality golfers like Vijay Kumar, the 2002 Indian Open champion, and Sanjay Kumar, a two-time winner on the Professional Golf Tour of India.ALSO READ: HT SPECIAL - TOP SPORTSPERSONS TALK ABOUT LIFE IN LOCKDOWNThe golf club has stepped in with secretary, Rajnish Chopra, saying “the club was giving out food packets and R1000 per month and the efforts would continue for the next three months”.The relief might be enough for smaller households but not for Suresh’s family of six. Being the eldest son, the caddie-turned-golfer has other responsibilities, and that could mean putting his dream on hold. “I was about to start my amateur career and play some key tournaments across the country, but the present situation has made it tough,” said Suresh. There is repentance that unlike many in the village, he did not focus enough on academics. “Perhaps, I too could have got a government job and a secure future,” said Suresh.Under the circumstances, Vijay Kumar, who runs the pro shop at the club, warned that the sport could lose out on talent.“Many of the young caddies have the potential to become good professionals, but in the current scenario many of them of them could quit the game and move on.” Sanjay Kumar echoed the sentiment and urged more patrons to step in. “As caddies, these boys know only this sport. Without financial help, their future hangs in balance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/other-sports/caddies-at-lucknow-golf-club-struggling-to-make-ends-meet/story-cfnxYhs05G8GfZtJQ48tGP.html
26-04-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh doctors fear Indore’s Covid-19 strain deadlier than others||Doctors treating COVID-19 cases in Indore say a more virulent strain may be wrecking havoc in the city, which has emerged as the coronavirus hotspot in Madhya Pradesh.They say samples from Indore, where COVID-19 has killed 57 people, will be sent to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) to confirm their apprehensions of the strain being deadlier than in other parts of the country.“We have a feeling the strain is definitely more virulent in Indore belt. We have discussed this with the NIV and will be sending samples for them to compare by extraction of virus genome, Dean of Government Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Medical College Jyoti Bindal told PTI.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“There are also other factors also for the high fatality rate, like patients turning up at the hospitals late,” she said. “In Indore belt, the testing is confined to coronavirus detection only, and not its type, another doctor said.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 update: Cases reach 2,096, Indore has half of themJitendra Bhargava, director of the state government- run School of Excellence in Pulmonary Medicine, also shared Bindals concern, saying the high mortality rate in Indore needs to be investigated through viral culture and RNA extraction.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakIt is also true that the mortality rate is high in patients who had comorbidities (presence of additional conditions along with the primary condition) like cardiac and renal problems or diabetes and hypertension besides other immunity-compromising conditions, he said.“The novel coronavirus is posing a big challenge due to multiple strains. This will make the development of a universal vaccine much more difficult,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-doctors-fear-indore-s-covid-19-strain-deadlier-than-others/story-bqz65df0uL4eJJOVEkkqQO.html
26-04-2020||Entertainment||‘Digital concert is going to be the space post-lockdown’||Singer-composer Harshit Saxena is busy exploring the digital space which he feels is the future of the music industry, post-lockdown scenario. Media shy that he was post lockdown; currently he is just going with the flow and enjoying live sessions across various platforms.“I used to keep away from social media. Before lockdown, I have never attempted any Facebook or Instagram Live sessions. I even avoided video calls but then you need to go with the tide. I recently did my first FB and Insta live and to tell you honestly I’m liking it too,” says the ‘Haal-e-Dil’ singer.The Lucknowite understands that in coming months things will be no different as real shows and concerts will not happen any time soon. “I had two concerts lined up in Kanpur and Unnao but the country went into lockdown and rightly so! For performers, like us who are part of public shows, it’s going to be tough time ahead. Given the scenario, public events won’t take place for another few months. Film projects will also take time. Also, what little rental income we had has been blocked due to government order. So, it’s a tough phase.”He feels professionally well-organised ticketed digital concerts are going to be the next big thing. “It will be safe, have global reach, win-win situation for performers, organisers and audience as this social distancing norm is here to stay for long,” he says.He is taking his quarantine days all easy, “Thankfully my parents had come here before Holi and had stayed back. I am also helping my mother in dusting and household work. Also tried mopping the floor and trust me I was sweating like anything.”He is missing his gym badly. “I was on path of achieving six-packs abs for my private album song shoot. It’s going to be a tough task now!” Harshit’s last film as solo music director was ‘Sab Kushal Mangal’ and next as composer is multi-starrer ‘Utawle Bawle’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/digital-concert-is-going-to-be-the-space-post-lockdown/story-BLukxbafBh3i4DVzMB6fCJ.html
26-04-2020||Entertainment||‘I am cooking food and stories...’||Writer-actor Manu Rishi Chadha is currently enjoying the success of his last release with Ayushmann Khurrana in the lead. “What a fun film it was! And I am absolutely thrilled with the response ‘Shubh Mangal Zyada Savdhaan’ received across mediums. My role of ‘Chaman Tripathi’ went down well with the audience. This was full-fledged role that made me totally content as an upcoming actor,” he said.Best remembered for his dialogue-writing and acting in the film ‘Oye Lucky! Lucky Oye!’ and OTT series ‘Inside Edge’, he feels that the right filmmakers will always know what they want from their actors, “Filmmakers like Dibakar Banerjee, Anand L Rai and Hitesh Kewalya are so confident of their craft and pattern of storytelling that it becomes easy for an actor to perform. And yes, they very well know the potential of their cast and crew! This is a plus for actors like us who are trying to make mark in acting.”When asked has the writing taken a back seat for now, Rishi is quick to revert, “Once a writer always a writer. I am making most of this lockdown, you can say I am cooking both food and stories these days. Two film scripts are complete and work on my web series is in final stages. Acting is something I enjoy the most so I asked all my acquaintances in the industry for a role. That is bearing result now when I am getting good roles to act.”Rishi believes we that this is best time to show empathy, “I am so proud of the entire industry the way they have come forward in such times. Like my friend Deepak (Dobriyal) said that he will help his staff even if he has to take a loan. ‘Sab khuddar hai…’ I remember when I asked my staff to a break and tried paying them advance salaries they downright refused saying ‘Kaam kare bina nai chahiye...’ It amazed me to see such sincerity.”For his last release Rishi shot in Varanasi he says, “Varanasi was truly enjoyable. Ghats, its food, paan and dhaba tea made those days more memorable for all. The best part is we actors of ‘SMZS’ still continue to have a What’sApp group with name of Tripathis’ and chat most of the time.”He next release will be seen in ‘Laxmmi Bomb’ with none other than superstar Akshay Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/entertainment/i-am-cooking-food-and-stories/story-PakdlF7RRoMrxzaD13qtHM.html
26-04-2020||Lucknow||Lucknow doctor donates plasma after recovering from Covid-19 for treating patients||Tauseef Khan, a resident doctor at the KGMU in Lucknow who recently defeated COVID-19, began the holy month of Ramzan, which is considered a time for giving, by donating his plasma for treatment of others suffering from the deadly disease.Khan, in his late 20s, contracted coronavirus from a patient while working at the King George’s Medical University and tested positive for the infection on March 17.He was discharged from the hospital on April 7 and is now back at work after a 14-day home quarantine.“Dr D Himanshu of Medicine Department, who is looking after the treatment of COVID-19 patients, asked me if I wanted to become the first plasma donor (of KGMU). I immediately said yes as nothing could be greater than being able to save the life of a patient in the holy month of Ramzan,” Khan said.He said he observed his first ‘roza’ on Saturday and gave his blood after consulting clerics whether it is permissible to do so while fasting.Head of Transfusion Medicine, KGMU, Tulika Chandra told PTI, “The work on administering medical treatment to COVID-19 patients through plasma therapy began on Saturday.” “In this context, the blood sample of Dr Tauseef Khan, a resident doctor who had recovered from COVID-19, was taken for testing. In the test, the condition of the antibodies was found quite good,” she said.Chandra said, “In the evening, the process of extracting plasma from his body started, and almost 500 millilitres of plasma was extracted. The process took almost one-and-half hour.” She said Khan’s plasma will be administered on Monday or Tuesday to a patient who is in a serious condition and in whose case medicines aren’t working.“The patient will be given 200 millilitres of plasma. In other words, plasma donated by one patient (who has recovered from COVID-19) can be used for the treatment of two patients. If there is no positive result after the first 200 millilitres of plasma has been infused, then another 200 millilitres is infused,” she elaborated.Asked about the chances of success of plasma therapy, Chandra said, “It seems that the chances of (success of) plasma therapy are good, and it is for this reason that this therapy is gradually being adopted across the country for treatment of COVID-19 patients. We are hopeful that KGMU will emerge successful in plasma therapy.” On April 21, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had asked the state’s medical authorities to promote plasma therapy for the treatment of COVID-19 patients after examining its efficacy.Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recently allowed states to start clinical trials of plasma therapy.Several states like Kerala, Gujarat and Punjab have already started using it for treatment of coronvairus patients.Convalescent Plasma Therapy is an experimental procedure for COVID-19 patients.In this treatment, plasma from a cured COVID-19 patient is transfused to a critically ill coronavirus patient.The idea behind this therapy is that immunity can be transferred from a healthy person to a sick patient using convalescent plasma. This therapy uses antibodies from the blood of a cured coronavirus patient to treat another critical patient.The recovered COVID-19 patient’s blood develops antibodies to battle against COVID-19. Once the blood of the recovered patient is infused to the second patient, those antibodies will start fighting against coronavirus in the second person’s body.The process of donating plasma is similar to donating blood and takes about an hour.Several countries around the world, including the United Kingdom and the United States have also started plasma therapy trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/lucknow-doctor-donates-plasma-after-recovering-from-covid-19-for-treating-patients/story-Sk0wjZ3HImSSUAHNmZIr9I.html
26-04-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to organise passage for migrant workers: Gehlot||Migrant workers will now be able to go out of Rajasthan and those in other states can come back in a phased manner after his government coordinated with others, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday evening.Ashok Gehlot said the state government wants to send all migrants workers to their homes safely and expected their support.“If anyone violates rules, there will be strict action," the chief minister said.The comments came after Gehlot addressed a high-level meeting on this issue from his residence through video conference.Chief secretary DB Gupta said he was coordinating with his counterparts in other states to ensure safe passage to migrant workers. Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana have already initiated the process to bring back migrant labourers stranded in other states after the lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus pandemic was imposed in March till April 14 and then extended till May 3.Also read: UP starts bringing back migrant workersUnion cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba met chief secretaries of the states on Saturday to talk about the thousands of workers, currently in migrant labour camps around India who want to return home, among other things.With no interstate travel being allowed and passenger trains not running, several states have suggested running special trains to transport these workers. At Saturday’s meeting, some states including Punjab, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal asked the Centre to set a protocol for such movements.RegistrationGehlot said the migrant workers will have to register themselves on emitra.rajasthan.gov.in portal, e-mitra mobile app or e-mitra kiosk, or at helpline number 18001806127. After registration, his government will seek permission from the respective state and will make arrangement for their return on a particular day and time according to the number of workers, said a release from chief minister's office.Migrant workers or other emigrants coming from outside in their private vehicles with curfew pass will be allowed into Rajasthan after registration at the entry points and will be quarantined after reaching their destinations. Also read: 19 buses to take 653 migrant workers to their hometowns from GurugramSimilarly, collectors in Rajasthan will issue curfew passes to people of other states going back in their private vehicles.Gehlot said it was a challenge to send migrant workers to their states and protocol will have to be followed. He directed officials to ensure that migrants followed social distancing and other health norms as they leave for home in the next few days.He said the quarantine period and curfew rules should be implemented strictly without any discrimination on the basis of caste.Also read: After month’s wait, migrants in Haryana finally on way homeHe appealed to villagers to inform local administration about people coming from outside so that quarantine rules can be ensured and 'tapasya' of Rajasthanis for so many days doesn't go waste.Following protocolsThe chief minister directed officials to ensure sufficient arrangement for screening the workers for influenza-like symptoms such as fever and cold and cough.The transport department should ensure enough buses and district administrations should make arrangements for temporary shelter and food etc state's borders, Gehlot said. Buses and shelters should be sanitised.The chief minister said migrant workers coming in from outside should stay under home quarantine as much as possible. For those who cannot follow this, the district administration should organise institutional quarantine facilities, he said.Gehlot said everyone should keep all identity documents and documents related to Covid-19 tests, if done, with them, and should produce them when asked, without any fear or hesitation."Don't hide information about contact with a Covid-19 positive patient or any symptoms of the disease," he appealed to the people.The government is tracking everyone in quarantine through the Covid-19 info app. If anyone goes outside the quarantine area, they will face actionRajasthan reported 49 new cases on Saturday, taking the state's Covid-19 toll to 2,083. There have been 34 deaths in the state even as 513 people recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-to-organise-passage-for-migrant-workers-gehlot/story-Zfwvtuo0Bq4b5PgvTnnMtM.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||Parts of Delhi-NCR wake up to light rain||Several parts of Delhi and the national capital region (NCR) received light rain showers early Sunday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had on Saturday predicted that the region would experience gusty winds and lightning. Light rain due to moisture influx from the Arabian sea and low-level easterly winds remain likely in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana till Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. Rain is predicted in the region till Tuesday and dry weather forecast after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/parts-of-delhi-ncr-wake-up-to-light-rain/story-OKCp5TKlwbRKeA2BXduweL.html
26-04-2020||Patna||Covid-19 positive cases in Bihar reach 242 as 8 districts report fresh cases||Bihar reported 19 more Covid-19 positive cases, raising the state’s tally to 242.New cases were reported from Rohtas, Kaimur, Vaishali, Arwal, Buxar, Saran and Patna districts.Of all the cases detected, the men were aged between 17 and 50 years, while the females were between 15 and 20 years.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicFriday had seen the highest single-day surge in the number of positive cases, since the first three Covid-19 cases were reported on March 22, with Munger alone reporting 31 Covid-19 patients. On Friday, the number of positive cases was 223. However, the number of deaths in the state is just two so far.Bihar’s health secretary Sanjay Kumar in his first tweet on Saturday morning said: “1st update of the day. 5 more covid-19 positive case in Bihar taking the total to 228…” Kumar in his tweet said while thee male positive cases were reported from Rohtas and Kurtha (Arwal), two cases of females testing positive came from Arwal and Bhojpur. He said the health department was ascertaining their infection trail. #BiharFightsCorona 1st update of the day.5 more covid-19 +ve case in bihar taking the total to 228. 2-males 27,55 years rohtas/1-male 35 years kurtha,arwal/1-female 20 ara,bhojpur/1-female revilganj saran.we are ascertaining their infection trail.In his second tweet, Kumar said 10 more positive cases took the tally to 238. While five Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Kaimur, four from Buxar and one from Patna. #BiharFightsCorona 2nd update of the day.10 more covid-19 +ve case in bihar taking the total to 238. 5-kaimur/4-buxar/1-patna.we are ascertaining their infection trail.details are as below. pic.twitter.com/9nDNc6OP7GIn the evening in his third tweet he said one more case was detected from Khajpura (Patna), taking the total cases to 239. However, his fourth tweet pushed the figures to 242.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakCivil surgeon, Kaimur, Dr Arun Kumar Tiwari, said six persons, including three police constables and two compounders of a private doctor besides another of Chainpur, were found positive. The 17-year-old male found positive today was linked to the Chainpur family of which seven members tested positive on Thursday, he said.With two more positive cases reported from Patna’s hotspot Khajpura, where two men (35 and 24) tested positive, the total number of cases in the marked containment zone rose to 10. Ward number 4 in Khajpura locality of Patna, affecting a population of 2,340, has already been declared a containment zone. The cases were all linked to the contact tracing of a 32-year-old woman, who tested positive and was undergoing treatment at the AIIMS-Patna.Of the eight people who tested positive at Khajpura on Thursday, six are family members of an employee of CMS, a firm which replenishes cash at ATMs. Two others were his tenants.Meanwhile, despite Saturday being a holiday, the district administration got the bank at Dak Bungalow opened and collected samples of about 35 employees, where a Covid-19 positive patient was found on Friday.The district administration officials in a press release in the evening said to contain the corono virus infection, till now 4,28,741 household had been surveyed, in which 914 teams had been deployed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/covid-19-positive-cases-in-bihar-reach-242-as-8-districts-report-fresh-cases/story-AhlfDpnqIngHzc7vO65GPL.html
26-04-2020||City||7 labourers booked for killing farmer in Dadri||A 35-year-old farmer was allegedly killed by seven labourers in the fields of Tikan Kalan village in Dadri.The deceased was identified as Kashmir Singh of the same village.The victim’s brother, Praveen Kumar, said that Kashmir had gone to bring wheat crop residue along with seven labourers on Friday night.“In the early hours of Saturday, my father found Kashmir’s body lying in the fields. He was hit in the head and injury marks were clearly visible. Then, we tried to call the labourers but their phones were switched off,” he added.Dadri Sadar police station SHO Narender Singh said that they have registered a case under Sections 147 (punishment for rioting),148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon),149 (every member who is part of an unlawful assembly) and 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal code against Hulashi Ram, Nilesh Kumar,Bhagwan Dass, Ajay Paswas, Surjmal , Raja Ram and Girdhari Dal. “ The farmer’s dead body was handed over to his family members following autopsy. We have launched a manhunt to nab the accused,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-labourers-booked-for-killing-farmer-in-dadri/story-xNhDVxUWLTn3QZxYfsiNaL.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC gears up for plasma therapy, patient identified||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is ready to start plasma therapy for eligible coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients. A patient at Lilavati Hospital has been identified for the first plasma transfusion in Maharashtra, according to sources, and the process is likely to be carried out on Sunday. A plasmapheresis — removal, treatment, and return or exchange of blood plasma — machine has been installed at Nair Hospital.The convalescent plasma therapy aims at using antibodies from the blood of a recovered Covid-19 patient to treat those infected. The therapy can also be used to immunise those at a high risk of contracting the virus such as health workers, families of patients and other high-risk contracts. Three units of plasma from recovered patients are already collected, sources said. Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department, BMC, said, “Patients’ blood group is getting matched. Five more recovered Covid-19 patients have been screened to donate plasma. Other recovered Covid-19 patients are being contacted, so that more severely ill patients can benefit from plasma therapy.”Last week, the state had sought permission from the Centre to start clinical trials of plasma therapy and Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Kerala and Delhi have already got permission to conduct the trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-gears-up-for-plasma-therapy-patient-identified/story-odNwhP4GSYkJjK4z0PF9LK.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to allow standalone shops to operate||Haryana government would allow standalone shops in rural and urban areas, except those in containment zones, to operate amid the lockdown.Chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora said the Haryana government would follow Centre’s instructions in the context. “The Ministry of Home Affair’s clarification is clear. We would give permissions to only small and standalone shops - not in market places - in the urban and rural area. There would also be no permission to open any shops in containment zones in the state,” she said.Senior health officials there were 93 containment zones, mainly in the four districts-- Nuh, 43, Gurugram and Faridabad, 14 each, Palwal, four, Karnal, six, Panchkula, three, Yamunanagar, two and one each in a few other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-to-allow-standalone-shops-to-operate/story-zOjKohTKL9v7gu0pwNveSJ.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||Hindu Rao Hospital shut after nurse tests positive, probe likely soon||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation decided to temporarily shut down its biggest hospital, Hindu Rao, at Malka Ganj after one of its nurses tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday evening.The hospital is spread across 14.3 acres and is a designated ‘Covid screening centre’ by the Delhi government and is currently not conducting any surgeries. Only a few departments like gynaecology, medicine and partially the pediatrics department is functioning here right now.The north body commissioner, Varsha Joshi, said on Saturday, “Late evening, a nurse on duty at HRH is found positive. Since she has been on duty in various locations within the campus over the last two weeks, we are closing down the hospital till we fully sanitise it and complete contact tracing. Only some patients are admitted right now in gynae ward, we will make appropriate arrangements for them.” Senior officers of the corporation said that the nurse had developed fever about one week ago but was still called for duty. “She met so many doctors and nurses in between at the hospital, all will have to be quarantined.”Joshi said, “There appears to be definite negligence at some level here. It’s too early to pinpoint exactly who are responsible since we came to know only now. We will have a thorough inquiry into this aspect and we will not spare those responsible.”It was learnt that the nurse is about 30 years old and had been recently shifted from one of the AYUSH dispensaries to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hindu-rao-hospital-shut-after-nurse-tests-positive-probe-likely-soon/story-OY5f89MBLvnD4BJfIKLdNI.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||They beat the virus, but Covid anxiety still haunts survivors||Rohit Dutta, 45, the first person in Delhi to be diagnosed with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on March 2, bounced back and returned home on March 14. He quickly went back to his daily routine of aerobics and yoga . He has no breathing difficulty of fatigue.“In the hospital, I had a mild fever of 99.5(Fahrenheit) and really bad cough for several days, but there were no symptoms at all after that. I feel very healthy and very lucky to have survived an infection that is killing so many others around the world,” said Dutta.But the illness, and the fact that he got infected without knowing about it, has made him anxious. He prefers to stay in his room, and is visibly nervous when he gets follow-up calls from authorities who want to make sure he hasn’t been reinfected. Safdarjung hospital’s Dr Huda -- who wants to be identified just by her last name -- did not have severe symptoms when she tested positive. “One day I could not get up from my bed, I was drained and had body ache. That is when I got tested and the result turned out to be positive. Other than that, I just had some cough for a day and half” she said.She has been upset by the reaction of others, though. “Everyone is scared and anxious and even after I have recovered and completed my quarantine, people still want to stay away, they don’t want to talk. The other day, when my neighbour saw me on the balcony he went inside,” she said.Dr Mohinder Sadana, 62, and his wife Dr Poonam Sadana, 61, both had almost no symptoms when they tested positive and say they feel “100% fit”. They exercise for an hour each morning. “I have no fatigue, no weakness. Nothing at all. And, even when we tested positive my symptoms were milder than a flu,”he said. Other than anxiety and some stigma , many people in Delhi who have recovered from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) show none of the long-term lung and health damage the disease is known to have. The Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, belongs to the family of at least 39 known species of coronavirus, seven of which can infect humans. There has been a lot of research on the long-term impact , especially after hospitalisation, for coronavirus diseases such as the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), and Covid-19. According to this research, people who recover may have impaired lung function, reduced exercise capability, and psychological disorders including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, and anxiety even six months after recovery.A yet to be published study by researchers in the United Kingdom looked at 18 studies and found that the diffusing capacity of the lung – or its ability to perform gaseous exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide -- was considerably low six months of infection. All but one of the 18 studies involved SARS patients, which was not as infectious as Covid-19, but deadlier, according to researchers. The other study was on MERS. The authors said healthcare systems should prepare for long-term health effects, according to the study published in the pre-print server medRxiv.Although the patients who have recovered from Covid-19 in Delhi might not be showing long term symptoms, doctors believe there might still be damage to the lungs.“Certainly, there could be some long-term damage. What we have seen so far is that the clinical symptoms do not match the radiological diagnosis. A patient might be very comfortable, but their x-rays show damage to the lungs, which will take time to recover,” said Dr Amit Kohli, intensive care specialist from Lok Nayak hospital, which is handling the highest number and the most serious Covid-19 cases in the city.Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences and the chair of the committee advising the chief minister of Delhi on Covid-19 said, “Around 20% of the patients, despite having very mild or no symptoms, will have lung lesions and low-degree pneumonia. That is a very large number.”Doctors who analysed the clinical symptoms of the first 21 patients at Safdarjung hospital suggested following up the patients to check for lung fibrosis, which is caused due to damage and scarring of the lungs.“The long-term impact on diffusion capability of the lungs is possible as we know that the viral infection attacks the interstitial tissues (a lace-like structure that supports the alveoli or air sacs in the lungs). These tissues help in the gas exchange, meaning patients with damaged tissues will be breathless,” said Dr Nitesh Gupta, department of pulmonary medicine at Safdarjung hospital.As for the psychological impact, it will have more to do with “social exclusion and economic hardship,” according to Dr Nimesh Desai, director, Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences. “I think PTSD is an overrated American concept.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/they-beat-the-virus-but-covid-anxiety-still-haunts-survivors/story-esp0QBzCUqs8f64wju1rJJ.html
26-04-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 tests row: Gurugram lab stands by results, dares govt to re-examine samples||A week after a Gurugram-based private lab’s Covid-19 reports sparked controversy, the testing facility has stood by its past result and challenged that the samples can be checked again at any other laboratory.Addressing a video conference with the media here on Saturday, SRL Diagnostics said the patients’ RNA samples with them can be tested again at National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, or All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. “We have re-tested the same samples using the RNA extracts stored with us under the recommended guidelines by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and the same turned out positive again. So, we stand by the past results.”“When the health department officials visited us, we explained them the whole process. We are ready to provide them with the same RNA extracts to re-test the samples at NIV, AIIMS or any other lab,” said Dr Anurag Bansal, SRL Gurugram lab operations director.Dr Anurag pointed out the various factors that affect the samples. “Testing depends upon various factors, such as the amount of time an individual was exposed before specimen collection, shedding of virus at the time sample was taken and conditions in which the same was collected, packaged and transported. Also, there can be disparities because of the sensitivity of the testing machine that can detect the virus in only 67% of the cases,” he added.Meanwhile, SRL Limited CEO Arindam Haidar expressed hope that the state government will reverse its decision and allow testing of samples at the private lab again.The private lab had come under the scanner after Haryana health minister Anil Vij on April 20 had banned Covid-19 testing at the testing facility, and subsequently ordered an inquiry, after four patients had tested negative within 24 hours of their infection confirmation by the lab.Ambala chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Kuldeep Singh and his counterpart in Gurugram were appointed to probe the cases in their districts.Meanwhile, Vij said, “I have apprised the Union health minister about the case and expressed that the lab’s varied results can create problems. He has accepted my request to get an ICMR probe conducted in the case.”Stating that repeated tests of the patients’ samples conducted at different government labs turned out negative, the CMO observed, “The private lab should not have re-tested the samples on its own. If they wanted to challenge the results, the samples should have been sent to some other government or private lab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-tests-row-gurugram-lab-stands-by-results-dares-govt-to-re-examine-samples/story-TYKn6KTUrxsv51ZasE7llM.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||Online math lessons for class 9 students in Delhi amid lockdown 2.0||The Delhi government on Saturday announced an online mathematics learning programme for nearly three lakh class 9 students, one of the several digital initiatives that the AAP dispensation has launched to help students continue their studies during the national lockdown to stop the spread of Covid-19.Delhi education Minister Manish Sisodia announced the initiative during a session of “parenting in the time of Corona”. “The lockdown has hampered the studies of our students and so, our education department has been trying to introduce new ways (like online classes) to reduce this impact on the studies of the students and help them cope with the loss in academic activities,” he said. Schools across the city are have been shut for more than a month.To be run in collaboration with a non-profit organisation, Khan Academy, students would be sent links to mathematics lessons designed by Khan Academy though SMS from Monday. The links will have videos of lessons as well as activities for the students based on the topics mentioned in the lessons.Shailendra Sharma, senior advisor to education minister, said mathematics has always been a major challenge for government school students. “Last year, when we examined the class 10 board exam results we found that while the overall pass percentage was 97%, only 71% students had passed in mathematics. The pass percentage was 57% in mathematics in class 9. Keeping that in mind we decided to collaborate with Khan Academy, which will produce online study material for our students.”Sandeep Bapna, managing director of Khan Academy India, said it will be a 10-week-long programme. “Starting Monday, the parents will receive an SMS with a link to that day’s micro lesson. It will have two or three videos and a couple of exercises,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/online-math-lessons-for-class-9-students-in-delhi-amid-lockdown-2-0/story-MpeDJk6ly5IP73hTDgYXCI.html
26-04-2020||City||Yamunanagar jail inmate dies in hospital, kin allege negligence||After a Yamunanagar jail inmate died at the civil hospital here on Saturday, his family members blamed the prison authorities for negligence.As per information, Raman was an accused in an attempt to murder case. He, along with his accomplices, had allegedly beat up locals following a dispute on Holi.The jail authorities said that Raman’s health started deteriorating in the afternoon, so he was taken to the jail hospital and later shifted to the civil hospital.However, the deceased’s family created a ruckus at the hospital and refused to take the body after the autopsy, alleging negligence by the jail authorities.Following this, police reached the spot and senior cops tried to pacify the family members.Raman’s father Rajendra Valmiki said, “Raman had lassi inside the jail after which he started vomiting. I’ve demanded the closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera footage of his treatment inside the jail.”Jagadhari DSP Sudhir Taneja said, “The post-mortem exam has been conducted and the cause of death would be known once the autopsy report is out. We’ve initiated a judicial probe as the death is related to jail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/yamunanagar-jail-inmate-dies-in-hospital-kin-allege-negligence/story-FpenIig5GcsBlZiYpAraGK.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||Man kills wife in red zone, is asked to walk out of area so he can be arrested||In what a police officers called “a case of many firsts,”a 35-year-old man was arrested on Saturday morning from outside a containment zone in Madipur, near Punjabi Bagh, for allegedly murdering his wife in their home inside the zone.The murder, the first such incident reported from inside a Covid-19 containment zone in Delhi, was reported when the suspect called the police and confessed to the murder. The city has 92 such zones, across areas such as Nizamuddin, Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim, to limit the spread of Covid-19. Police officers privy to the investigation said that because this was the first case of murder within a containment zone , they had to look at standard operating procedures for such cases and act accordingly. “There were many firsts in this case. Usually our officers immediately visit the crime scene, but in this case, we called the suspect and asked him to come outside the zone. We waited for him. He was then arrested and sent into isolation,” a police officer said. Police said that it took them around eight hours to clear the crime scene — the road that leads to the house was first sanitised and investigating officers then waited for personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to be delivered before carrying out a detailed inspection of the room. A forensics team was called to the spot. Senior officers said even though the woman hadn’t died of Covid-19, her body was wrapped in multiple layers. The hearse used to take the body from the house was also sanitised twice.The police said the suspect, Rahisul Azam, called the police at 3.56 am and reported that he had attacked his wife after an argument in their house. The woman supposedly died on the spot. “A team from Punjabi Bagh station rushed to the address given by the man, but found the house was in a containment zone. In order to adhere to guidelines, the sub-divisional magistrate, district magistrate and civic agencies concerned were informed of the case. The Delhi Jal Board was roped in to sanitise the area,” said a senior officer.The policemen then called up Azam and asked him to walk out of the containment zone and surrender. Before he was arrested, his temperature was checked and he was asked if he had symptoms. “Azam has told us he sells footwear in Jahangirpuri and had got married three years ago. It was the second marriage for both Azam and his wife. While he had three children from his first marriage, the woman had six. During an argument on Saturday, he hit her with a stick on the head and she fell unconscious. He said when he checked, she was already dead,” the officer said. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said disaster management teams and Covid helplines were also alerted. “Azam has been arrested as per guidelines issued in view of Covid-19. All preventive and precautionary steps are being taken while investigating the case so as to adhere to the containment zone guidelines and at the same time to conduct an efficient investigation,” Purohit said.Until late Saturday evening, investigating officers said they were checking with authorities about proceedings related to the autopsy and disposal of the body. Police said they are checking if the body could be handed back to the family, because the woman was not Covid-19 positive but was a resident of a containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-kills-wife-in-red-zone-is-asked-to-walk-out-of-area-so-he-can-be-arrested/story-sxMovu1UwRWWWmaRE27w6N.html
26-04-2020||City||Spurt in cases sends alarm bells ringing in Sonepat||The spurt in Covid-19 cases in the last six days has left Sonepat health authorities worried as of the 19 cases reported so far, 14 surfaced in the past week alone.Of the total infected patients, all except a farm worker from Karnal’s Sirsi village and a Sonepat street vendor have direct or indirect links with Delhi.Sonepat deputy commissioner (DC) Ansaj Singh also confirmed the same.Moreover, five contacts of three infected Delhi employees have tested positive in the last seven days in the district.15 CONTAINMENT ZONES DECLAREDThe DC said, “We had declared 15 containment zones in the district where thermal screening is being done by health officials on a daily basis. In order to monitor the Sonepat residents working in various Delhi government departments, we have sought a list, but they refused to provide us with the said information terming it a tough task. We are only allowing those people into the district who are either employed in Delhi or have a permit.”When asked if Sonepat was potentially as hotspot, the DC said the district has not emerged as a new hotspot because cases were being reporting from neighbouring areas with history of 17 patients linked to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/spurt-in-cases-sends-alarm-bells-ringing-in-sonepat/story-nuSE6VqO8cfBLrkVrOLUJI.html
26-04-2020||City||CMCH doctors reattach labourer’s hand cut in two halves in Ludhiana||Plastic surgeons at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) successfully reattached the hand of a 22-year-old labourer after it was cut in two halves while working on a wood-cutting machine on April 19. The labourer, a resident of Kotkapura, Faridkot, had lost a significant amount of blood in the accident. He was admitted to the CMCH on the same day. Head surgeon Dr A Jayanthi Mala, with her team of surgeons consisting of Dr Jedidiah Solomon, Dr Ankur Bhatia, Dr Rahul Jain and Dr Eldo George, performed the surgery and reattached the amputated portion of the hand. “The surgery lasted eight hours. It has been 48 hours since the surgery and the patient is stable and blood supply to the hand is normal. Relatives of the patient are happy with the prompt services rendered by the hospital,” stated a statement issued by the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cmch-doctors-reattach-labourer-s-hand-cut-in-two-halves-in-ludhiana/story-jogSrWl4RYMTBWg7gBgeQM.html
26-04-2020||City||Kiln owners in Ludhiana can transport bricks between 6am and 12pm||The district administration has given the green signal to kiln owners to transport bricks between 6am and 12pm.Deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said the general shops will remain open as per the orders of the Punjab government.“The kiln owners have been allowed to operate the kilns, but only the driver and two labourers are allowed in the vehicle being used to transport the bricks. They also need to wear masks and maintain social distancing,” the DC said.He added that the government had also given nod to construction work on national highways. The warehouses supplying cement and steel for these projects will also remain open, Agrawal said.“A maximum of three workers will be allowed to gather at a place at a time. Also, they should keep at least a two-metre distance between themselves. Warehouses must be properly sanitised and each person will need to wear a mask. The workers should be given hand sanitisers,” he added.The DC also gave the permission to non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), including housing finance companies (HFCs) and microfinance institutions (MFIs), to operate with bare-minimum staff. He allowed for the multipurpose primary cooperative agricultural service societies to be operated from 9am to 5pm. He said, “Works related to water supply and sanitation, laying of power transmission lines, telecom lines and related activities are allowed outside the municipal limits with specific permission from the Tehsildar/Naib Tehsildar concerned.”“All persons involved will have to follow the directions of the Punjab government. No person associated with these activities will be allowed movement without a curfew pass. These personnel will have to follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) for social distancing. All these relaxations are not applicable in areas declared as containment zones,” Agrawal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kiln-owners-in-ludhiana-can-transport-bricks-between-6am-and-12pm/story-zOXSTFE8ujf40FCADKnQSM.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Residents should avail maximum benefit of e-Sanjeevani app: Ludhiana DC||In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Punjab government has undertaken a citizen centric initiative to ensure uninterrupted health services to the public in the state. The state government on Saturday launched an application ‘e-Sanjeevani’, an online OPD system, Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said.Agrawal said the application extended the reach of specialised healthcare services to the masses in both rural areas and any isolated community pockets of the state. It provided a platform for citizens to connect with a network of specialist doctors over video-conferencing and obtain medical treatment and advice for common health concerns while sitting at home. “There is a degree of unease among citizens due to the inability to reach doctors in non-emergency cases amid the lockdown. However, this technology shall help all sections of society to gain access to quality medical advice and treatment during the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said.Maximum number of residents should avail benefit of this system, the DC urged, adding that the application has an extremely user-friendly interface which facilitates both tech savvy and relatively novice doctors and users in the rural and urban environment.Besides telemedicine services in health and wellness centres, the health and family welfare department with active support from the governance reforms and public grievances departments has implemented this programme across the state, the DC said, adding that apart from enhancing the quality of medical services, e-Sanjeevani addresses the issues pertaining to uneven distribution and shortage of infrastructural as well as human resources to an extent.He further highlighted the salient features of the application which includes— patient registration, token generation, queue management, audio-video consultation with a doctor, e-prescription, SMS/email notifications— serviced by the doctors from the department of health and family welfare. The service is free and fully configurable, he added.“The application also has an advanced degree of security against unwanted elements. To keep the operations smoother in the district, a team of district technical coordinators (DTCs) or district e-governance coordinators (DeGCs) has been deputed to assist the teams of doctors at the district-level,” he said.Agrawal added that the state government has provided training about the application, its protocols and functionality to some of the specialist doctors by C-DAC, Mohali, via video-conference. He informed that this feature is also available in the COVA Punjab mobile application which is available for Android on the Google Play Store and for iOS on the Apple AppStore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/residents-should-avail-maximum-benefit-of-e-sanjeevani-app-ludhiana-dc/story-pTga8A95vv5BLpAqb8lCbJ.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two Covid-19 patients die in J&K, Jalandhar||Two deaths related to Covid-19 were reported from the region on Saturday. A 48-year-old coronavirus patient died in Jalandhar, while a 72-year-old man from north Kashmir’s Tangmarg area also breathed his last. Union territory of J&K recorded 40 fresh infections on Saturday, taking its tally to 494.More than 100 areas in J&K have been declared as red zones and completely sealed to prevent spread of coronavirus.Punjab recorded 11 cases on Saturday, including six from new pandemic hotspot Rajpura, taking the state’s tally of those infected to 310. The state’s death toll now is 18.Kishan Chand, who died in Jalandhar on Saturday, was suffering from pneumonia and low haemoglobin and found positive for the coronavirus in a report that came in the evening.The victim, who hailed from Maharashtra, worked as a leather technician in the city for the past 15 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/two-covid-19-patients-die-in-j-k-jalandhar/story-eMHoNvDhybR4bVkwU5bOyO.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||12 fresh cases in Haryana, tally at 287||With six more cases in Sonepat, four in Gurugram and one each in Ambala and Panipat, the Covid-19 tally in Haryana climbed to 287 on Saturday. However, five more persons --three from Nuh and two from Palwal-- were also discharged, taking the number of cured persons to 191 so far. The number of active cases in Haryana as on Saturday is 93.As many as 15,780 persons in the state are currently under surveillance and 20,270 samples have so far been sent, of which 17,787 have been found to be negative and 2,196 reports are awaited. The recovery rate in the state is 66.5%, according to official bulletin of the health department.29-YEAR-OLD FOUND POSITIVE IN HISARThough the official bulletin did not mention it, a 29-year-old youth, who had returned from Ghaziabad district of Uttar Pradesh (UP), tested positive for the virus on Saturday. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Yogesh Sharma said the youth is associated with the transport sector. “His village will be turned into a containment zone and we will be screening all residents there,” he said. With this, the count in Hisar has reached three.AMBALA PATIENT UNDERGOING KIDNEY TREATMENT IN PGIAmbala chief medical officer Dr Kuldeep Singh said a 42-year-old from Tharwa village, who was undergoing treatment for a kidney ailment at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, had tested positive. “As the man was suffering from these chronic diseases, so he was in the at risk category, but he was not following the lockdown orders and was regularly meeting villagers. Authorities have sealed the village and declared it a containment zone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/12-fresh-cases-in-haryana-tally-at-287/story-H6wEsSxFFyWiKs8adl8eiI.html
26-04-2020||City||Punjab Police launch digital ‘Remembrance Wall’ in memory of ACP Anil Kohli||The Punjab Police launched a digital ‘Remembrance Wall’ on Saturday for the colleagues, family members, friends and admirers to pay their respects to the deceased ACP Anil Kohli.ACP Anil Kohli was the first police officer in the country to succumb to Covid-19 on April 18 in Ludhiana.Chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh lauded the Punjab Police for taking the initiative in memory of the brave ACP who performed his duties at the cost of his life. The ‘Remembrance Wall’ has been gifted to the Punjab Police by a Gurgaon-based techno-media company, A Technos.Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal dedicated the digital ‘Remembrance Wall’ to all police officials who are battling coronavirus . “While performing their duties in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, several cops have tested positive and many have been quarantined across various states. Many outstanding police officers of the country including ACP Anil Kohli and two SHOs from Indore and Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh have already lost their lives,” Agrawal said. The digital ‘Remembrance Wall’ can be accessed by visiting the website www.inthelineofduty.in. Here, messages can be posted in memory of the valiant officer.The message posted by DGP Dinkar Gupta on the wall reads,“Dear Anil, you are an inspiration to the entire Punjab Police. Your dedication to duty, your selfless service and your ceaseless acts of humanitarian goodness have endeared you to the entire state of Punjab. Your sacrifice in the line of duty will continue to motivate us all in the relentless fight against this terrible disease. You have become a beacon for all of us in the Punjab Police. May your soul rest in peace.”The police chief added that the wall also has a map of Punjab and visitors can click on every district (on the map) to get live updates and watch videos on the work being done by the Punjab Police in service of the people. “The police force has been under tremendous pressure ever since the curfew has been imposed in the state. But our officers have done a commendable job in maintaining law and order and in serving many meals in the past four weeks to the underprivileged, especially the homeless, daily wage workers and migrants from various states.He added that the cops have been working in tandem with various NGOs and religious institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-police-launch-digital-remembrance-wall-in-memory-of-acp-anil-kohli/story-w97DUzzASJF3k1D2fPQt3O.html
26-04-2020||City||Fumed over deployment of homeguards, Ludhiana MLA denies security cover||Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and member of legislative assembly (MLA) from Atam Nagar constituency, Simarjit Singh Bains, on Saturday rejected the security cover provided to him by Ludhiana police.Agitated over being denied police security few days back, the MLA did not let the four homeguard jawans equipped with .303 rifles sit outside his house in Alamgir Enclave. He has also asked the police department to withdraw security given to him and instead deploy the homeguards on curfew duties. Puzzled whether to follow the department’s orders or comply with Bains’ instructions, the security personnel sat at the main gate of the colony during the day. The LIP chief alleged that the deployment of homeguards was the violation of protocol “as security personnel of an MLA should be trained police personnel with modern weapons, including carbine or automatic rifles.” “.303 rifles are not feasible and do not fit inside vehicles when the security personnel hold them in their hands,” he said. HAD LOST SECURITY AFTER PATIALA COP ATTACK INCIDENTBains had lost his security on April 14 when he allegedly justified the Patiala incident wherein a Nihang Sikh had chopped off a cop’s hand. Following this, the cops deployed on his security submitted in writing that they did not want to serve him anymore as “he had insulted the police fraternity that too at a time when they are serving the masses by putting their lives at risk.” Adhering to their request, the department withdrew the MLA’s security personnel and asked them to report to Police Lines.The police, however, did not withdraw the security cover of the LIP leader’s older brother and MLA from Ludhiana South, Balwinder Singh Bains. Assistant sub-inspector, a head constable and two constables deployed on his security were replaced by four homeguard jawans.The LIP chief said, “An MLA gets security following orders of Vidhan Sabha speaker. The police officials are very much aware that they would be in trouble if I take up the matter in privilege committee. For the sake of formality, they have deployed four homeguard jawans for my security.” “Homeguard jawans with .303 rifles are deployed outside banks and other premises, but not with MLAs. Moreover, no other MLA has been provided homeguard jawans in security,”he said.‘HAVE WRITTEN TO POLICE COMMISSIONER’The legislator also said, “I have sent an e-mail to police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and asked him to withdraw homeguard jawans from my security. I don’t need any security and the same can be utilised for Covid-19 duties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fumed-over-deployment-of-homeguards-ludhiana-mla-denies-security-cover/story-niyngOLCREwvEYVF91AtGN.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Despite lockdown, Punjab sees no halt in heroin smuggling from Pak||Even as both India and Pakistan have enforced countrywide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic, smuggling of heroin from the neighbouring country through the Punjab border has been going on unabated. The Border Security Force (BSF) seized 38 kg heroin during the past one month — from March 23 to April 23— in Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Ferozepur and Abohar sectors.With this, the total recovery of heroin by the BSF this year has been pegged at 130 kg, which is much higher as compared to the recovery of the drug during the corresponding period in 2019. According to the BSF’s data, the recovery of heroin from January to May 2019 was 85 kg. On April 23 this year, the BSF had seized 1 kg of heroin near Khemkaran village of Tarn Taran. On April 22, 1 kg heroin and a country-made pistol were recovered near Attari border. On April 21, 4.5 kg heroin was seized in Ajnala. Similarly, 9 kg heroin was seized near Attari border on April 16. A senior BSF official said Pakistani smugglers continue to push in the drugs into the Indian territory taking advantage of the standing wheat crop along the border. Punjab shares a 553-km border, with a barbed fence, with Pakistan. A senior official of the special task force (STF) of Punjab Police said, “Due to strictness of police on drug smuggling and the ongoing curfew, the supply chain of drugs has been broken in the state. Due to this, Pakistani smugglers may have been attempting to push in more drugs.”“Besides, Indian farmers are allowed to visit their fields across the fence during the harvesting season. It becomes easy for Indian smugglers to clear the consignments adopting various concealing methods in the guise of agriculture-related works. We have already prepared a list of suspected people, including some farmers. Our teams have increased vigil in the border villages and no one will be allowed to peddle the drugs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/despite-lockdown-punjab-sees-no-halt-in-heroin-smuggling-from-pak/story-MbHsKXmJxIcgZZEq9X8CfM.html
26-04-2020||City||Punjab-origin man charged with hoarding, price-gouging PPE in US||A 45-year-old Indian-origin man has become the first person to face criminal charges in the US under the country’s Defence Production Act for allegedly hoarding the scarce personal protective equipment and selling it at huge mark-ups during the Covid-19 pandemic, authorities said.Amardeep Singh stockpiled tonnes of respirators, surgical gowns, hand sanitisers and other personal protective equipment (PPE) at a Long Island warehouse and sold it online through various websites and Nassau County storefronts at “unconscionably excessive prices,” Prosecutors from the US Attorney’s Office in Brooklyn said in a statement on Friday.A criminal complaint was filed on Friday in a federal court in Central Islip charging Singh with violating the Defence Production Act (DPA) of 1950 by hoarding PPE at a warehouse in Brentwood, New York, amid the COVID-19 pandemic, and price-gouging customers of his retail store in Plainview, New York, the statement said.If convicted under the DPA, which is a misdemeanour charge, Singh faces up to one year in prison. He will self-surrender to authorities next week, the US Attorney’s Office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-origin-man-charged-with-hoarding-price-gouging-ppe-in-us/story-QpF86Wgg64oonio0a1OK8H.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar GMCH to return 2,000 sub-standard PPE kits||The local Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has decided to return 2,000 sub-standard Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits it had received, earlier this week, from a private manufacturer. The hospital will also launch its own inquiry into the issue, even as deputy commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon had also ordered a probe on Friday. Doctors, nurses and other hospital staff had refused to wear these kits, saying they were sub-standard and did not even include N-95 masks.GMCH principal Dr Sujata Sharma said, “The institute has formed a team of senior doctors to probe the purchase of these 2,000 kits. Deputy medical superintendent Dr Narinder, Dr JS Kullar, Dr Ashwani Bhagat and Dr Jaspreet will look into the matter.” She refused to name the company saying that it would be revealed to the media after the inquiry. She added, “The private firm that supplied the kits has been ordered to replace these with the required quality or refund the entire amount. The firm has agreed to these terms.” Dr Raman Sharma, medical superintendent of GNDH, who ordered the kits, said, “After receiving the stock, it was found substandard. The committee will inquire into the purchase and take suitable action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amritsar-gmch-to-return-2-000-sub-standard-ppe-kits/story-kBKKtXXznttfXay8aQtR5H.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt not in favour of allowing all shops to open till May 3||The Maharashtra government has decided not to extend the relaxation given to shops and establishments from the ongoing lockdown even after it was announced by the Central government via a notification on Friday. Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra has decided to stick to the current curbs till May 3.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state government was not extending the relaxations to shops and establishments. “The Centre has issued the notification allowing standalone shops in rural and urban areas, but in the absence of a similar notification in Maharashtra, it will not come into effect. It is the prerogative of the state government to decide on the lockdown. Maharashtra government is not in favour of allowing establishments to operate till May 3,” he said.Tope, however, said that the relaxation from lockdown is expected to be discussed during a meeting between PM Narendra Modi and chief ministers of states on Monday.According to the officials from the state government, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is of the opinion that lifting of restriction may further jeopardise social distancing and lead to a rise in cases. “Even if we extend the relaxation and allow stand-alone shops to operate, the police and revenue machinery will be engaged in implementing the lockdown orders to a great extent. Secondly shortfall of raw material and manpower will continue to persist until the lockdown is not lifted completely. Against this backdrop, the state government has decided to continue with the complete lockdown for one more week,” an official from Mantralaya said.The official said that the state can impose stricter norms than specified by the Centre under the Disaster Management Act, but cannot give more relaxations than that ordered by the Centre. “This was the reason why we had to withdraw our last week’s order of allowing sweet and snacks like farsan shops within two days,” he said.Tope had earlier said that the after the second phase of the lockdown ending on May 3, it may be extended by two weeks till May 18 for MMR and Pune where the positive cases are highest. On Saturday evening, he said, “The decision about the extension in MMR and Pune is yet to be taken. The activities within the district with tag of green zones can be allowed through,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-govt-not-in-favour-of-allowing-all-shops-to-open-till-may-3/story-C4svIjQz1SlrPwbLsvAAjM.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||Highest single-day spike of 811 cases takes Maha tally to 7,628||Eight hundred and eleven coronavirus cases were on Saturday reported across Maharashtra — the highest single-day spike since the first case on March 9— taking the number of infected people in the state to 7,628. The state’s capital, Mumbai, also registered its grimmest figures with 602 new infections, increasing the case count to 5,049.The state’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) toll rose to 323 with 22 deaths, 13 of them in Mumbai. The city’s toll is now 191. Eleven people who died were above 60 years of age, while eight were in the 40-59 years age group. Three were below the age of 40 years. On Friday, there were 394 fresh cases, a significant dip from the then highest one-day rise of 778 on Thursday and 552 and 431 cases on the two previous days. With the fluctuating trend in Covid-19 cases and a drop in the mortality rate by around four percentage points over the past few days, state authorities are expecting the doubling rate of cases to improve and fatality rate to drop further in the next few weeks. State officials opined that the situation seemed to be in their control, but they would observe the trends for a few days before reaching any conclusion on whether the worst is over for Maharashtra. They also pointed out that the new cases are coming from identified contacts of patients and as such, community transmission (in which the source of infection is not known) doesn’t seem to be the cause of increase in Covid-19 cases. As a precautionary measure, the state government has decided not to allow shops of non-essential services to operate although a notification issued by the Centre on Friday has permitted their operations. The state government will continue the ongoing lockdown till May 3. State health minister Rajesh Tope, contrary to his earlier statement, said on Saturday evening that no decision on extending the lockdown in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune has been taken yet.Dr Avinash Supe, head of a committee appointed to advise the state government on management protocol for serious Covid-19 patients, said that the mortality rate has dropped satisfactorily, but the graph of fresh cases will have to be observed for the next two weeks. “The doubling rate has reduced to over seven days, when many other countries are still lingering at 3.5. Similarly, our mortality rate has dropped to 4.4 from 8 in the state and 4% in Mumbai. If we maintain this trend of doubling it would help us in containing the spread. We have been urging elderly persons to not undermine warning signs and get required tests done to avoid further complications. This would help us keep the mortality rate in check,” he said.Supe said that unless the trend of cases is reviewed for at least two weeks, it would be difficult to comment about the curve. Dr Sadhana Tayade , of Directorate of Health Services, said that the mortality rate is expected to fall further in Maharashtra. “We have been strictly monitoring the containment zones and have been following protocols strictly. There is the Central government’s prediction of rise in cases by May-end and we are prepared for it. The rise is also because of the rise in testing,” she said.Tope said that the World Health Organization (WHO) and Central government have been continuously reviewing the situation in the state and they have endorsed our claim that community spread has not begun in Maharashtra. “We have been concentrating on slums and congested areas than buildings and individual apartments for the effective containment of the spread. As directed by the Central teams that visited Mumbai and Pune, we are concentrating on containment in areas like Dharavi and the hygiene in these areas. We have successfully brought the mortality rate down and improved doubling rate to more than 7 days from the earlier rate of 3.5,” he said .Tope said that though the ICMR protocol mandates for the tests on those showing some symptoms, the state government has been doing testing of asymptomatic contacts too. “We have been aggressively doing testing and quarantining contacts of patients. Now, the relatives of patients in areas like Dharavi will be administered with hydroxychloroquine,” he said.The health minister has, however, clarified that the state government is unlikely to extend the relaxations to the shops from lockdown, following the notification issued by the Centre. “The Centre has issued the notification, allowing stand-alone shops in rural and urban areas, but in the absence of a similar notification in Maharashtra, it could not come into effect” he said.Tope had earlier said that after the second phase of the lockdown ending on May 3, it may be extended by two weeks till May 18 for MMR and Pune, the most affected regions in the state. On Saturday evening, Tope said, “The decision about the extension in MMR and Pune is yet to be taken. The activities within the district with the tag of green zones can be allowed through,” he said.According to officials from the state government, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is of the opinion that lifting of restrictions may further jeopardise social distancing and lead to rise in cases. “Even if we extend the relaxation and allow stand-alone shops to operate, the police and revenue machinery will be engaged in implementing lockdown orders to a great extent. Secondly, shortfall of raw material and manpower will continue to persist until the lockdown is not lifted completely. Against this backdrop, the state government has decided to continue with the complete lockdown for one more week,” an official from Mantralaya said.The official said that the state can impose stricter norms than specified by the Centre under the Disaster Management Act, but cannot give more relaxations than that ordered by the Centre. “This was the reason why we had to withdraw our last week’s order of allowing sweet and farsan shops within two days,” he said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to discuss about the relaxations notified by the Centre during his video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. The state government will again push for special trains for migrant workers to reach their respective states. Maharashtra has been taking care of more than 6.5lakh migrant workers who have been stuck at various shelters across the state. CM Thackeray has already requested the Centre for such special trains, while deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has written a letter to Railway minister Piyush Goyal for trains from Mumbai and Pune. The state government fears violent reactions from migrants if the ongoing lockdown is extended beyond May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/highest-single-day-spike-of-811-cases-takes-maha-tally-to-7-628/story-VPZ7FHzVAFiZook6hcB6pN.html
26-04-2020||City||AIIMS Bathinda to launch virtual OPD from tomorrow||Patients from Bathinda or any part of the state will now be able to consult specialist doctors from 13 different departments at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here through WhatsApp video calls.Officials at AIIMS here told HT that the virtual outpatient department (OPD) will be fully functional from Monday to cater to the patients’ needs amid the ongoing lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Medical superintendent Dr Satish Gupta said the first-of-its-kind initiative in the traditional telemedicine sector in the region will enable AIIMS specialists to examine a patient through a video call. Patients can also share their clinical reports, X-ray reports etc to get advice from specialists without any consultation fee.Departments of dermatology, oncology, urology, ENT and general medicines will be among others available for the virtual OPD.Gupta said the facility is aimed at minimising the movement of patients, particularly the elderly and children, during the lockdown period.After registering on dedicated telephone lines by submitting details of ailments from 10 am till noon on weekdays, a patient will get teleconference appointment for the next day.The medical prescription will be sent to the patient on the end of the day on the registered WhatsApp number of the patient.“Cases like post-surgery swelling, dental or orthopaedic and psychiatric patients will be among others handled with a video call. Other patients can also send an e-mail sharing their medical details for consultation,” said Gupta.A patient may be called to the hospital for detailed investigation, if the need be, he adds.The AIIMS had suspended its OPD service on March 22.However, after feedback that a section of private medical professionals was reluctant in treating patients, the OPD service was restarted on April 7.“Telemedicine was introduced from April 17 to reduce the rush at AIIMS. To further ensure that a patient does not get exposed to the virus, a dry run of virtual OPD began on April 20. Our team is now ready to roll out the service from Monday,” Gupta said.CONTACT NUMBERS FOR REGISTRATION0164-2867250; 2867253; 2867254; 2867255; 2867256||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aiims-bathinda-to-launch-virtual-opd-from-tomorrow/story-of28DspBfFvAZP8cHsS39L.html
26-04-2020||Lucknow||SBSP’s RSS starts recruitment of volunteers||Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) has started recruitment in its arm—Rashtriya Suheldev Sena (RSS) for creating awareness about various competitive examinations and different career options among youngsters in rural pockets.SBSP chief Omprakash Rajbhar said, “Students aged above 15 and unemployed educated youth are being recruited. We will hold awareness camps and training sessions every month in each district.”He claimed that retired IAS and IPS officers will be invited to head the sessions and boost the confidence of its members.Each member of RSS will be given a uniform, including a yellow scarf, a trouser and t-shirt. The RSS would work across UP, with special focus on eastern regions and districts adjoining Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/sbsp-s-rss-starts-recruitment-of-volunteers/story-KCbuROhk4NU40fEkdKrYCI.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to decide on MHA guidelines on opening of shops on April 30||The Punjab government will take a decision on Union home ministry’s fresh guidelines to open neighbourhood and stand-alone shops amid the ongoing lockdown/curfew, on April 30. Raveen Thukral, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s media advisor, tweeted this, adding that a decision on relaxation, including on the MHA guidelines, will be taken in a state cabinet meeting on April 30.The CM will also hold a video conference with MLAs on April 29 to take stock of the situation at the ground level, Thukral added. The expert committee of the state government to formulate a lockdown exit strategy discussed its draft report with the CM on Saturday. The committee will give its final report in three days.The CM has clarified that relaxation, if any, to be provided, post the countrywide lockdown that ends on May 3, will depend upon the suggestion of this expert committee.The government also notified another 20-member committee that former deputy chairman of the Planning Commission of India, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, heads to develop a medium-term and long-term post-COVID economic strategy for Punjab. A spokesperson said that committee will submit its initial set of recommendations by July 31, 2020, followed by two more reports by September 30 and December 31, 2020.The group’ other members are M Govind Rao (economist); Rathin Roy (National Institute of Public Policy and Finance (NIPFP director); Ashok Gulati (Infosys chair, ICRIER); Devesh Kapur (Johns Hopkins, USA), Nirvikar Singh (University of California, USA); Yamini Aiyar (Centre for Policy Research); Ravi Venkatesan (ex-Chairman, Microsoft India); T Nanda Kumar (ex-Union agriculture secretary); Dr Srinath Reddy (PHFI chairman), Ajaypal Singh Banga (Mastercard USA, president & CEO), SP Oswal (chairman, Vardhman Group); Sanjeev Puri (ITC chairman & MD), Rajinder Gupta (Trident Group chairman); Simon George (Cargill India president); Suresh Narayanan (Nestle India chairman & MD); CII Punjab chairperson Rahul Ahuja; BS Dhillon (PAU V-C); and Iqbal Dhaliwal (J-PAL, MIT, USA). Gyanendra Badgalyan, former director general, National Centre for Good Governance, will be member secretary.Small standalone shops to open in Haryana; not in 93 containment zonesHaryana chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora said the state government would follow the Centre’s instructions. “The Union home ministry’s clarification is clear. We will give permission to open only to small, standalone shops — not in market places — in our urban and rural areas. No shops will be opened in containment zones.” Senior health department officials added that the state had 93 containment zones. Himachal yet to issue any ordersThe Himachal Pradesh government has not issued any orders, but sources said a decision was likely by Sunday morning. However, deputy commissioners of Una and Kangra have issued a notification, saying that malls, shopping complexes, salons, barber shops, restaurants, sweet shops, eateries and liquor vends will remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-to-decide-on-mha-guidelines-on-opening-of-shops-on-april-30/story-0xcHoJTWznDXW0t9lIyMjP.html
26-04-2020||Lucknow||UP starts bringing back migrant workers||The state government on Saturday launched an exercise to bring back Uttar Pradesh migrant workers who were stuck in other states due to the Covid-19 lockdown.The first batch of 2,224 migrant workers was transported from the neighbouring Haryana to 16 districts in west UP on 82 buses, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said at a press conference here.Another lot of 11,000 migrant workers will be brought back to UP on Sunday, he said. On their return, the migrants will be lodged in quarantine facilities in their native districts for 14 days, he said.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the district magistrates of all the districts to get medical checkup, testing and screening of the migrants done.The district authorities were also asked to arrange for their food, shelter and ensure that migrant workers did not face any problem at the quarantine facilities, he said.In a meeting on Friday, the chief minister had directed officers to prepare a plan to bring back migrant workers of UP from other states in a phased manner.The state government is also preparing a plan for employment of migrant workers so that jobs can be given to 15 lakh labourers.The chief minister met senior officers over the last two days to draft a plan for employment of migrants as well as labourers staying in rural and urban areas of the state.A cabinet meeting will be held under his chairmanship to give final approval to the employment schemes, Awasthi said.The chief minister had ordered that after institutional quarantine, the migrants will be sent home with a ration kit and Rs 1000 sustenance allowance each, he said, adding that they will stay in home quarantine for another 14 days. The chief minister directed the officers to also prepare a plan to send home the migrant workers of other states who are staying in quarantine facilities in Uttar Pradesh, if they completed 14 days’ quarantine and were screened by health teams.The Uttar Pradesh government has already appointed nodal officers to coordinate with the respective governments of states where migrant workers have been staying after the nationwide lockdown announced on March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-starts-bringing-back-migrant-workers/story-NXV65qa21xzkRX1WsPvXUO.html
26-04-2020||City||Covid-19: One dies, 14 others test positive as Punjab crosses 300-mark||A 48-year-old found positive for the coronavirus in Jalandhar died while 14 other cases, including six from new pandemic hotspot Rajpura, were reported in Punjab on Saturday, taking the state’s tally of those infected to 313. Punjab’s death toll now is 18. The state took 46 days to cross the 300-mark of positive cases after the first patient, a Hoshiarpur resident who returned from Italy, was found infected in Amritsar on March 9.In Rajpura town, located 25 km from the Patiala district headquarters, all the six found infected are members of an extended family. With this, the district’s tally of positive cases has gone up to 61, of which 42 are from Rajpura only.The patients are a 65-year-old woman of NTC Colony, her two sons, aged 46 and 42, daughters-in-law, aged 44 and 41, and a 16-year-old grandson. One of the woman’s sons is a primary contact of the 44-year-old patient from the same locality who was found positive on Friday, Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said.“Of the 21 samples collected on Friday, 15 were found to be negative. The six are primary contacts of a patient tested positive earlier. The department has traced their contacts and four fresh samples were collected today,” Dr Malhotra said.“We have sealed the area and shifted the patients to the isolation ward of Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala,” he added.The town has already been declared a buffer zone to stop further spread of the infection.Jalandhar surpasses Mohali in district tallyThe 48-year-old man, Kishan Chand, who died in Jalandhar on Saturday after suffering from pneumonia and low haemoglobin, was found positive for the coronavirus in a report that came in the evening.The victim, who hailed from Maharashtra, worked as a leather technician in the city for the past 15 years.Also, Jalandhar reported 5 more positive cases, taking the district’s tally to 69, surpassing Mohali’s figure of 63. Three persons have died of the infection in the district so far.Of the five found infected on Saturday, four are relatives of a 42-year-old Basti Guzan resident, who was found positive on April 21. They are his aunt, aged 65, cousin brother (38), 37-year-old sister-in-law and a 5-year-old nephew. The health department has sealed the locality and started screening of the residents who came in their contacts.Also, a 69-year-old man of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Colony, a co-worker of a 40-years-old Raja Garden resident found infected earlier, tested positive. “The Maharashtra native (who died) suffered from pneumonia and his haemoglobin level was only 3.5,” said Abhay Gupta of Johal Multispeciality Hospital where he was admitted.At least 35 persons, including doctors, nursing staff and class 4 employees of the private hospital where he died, were under observation.The administration cremated the body as his family was not able to attend the funeral due to the lockdown.Doraha BDPO’s husband also +veA day after Doraha block development panchayat officer (BDPO) Navdeep Kaur tested positive for Covid-19, her husband Prabhjot Singh, a food supply official, was also confirmed to have contracted the infection on Saturday.The BDPO’s husband is the eighth government employee to have contracted the disease in Ludhiana district where the total number of cases has reached 21.On April 16, the BDPO’s mother, district mandi officer (DMO) Jasbir Kaur, 57, had tested positive. Reports of 20 more contacts, including the BDPO’s domestic help and a driver, are awaited.All three patients are admitted at the Ludhiana civil hospital.25-year-old found infected in SBS NagarIn SBS Nagar district, a 25-year-old youth of Boothgarh village in Balachaur sub-division tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday.The health officials said the patient, a truck driver, returned to his village from Jammu and Kashmir on April 22 night. He was admitted to hospital with flu-like symptoms and cough.He along with his two close contacts was shifted to the isolation ward of the Jalandhar civil hospital. His parents were put under home quarantine and their samples will be collected, health officials said. The department collected 48 samples of his close contacts. Also, the district administration sealed Boothgarh and adjoining three villages Lohgarh, Mannewal and Tejpalna. This was the first case to be reported from the district in a month.On April 22, the administration had announced that there were no active cases in the district which so far has reported 20 positive cases, of which 18 patients have recovered with one succumbing to the infection.Woman doctor tests positive in PathankotIn Pathankot, a woman doctor (36) working in a private hospital tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The district administration officials said a health department team was tracing the contacts of the doctor who works at Amandeep Hospital.She had coronavirus symptoms and had herself asked the health authorities for a test, deputy commissioner GS Khaira said. The Adunik Vihar locality, where the woman doctor lives in a rented accommodation along with her husband (40) and two kids, was sealed by the health teams who first disinfected the area. Besides her family members, samples of her doctor colleague who used travel with her in a car and the vehicle driver were collected.The district has reported 25 cases with one death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-19-one-dies-14-others-test-positive-as-punjab-crosses-300-mark/story-GMfgs64nexoqHzga99zjEK.html
26-04-2020||City||SI arrested for colleague’s murder in Bulandshahar||A sub inspector of police has been arrested in connection with the death of another policeman who died in BB Nagar police station area of Bulandshahar on Friday night. An agency report quoting police sources said that the sub-inspector (SI) died after he was allegedly hit by a bullet fired from his colleague’s pistol. “Accused SI Narendra Singh was arrested while he was on way to Ghaziabad. He is being interrogated. Primary facie it seems to be an accident but we are investigating it from every possible angle,” said SSP Bulandshahar, Santosh Singh.He said sub inspector Bijendra Singh lived within the premises of the police station. “Bijendra was at his room when his fellow sub inspector Narendra Singh arrived with his loaded pistol late on Friday night. A bullet was fired which hit Bijendra Singh in abdomen and he fell on the floor. Narendra Singh approached the head constable of the police station and both took the injured sub inspector in Narendra’s car to a private hospital located some 3 kilometers from the police station,” the SSP said. After admitting Bijendra Singh, Narendra, sensing danger to his colleague’s life, got away on the pretext of arranging some money for Bijendra’s treatment. Bijendra succumbed to his injury during treatment.Meanwhile, SSP Santosh Singh reached the hospital and enquired about Narendra whose moving location was tracked between Hapur and Ghaziabad. Subsequently a police team intercepted and arrested him.SSP said that circle officer (CO) of Syana has been tasked with interrogating Narendra. ( with inputs from agency)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/si-arrested-for-colleague-s-murder-in-bulandshahar/story-JZhhagHCk8Nay1DtDpYm9J.html
26-04-2020||Pune||Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association is getting ready for tough times in post covid era||The deadly coronavirus has brought tennis in Pune to a screeching halt. From players to coaches to tournaments, everything has suffered a severe blow. Pune has 40 coaching centres and 455 tennis courts.April, May and June – these months have always been reserved for Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association’s (MSLTA) summer circuit, where around 50-60 tournaments take place across the city, but none of the tournaments will take place due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Sunder Iyer, secretary, MSLTA said, “It is our peak season and during this time tournaments for under-10, 12, 14 and 16 categories are organised. So as an association we need to take care of the whole system in these trying times which include officials, stringers, ball boys and ground maintenance staff along with players. The next season begins after the monsoon in October.”“As a stop-gap arrangement we will be providing two months ration to our coaches in various districts at MSLTA coaching centres. We have informed our zonal coordinators and we are preparing a list of coaches. We have received 60 names so far and more will be added to the list,” added Iyer.Tennis in times of Covid“We are working on long-term plans. One thing is sure, sports will definitely take a hit in post covid era, so even when tennis restarts we need to come up with different guidelines for conducting tournaments. Like having more district-wise tournaments instead of state and nationals or having draws of 16 instead of 32,” said Iyer.In last couple of years, MSLTA has focussed on developing centres like Kolhapur, Nashik, Satara, Aurnagabad and Sangli with an aim of promoting tennis in rural parts of the country.“Smaller centres will have more impact of this pandemic. As tennis is an expensive, it may also be difficult for parents to send their children due to the current pay cuts,” added Iyer.A lot depends on government protocolsAccording to Iyer, how the government will facilitate sports activities after the lockdown is a major concern for all city-based sports associations. “The associations will only get a clear picture after the government announces the protocols. I hope action starts soon but complete normalcy will surely take time to return. Many things also depend on schools reopening and once the guidelines are out for them, there will be clarity on sports as well,” added Iyer.Role of SponsorsSponsors have always played key role for tennis and keeping them on the board and attracting new sponsors will be difficult after the lockdown, according to Iyer.Key challengesNo. of tournaments suspended: 60 (across Maharashtra)Most affected age groups: u10, 12, 14 and 16Lockdown challenge: To keep sponsors on board||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mslta-is-getting-ready-for-tough-times-in-post-covid-era/story-aIiwcaGCyVtYDlkvgA0vEN.html
26-04-2020||Pune||Pune civic body to acquire beds at private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is in the process of acquiring beds at private hospitals to treat Covid-19 (coronavirus) patients, especially ones in critical condition, according to civic officials.Currently, the civic body has 4,143 isolation beds and 151 intensive care unit (ICU) beds and with the further acquisition, this strength will go up to 5,039 isolation beds and 196 ICU beds. The PMC plans to do this within a week, according to officials.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who held a review meeting on Saturday with officials in the city has also instructed the civic body to acquire beds in private hospitals. He said, “Given the fact that Covid-129 cases are rising every day, the administration must acquire beds at private hospitals, educational institutes and hotels in the city where affected persons can be treated.”PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “We are in talks with private hospitals to acquire more beds. Currently, we have finalised the deal with a few hospitals and the acquisition process will start soon.”“We are looking to acquire more beds, about 100 from a single hospital so that it is easy to transfer patients to the same place and also use our staff to maximum efficiency. We have also exhausted our staff usage for the home-to-home survey swab collection and they are also involved in taking care of the quarantined patients,“ said Gaikwad.“We are in negotiation with Deenanath Mangeshkar and Sahyadri hospital to seek beds,” he said.In the next seven days, the PMC will acquire 10 per cent of 8,966 beds available at private hospitals which is 896 beds and 10 per cent of private hospital ICU beds out of 455 which is 45 beds.Besides, the administration has also identified and will acquire rooms with a capacity to isolate 8,000 people. Meanwhile, as per the data from the PMC’s health department, the age group of 31-40 continues to remain the most infected with 178 cases out of 980 positive cases as of April 24 (as seen in the graphic). In addition to the senior citizens in the age groups of 60 and above being the most vulnerable group with 18 deaths among the 61-70 age group, the age group of 51-60 has also witnessed about 18 deaths.Mortality rate down from 12% to 6.5%City’s mortality rate has come down from 12% to 6.5%, with 64 deaths being reported out of 980 cases as of April 24. As of April 10, 25 deaths were reported with 209 cases, according to PMC. The average mortality rate of the state is 4.8% and India’s average is 3.2% as of April 24. The city’s doubling rate too has gone down from earlier five days in the first week of April to currently as eight days. This means that earlier it took only five days for the positive cases in the city to double, while in the current situation it takes eight days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-to-acquire-beds-at-private-hospitals-to-treat-covid-19-patients/story-7IW0t0lt40I3tkVqXDpeFM.html
26-04-2020||Pune||56-year-old Pune woman with diabetes, hypertension battles Covid-19; returns home in two weeks||A 56-year-old women who experienced bouts of fever, vomiting and cough has finally recovered of Covid-19 despite being diabetic and facing hypertension. She was admitted to Ruby Hall Clinic on April 8 and tested positive for Covid-19. After receiving round the clock care for two weeks, she has made a steady recovery and was discharged on April 24 .“On arrival, the patient’s blood sugar and blood pressure was spiralling out of control, and her flu-like symptoms seemed to be getting worse. Moreover, she had an abnormally high heart rate (tachycardia) along with a rapid, shallow respiratory rate. Looking at her condition, we thought she would require artificial ventilation soon. We immediately administered her with high oxygen supply to stabilise her and prevent any serious deterioration,” said Dr Kapil Zirpe, director and HOD - Neuro Trauma Unit, Ruby Hall Clinic.“A diagnostic test revealed that the patient was suffering from pneumonia. Our suspicions were confirmed when her results returned positive for Covid-19. Our priority was to keep her blood sugar under control and regulate her oxygen supply. Over the course of the next five days, her requirement for oxygen reduced and she was gradually weaned off increased oxygen delivery. Close monitoring over the next few days ensured her condition improved and she didn’t need ventilator support at all. We are very happy to say that she is currently doing well and has been discharged as of today,” said Dr Zirpe.Speaking about her treatment, the hospital authorities said they followed the guidelines laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research. This was owing to the fact that the patient had already come into contact with a confirmed Covid case. “Our isolation frontline warriors — Dr Sushil Yadav and team did a commendable job while quarantining the patient. This case was all the more challenging for our doctors because the patient had pre-existing comorbidities,” said Dr Sanjay Pathare, medical director, Ruby Hall Clinic.Mr. Bomi Bhote, CEO, Ruby Hall Clinic concluded, “This is wonderful news and a testament to all our doctors and staff who have been working night and day to care for our patients. She has been the only Covid-19 patient to be admitted to the hospital and her prompt recovery is indeed heartening. At Ruby Hall Clinic, we are working hard to give patients the best care we can and we’re confident that we’ll tide through this pandemic successfully.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/56-year-old-with-diabetes-hypertension-battles-covid-19-returns-home-in-two-weeks/story-oPUvruY12oC4EhI4TJVx7I.html
26-04-2020||Pune||No lockdown relaxation in Pune district till May 3, says Ajit Pawar||Even as Centre has issued notification allowing standalone shops in non-commercial markets in urban areas and all shops except those in malls from rural areas are to be open, Pune district administration has clarified that no relaxation will be offered till May 3.Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram has said the same relief can’t be given in Pune metropolitan region, which accounts for most of Pune district.State health minister Rajesh Tope also said in Mumbai that decision on lifting lockdown after May 3 will be taken by chief minister and task force based on situation in the state and centre’s guidelines.The city with over 800 cases has been hotspot for Covid-19. On Saturday, deputy chief minister and district guardian minister Ajit Pawar held meeting with officials and instructed them to take strict action against those violating lockdown orders in containment zone.In the meeting, Pawar instructed the district administration to keep Chhatrapati Shivaji Stadium located at Balewadi and educational institutes premises ready for creating a medical facility if the cases continue to spike in the city.Pawar also instructed the PMC to provide quality food to patients in Covid-19 quarantine facilities . The district administration should also provide quarantine facility to suspected patients from slum and high density areas.“Considering the current situation in Pune, standalone shops or shopping malls will not be allowed to reopen for precautionary measures. I have instructed the police to execute strict action against violators and ensure effective measures to maintain a complete lockdown in containment zones. It is also the responsibility of the citizens to help the administration fight the virus,” said PawarPawar raised concern over the increasing the number of patients in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwd. Pawar said, “We need to bring down the death rate in the city which is higher.”Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar who was also present said, “The meeting was conducted especially with the staff of Sassoon General Hospital in order to bring down the death rate in the city. The government has provided all necessary equipments to Sassoon hospital.”In the meeting Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad briefed Pawar about the containment zone in the city and what steps are being taken by PMC. Naval Kishore Ram, district collector, briefed Pawar regarding the administrations role and the help they are receiving from various non government organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-rules-will-not-change-in-city-till-may-3/story-OcdlfyjfBWq3DNNWyoyENO.html
26-04-2020||Pune||On the frontline: Social workers in Pune come forward to assist in burial of Covid-19 patients||With the immediate relatives of patients who have died of the Covid-19 disease unable or unwilling to assist in the final rites, volunteers from two organisations in Pune have come forward to assist the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the burial of the bodies.As of April 24, 68 people have died of the deadly coronavirus disease, registering one of the highest death counts due to this disease in the country. On at least three occasions previously, the cremation of Covid-19 patients was delayed due to lack of adequate manpower.Realising that the burial of Covid-19 patients was becoming a problem, volunteers from the city branch of the Popular Front of India (PFI) and social organisation Mulnivasi Muslim Manch came forward to perform the final rites.While they have been doing the final rites of Muslim victims of the disease, they have offered their service, free of charge to people from other faiths who may have died of Covid-19.In many cases, close relatives of the dead patients have been unable to assist in the final rites either because of extreme fear of contracting the infection, or because they are themselves under institutional quarantine.Manch president Anjum Inamdar said, “I was distraught when I came to know that relatives were not coming forward to perform the final rites. We could see that even the municipal corporation was also struggling because of this. As per our faith, bodies have to be buried after death and so we appealed to the PMC to give us the permission to do the burial with all the necessary precautions.”The PMC agreed to the proposal and Inamdar along with fellow volunteers Saabir Topkhan, Zameer Momi and Irfan Maniyar have performed the final rites of 11 Covid-19 patients as of April 14. “Even my 70-year-old mother, Zenab, supported me in this work,” he said.Appreciating this initiative, Pune municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said, “Some muslim volunteers have come forward for carrying out the final rites in the absence of the relatives. This is helping the PMC and we have given them instructions and equipment for personal safety,” he said.Srinivas Kandul, PMC’s head of electrical department and in-charge of cremations said, while the PMC did not face much difficulty in cremating the bodies at the six designated gas-fired crematoriums, burials of dead Covid patients was becoming a problem because of the digging of the trench and other final rites.The two organisations have given a list of 26, young and healthy volunteers who will undertake this work. They have been trained on the precautions to take and the PPEs (personal protective equipment) that needs to be used.“Now, it is we who do the final rites even if the close relatives are present and we ask them to keep a distance,” Inamdar said.Razi said that they have organised a back-up team of 50 volunteers for this work, They have all-round support of their family members and the community in this, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-19-social-workers-come-forward-to-assist-in-burial-of-dead/story-icklKJFAcGtLDcgMpfjVeM.html
26-04-2020||Mumbai||209 booked for violating lockdown norms, 131 held||The Mumbai Police registered 122 first information reports (FIRs) against 209 people for lockdown violations, and arrested 131 on Friday. A maximum of 47 FIRs were registered from the central region and 39 from western, both of which are the worst affected areas by Covid-19 in the city. A maximum of 58 FIRs were lodged for gathering in public and 53 for not wearing a mask. Since the lockdown, 5,075 FIRs have been registered against 9,792 people and a total of 6,164 people have been arrested for lockdown violations.After a video, showing a group of people in a market area in Baiganwadi, Govandi, went viral on social media, the Mumbai Police have beefed up security and enhanced patrolling in the area and other slum pockets of Govandi, Shivaji Nagar, Mankhurd and Trombay. Police returned gold ornaments worth ~ 2 lakh to an Andheri resident who left them in an autorickshaw on April 20. On April 20, Nitin Takle and his wife took an autorickshaw from their residence in Vile Parle but had to return due to nakabandi. They, however, left the bag containing the ornaments in the rickshaw. On April 22, they lodged a complaint and Andheri police traced the driver with help of CCTV footage.A 47-year-old driver hanged himself in his autorickshaw on Friday morning as he was ill and unemployed due to the lockdown. He was found inside his rickshaw outside IT park in Goregaon (East). The post mortem report ascertained suicide, said senior inspector Sripal Kamble, Dindoshi police station.As per state police, 89 police personnel (12 officers and 77 constables) have tested positive for Covid-19. Another seven personnel (three officers and four constables) have recovered. According to data from the state Cyber police, since the lockdown, 290 cases have been lodged for hate speech and fake news .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/131-people-arrested-on-friday-for-lockdown-violation-over-6-000-since-lockdown/story-OCwYEZjYLsxUh4QXJDvXaL.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||Why Delhi govt allowed shops to open after MHA directive||Official reports that several shops had already opened across the city and forcing them shut again may cause law and order problems prompted the Delhi government’s rethink on the resumption of commercial activities in the national capital, senior officials who attended a review meeting chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said. In an order on Saturday evening, the Delhi government allowed opening of all neighbourhood stores, even those selling non-essentials, in areas outside containment zones and hot spots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The order came a day after the Union home ministry allowed stand-alone establishments. Till Saturday evening when Kejriwal held a review meeting with senior state officials, confusion prevailed on the operation of the Centre’s decision to allow shops to open in areas that are not containment zones. Senior officials in the chief minister’s office, who attended Kejriwal’s meeting and did not wish to be named, said the Delhi Police gave its feedback that forcing shops to shut again would lead to law and order issues in some pockets of the city.“Actually, the Delhi government was left with no other option than to allow the shops to open because the news of Centre’s decision spread like wildfire across the city and many shop owners resumed their business. Altercations between officials and shop owners were reported in some parts of north and north east Delhi. They showed a copy of the MHA order on the phones to the officials to support their decision to open their shops,” said a senior official.The police and the district magistrates informed the CM that it will be impossible to go to every nook and corner of the city and get shutters down of shops now, a second official said. “So, it was decided to comply with the MHA orders,” the official said. As per the latest order issued by the Delhi government on Saturday, all registered shops, except those in containment zones, will be allowed to operate in the national Capital. The Delhi government, however, made it clear that other relaxations such as opening industries and allowing self-employed persons to work will not be permitted. It also clarified that all outlets which render services such as restaurants, salons, barber shops and so on will continue to be shut. Besides, sale of all non-essential items by e-commerce firms will also continue to be prohibited until further orders. The Delhi government added that a decision of any further relaxation on the existing lockdown restrictions will be taken on Monday.On Saturday morning, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain hinted that the national Capital could get some relaxations from April 27.“There are 95 coronavirus hot spots in Delhi. The entire district or the entire city is not (a hotspot),” Jain said replying to a query from reporters on whether the Delhi government was considering easing the curbs enforced to contain the spread of novel coronavirus.Several outlets such as stationery shops, electronic stores, hardware shops among others were opened in different parts of the city on Saturday. Many of those shops, in areas such as Laxmi Nagar and Lajpat Nagar, were closed after police intervention.The traders welcomed the government’s decision with the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) saying that Delhi has around 75,000 such neighbourhood shops that will benefit with the latest relaxation. “We are requesting all traders that before opening shops, they should thoroughly sanitise their shops and also ensure sanitisation of commercial markets. While opening the shops, the health safety rules released by the ministry of health & family welfare must be followed in letter and spirit,” said BC Bhartia, national president, CAIT.CAIT secretary general Praveeen Khandelwal said, shopkeepers and their staff should wear masks and gloves. “Sanitisers should be made available. The owner should ensure that they sanitise every incoming customer while maintaining social distancing,” he said. Brijesh Goyal, convener Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI), who is also Delhi state head of Aam Aadmi Party’s trade wing, said shops located in markets and shopping complexes have not been given permission to open yet. He pegged the number of shops that would benefit form Saturday’s order at 1.5 lakh. “All commercial markets will also remain closed until further orders. Besides, those areas which have markets will also not open as of now. Those who can open are standalone flower shops, bakery shops, gift shop, books and stationery shops, mobile shops and so on,” he said. Shops selling essential items such as groceries and poultry and medical stores have been operational throughout the lockdown. However, the Delhi government’s decision to comply with the Centre’s directive did not go down well with Residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in the city. Most of the associations wanted an extension of the lockdown.“This will cause crowding on the roads and social distancing will go for a toss. The government’s own projections show that the Covid-19 situation is not good. The CM had two days back said that the number of coronavirus cases may increase if relaxations are given, then what changed in these two days. Cases are being reported from each of the 11 districts, then why hurry. The government should have waited at least for May 3 and then should have taken a decision after assessing the situation,” said BS Vohra, president, federation of east Delhi RWAs.Rajiv Kakria, member of GK-1 RWA said that both the central and state governments are unaware that more than 60% of shops in Delhi are in residential areas due to mixed-land use.“The malls and shopping complexes being closed will have no impact as mixed land use shops are on almost every road in any colony, village or unauthorised area. Opening these shops will throw all lockdown rules to the winds and there will be chaos. Do we even have enough police personnel or district officials to man each and every lane of the city and check if social distancing is being followed?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/why-delhi-govt-allowed-shops-to-open-after-mha-directive/story-W66qn2yhSzUvMAA7hvfyWN.html
26-04-2020||Gurugram||Bhondsi: 35 kilos of marijuana seized, one arrested||The police arrested a 30-year-old man late Tuesday near Bhondsi for allegedly possessing 35 kilograms of marijuana (ganja). According to the police, the man allegedly procured the banned substance from an Alwar dealer and peddled it in smaller quantities. He had procured the consignment for ₹4.80 lakh but had paid only ₹20,000 as advance and had planned to sell the marijuana at the rate of ₹250 for 10 grams. The police registered a case against him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the Bhondsi City police station on Friday night.The man was identified as Salem Khan of Tauru in Nuh.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the Khan is a history-sheeter and has been involved in the drug trade for the past 18 months. “He worked as an electrician in his village but could not make ends meet. He discussed his financial condition with one of his friends in Alwar, who introduced him to drug smuggling,” he said.Earlier, Khan would allegedly go to Alwar to buy the consignment and later sell it to small-time dealers in Nuh and Gurugram areas.A police team, headed by Bijender Hooda, inspector, crime unit, Palam Vihar, arrested the suspect based on secret information near a farmhouse in Bhondsi around 11pm when he had allegedly received the consignment and was walking back home.Hooda said Khan was carrying a sack in which there were around 15 sealed packets. “He had received a call from the supplier to pick up the consignment from Gurugram on Friday. He took lifts in trucks and motorcycles to reach Gurugram and was planning to return via the same mode of transport but was caught,” he said.During questioning, the suspect allegedly told the police that the kingpin of the trade sourced marijuana from Odisha and sold it in smaller quantities. The consignment from Odisha reached Alwar in trucks carrying essential supplies and was later sold to dealers in Rajasthan, Nuh and Gurugram, the police said.The police said they received a tip about a consignment of drugs that was to be delivered in Bhondsi. A team from the Palam Vihar crime investigation unit set a trap to apprehend the dealer near the farmhouse.Sangwan said they are yet to identify the kingpin and the Alwar dealer who had come to deliver the consignment. “We are on the lookout for his aides,” he said.The seized marijuana will be sent to the forensics lab at Madhuban in Karnal, the police said.The suspect was produced at the district court on Saturday and sent to 14-day judicial custody.Earlier on April 16, the police had arrested two men allegedly in possession of 107 kilograms of marijuana, estimated to be worth at least ₹50 lakh, from a housekeeping shop in Udyog Vihar. One of their suppliers, a Bangladesh national, was arrested from Delhi a day after.According to the police, the gang was active in Delhi-NCR and its members allegedly sold smaller consignments of 10 kilograms each to drug peddlers for potential sale to peopleSangwan said that during questioning, the suspects had revealed that they had sourced the marijuana a few days before a nationwide lockdown was announced to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Suspects these days are peddling drugs by walking down from other districts through fields. They have increased their prices during the lockdown and are managing to supply the consignment to several dealers in the city. Due to frequent police patrols, their movement within the city is restricted. We have arrested nine people from the city in the last one month, are mapping the areas from where these men were arrested and have increased patrolling to ensure there is no supply of drugs in the city,” Sangwan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/bhondsi-35-kilos-of-marijuana-seized-one-arrested/story-ENW9ZIFQXHIMd3PLwejH1L.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||44 health care staff at Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital test Covid-positive||The 100-bed Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital in Jahangirpuri has now become a Covid-19 hot spot, with at least 30 health care workers testing positive on Saturday for the disease in the Delhi government-run hospital, highlighting the dangers front line workers are exposed to, in the fight against the contagious coronavirus disease. In total, 44 health care workers from the Jahangirpuri hospital have tested positive.The national Capital has so far reported 2,625 of Covid-19, 54 of whom have died, while 869 have recovered.Of the 111 new cases, 24 were among samples that were collected by health care workers from the 95 containment zones in the city. So far 257 people from these areas have tested positive. Across the city, 132 health care workers have contracted Covid-19. However, there have been no reports of any deaths amongst the 132 so far.Initially, the infections were detected in some staff members working in the DOTS (Directly Observed Treatment, Short-Course) centre of the hospital, which TB patients visit to get their medicines. The centre has been closed and sanitised earlier this week. “However, the cases that turned positive on Friday night were from across the hospital – including security staff and healthcare workers from different departments,” said a doctor from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.As staff members quarantine, a doctor from the hospital said, “We have asked the government for staff from other hospitals to run the services.”The hospital is situated in the middle of a hot spot, with six of the seven containment zones in north district located in Jahangirpuri. The authorities are yet to trace the source of any of the infections. “Many of the people working at the hospital live near areas from where cases are being reported. Patients from Jahangirpuri also visit the hospital. Now, with the government saying that many are asymptomatic, we do not know where the infection actually came from,” a doctor said. One of the junior residents and the chief medical officer of Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital had reported Covid-like symptoms a week ago, but the hospital did not get them tested, after which they got themselves checked. When their reports returned positive, the other doctors from the hospital demanded they be tested, and had to resort to a strike for a few hours on Monday, after which around 200 samples were collected.The hospital is yet to decide how to prevent further infections. So far, a flu clinic had been set up to screen patient with flu-like symptoms who had international travel history or history of contact with positive cases. The hospital receives around 2,000 people in its outpatient clinics a day.This comes after several health care workers from Lady Hardinge Medical College’s paediatric intensive care unit (ICU) started testing positive for the contagious disease last week. So far, at least 13 health care workers have tested positive from the ward. Another doctor from the ward meant to admit children with Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (Sari) has also tested positive. Two children from the ward — a 45-day-old and a 10-month-old — also tested positive for Covid-19. The 45-day-old succumbed to the infection last Saturday, making him the youngest person in the country to die of Covid-19.A similar series of infection was detected in health care workers at the Delhi State Cancer Institute towards the end of March, with a 35-year-old resident doctor from the preventive oncology department testing positive first. Twenty-six health care workers have tested positive for the infection so far in the hospital. Four patients, one of their family members, and the child of a nurse from the hospital also tested positive for infection. The hospital had to be shut for over two weeks to ensure that the infection is not passed on to immunocompromised cancer patients. The cancer hospital has started its out-patient clinic and will start running the chemotherapy department soon. Of the total Covid-19 cases in Delhi, almost 66% of those infected are below the age of 50, according to the Delhi government’s daily health bulletin. Less than 18% cases are recorded among those above the age of 60. However, almost 54% deaths are in those 60 years or older.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/44-health-care-staff-at-babu-jagjivan-ram-hospital-test-covid-positive/story-625LLb1UVTpiEyGmgytiuK.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s power consumption over last one month lowest in 11 years||The daily average power demand in Delhi during the month-long lockdown has not only seen a 35% dip from the previous year, but it has also turned out to be a period with the lowest average electricity consumption in the capital over the past 11 years at least.Delhi was among the first cities to impose a lockdown -- it came into effect in the capital city on March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown on March 24. Reports prepared by the state power department revealed that Delhi had not witnessed such low electricity consumption between March 23 and April 24 in any year since 2009. HT could access Delhi’s power consumption reports since 2009. Data prior to 2009 was not provided. “The average power demand in the past one month has been 2,560MW, which is 35% lower than last year’s consumption during the same period. If we go back even further, the average consumption in the year 2009 was 3,156MW for the same period,” said a senior official in the power department. At the same time, the maximum power demand has been 3,169MW which is 40% lower than last year’s peak (5,263MW) during the same period. Breaking down the data further revealed that the daytime peak demand dropped by over 40%. This implied that a major contributor to the reduction in electricity consumption was the closure of commercial and industrial establishments. Under the lockdown, only factories manufacturing essential items are allowed to operate. Malls, offices and shops, other than those selling essential items, are shut until further orders by the state government. “The peak electricity demand during the night has reduced by around 25%. It was expected that the percentage reduction during the night would be lower since the consumption pattern at that time otherwise remains almost the same throughout the year,” said an official of a distribution company. Delhi has around 5.5 million domestic consumers. Power officials said the electricity consumption pattern suggests that people had started practising restrain by staying indoors more even prior to the lockdown started.“Malls, gyms, schools, colleges and other such institutions were shut prior to the lockdown which had an impact. Many people on their own also reduced their movement fearing they would contract Covid-19 or spread it,” the official said. “Data suggests that Delhi’s peak power demand in March considerably declined, even before the lockdown was announced. On March 15, the national capital’s peak power demand was 3421 MW that sharply reduced by around 33% on March 22 to 2294 MW. On the same dates last year, the city’s electricity demand was 3776MW and 3095MW respectively,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-power-consumption-over-last-one-month-lowest-in-11-years/story-OyowAFBj2XeTz02GNnyy2J.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||57-yr-old south civic body worker first fatality of Covid-19 among sanitation workers||A 57-year-old sanitation worker of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), who had tested positive for Covid-19 and was on ventilator support at AIIMS Trauma Centre, succumbed on Saturday. The man used to lift garbage in Bhogal, Jangpura. At least three other sanitation workers have tested positive for the virus and are admitted to various hospitals in the city.This is the first case of a municipal sanitation worker succumbing to the virus in the city. On April 21, a female sanitation worker — who worked with the east Delhi municipality in Jwala Nagar area of Shahdara — had died of “acute respiratory distress” at Lok Nayak Hospital. She was tested and had later reported negative for Covid-19.Till Saturday 2,625 Covid-19 positive cases had been detected in Delhi with 54 deaths. In Saturday’s case, relatives claimed that the man — despite his age — had been attending duty daily till April 16 “for the fear of salary deduction” and had most likely contracted the disease “on the job.” However, south corporation officials said that the man had showed up to work only twice since the lockdown. “We express deepest condolence on the sad demise of one of our safai sainiks. He was posted in the Daryaganj ward and admitted at AIIMS on April 22 as a Covid-19 positive case. However, he was also suffering from liver-related issues and had been earlier treated at Holy Family Hospital and availed medical leave from December 19, 2019 to February 5, 2020 for the same. He attended duty only twice this month, April 4 and April 11, of his own free will. He was not posted in any Covid-19 hot spot or disinfection work,” a senior official with the corporation said.“South corporation has asked all its sanitation workers who are 55-year-old or above not to come to work as per guidelines and will extend all possible help to the family,” the officer added.However, the nephew of the dead sanitation worker said, “He was attending work daily. He even had a curfew pass to be able to go through the police barricades.”Leader of Congress in SDMC and councillor from Amar Colony, Abhishek Dutt, said, “We demand chief minister Arvind Kejriwal provide Rs. 1 crore to the family of the man and one government job at least.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/57-yr-old-south-civic-body-worker-first-fatality-of-virus-among-sanitation-workers/story-kd6BcxjCzj0pbISzTgnjTL.html
26-04-2020||Delhi||Three more policemen test Covid-19 positive, 31 cops infected with Covid-19 till now||A Delhi Police head constable, who was posted at outer Delhi’s Alipur, on Friday tested positive for Covid-19, triggering panic among his colleagues since his place of posting or duty was not in any of the city’s 92 containment or ‘red’ zones. Until Friday evening, 31 Delhi police personnel had tested positive for Covid-19. Police suspect the head constable may have contracted the infection from someone in Jahangirpuri, where he lives. Jahangirpuri in north west Delhi has reported several cases and has six containment zones. “There is a possibility that he may have come in contact with an infected person in Jahangirpuri while travelling between his home and workplace. It’s a matter of concern because many police personnel live in or around the containment zones in Delhi-NCR. They commute daily from such areas to reach their place of duty,” said a senior police officer. Joint commissioner of police (northern range) Manish Kumar Aggarwal said that the head constable was sent for testing on Thursday as he showed symptoms of cough and fever. “The policeman’s test result on Friday confirmed that he had been infected with the disease. His residence is in Jahangirpuri but not in any of the containment zones,” said Aggarwal.Eleven other policemen of Alipur station, who came in contact with the head constable in the last few days, have been sent to self-isolation. They will all be tested in the next three-four days.Between Thursday and Friday, two more constables from central Delhi also tested positive for the virus. Police said both the constables were asymptomatic but their samples were taken as they were posted in the areas from where positive Covid-19 cases had been reported in the last fortnight.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Sanjay Bhatia said the constables were posted at the Nabi Karim and Jama Masjid police stations respectively. “The two constables are young and had no symptoms of the infection. They have been shifted to a quarantine facility where they will remain under medical observation,” said DCP Bhatia, adding that screening of more than 200 police personnel from the district has already been done.The central district is one the worst-hit areas in the city. The Chandni Mahal police station has been sealed after many cases of Covid-19 were reported. The police officers of Chandni Mahal station are currently working from the Jama Masjid police station building. Meanwhile, a letter issued from the Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava’s office on Friday said that financial assistance of Rs 1 lakh is being granted from Delhi Police Welfare Society to personnel, who were infected with the virus during duty. In the wake of rising Covid-19 caes among police personnel, Shrivastava has appointed six senior joint commissioner rank officers to visit police stations across the city every day and ensure that police are ensuring social distancing norms. The six officers have to submit their report to the police chief every evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-more-policemen-test-covid-19-positive-31-cops-infected-with-virus-till-now/story-Kkq4M6PtzjBvpJyoTZ9I2M.html
26-04-2020||City||Mohali MC approves Rs 2 lakh compensation for death by stray animal||The Mohali municipal corporation (MC) has decided to pay ₹2 lakh as compensation for death caused by a stray animal. In its last General House meeting held via video conferencing on Saturday, the civic body approved of registration, proper control of stray animals and compensation to victims of animal attack bylaws.The Mohali MC, which has 50 councillors, got dissolved on Saturday after completing a five-year term and now, all the decision making powers are vested with MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg till next elections take place.Garg said that the MC will pay compensation in case of death caused due to attack by a stray animal, but in a case where a pet animal is involved, the owner will have to pay the compensation.He said that the penalties collected for violating the bylaws will be used for maintaining animal pound, payment of compensation to victims of stray animals attacks and cost of identification and veterinary healthcare of stray animals.Mayor Kulwant Singh said, “These bylaws were long awaited and will go a long way to check the menace of stray animal, including dogs, cattle and monkeys.”The MC has clarified that no compensation will be paid if the attack was due to provocation or negligence of the victim, he added. As per the approved bylaws, in case a person becomes disabled due to the animal attack or bite, the person will be entitled to ₹2 lakh compensation, provided the civil surgeon issues a certificate. Earlier, Mohali had no bylaws to govern stray animals and compensate the victims.Only two dogs per family allowedUnder the bylaws, the MC had put a cap on the number of the animals that can be owned by a family. As per the bylaws approved now, each family in Mohali can keep only two dogs. MC has given six months for getting the pets registered.MC commissioner said that the registration of pet animals, be it a cat or a dog, is mandatory and will be valid for 12 months. The registration will have to be approved by April 30 every year, he said. For dogs, the registration fee will be ₹500. Late fee of ₹100 will be charged if there’s one-month delay while ₹200 will be charged for a two-month delay. However, for a delay of more than two months, money worth five times the registration fee will be charged. Besides, the animal will be impounded and maintenance charges of ₹200 per day will be levied.Chain your dog before taking out for walkWhile taking out pets for walks in public places, the animal should be muzzled and chained. The pets will have to wear the token issued by MC after registration on the collar every time. It will be the responsibility of the dog owner to remove the animal excreta in case of default penalty of ₹1000 be imposed. Apart from this, the owner will have to show vaccination certificate during inspection, failing which ₹200 be imposed. Also, the bylaws have a provision of cancellation of registration and seizing of animal for repeat offendersFee to keep animals brought in for showsThe organiser will have to pay ₹2,000 per day for the duration that MC limits to keep animals for show.No abandonment of animalsAbandoning of old and sick animals is prohibited under the bylaws. The owner will be penalised ₹50,000 per animal and will be liable to prosecution under prevention of cruelty of animal act. Dead animals will be buried at designated places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-mc-approves-2l-compensation-for-death-by-stray-animal/story-2UFTKYXnLPaYkYORHAHgmI.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Heat poses new challenge for Chandigarh admn in feeding the poor||After food scarcity and supply mismanagement, rising temperature has now become a fresh challenge for the Chandigarh administration in helping out the poor with free ration and cooked food.In the light of April 22 fiasco at Mauli Jagran during which hundreds jostled on the street for free ration, UT food supplies and consumer affairs department improved the distribution with a new coupon system.HT team checked multiple spots and found that as the distribution is slow paced and performed mostly in day time, there was no escape for people from the sunny heat as the mercury touched 39 degree Celsius on Saturday.In Daria, a village opposite the city railway station, ration was distributed on Saturday among 300 beneficiaries in two shifts: 10am to 12pm and then 3pm to 4pm. Among them, 80 were those who failed to get ration on Friday and were called again.Siya Ram, a daily wager, said that he got no ration on Friday since the stock was finished before his turn. “Today I was denied ration on some identification issue. Coping with all this in such heat is next to impossible, but we are forced to bear it out of sheer hunger,” he said.A volunteer, Sunil Singh, said the UT authorities must consider how difficult it is for the people to get delivery in the scorching heat. “The authorities should ensure that those being called for ration must get it on the same day,” he said.‘GETTING COUPONS AT HOME, WHY NOT RATION’At the Sector 56 distribution point inside a government school that is catering to 2,500 beneficiaries from Sectors 53 to 56, a long queue of 400 was given ration between 10am to 4pm, albeit with much hardship.Satinder Kaur, 43, a housewife, said, “I am diabetic. Waiting in queue for hours is making me nervous. If I can get coupons for ration delivery at my doorstep, why can’t I get ration too? Their should be shorter cues or at least provision of some shade.”Parminder Kumar, 40, a sweeper, said, “Due to the lockdown, our life has become all about standing in a line. Earlier it was for cooked food and now it is for wheat and dal. I feel fatigued and frustrated every day.”Satpal, 57, taking turns with his wife Asha, 50, while standing in a line, said, “Our children are at home alone and here we are struggling to make ends meet.”Transporting heavy quantity of ration back home is an even greater challenge for them. Many were seen arguing with rickshaw-pullers over fare. Area councillor Satish Kainth said he had proposed to the food department to distribute ration in different areas of his ward so that people get it near their homes. But the latter could not manage due to limited resources.Those who did not get coupons were left anxious. Sayida, 27, who works as a tailor at home, said, “My husband is no more. I hope that in his absence, I will get ration as his name is there on the list.”CONG WRITES TO UT ADMNMeanwhile, local Congress president Pardeep Chhabra on Saturday wrote to the UT administration, suggesting shifting ration and cooked food distribution timings to 8am-11am and 4pm-6pm so that people do not have to stand in long queues and bear the heat. Chhabra also suggested that cooked food delivery be advanced by at least one hour. Department secretary Vinod P Kavle did not respond to the text messages or calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/heat-poses-new-challenge-for-chandigarh-admn-in-feeding-the-poor/story-a0wffGHcTugBbrZX3ZKs9M.html
26-04-2020||Pune||Cleric arrested for unlawful assembly in Pune||The Bhosari police have booked a cleric, incharge of Bilal Masjid in Kasarwadi. on charges of unlawful assembly for conduct of prayers at the mosque, officials said on Saturday.Yusuf Jabbar (36), cleric, was later arrested by the police.According to the Bhosari police, Jabbar had gathered people for Friday prayers in violation of the prior notices served by administration and the police for effective implementation of lockdown to limit spread of Covid-19 outbreak.The accused has been booked under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) , 269 (negligent likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 290 (public nuisance) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other sections of the Epidemic Act.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Smita Patil said that despite being warned about the dangers of the spread of Covid-19 through social transmission, Jabbar went ahead and resorted to unlawful assembly and was found with twenty persons outside the mosque.“Based on the information and evidence, we booked him under the relevant sections of the Epidemic Act and IPC and later arrested him,” said Inspector Shankar Autade, Bhosari police station incharge.Currently, only the person who gives azan (call for prayers) and two cleaning staff are permitted inside the mosque as per the lockdown restrictions.The Bhosari police have appealed to residents to refrain from offering congregation prayers citing that it is banned under the Epidemic Act. Investigation is on to find out the other attendees of the event, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cleric-arrested-for-unlawful-assembly-in-pune/story-d71LbXVyKTcVs90Kv1gWGJ.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Apply for movement pass online to recover impounded vehicle in Chandigarh||To prevent chaos and crowding at the Traffic Lines in Sector 29, Chandigarh traffic police have made it mandatory for violators to avail a movement pass online before coming to recover their impounded vehicles. According to the new mandate by the UT’s traffic police, the pass will be issued as a message on the phone and will be valid for a limited time to prevent misuse. Discussing this, Kewal Krishan, deputy superintendent of police (DSP, traffic administration) of Chandigarh, said, “The new rule will facilitate better management of the swarm of people who come here, as about 100 to 200 vehicles are impounded everyday. Also, many people were violating the curfew to come to Sector 29, or after getting their impounded vehicle released. In some cases, people who were stopped at nakas for violating curfew, used this as an excuse. The movement pass will be valid for limited hours only and will prevent misuse.”The movement pass can be applied via the e-saathi app of the Chandigarh police. A shortcut has been created on the main window of the app, where one must upload a copy of one’s challan in pdf format while applying for a pass or else the pass will get cancelled. Impounded vehicles can be four days after they are impounded and anyone going to Traffic Lines without a pass will be liable to be booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian penal Code (IPC) for violating curfew.Owing to strict checking of those violating curfew, the number of challans related to driving licences in Chandigarh have increased by 2.5 times this year, as compared to 2019.As per data with challaning branch, up till 24 April this year 9,142 challans were issued for driving without procuring a licence and failure to produce driving license on demand of a policeman. While last year, 3,641 challans had been issued up till 24 April. This year, 6,773 of 9,142 challans (around 75%) were issued during the curfew (24 March to 24 April).A penalty of ₹5,000 is imposed on the first violation, and ₹10,000 is imposed on second time defaulters.Speaking of this, deputy inspector general of police (traffic) Shashank Anand said, “Driving licences are checked the identity of the persons carrying curfew passes when they are stopped at nakas. Even after curfew restrictions are lifted, we will remain vigilant and check licences.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/apply-for-movement-pass-online-to-recover-impounded-vehicle-in-chandigarh/story-dlwYUVDrFtbuxopPwVEQcN.html
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||16 unions hold rooftop protests against mismanagement of pandemic across Punjab||Alleging mismanagement of the novel coronavirus pandemic in Punjab, members of 16 farmer, labour and student unions staged a protest against the Centre and state governments on their respective rooftops across Punjab on Saturday. The protesters, including women and children, beat utensils and said the government had failed to purchase wheat on time and provide ration to those in need.“Farmers’ crops are not being purchased within 24 hours as promised by the government. The lockdown was imposed without adequate planning and farmers are forced to wait for a week in mandis,” said Gobinder Singh, Sangrur block chief of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan).Punjab Student Union (Randhawa) leader Raman Kalajhar said poor people were being left to die without ration in their homes. “The government has failed to provide grocery to economically weaker sections and safety kits to medical staff in hospitals.”In Bathinda, BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) leader Shingara Singh Mann said that protest was held in as many as 60 villages, with protesters raising slogans against the state and the central governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/16-unions-hold-rooftop-protests-against-mismanagement-of-pandemic-across-punjab/story-7EgUUFJ0i5xhun6TACKvVO.html
26-04-2020||Viral||Jharkhand doctor couple treats Covid-19 patients on wedding anniversary, wins hearts||A doctor couple who continued to be on duty, treating patients of COVID-19, was lauded on Thursday for their commitment to work despite it being their wedding anniversary.Dr Rithika and Dr Nishant Pathak were seen treating patients at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on their special day amid the pandemic.Their commitment to serve the patients was lauded by the people of the state and Chief Minister Hemant Soren who expressed gratitude to the couple.Under the leadership of respected CM shri @HemantSorenJMM ji & health minister shri @BannaGupta76 ji,I Dr Nishant & Dr Ritika treating corona patients @ RIMS, today is our marriage anniversary too #Covid_19india #JharkhandfightsCOrona @jharkhand181 @JharkhandCMO @DainikJagranRan pic.twitter.com/bFrut1JabIWarriors like you fighting against coronavirus with dedication and hard work are giving courage and life to coronavirus patients, Soren said in a tweet.My heartfelt gratitude to all such warriors, Soren said, congratulating the couple on their wedding anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/it-s-viral/jharkhand-doctor-couple-treats-covid-19-patients-on-wedding-anniversary-wins-hearts/story-I9dfa84qmrN9nOoX2dctZL.html
26-04-2020||World||‘Can have serious side effects’: Canada warns Hydroxychloroquine use against Covid-19||Canadian health authorities have issued a warning against the use of anti-malarial drugs chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine to treat coronavirus infections or prevent reinfections.“Chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine can have serious side effects. These drugs should be used only under the supervision of a physician,” Canada’s public health agency said in a note posted Saturday on its website.“Health Canada is concerned that some people may be directly buying and using chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine to prevent or treat COVID-19,” it said, noting they can cause “serious heart rhythm problems.”The European Medicines Agency on Thursday issued a similar warning about the drugs, whose promise as a coronavirus treatment has been touted by US President Donald Trump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/can-have-serious-side-effects-canada-warns-hydroxychloroquine-use-against-covid-19/story-PI9kobMMhAP4ZI6eww7JKK.html
26-04-2020||World||Hit by ‘disinfectant’ blowback, Donald Trump skips daily briefing on Covid-19||President Donald Trump did not hold a daily news briefing of the coronavirus task force in weeks on Saturday as he sought to stave off continuing blowback to his shocking suggestion to try common disinfectants to kill the deadly pathogen inside infected people’s bodies, as they do externally, on surfaces.But the president blamed the media for it. “What is the purpose of having White House News Conferences when the Lamestream Media asks nothing but hostile questions, & then refuses to report the truth or facts accurately. They get record ratings, & the American people get nothing but Fake News. Not worth the time & effort!,” he wrote on twitter.It was no immediately clear if he will not hold these briefings at all, or lead them as he has been for weeks.The president’s aides and allies have for some time felt that these briefings in which he has torn into reporters and political rivals and touted an untested treatment as a “game-changer” were being counterproductive. And Republicans fear increasingly that his handling of the crisis could cost them dearly in the November elections, according to news reports.Questions have continued to be raised about the administration’s response and failure to prepare for the epidemic that had till Sunday morning claimed 53,934 lives, up by 1,806 in the last 24 hours, and infected 939,249 people, with 32,796 new cases. The United States has suffered the most from this pandemic.As Trump used the briefings to update the country on the state of the epidemic and measures and guidelines in place to combat it he was also seen by critics as turning them into a version of his political rallies which he could not hold because of the social distancing guidelines anymore.And, in which he often strayed into questionable territory, such as his robust endorsement of the antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine, which is proving to be more harmful than beneficial, according to a growing number of studies, and his suggestion last Thursday to try disinfectants.Trump has said he said it as a “sarcastic question”.Public health officials and experts condemned it and even his own top officials were horrified. “I certainly wouldn’t recommend the internal ingestion of a disinfectant,” Food and Drug Administration commissioner Stephen Hahn, who is also a member of the White House task force., told CNN.But some people, scared and concerned, did not heed the warning. City officials in New York reported receiving an unusually high number of calls from people who feared having ingested disinfectants in the 18 hours after Trump’s remarks, according to reports in US media.The Poison Control Center, a department of the New York city’s health department managed a total of 30 cases of possible exposure to disinfectants between 9 p.m. Thursday and 3 p.m. Friday, a spokesman said told the Daily News, a local news publication.Nine were exposed to Lysol, 10 to bleach and 11 about household cleaners in general, according to the spokesman. No one died or required hospitalization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hit-by-disinfectant-blowback-donald-trump-skips-daily-briefing/story-INBhkkSGohNi3AKIoFHkrO.html
26-04-2020||World||Coronavirus cases cross 3,000-mark in Singapore, foreign workers worst-affected||Coronavirus cases in Singapore crossed the 13,000-mark on Sunday after 931 positive cases were confirmed with majority of them continued to be foreign workers, including Indian nationals, living in dormitories. The vast majority of the news cases are work permit holders residing in dormitories for foreign workers, the Ministry of Health (MOH) said in its preliminary release of figures.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage Foreign workers’ dormitories have been locked down as the government struggles to curb the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak. Fifteen of the new cases confirmed on Sunday are Singaporeans or permanent residents being foreigners. The total number of coronavirus cases is 13,624 as of Sunday noon. “We are still working through the details of the cases, and further updates will be shared via the MOH press release that will be issued tonight,” the ministry said. Meanwhile, five weeks from now, if the number of daily Covid-19 cases in the community falls to single digits and the situation in the foreign worker dormitories improves, “circuit breaker” measures in Singapore may ease gradually, reported Channel News Asia, citing experts. Key indicators of whether Singapore is in a position to consider such a move include the number of new community cases falling to single digits per day and a “very clear decline” in new cases in the dormitories, said Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health dean Teo Yik Ying. Besides a fall in the total number of cases, the number of unlinked cases should go down to near zero, added Professor Paul Tambyah of the Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine at the National University of Singapore. Another indicator of community transmission of the coronavirus would be the numbers from the Health Ministry’s surveillance programmes. Such random testing of flu-like illnesses in the community aims to pick up cases that otherwise would not have not been detected. “The key is to look at the sentinel surveillance data – from the influenza-like illness surveillance done in polyclinics and general practitioner clinics – to see how much coronavirus is circulating in the community, as well as pneumonia surveillance in hospitals,” said Prof Tambyah. Trade and Industry Minister Chan Chun Sing said on Thursday the sentinel programme is an example of how authorities are trying to “pre-empt the situation going forward”. “For example at this point in time, while the numbers are coming down, we are also making sure that we have background sentinel checks to make sure that we are not caught blindsided by some other hidden cases in the community,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-cases-cross-3-000-mark-in-singapore-foreign-workers-worst-affected/story-HYFLOSHeTEOfBzCbEWS4DL.html
26-04-2020||World||Covid-recovered PM Boris Johnson to resume work from Monday, says ‘raring to go’||Recovered after being stricken by coronavirus, Prime Minister Boris Johnson prepared to lead the government response to the pandemic challenge again from Monday, as pressure grew from various quarters to announce steps to ease the lockdown.Foreign secretary Dominic Raab told Sunday television that a vaccine against the virus is “not likely to come to fruition this year”. Human trials for a vaccine have begun in Oxford, with experts hoping for positive results by September, but others have tempered expectations.Downing Street said Johnson, who has been recuperating in a country retreat after leaving hospital, will resume duty on Monday, at a time when a new opinion poll suggested dwindling public trust in his government’s ability to deal with the pandemic.According to Raab, who is deputising for Johnson, the prime minister is ‘raring to go’.Johnson, who studied Classics at Oxford, is reported to have quoted iconic Roman statesman Cicero’s words to his aides: ‘Salus populi suprema lex esto’ (The health of the people should be the supreme law), which has been interpreted as his reluctance to ease the lockdown.Raab said without the lockdown the death toll would have been worse than the over 20,000 figure as of Saturday, adding that social distancing measures would be in place at least “for some time”. He refused to set a timetable when the lockdown would be eased.Pressure on easing the lockdown grew after the governments in Scotland and Wales set out conditions needed before a review could be held. Raab has previously set a five-point test before easing the curbs could be considered.The test includes: protecting the National Health Service’s ability to cope; a sustained and consistent fall in the daily death rates; reliable data showing the rate of infection is decreasing to manageable levels; the range of operational challenges, including testing capacity and PPE, are in hand, with supply able to meet future demand; and that any adjustments to the current measures will not risk a second peak of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-recovered-pm-boris-johnson-to-resume-work-from-monday-says-raring-to-go/story-bCDUj2umvX4PQfjhQZUYPN.html
26-04-2020||World||Clock is ticking, as Covid-19 puts Brexit on back-burner||The United Kingdom and the European Union were supposed to be at an advanced stage of trade talks now, but the coronavirus pandemic has pushed Brexit into the background, with latest talks by video-link on Friday described as ‘disappointing’.The UK symbolically left the EU in January and entered into a ‘transition’ phase until December 31, by when both sides are expected to finalise post-Brexit trade and other arrangements. Until the date, the UK remains a full member of the EU.The key aspect is whether the Boris Johnson government will ask for an extension of the December 31 deadline, which it has so far insisted will not do. As EU’s chief negotiator Michel Barnier said after the Friday talks, “the clock is ticking”.Major areas of disagreement remain, particularly on the issue of justice (EU wants the UK to stay under jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice), trade (goods and services), fisheries and a level playing field (the UK’s access to the EU single market after December 31).Barnier said genuine progress and a decision on the deadline’s extension needed to be made by June. Two rounds of technical talks are scheduled in May but without political involvement, the impasse is unlikely to be resolved.Barnier said: “The UK did not wish to commit seriously on a number of fundamental points…The UK cannot refuse to extend transition and at the same time slow down discussions on important areas…the clock is ticking”.In London, a government spokesperson said: “We do not recognise the suggestion that we have not engaged seriously with the EU in any area...We now need to move forward in a constructive fashion. The UK remains committed to a deal with a Free Trade Agreement at its core”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/clock-is-ticking-as-covid-19-puts-brexit-on-back-burner/story-SyRl8LF9784uT1ndoqqASK.html
26-04-2020||World||First pandemic epicentre Wuhan discharges its last Covid patient from hospital||The central Chinese city of Wuhan, the first Covid-19 pandemic epicentre where the virus emerged late last year, has no remaining cases in hospitals, China announced Sunday.The novel coronavirus is believed to have originated in a wet seafood and meat market in Wuhan before spreading across China and then globally.Early cases of Covid-19 were discovered among Wuhan residents in December.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageMore than 2.8 million people have since been sickened by the rapidly spreading virus and nearly 200000 have died globally.“The latest news is that by April 26, the number of new coronavirus patients in Wuhan was at zero, thanks to the joint efforts of Wuhan and medical staff from around the country,” national health commission (NHC) spokesperson Mi Feng said at a briefing in Beijing on Sunday.The last patient in serious condition in Wuhan, capital of Hubei Province, was cured on Friday, reducing the number of these patients in the city to zero, Mi said.Wuhan, however, recorded 20 new silent carriers of the virus on Friday, with 535 suspected patients under medical observation.The city of around 11 million people was put under a total lockdown for 76 days starting January 23 but still saw the highest number of cases and fatalities in China.According to the Chinese government’s revised estimates released earlier this month, the total confirmed infections in the city were 50,333 while there were 1290 more deaths, pushing the total number of fatalities to 3,869.The focus in China now is on imported cases.The NHC authorities said Sunday that it received reports of 11 new confirmed Covid-19 cases on the mainland Saturday, of which five were imported.The other six new cases were domestically transmitted, the NHC said in its daily report, noting that five cases were reported in Heilongjiang province in northeastern China and one in the southern province of Guangdong.No deaths nor suspected cases were reported Saturday on the mainland.The health authorities are also focusing on Beijing, which now has the only high-risk zone for Covid-19 in the country.On Sunday, the Beijing government made public new regulations aimed at better public hygiene, banning “uncivilised” behaviour of citizens.The rules include the banning of “uncivilised” behavior such as not covering the mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing.The regulations include a renewed emphasis on “dressing neatly” and not going shirtless in public, in a reference to the so-called “Beijing bikini” practice where men roll T-shirts and shirts up to expose their stomachs in summer.Beijing already discourages a range of “uncivilized” behaviours including public spitting, littering, walking dogs unleashed, throwing things from high buildings, public defecation and smoking in places where it is prohibited.“But the latest rules -- passed on Friday -- outline new specific punishments.Fines for littering, spitting and defecation in public were upped to a maximum of 200 yuan ($28), from a previous upper limit of 50 yuan,” news ageny, AFP said in a report Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-pandemic-epicentre-wuhan-discharges-its-last-covid-patient-from-hospital/story-xRNgzwDzdbdhIW7K3X87lO.html
26-04-2020||World||US calls on Afghans to set aside disputes, focus on coronavirus pandemic||The US peace envoy to Afghanistan on Sunday called on the country’s feuding leaders to set their differences aside to combat the coronavirus pandemic and advance a stalled peace agreement signed with the Taliban earlier this year.“The well-being of the Afghan people and the country itself depend on all parties devoting their full energies to fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, the shared enemy of all,” Zalmay Khalilzad tweeted early Sunday.He said Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and his rival Abdullah Abdullah, who each declared himself the victor in September’s election, should “put the interest of the country ahead of their own” during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which began last week.He urged the government and the Taliban to carry out a prisoner exchange that was part of the US-Taliban peace agreement signed in February. The agreement had called for the release of 5,000 Taliban prisoners and 1,000 government personnel held by the insurgents.To date, Ghani has released 550 detainees based on age, vulnerability to the virus and time served. The Taliban have not said if those are among the prisoners referred to in the agreement. The Taliban have freed 60 prisoners.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahed said in a statement Sunday that the insurgent group was living up to its side of the agreement, and that it was willing to negotiate a countrywide cease-fire in intra-Afghan talks. Those negotiations were supposed to have begun within 10 days of the Feb. 29 deal but are still on hold because of the political bickering in Kabul.The Taliban are continuing to attack security outposts, even as the US and NATO proceed with a full troop withdrawal that is set to be completed next year.The Taliban have carried out 2,804 attacks since the agreement was signed, Jawed Faisal, spokesman for the National Security Adviser’s office, said Saturday. However, the Taliban have not attacked U.S. or NATO troops, who say they will continue to aid Afghan forces.Afghanistan has meanwhile reported 1,463 infections and 47 deaths from the new coronavirus.The virus causes mild to moderate symptoms in most patients, who recover within a few weeks. But it is highly contagious and can cause severe illness or death, particularly in older patients or those with underlying health problems.Afghanistan’s health care system has been heavily degraded by decades of war and would be ill-equipped to contain a major outbreak. Testing has been sporadic, in part because of local stigma surrounding the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-calls-on-afghans-to-set-aside-disputes-focus-on-coronavirus-pandemic/story-uEXnKM8iWSISXrpDWLYvRO.html
26-04-2020||World||31 ISKCON members in Bangladesh tested Covid-19 positive||The ISKCON temple here in the Bangladeshi capital has reported 31 coronavirus cases, following which the authorities locked down the building to prevent the spread of the deadly virus, according to media reports on Sunday. Bangladesh has reported nearly 5,000 COVID-19 cases and 140 deaths due to the disease. “As many as 31 members of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) ashram located in Swamibag area have tested positive for the novel coronavirus,” Gendaria police station Officer-in-Charge (OC) Saju Miah was quoted as saying by the Dhaka Tribune.  “The infected have been isolated and are undergoing treatment...We have totally locked down the road of the area to prevent the virus from spreading,” he said.The temple, which was closed for visitors since the first COVID-19 case was reported in Bangladesh on March 8, was locked down on Saturday. According to bdnews24, over 100 people, including priests, officials and devotees, reside in the temple. The report said the infections have baffled the authorities as to how the members of the temple, which was closed for outsiders, contracted the deadly virus.“No one was allowed into the temple. I don’t understand how so many people have been infected given so much care was taken,” Miah told bdnews24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/31-iskcon-members-in-bangladesh-tested-covid-19-positive/story-57K7kXd5y7Ug1Pg5qvoEaI.html
26-04-2020||World||Ramadan: Except in hotspot Mecca, Saudi relaxes coronavirus lockdown||Saudi Arabia on Sunday partially eased a 24-hour curfew in place to combat the coronavirus pandemic, except for in hotspots including the Muslim holy city of Mecca.The curfew will be relaxed between 9am and 5pm and malls and retailers will be allowed to reopen in all regions of the kingdom until May 13, the official Saudi Press Agency reported.But a round-the-clock lockdown will be maintained in some areas including Mecca, which has reported the kingdom’s highest number of infections in recent days despite being sealed off.Many countries around the Middle East and North Africa have announced a similar easing of lockdown restrictions as Muslims mark the holy fasting month of Ramadan.Saudi Arabia, which has reported the highest number of infections in the Arab world, is scrambling to limit the spread of the disease at home. On Saturday the health ministry said deaths from the respiratory illness had risen to 136, while confirmed infections rose to 16,299 with 2,215 people reported to have recovered from the illness. Last month, Saudi Arabia suspended the year-round “umrah” pilgrimage over fears of the coronavirus pandemic spreading in Islam’s holiest cities.Authorities are yet to announce whether they will proceed with this year’s hajj, scheduled for the end of July, but they have urged Muslims to temporarily defer preparations for the annual pilgrimage.Last year, some 2.5 million faithful travelled to Saudi Arabia from across the world to participate in the hajj, which Muslims are obliged to perform at least once in their lives if able.The Arab world’s biggest economy has also closed cinemas, malls and restaurants and halted flights as it attempts to contain the virus.King Salman has warned of a “more difficult” fight ahead against the virus, as the kingdom faces the economic impact of virus-led shutdowns and crashing oil prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ramadan-except-in-hotspot-mecca-saudi-relaxes-coronavirus-lockdown/story-64OXGGsHGugOgbFbzxPxEN.html
26-04-2020||World||Tom Hanks, Rita Wilson donate blood to help develop coronavirus vaccine||After recovering from coronavirus, veteran actor Tom Hanks and wife Rita Wilson have now offered their blood to help develop a vaccine for coronavirus.The duo were the first celebrities to reveal that they tested positive for the coronavirus last month. Last week, the couple volunteered to donate their ‘blood and plasma’ for coronavirus research.“A lot of the questions [are] what do we do now? Is there something we can do? And, in fact, we just found out that we do carry the antibodies,” Variety quoted Hanks as saying for a podcast.The 63-year-old also added: “We have not only been approached, but we have also said, ‘Do you want our blood? Can we give plasma?’“The actor with much humour sense, also jokingly mentioned the name he would like to give if a vaccine for coronavirus is made from his blood donation.“In fact, we will be giving it now to the places that hope to work on what I would like to call the ‘Hank-ccine,” the Academy Award winner added.Earlier, Wilson confirmed that while she and Hanks still do not know for sure where or from whom they contracted the virus, they’ve learned they were both exposed to it “at the same time.”The ‘New Girl’ songstress and Hanks were in Australia when their tests for the novel virus came back positive.Hanks had been in the land down under filming an upcoming Elvis biopic before director Baz Luhrmann suspended filming.Recently, the ‘Forrest Gump’ actor detailed on how different the symptoms were for the couple and said his wife went through a tougher time than he did.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tom-hanks-rita-wilson-donate-blood-to-help-develop-coronavirus-vaccine/story-YDEUT3yEDXP6nURK1dxBQI.html
26-04-2020||World||Coronavirus update: China seizes over 89 million shoddy face masks||China has confiscated over 89 million poor quality face masks, a government official said Sunday, as Beijing faces a slew of complaints about faulty protective gear exported worldwide.Demand for protective equipment has soared as nations across the globe battle the deadly coronavirus, which has infected around 2.9 million people.But a number of countries have complained about faulty masks and other products exported by China, mostly for use by medical workers and vulnerable groups.China’s market regulators had inspected nearly 16 million businesses and seized over 89 million masks and 418,000 pieces of protective gear as of Friday, said Gan Lin, deputy director of the State Administration of Market Regulation, at a press conference.Regulators had also seized ineffective disinfectants worth over 7.6 million yuan ($1.1 million), she said.It is unclear how much of the confiscated goods were destined for markets abroad.In a bid to eliminate poor-quality products, China released new rules Saturday saying even non-medical masks must meet both national and international quality standards.Exporters must file a written declaration that their medical products meet the safety requirements of the destination country, the ministry of commerce said in a statement.The tighter rules come after several countries including Spain, the Netherlands, Czech Republic and Turkey were forced to recall hundreds of thousands of shoddy masks and pieces of protective gear imported from China.The Canadian government last week said that about one million face masks purchased from China failed to meet proper standards for healthcare professionals.Dutch health officials last month recalled over half a million Chinese masks -- which had already been sent to hospitals -- after complaints that they did not close over the face properly, or had defective filters.China is producing more than 116 million masks per day, according to official figures.It has exported more than one billion masks this year so far, commerce ministry official Li Xingqian told reporters.China has also signed contracts to export medical materials worth $1.41 billion to 74 countries and six international organisations, he added.In the first two months of the year, a staggering 8,950 new manufacturers started producing masks in China, according to business data platform Tianyancha.Despite the nationwide crackdown, businesses were continuing with illicit production of medical equipment since it was a way to earn “quick money”, Chinese customs official Jin Hai said earlier this month.Over 31.6 million faulty masks and 509,000 protective suits destined for export had been confiscated by port officials as of mid-April, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-seizes-over-89-million-shoddy-face-masks/story-bA6uSaW0Rey1sn2TiB1nzH.html
26-04-2020||World||Russia’s coronavirus case tally passes 80,000||Russia reported 6,361 new cases of the novel coronavirus on Sunday, pushing its national tally to 80,949.Sixty-six people succumbed to the virus in the past day, bringing the death toll to 747, Russia’s official crisis response centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-s-coronavirus-case-tally-passes-80-000/story-svvQYNXWGIp71Ty7Wi43aJ.html
26-04-2020||World||Spain records lowest number of coronavirus deaths in over a month||Spain said on Sunday the number of daily coronavirus-related fatalities fell to its lowest level in more than a month, with 288 deaths in the previous 24 hours.That took total fatalities to 23,190 from 22,902 the day before, the health ministry said.The overall number of coronavirus cases rose to 207,634 from 205,905 the day before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-records-lowest-number-of-coronavirus-deaths-in-over-a-month/story-WwxZK64GYGzB63MtaM4BlM.html
26-04-2020||World||China says all Covid-19 patients in Wuhan have now been discharged||The Chinese city of Wuhan, where the global coronavirus pandemic began, now has no remaining cases in its hospitals, a health official told reporters on Sunday.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“The latest news is that by April 26, the number of new coronavirus patients in Wuhan was at zero, thanks to the joint efforts of Wuhan and medical staff from around the country,” National Health Commission spokesman Mi Feng said at a briefing.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe city had reported 46,452 cases, 56% of the national total. It saw 3,869 fatalities, or 84% of China’s total.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-all-covid-19-patients-in-wuhan-have-now-been-discharged/story-b0SbRwroNcnOi8mx38K3zL.html
26-04-2020||World||Covid-19 cases doubled in 6 days, say Pakistan doctors; urge people to avoid going to mosques in Ramzan||Pakistan recorded 783 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number to 12,579, news agency PTI reported. According to the Ministry of National Health Services, at least 15 people have died in the last 24 hours, pushing the death toll up to 269, PTI further reported.Punjab reported 5,378 cases, Sindh 4,232, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 1,793, Balochistan 722, Gilgit-Baltistan 308, Islamabad 235 and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir 55 cases.With the infections spreading rapidly, Pakistan Medical Association and Pakistan Islamic Medical Association (PIMA) have urged people to offer prayers at homes and not in mosques.PIMA President Dr Iftikhar Burney warned on Saturday that mosques were becoming a major source of virus transmission.“Around 6,000 cases for coronavirus surfaced in a month... but the same doubled in the last six days,” he said, warning that the infection would further go up in the coming months of May and June.President Arif Alvi has written a letter to the imams of mosques urging them to ask worshippers above the age of 50 to pray at home. The federal government has, however, still not imposed a nationwide lockdown. It has been done only in some provinces, that too, by local governments.“We sought a total lockdown without thinking about the consequences for the daily wage earners, the street vendors, the labourers, all of whom face poverty & hunger for themselves & their families. May Allah forgive us our sin of neglecting our dispossessed & poor citizens,” Prime Minister Imran Khan had tweeted on his decision to not impose a total lockdown. Meanwhile, the partial lockdown has been extended till May 9.There were reports of violation of lockdown from different cities. The police arrested 78 people and sealed 107 shops on Saturday in Quetta, capital of Balochistan, for violating the lockdown, Balochistan government spokesperson Liaquat Shahwani said.He said that a total of 2,707 shops had been sealed so far.In Punjab, the government announced that lockdown would not apply to pushcart street vendors, selling fruit, vegetables and other products.Due to lack of observance of lockdown, Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) criticised the partial lockdown policy and asked the government either impose total lockdown or withdraw it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-cases-doubled-in-6-days-say-pakistan-doctors-urge-people-to-avoid-going-to-mosques-in-ramzan/story-UTbQPxguwGYFHgTNjZ75TP.html
26-04-2020||World||Focus turns to Kim Yo Jong as mystery intensifies over Kim Jong Un’s health||North Korea has never publicised who would follow leader Kim Jong Un in the event he is incapacitated, and with no details known about his young children, analysts say his sister and loyalists could form a regency until a successor is old enough to take over.South Korean and Chinese officials on Tuesday cast doubt on reports that Kim was gravely ill following a cardiovascular procedure, after his absence from a key state anniversary event triggered speculation about his health.But the media reports sparked questions about who would be in place to take over if the 36-year-old Kim, a third-generation hereditary leader, fell seriously ill or died. He became leader when his father Kim Jong Il died in 2011 from a heart attack.Also Read: Train belonging to Kim Jong Un spotted as health rumours persistEach change of leadership in North Korea has raised the prospect of a leadership vacuum or collapse of the Kim dynasty, which has ruled the country since its founding in 1948.Also Watch l North Korea’s Kim Jong Un in critical condition? Watch China’s reactionSo far, each of the three Kims to rule North Korea has defied expectations, holding on to power with an iron grip. But under Kim Jong Un, North Korea’s arsenal of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles has grown substantially, raising concerns over who would control those weapons.The following are key figures in the North Korean leadership circle and what role they may play in any future transition.KIM YO JONG Kim’s younger sister has been the most visible presence around the leader in the past two years, while serving formally as a vice director of the ruling Workers’ Party’s powerful Central Committee but unofficially as her brother’s chief of staff. She was named an alternate member of the ruling Workers’ Party’s powerful Central Committee Politburo earlier this month, continuing her climb through the leadership hierarchy.Kim, who is believed to be 31, has a firm control of key party functions, setting herself to be the main source of power behind a collective leadership.“Kim Yo Jong will be for the time being the main power base with control of the organisation and guidance department, the judiciary and public security,” Cho Han-bum of the Korea Institute for National Unification said.THE PARTY ELDERS Choe Ryong Hae rose to be the North’s nominal head of state last year becoming the president of the Presidium of the Supreme People’s Assembly. Also Read: China checks on Kim Jong Un’s health, sends a team to North KoreaIt capped decades of service with the party for the ruling Kim family, previously serving as the influential political head of the North’s military under the young leader.He and Pak Pong Ju, a fellow politburo member and former state premier who oversaw the North’s push to introduce more free market functions to revive its economy, are likely to be the figureheads leading a collective leadership.Kim Yong Chol, a party vice chairman and former top nuclear envoy, and Foreign Minister Ri Son Gwon could be tasked with handling diplomatic issues including stalled denuclearisation talks with North Korea as they played a key role in summits with U.S. President Donald Trump. ESTRANGED BROTHERS, AUNTKim Jong Chol is the leader’s older brother but has not been part of the North’s leadership, instead leading a quiet life playing music, according to Thae Yong Ho, North Korea’s former deputy ambassador in London who defected to the South.He is believed to be disinterested in public life and is unlikely to emerge as a major presence, though some analysts say he maintains ties with siblings and could play a more public role in a contingency. Kim Kyong Hui was once a powerful figure in the leadership circle when her brother Kim Jong Il ruled the country. She had not been seen since her husband, Jang Song Thaek, once regarded as the second most powerful man in the country, was executed in 2013 by Kim Jong Un. She has long been ill but briefly appeared early this year at a gala performance alongside her nephew. FOURTH GENERATIONKim Jong Un is believed to have three children with Ri Sol Ju, the youngest born in 2017, according to the South’s National Intelligence Service.The oldest is a 10-year-old son, meaning any of the three would need the assistance of their relatives or political guardians if they were to become a fourth-generation hereditary leader. Kim Jong Il had been groomed for 20 years to lead the country, while Kim Jong Un only had just over a year due to his father’s sudden death from a stroke. “Kim Yo Jong is unlikely to take over the helm but could help build a caretaker regime as a power broker until the kids grow up, and Kim Jong Chol might return to help for a while,” said Go Myong-hyun, a research fellow at the Asian Institute for Policy Studies in Seoul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/focus-turns-to-kim-yo-jong-as-mystery-intensifies-over-kim-jong-un-s-health/story-Jn6OKliLN8z9nkjdKd918M.html
26-04-2020||World||With record 931 new Covid-19 cases in a day, Singapore emerges as Asia’s hotspot||Singapore on Sunday reported 931 new cases of coronavirus disease Covid-19 which took its total to 13,624. Most of the new infections are from foreign workers’ dormitories, which have been locked down as the government struggles to curb the outbreak.Fifteen of the new cases are permanent residents, the health ministry said in the statement.The number of new cases rose from 618 reported on Saturday.The tiny country of 5.7 million people now has one of the highest infection rates in Asia, according to official figures, due to outbreaks in cramped dormitories housing over 3,00,000 mainly South Asian workers. The city-state is rapidly building bed space for coronavirus patients in cavernous exhibition halls and other temporary facilities as it faces a surge in cases, mainly among its large community of low-paid migrant workers.One such facility at Changi Exhibition Centre - home to the Singapore Airshow, Asia’s biggest aerospace gathering - could eventually house over 4,000 patients recovering from the disease and those with mild symptoms.Singapore trails only China, India, Japan and Pakistan in Asia for the number of coronavirus infections. More than 10,000 of those infected, some 80 per cent of its total, are foreign workers, many of whom have been placed in “isolation facilities” for people with mild symptoms such as the conference centres.Despite the high total of cases, Singapore has reported 12 deaths and 24 people are in intensive care.At the new Changi isolation centre, each room has blood-pressure monitors and other medical equipment for patients to conduct their own health checks three times daily, while remote-controlled robots provide meals and teleconferencing services to reduce contact.Rows of white huts are also being hurriedly assembled at the Tanjong Pagar shipping-container port. The facility could house up to 15,000 foreign workers, local media reported, but authorities have yet to decide how it will be used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-record-931-new-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-singapore-emerges-as-asia-s-hotspot/story-QdpyK7YsHJ4mmWy8xP90pL.html
26-04-2020||World||As virus lockdown eases, Italy ponders what went wrong||As Italy prepares to emerge from the West’s first and most extensive coronavirus lockdown, it is increasingly clear that something went terribly wrong in Lombardy, the hardest-hit region in Europe’s hardest-hit country.Italy had the bad luck of being the first Western country to be slammed by the outbreak, and its total of 26,000 fatalities lags behind only the US in the global death toll. Italy’s first homegrown case was recorded Feb. 21, at a time when the World Health Organization was still insisting the virus was “containable” and not nearly as infectious as the flu.But there’s also evidence that demographics and health care deficiencies combined with political and business interests to expose Lombardy’s 10 million people in ways unseen anywhere else, particularly the most vulnerable in nursing homes.Virologists and epidemiologists say what went wrong there will be studied for years, given how the outbreak overwhelmed a medical system considered one of Europe’s best. In neighboring Veneto, the impact was significantly more controlled.Prosecutors are deciding whether to lay any criminal blame for the hundreds of dead in nursing homes, many of whom aren’t even counted in Lombardy’s official death toll of 13,269.By contrast, Lombardy’s front-line doctors and nurses are being hailed as heroes for risking their lives to treat the sick under extraordinary levels of stress, exhaustion, isolation and fear.Even after Italy registered its first homegrown case, doctors didn’t understand the unusual way Covid-19 could present itself, with some patients experiencing a rapid decline in their ability to breathe.“This was clinical information we didn’t have,” said Dr. Maurizio Marvisi, a pneumologist at the San Camillo private clinic in hard-hit Cremona.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicBecause Lombardy’s intensive care units were filling up within days of Italy’s first cases, many primary care physicians tried to treat and monitor their patients at home, even putting them on supplemental oxygen. That strategy proved deadly, since many people died at home or soon after being hospitalized, having waited too long to call an ambulance.Italy was forced to rely on home care in part because of its low ICU capacity: After years of budget cuts, Italy went into the emergency with 8.6 ICU beds per 100,000 people, below the average of 15.9 within the developed countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakAs a result, Italy’s primary care physicians became the front-line filter of Covid-19 patients, an army of mostly self-employed general practitioners who work outside the public hospital system.Since only those showing strong symptoms were being tested because Lombardy’s labs couldn’t process any more, these family doctors didn’t know if they themselves were positive, much less their patients.The doctors also had no guidelines on when to admit the sick or refer them to specialists. And being outside the hospital system, they didn’t have the same access to protective equipment.Some 20,000 Italian medical personnel have been infected and 150 doctors have died.Two days after Italy registered its first case in the Lombardy province of Lodi, sparking a quarantine in 10 towns, another positive case was registered more than an hour’s drive away in Alzano in the province of Bergamo.By March 2, the Superior Institute of Health recommended Alzano and nearby Nembro be sealed off like the Lodi towns. But political authorities never implemented that recommendation, allowing the infection to spread for a second week until all of Lombardy was locked down March 7.Asked why he didn’t seal off Bergamo sooner, Premier Giuseppe Conte argued that Lombardy’s regional government could have done so on its own. Lombardy’s governor, Atillio Fontana, said if there was a mistake, ‘’it was made by both. I don’t think that there was blame in this situation.’’Lombardy has one-sixth of Italy’s 60 million people and is the most densely populated region, home to the business capital in Milan and the country’s industrial heartland. Lombardy also has more people over 65 than any other region, as well as 20% of Italy’s nursing homes, a demographic time bomb for Covid-19 infections.“Clearly, with the benefit of hindsight, we should have done a total shutdown in Lombardy, everyone at home and no one moves,” said Andrea Crisanti, a microbiologist and virologist advising Veneto’s regional government. But he acknowledged how hard that was, given Lombardy’s outsize role in Italy’s economy, which even before the pandemic was heading toward recession.“Probably for political reasons, it wasn’t done,” he told reporters.Unions and mayors of some of Lombardy’s hardest hit cities now say the country’s main industrial lobby group, Confindustria, put enormous pressure on authorities to resist production shutdowns on the grounds that the economic cost would be too great in a region responsible for 21% of Italy’s GDP.On Feb. 28, a week into Italy’s outbreak and well after more than 100 cases had been registered in Bergamo, the province’s branch of Confindustria launched a social media campaign aimed at reassuring skittish investors. It insisted the outbreak was no worse than elsewhere and that production in provincial steel mills and other industries were unaffected. The lobbying group also launched its own campaign in the larger Lombard region.Even after the national government locked down all of Lombardy March 7, it allowed factories to stay open, sparking strikes from workers worried that their health was being sacrificed.“It was a huge error. They should have taken the example where the first cluster was found,” said Giambattista Morali of the metalworkers’ union in the Bergamo town of Dalmine.While the regional government focused on finding new ICU beds, its testing capacity lagged and Lombardy’s nursing homes were in many ways left to fend for themselves.Of particular attention to Milan prosecutors investigating deaths in care facilities was the March 8 decision by the regional government to allow recovering Covid-19 patients to be housed in nursing homes to free up hospital beds.Another regional decree March 30 told nursing home directors to not hospitalize sick residents over 75 if they had other health problems and avoid further risking their health during transport or a wait in the ER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-virus-lockdown-eases-italy-ponders-what-went-wrong/story-LOnBRHrAjANYOjkNemeWEM.html
26-04-2020||World||Yemen crisis deepens as separatists declare self-governance||Yemeni separatists early Sunday declared self-rule of the country’s south as a peace deal with the government crumbled, complicating a long and separate conflict with Huthi rebels who control much of the north.The Southern Transitional Council (STC) accused the government of failing to perform its duties and of “conspiring” against the southern cause, and said self-governance had begun at midnight. The government condemned the move and said the separatists -- who have long agitated for independence in the south -- would be responsible for the “catastrophic and dangerous” outcome.The breakdown between the one-time allies comes as a Saudi-led coalition, which backs the internationally recognised government in a battle against the Iran-backed Huthi rebels, has extended a unilateral ceasefire aimed at fending off the coronavirus pandemic -- a move rejected by the Huthis.Yemen’s separatists signed a power-sharing deal in Riyadh last November that quelled a battle -- dubbed a “civil war within a civil war” -- for the south that had in August seen them seize control of the second city of Aden.The Riyadh pact quickly became defunct, failing to meet deadlines for key measures including the formation of a new cabinet with equal representation for southerners, and the reorganisation of military forces. The STC announced in its statement that it was declaring “self-governance in the south starting midnight on Saturday April 25th, 2020.“A self governing committee will start its work according to a list of tasks assigned by the council’s presidency,” it said.Aden residents reported heavy deployments of STC forces in the city and a separatist source told AFP they had set up checkpoints “at all government facilities, including the central bank and port of Aden”.Military vehicles drove through the city with STC flags flying aloft.The political landscape in the south is complex, and despite the STC’s declaration some southern cities said they did not recognise the call to self-rule and would remain aligned with the central government.Yemen’s Foreign Minister Mohammad al-Hadhrami said the STC move was “a continuation of the armed rebellion last August and a declaration of rejection” of the Riyadh agreement.Deep divisionsTens of thousands of civilians have been killed over the past five years in the war between the government and the Huthi rebels.Earlier this month, Yemen reported its first case of coronavirus in Hadramawt, a southern government-controlled province, raising fears of an outbreak.Compounding the country’s troubles, at least 21 people were killed in flash flooding this month, with Aden’s streets submerged and homes destroyed.The UAE, like the STC, has a zero tolerance policy towards the Muslim Brotherhood and Yemen’s Brotherhood-influenced Al-Islah party, which has representatives in the internationally recognised government.Last August, deadly clashes broke out between the government and STC forces who seized control of Aden, ousting unionist forces who had set up base there when President Abedrabbo Mansour Hadi fled the Huthi-held capital Sanaa in February 2015.The tussle for control of the south exposed divisions between the coalition partners -- Saudi Arabia, which backs the government, and the United Arab Emirates, a backer and funder of the STC.The Riyadh agreement had been welcomed as preventing the complete break-up of Yemen, and hailed as a possible stepping stone towards ending the wider conflict in Yemen.But the cracks soon emerged, with complaints over food shortages in the south, a sharp depreciation of the currency, and a lack of funds to pay public sector employees. The STC’s statement Sunday said there had been a marked deterioration of public services, which “was clearly reflected in the latest torrential rains that caused the people in Aden deep suffering”.The government was using its powers as “a weapon to bring the southerners to kneel,” it said.While the government and the STC are technically allies in the long war against the Huthis, the secessionists believe the south should be an independent state -- as it was before unification in 1990.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/yemen-crisis-deepens-as-separatists-declare-self-governance/story-lL1YxKvn2CVw62zVSsWUMP.html
26-04-2020||World||Covid-19: The countries with most cases and deaths||More than 180 countries and territories have reported nearly 2.8 million confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and over 200,000 deaths since the contagion was reported from China’s Wuhan late last year. After the first death linked to the disease was reported on January 10 in Wuhan, global fatalities linked to the virus passed 200,000 on Saturday, more than one-quarter of them in the United States.It took 91 days for the death toll to pass 100,000 and a further 16 days to reach 200,000, according to the Reuters tally of official reports from governments.India has reported that 26,496 people have been infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes the respiratory disease, and 824 fatalities.Here are the 10 worst-affected countries across the world:US: The country has reported 939,053 cases and 53,816 deaths as of Sunday and pockets sought to restart their economies following a month of government-ordered lockdowns.This reopening has come despite warnings of many public health experts, who say the increased human interaction could spark a new wave of cases of Covid-19, the respiratory disease caused by the highly contagious virus.Also read: UN Security Council nears virus resolution, and perhaps a new pathSpain: There were 223,759 cases and 22,902 deaths in Spain, where residents will be allowed out for exercise and to take walks from next weekend.Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez also said on Saturday, in the latest move to ease one of the world’s tightest coronavirus lockdowns, the government will on Tuesday unveil its broader lockdown exit plan that will likely be put into action in the second half of May.Unlike most other countries in the world, since imposing a lockdown on March 14, Spain has not allowed anyone out for walks, jogs or bike rides, allowing them to leave home only to buy food or medicine or to briefly walk the dog, other than for a medical emergency. Spain’s state of emergency was extended this week until midnight on May 9.Italy: The European country has 195,351 cases and 26,384 deaths, the toll dropped to its lowest level since March 17 but is highest after the US.The Lombardy region registers the most cases in Italy, adding some 700 on Saturday for a total of nearly 72,000 infected persons there since Italy’s first case in that northern region on February 20. Much of Italy’s south has been spared the brunt of the outbreak.France: France has 161,644 cases and 22,614 deaths linked to coronavirus, with 14,050 occurring in hospitals.France recorded another 369 deaths due to Covid-19 but has continued to experience a steady decline in the number of patients in hospital or in need of intensive care beds due to the virus. There have been a total of 22,614 deaths linked to coronavirus in France, with 14,050 occurring in hospitals, an increase of 198 over the past day.Also read: CEA points at Spanish Flu lesson in Covid fightGermany: Of all the big European countries hit by coronavirus pandemic, Germany’s confirmed cases increased by 2055 to 152,438, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Saturday, the second day of deceleration after three days of acceleration in new infections.On Friday confirmed coronavirus cases had increased by 2337. The reported death toll rose by 179 to 5,500, the tally showed on Saturday.United Kingdom: The UK now has 149,556 cases and 20,381 deaths—the fifth-highest official coronavirus death toll in the world after the US, Italy, Spain and France—and scientists have said that the death rate will only start to decline quickly in another couple of weeks.Prime Minister Boris Johnson is still recovering after falling seriously ill with Covid-19 earlier this month.Turkey: Turkey has 107,773 cases, the highest total in any country outside western Europe or the US, and reported 2706 fatalities. A total of 25,582 people have so far recovered from Covid-19. The number of tests carried out in the past 24 hours was 38,308.Iran: There are 89,328 Covid-19 patients, of whom 3096 are in a critical condition, in Iran and its death toll from the coronavirus disease has risen by 76 to reach 5650.Deputy health minister Iraj Harirchi said Iran’s daily death toll had fallen by about 70% from its peak, while the number of coronavirus patients in hospital had fallen by about half.Iran is one of the Middle Eastern countries worst affected by the Covid-19 respiratory disease and has one of the world’s highest death tolls.Also read: 2 cell types are entry points for virusChina: China, where the contagion started, has said it has 82,827cases and 4632 deaths. It reported 11 new coronavirus cases on April 25, compared to 12 on the previous day, with no fatalities, according to official data published on Sunday.Of the total, there were six cases of local transmission, including five in the northeastern border province of Heilongjiang, and one in southeast Guangdong province, which neighbours Hong Kong.The remaining five cases were imported, down from 11 on the previous day, National Health Commission data showed. The commission also reported 30 new asymptomatic cases, up slightly from 29 on the previous day.Russia: The number of new coronavirus cases in the country has risen by 5966 over the past 24 hours, bringing its nationwide tally to 74,588.Also read: Virus could cling to air pollutantsIt also reported 66 new deaths from Covid-19, bringing the total death toll in Russia to 681.The number of coronavirus disease cases in Russia began rising sharply this month, although it had reported far fewer infections than many western European countries in the early stages of the outbreak.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-the-countries-with-most-cases-and-deaths/story-cVoPZyZVs0w1KSMYcTF2eP.html
26-04-2020||World||China health officials notice rise in imported cases, fear resurgence of Covid-19||China confirmed 11 new coronavirus cases, including six locally transmitted infections, taking the total count to 82,827, while a senior health official has warned of domestic resurgence of COVID-19 due to the rise in imported cases.Death toll in China remained at 4,632 for the past 10 days, according to data released by the National Health Commission (NHC) on Sunday.The 11 new confirmed Covid-19 cases were reported on Saturday. Of them, five were imported from overseas, while six were locally transmitted infections, it said.Five of the new cases were in Heilongjiang province bordering Russia and another was in Guangdong province. As many as 30 new asymptomatic cases, including seven imported, were also reported, taking the total number of such cases to 1,000, the NHC said. Asymptomatic cases refer to people who are tested COVID-19 positive but develop no symptoms such as fever, cough or sore throat. However, they pose a risk of spreading the disease to others. China has so far registered total 82,827 COVID-19 cases, including 77,394 recoveries. While China contained the pandemic at Wuhan where the novel coronavirus first emerged in December last year, the growing numbers of imported cases as well as asymptomatic cases remained a cause of concern for health officials. As of Saturday, the number of imported cases climbed to 1,634, including 22 in critical condition, the NHC said.Also, the 1,000 suspected asymptomatic cases includes 151 from abroad. All such patients are still under medical observation.NHC spokesperson Mi Feng has warned that China still faces a tough task to prevent a resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic due to imported cases.The number of countries as sources of imported cases reported on the Chinese mainland rose to 50 on Friday, he told a media briefing on Saturday.Seven provincial-level regions reported newly imported cases or suspected cases on Friday, Mi noted, calling for targeted epidemic prevention and control measures as well as consistent personal protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-health-officials-notice-rise-in-imported-cases-fear-resurgence-of-covid-19/story-VBEExPOcfG6lPgBGGfPhzL.html
26-04-2020||World||Beijing bans ‘uncivilised’ behaviour to improve public hygiene amid Covid-19 outbreak||Beijing has banned “uncivilised” behaviour such as not covering the mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing, the city government said Sunday, in a new set of regulations to improve public hygiene amid the coronavirus outbreak.The laws aim to promote “civilised behaviour” and relate to combating the pandemic which has infected more than 82,000 in China alone.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageRulebreakers will be slapped with fines for offences including not wearing a mask in public when ill, the municipal government said on its website.The laws also require public places to set up one metre distance markers and to provide communal chopsticks and serving spoons for shared meals.Citizens must also “dress neatly” in public and not go shirtless -- an apparent reference to the so-called “Beijing bikini” practice where men roll T-shirts up to expose their stomachs in hot weather.The state-run Global Times said the rule equalled a “total ban” of the practice in public places.Click here for Covid-19 updatesBeijing already discourages a range of “uncivilised” behaviours including public spitting, littering, walking dogs unleashed, throwing things from high buildings, public defecation and smoking in places where it is prohibited. But the latest rules -- passed on Friday -- outline new specific punishments.Fines for littering, spitting and defecation in public were upped to a maximum of 200 yuan ($28), from a previous upper limit of 50 yuan.In the past, these regulations were enforced in a patchy way and the habits have not been stamped out completely. Those who do not sort their rubbish correctly can be fined up to 200 yuan, and residents responsible for noise pollution in public spaces and who walk their dogs unleashed can be fined up to 500 yuan. The laws also encourage police to report serious offences, which may affect a person’s social credit score -- a fledgling system which aims to assess individual actions across society -- though it did not provide more specifics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-bans-uncivilised-behaviour-to-improve-public-hygiene-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-bAwjNxERu69GQTRjYJdXVN.html
26-04-2020||World||French PM to present plan to unwind coronvirus lockdown on Tuesday||French Prime Minister Edouard Philippe will present the government’s plan to unwind the country’s coronavirus lockdown to parliament on Tuesday, followed by a debate and vote, his office said in a statement. The lockdown ordered by President Emmanuel Macron to slow the spread of the virus has been in place since March 17 and is due to be lifted on May 11.Macron is aiming to ease some of the lockdown measures then with schools reopening first, although the government has yet to finalise how it might work in practice.France has also offered retailers some relief by saying it wants them to reopen on May 11, though some curbs could remain in certain areas to delay a new wave of the coronavirus.The death toll in France from the coronavirus now stands at 22,614, the health ministry said on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-pm-to-present-plan-to-unwind-coronvirus-lockdown-on-tuesday/story-TkYDyq2reK5A4BicyZM1cI.html
26-04-2020||World||Plans to restart Canadian economy do not hinge on coronavirus ‘immunity’ levels: Trudeau||Plans underway to restart the economies of Canadian provinces do not depend on presuming people who become infected with coronavirus develop immunity to it, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said on Saturday. The World Health Organization said earlier that there was “no evidence” that people who have recovered from Covid-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second infection.“I don’t believe there are any plans that hinge on certain people being immune to Covid-19,” Trudeau said in his daily briefing in Ottawa, adding that provincial plans focus on preventing the spread through social distancing and protective equipment in workplaces.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“(Immunity) is something we need to get clearer answers to and until we have those clear answers, we need to err on the side of more caution.”In a scientific brief, the United Nations agency warned governments against issuing “immunity passports” or “risk-free certificates” to people who have been infected as their accuracy could not be guaranteed.New Brunswick is the first Canadian province to begin reopening parts of its economy and Saskatchewan has outlined a plan to start reopening in May.Trudeau met with provincial premiers on Friday to discuss their restart plans. Measures will differ as infection rates vary among provinces, but require national coordination, he said.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakCanada’s death toll from Covid-19 rose 7% to 2,350 from a day earlier. Cases reached more than 44,000.Some 80% of Canada’s cases are in Quebec and Ontario, where there are numerous outbreaks in nursing homes.Even so, a small protest outside the Ontario legislature on Saturday demanded the easing of public health measures.“It’s irresponsible, reckless and it’s selfish,” Premier Doug Ford said of the call to loosen restrictions, speaking at a briefing. “It burns me up.” Such protests have been smaller in Canada than in the United States, where Republican politicians and individuals affiliated with President Donald Trump’s re-election campaign are organizing or promoting anti-lockdown protests.Also Saturday, Trudeau announced funding for the country’s fish and seafood processors whose businesses were harmed by the coronavirus pandemic.The government will provide C$62.5 million ($44.32 million) in financing to buy protective equipment for workers or storage space for products to sell them later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/plans-to-restart-canadian-economy-do-not-hinge-on-coronavirus-immunity-levels-trudeau/story-BFLmGtI6bSdyAcTxop6pUI.html
26-04-2020||World||Trump and Putin issue rare joint statement promoting cooperation||US President Donald Trump and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin issued a rare joint statement on Saturday commemorating a 1945 World War Two link-up of US and Soviet troops on their way to defeat Nazi Germany as an example of how their countries can cooperate.The statement by Trump and Putin comes amid deep strains in US-Russian ties over a raft of issues, from arms control and Russia’s intervention in Ukraine and Syria to US charges that Russia has spread disinformation about the novel coronavirus pandemic and interfered in US election campaigns.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe Wall Street Journal reported that the decision to issue the statement sparked debate within the Trump administration, with some officials worried it could undercut stern US messages to Moscow.The joint statement marked the anniversary of the April 25, 1945 meeting on a bridge over the Elbe River in Germany of Soviet soldiers advancing from the east and American troops moving from the West.“This event heralded the decisive defeat of the Nazi regime,” the statement said. “The ‘Spirit of the Elbe’ is an example of how our countries can put aside differences, build trust, and cooperate in pursuit of a greater cause.”The Journal said the last joint statement marking the Elbe River bridge link-up was issued in 2010, when the Obama administration was seeking improved relations with Moscow.Trump had hoped to travel to Moscow to mark the anniversary. He has been complimentary of Putin, promoted cooperation with Moscow, and said he believed the Russian leader’s denials of Russian interference in the 2016 US presidential election. Senior administration officials and lawmakers, in contrast, have been fiercely critical of Russia, with relations between the nuclear-armed nations at their lowest point since the end of the Cold War. The Republican-led Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday issued a bipartisan report concurring with a 2017 US intelligence assessment that Russia pursued an influence campaign of misinformation and cyber hacking aimed at swinging the vote to Trump over his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton.US intelligence officials have warned lawmakers that Moscow is meddling in the 2020 presidential election campaign, which Russia denies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-and-putin-issue-rare-joint-statement-promoting-cooperation/story-lpybb8XqWuMcKr1VzkH0bI.html
26-04-2020||World||Spain to allow outdoor exercise as kids prepare for taste of freedom||Spain’s Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez announced an easing of lockdown restrictions on Saturday, as children prepared to go outside for the first time in six weeks and figures confirmed a daily coronavirus death toll running well below the peak seen early this month.In a televised address Sanchez said Spaniards will be allowed out to exercise alone from May 2 if the coronavirus toll continues to fall. People living together will be permitted to take short walks together.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicHe also laid out the government’s wider plan to loosen the lockdown at different speeds across different regions, depending on whether they meet with criteria established by the World Health Organization. “We will not suddenly recover activity across all sectors,” he said. “The deescalation has to be gradual and asymmetric... We won’t all advance at the same pace but we will follow the same rules.”Sanchez said the plan, which the government has been preparing with experts for three weeks, will be rolled out through May and “we will see what happens” in June. He said he will hold a virtual meeting with regional leaders on Sunday to discuss the plans, which the cabinet is set to approve on Tuesday.His government’s handling of the crisis has met with fierce criticism and on Saturday residents across Madrid came to their balconies to bang pots and pans in protest. Similar protests earlier in the week prompted the government to reverse an earlier decision and let under 14s leave their homes for the first time since the state of emergency was declared on March 14.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakFrom Sunday they will be allowed one hour of supervised outdoor activity per day between 9am and 9pm, staying within one kilometre of their home. Adults can accompany up to three children, who will not be allowed to use playparks and must adhere to social distancing guidelines, remaining at least two metres from other people.Sanchez urged parents be responsible and follow the guidelines with the “maximum safety precautions”, while top police officials cautioned that children must stick to the rules. Spain’s Health Ministry said 378 more people had died after being diagnosed with the coronavirus, up slightly on Friday’s 367, the lowest in the past month, but well down on the high of 950 seen on April 2. Cumulative deaths rose to 22,902 while the overall number of cases rose to 223,759 from 219,764 the day before.On April 13 sectors including construction and manufacturing were allowed to reopen, but with most people still confined to their homes except for essential reasons, shops, bars and public spaces remain closed.DECONFINEMENT PLANCatalan Regional President Quim Torra announced the region’s own plan to ease lockdown measures, including stipulating specific hours when children of different ages could go outside. Defending his measures, which ignore Health Ministry guidelines and highlight a rumbling discontent in some regions with the national response, Torra said: “We have the right to have our own deconfinement plan”. In Pineda de Mar, northeast Spain, volunteer seamstresses were hard at work making face masks for children ahead of the deconfinement measure.“More than 100 people are making protective equipment,” the town’s mayor Xavier Amor told Reuters. “We started with masks and then we followed the demand of hospitals, health centres, and nursing homes.” As bars and restaurants eye a gradual reopening one company is devising safety measures to encourage wary clients to return.Leganes-based LlenaTuBar, whose name translates as fill up your bar, is fitting dining tables with clear plastic screens to protect customers and installing thermal cameras to detect any patrons with a fever.The Health Ministry on Friday changed the methodology for logging cases of the virus. It will no longer count antibody tests and will only include positive results from PCR tests. Discounting antibody tests puts Saturday’s total number of cases at 205,905 and Friday’s at 202,990.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-to-allow-outdoor-exercise-as-kids-prepare-for-taste-of-freedom/story-bUgmZhVGqV96zJIx58dpBO.html
26-04-2020||World||UN Security Council nears virus resolution, and perhaps a new path||After more than a month of controversy, a UN Security Council buffeted between the United States, China and Russia is finally expected this week to adopt its first resolution on the coronavirus pandemic, amid calls for intensified international cooperation.A hopeless task? A wake-up call for multilateralist forces crushed by resurging nationalism? Or perhaps a first step toward a geopolitical reorganization and the recasting of an international body founded in 1945 with the express mission of preventing and containing global crises?Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicDiplomats and experts surveyed by AFP were less than sanguine. Gandhi once said that being late can itself be an “act of violence,” one ambassador recalled, speaking on grounds of anonymity to express impatience with the UN’s top body for its embarrassing silence in the face of the worst global crisis since World War II. The Security Council has conferred only once on the pandemic, and that was in virtual session -- a videoconference held April 9 at the initiative of Germany and Estonia.The current resolution, jointly proposed by Tunisia and France, calls for “enhanced coordination among all countries,” a “cessation of hostilities” and a “humanitarian pause” in countries in conflict. The resolution aims to support the efforts of Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and of several UN agencies struggling to contain the devastating political, economic and social consequences of the deadly virus. Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThe text is partly “a face-saving device that allows the Security Council to claim that it has not been entirely inactive,” said Richard Gowan, UN director of the International Crisis Group, a center for analysis. “But it does have some substantive benefits too.”Might the benefits of a resolution binding on all UN members be seen in crisis zones in Syria, Yemen or elsewhere in the Middle East? In Afghanistan, Colombia or Africa?“A global ceasefire is very laudable, but the challenge is how you translate that into actions in individual country context,” another ambassador said.A P5 videoconferenceThe French-Tunisian text merges two proposals negotiated in parallel over several weeks, one under Tunis’s leadership among the 10 non-permanent members of the Security Council (the “E10”) and the other by France among the five permanent members (the “P5”).But while the two texts share the goal of improved cooperation and support for widespread cease-fires, neither achieved complete unity in its Security Council bloc, diplomats said.The joint text is likely to undergo several amendments before being put to a vote at a date as yet uncertain. But several diplomats described it as “decisive,” and insisted it will be voted on this week.A principal obstacle to unity remains how the text, a copy of which was obtained by AFP, will ultimately refer to the World Health Organization.The WHO’s role in dealing with the pandemic has been vilified by US President Donald Trump, who complained it had not been transparent about the coronavirus and suspended US funding. China responded by offering additional funding. And Russia, in talks early this month, wanted to insert language calling for an end to protectionism and trade wars and a lifting of unilateral sanctions.One diplomat said only a high-level video arbitration between P5 members -- possibly even consultation involving national leaders -- could resolve such thorny disputes. Yet might the permanent members take advantage of this virtual get-together to design a new post-pandemic world order -- even placing the UN on a new path?For one ambassador, such an initiative should be led by Guterres, standing above the melee and able to help sketch out a “war-fighting plan.”“Never have the world’s seven and a half billion humans felt more strongly such an urgent need for global policy,” said Bertrand Badie, a professor at the Paris Institute of Political Studies (“Science Po”). “At the same time, nationalism has never been as active in the world.”What remains to be seen, he added, is how those two countervailing forces sort themselves out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-security-council-nears-virus-resolution-and-perhaps-a-new-path/story-PU3cPR3vvQjHKPb9ttevfK.html
26-04-2020||World||WHO warns against ‘immunity passports’ as nations look for ways to exit lockdowns||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Saturday warned governments against issuing “immunity passports” or “risk-free certificates” to people who have recovered to enable travel or return to work because there is no evidence that people who have recovered are protected from a second infection.Chile said it would start issuing immunity cards to people who have recovered from Covid-19, and the US , Germany and Italy are considering it as a way to exit their lockdowns. The assumption is that a person who has been infected and has recovered can safely interact with people without getting reinfected or infecting others.The WHO’s scientific paper warns that the assumption that those who have recovered are protected from reinfection could fuel continued spread of Covid-19 as people with certificates may stop taking standard precautions, such as wearing masks and washing hands.“Some governments have suggested that the detection of antibodies to the SARS-CoV-2 could serve as the basis for an ‘immunity passport’ or ‘risk-free certificate’ that would enable individuals to travel or to return to work assuming that they are protected against reinfection. There is currently no evidence that people who have recovered from Covid-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second infection,” the scientific brief said.The WHO does not have a position on this approach and the scientific brief will be updated as new evidence emerges, so countries must tread with caution, said the global health agency’s South East Asia regional director.“Right now, we have no evidence that a serological test can show that an individual is immune to Covid-19. Also, we need to be sure what test will be used to establish the status of an individual. Preliminary information received suggests that a very low proportion of the population has developed antibody response to Covid-19. So this approach may not solve the problem governments are trying to address,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, WHO regional director, South East Asia Region.A rising concern is the unreliability of antibody tests, which can throw up false positive and false negative results. “Antibody tests, while suggestive of a person’s exposure to the Covid19 virus, do not provide proof of full immunity, which is protective to that person or impunity from being regarded as infective to others. If applied on a large scale at the population level, false positives tend to get magnified,” said Dr Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India.While people who have recovered from the infection have antibodies against the virus, some of them have very low levels of neutralising antibodies in their blood, “suggesting that cellular immunity may also be critical for recovery”, the WHO paper says.The development of immunity to a virus through natural infection is a multi-step process that takes place over one to two weeks. The body responds to a viral infection immediately with a non-specific innate response in which macrophages, neutrophils, and dendritic cells slow the progress of the virus and may even prevent it from causing symptoms. This non-specific response is followed by an adaptive response, where the body makes antibodies called immunoglobulins that specifically bind to the virus.The body also develops cellular immunity by making T-cells to eliminate other cells infected with the virus. This (cellular immunity) combined adaptive response may clear the virus from the body, and if the response is strong enough, may prevent progression to severe illness or reinfection by the same virus. This process is often measured by the presence of antibodies in blood. “As of April 24, no study has evaluated whether the presence of antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 confers immunity to subsequent infection by this virus in humans,” said the WHO paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-warns-against-immunity-passports-as-nations-look-for-ways-to-exit-lockdowns/story-IT8r1V2OXJtXVWkCPIIZqJ.html
26-04-2020||World||Coronavirus update: Not developing Covid-19 vaccine, clarifies Pakistan; over 12,000 infected||Pakistan on Saturday clarified that no vaccine was being prepared after reports emerged that the country was on the verge of developing it with the help of China even as the coronavirus cases climbed to 12,644. Advisor on Health Zafar Mirza in his daily media briefing said that currently there was no coronavirus vaccine in Pakistan and no work of any kind was going on for its development.“Let me clarify that while there are several initiatives to develop vaccines across the world, there is no such initiative in Pakistan at the moment,” he said.But he said that a Chinese company developing a vaccine contacted Pakistan and offered it to become a part of clinical trials.“We have asked for more information from them,” Mirza said.He said that a similar offer was made by a company in Japan and Pakistan asked for specific details.Mirza said that 79 per cent of the all coronavirus cases in Pakistan were locally transmitted.“It is now fair to say that our outbreak is now mostly of local transmission,” he said.As part of efforts to reach out to the people, the government launched a telemedicine portal where doctors, both local and abroad, can give advice to patients about the coronavirus, according to Dr Mirza.The Ministry of National Health Services reported that Pakistan’s coronavirus tally touched 12,644, as government asked people to follow official guidelines while visiting mosques in Ramadan.It said that three patients died on Saturday, taking the total death toll to 256. Another 2,755 recovered from the disease.The largest province of Punjab reported 5,378 cases, Sindh 4,232, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 1,793, Balochistan 656, Gilgit-Baltistan 307, Islamabad 223 and Kashmir 55 cases.So far 138,147 tests were done including 6,780 during the last 24 hours, according to the data issued by the ministry.It also said that 785 patients were diagnosed during the last 24 hours.China has sent more medical supplies including polymerase chain reaction testing kits, surgical masks, protective cover all suits, N95 masks and ventilators, according to a statement by the Army.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Earlier, a Chinese medical team of specialists headed by Major General Huang Qingzhen arrived on Friday. The specialists will stay in Pakistan for two months to provide their guidance.The government on Friday extended the lockdown till May 9.However, Prime Minister Imran Khan, as previously, opposed total lockdown.“When we sought a total lockdown without thinking about the consequences for the daily wage earners, the street vendors, the labourers, all of whom face poverty & hunger for themselves & their families. May Allah forgive us our sin of neglecting our dispossessed & poor citizens,” he tweeted.At the start of Ramzan, President Arif Alvi and Minister for Religious Affairs Noorul Haq Qadri visited different mosques in Islamabad to review the precautionary measures taken for the special Taraweeh prayers. As per the governent’s decision, the suspension of International flight operations has been extended upto May 15. Remaining provisions as applicable to the suspension of International flights reflected in the previous orders remain unchanged, it said in a statement.Meanwhile, after several weeks of warnings, the government finally decided to stop all outsiders from going to Lal Masjid for payers on Friday.Dawn reported that a large number of female students belonging to Jamia Hafsa were called a day earlier to stay at the mosque to counter any police action.Maulana Abdul Aziz, a cleric, had been openly challenging the precautionary directives and denounced the government’s advice for social distancing.Several cases have been filed against him and his bodyguards for displaying weapons during the past four weeks.Meanwhile, the Pakistan Ulema Council (PUC) asked people to follow preventive measures of social distancing during Taraweeh. “While we have to take the medical advice seriously and avoid going to the mosques as much as possible, but it is preferred to observe Taraweeh at home,” PUC chairman Hafiz Tahir Ashrafi said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-not-developing-covid-19-vaccine-clarifies-pakistan-over-12-000-infected/story-K67fo1oDJKks0t2HP7IhiM.html
26-04-2020||World||Ecuador woman ‘back from the dead’ after hospital mix-up||An Ecuador woman who was pronounced dead from Covid-19 suddenly woke up in the hospital, to the delight and relief of relatives who had identified someone else’s body as hers and had it cremated.Alba Maruri, 74, was hospitalised in March in Guayaquil, the city hardest hit by the pandemic, with fever and trouble breathing. She lost consciousness for three weeks and was declared dead on March 27, relatives said.A week later, her family was shown a corpse in the hospital morgue, but for fear of coronavirus contagion did not get close to it. The body was on its side, with the back showing, not the face.Maruri’s nephew Jaime Morla said he thought it was his aunt and told hospital officials it was. “I was afraid to see her face,” he told AFP. “I was a metre and a half away. She had the same hair, the same skin tone. She even had a wound like one my aunt had recently,” Morla said.That body was taken to a funeral home and cremated.Maruri regained consciousness Thursday and told doctors who she was and had them call her sister Aura. “The doctors went to my aunt’s house to corroborate and inform them of the mistake,” said another nephew, Juan Carlos Ramirez. “They still do not know whose ashes they have in their house,” he added.The family plans to sue the hospital to recover the cremation fee they paid and for the distress caused by the mix-up.The sister told news outlets that hospital officials visited her on Friday and told her that her sister was well and about to be released. “It is a miracle. For nearly a month, we thought she was dead. And I have someone else’s ashes,” said Aura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ecuador-woman-back-from-the-dead-after-hospital-mix-up/story-MByRySEUyjChiVoJ82F0sN.html
26-04-2020||World||Coronavirus update: US hardest-hit by Covid-19 pandemic, records 2,494 deaths in last 24 hours||The United States recorded 2,494 more coronavirus deaths in the past 24 hours, according to figures reported Saturday night by Johns Hopkins University.The country now has an overall death toll of 53,511, with 936,293 confirmed infections, according to a tally by the Baltimore-based university at 8:30 pm (0030 GMT Sunday).The United States is by far the hardest-hit country in the global pandemic, in terms of both confirmed infections and deaths.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The toll of 2,494 was a jump from Friday, when the US recorded the lowest number of virus deaths -- 1,258 -- in nearly three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-us-hardest-hit-by-covid-19-pandemic-records-2-494-deaths-in-last-24-hours/story-OCs2SQtdS7qf9CZhxcsJ4J.html
26-04-2020||World||Global Covid-19 deaths surge past 200,000||The worldwide Covid-19 death toll zoomed past 200,000 on Saturday as the United Nations launched a global push for a vaccine to defeat the pandemic.Governments around the world are struggling to limit the economic devastation unleashed by the virus, which has infected more than 2.8 million people.The scale of the pandemic has forced medical research on the virus to move at unprecedented speed, but effective treatments are still far away and the UN chief said the effort will require cooperation on a global scale.“We face a global public enemy like no other,” secretary-general Antonio Guterres told a virtual briefing on Friday, asking for international organisations, world leaders and the private sector to join hands. “A world free of Covid-19 requires the most massive public health effort in history.” The vaccine should be safe, affordable and available to all, Guterres stressed at the meeting, which was also attended by the leaders of Germany and France.Notably absent from the meeting were the leaders of China, where the virus first emerged late last year, and the US, which has accused the UN’s World Health Organization (WHO) of not warning quickly enough about the original outbreak.Spain’s daily virus toll rose slightly on Saturday with 378 people dying, a day after the country registered its lowest number of deaths in four weeks.Iran raised fears of a “fresh outbreak” with another 76 fatalities declared, bringing the country’s death toll to 5,650.The UN General Assembly, meanwhile, is yet to decide as to how it will proceed with a secret ballot scheduled for June to elect non-permanent members of the UN Security Council, an election India will win following the endorsement of its candidature by the Asia-Pacific grouping.Elections for the five non-permanent members of the 15-nation Council for the 2021-22 term are scheduled to be held in June. India is a candidate for a non-permanent seat in the elections this year and its victory is a given following the endorsement of its candidature by the 55-member Asia-Pacific grouping, including China and Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-covid-19-deaths-surge-past-200-000/story-SIakcBQjCg4KQEgFaSUZ5K.html
26-04-2020||World||Train belonging to Kim Jong Un spotted as health rumours persist||Satellite imagery of a parked train suggests Kim Jong Un may have been at his holiday compound in North Korea’s east coast this week as speculation swirls about the leader’s health, according to the monitoring group 38 North.China sent a team that included health-care experts to the neighboring country to advise on Kim, Reuters reported, citing three people familiar with the matter. Kim has been out of the public eye for a few weeks, and was reported to be in critical condition after undergoing cardiovascular surgery.US officials said Monday they were told of Kim’s condition after the surgery, though they were unsure of his current health. President Donald Trump on Thursday cast doubt about a CNN report saying the North Korean leader was very ill. Officials with the National Security Council at the White House declined to comment on Saturday.Also Read: China checks on Kim Jong-un’s health, sends a team to North KoreaKim was conspicuously absent from birthday celebrations on April 15 of his grandfather and state founder Kim Il Sung. He has not been seen since a politburo meeting on April 11, raising speculation about his condition. The state-run Korean Central News Agency reported that Kim sent a message Wednesday to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Letters of this sort are reported frequently.A delegation led by a senior member of the Chinese Communist Party’s International Liaison Department -- which deals with North Korea relations -- departed Beijing on Thursday, Reuters said, adding it wasn’t able to immediately determine what the trip signaled about Kim’s health. The health of the North Korean leader is one of the most closely guarded secrets in the isolated state, known only to a few people in its inner circle.Also Watch l North Korea’s Kim Jong Un in critical condition? Watch China’s reaction Also Read: Kim Jong-un’s heart care centre has imported machines, doctors trained abroad: ReportThe head of the Korean Friendship Association, a group that says it receives official information from North Korea, on Saturday disputed news reports that Kim, 36, is gravely ill. “Information about the serious state of health of our Marshal Kim Jong Un is false and malicious,” Alejandro Cao de ­Benos said in tweet. Cao, who was featured in the 2015 documentary “The Propaganda Game,” didn’t say where he got the information and declined further comment when contacted by Bloomberg.Esto es OFICIAL: La información sobre el grave estado de salud de nuestro Mariscal Kim Jong Un ES FALSA y malintencionada. Gracias por preocuparse, pero ruego a los periodistas que consulten la fuente de las noticias y sean menos sensacionalistas.Analysts at 38 North, a website devoted to analysis of North Korea, said a train probably belong to Kim has been parked at the railway station that serves the private compound in Wonsan since at least April 21. Wonsan is about 230 kilometers (143 miles) from Pyongyang.“Imagery indicates the train arrived sometime before April 21 and was still present on April 23, when it appeared to be repositioned for departure,” the analysts said. “There was no indication when that departure might take place.”The train’s presence doesn’t prove Kim’s whereabouts or indicate anything about his health, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/train-belonging-to-kim-jong-un-spotted-as-health-rumors-persist/story-JJVZH4bo6a5ewh2gurgBRK.html
26-04-2020||World||Trump says White House’s Covid-19 press briefings not worth his time||President Donald Trump tweeted Saturday that his daily coronavirus briefings were not worth his time, two days after sparking a furor by suggesting patients might be injected with disinfectant to kill an infection.He appeared to confirm media reports that he was considering halting the briefings, which dominate early-evening cable television news for sometimes more than two hours, out of frustration with questions about his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.“What is the purpose of having White House News Conferences when the Lamestream Media asks nothing but hostile questions, & then refuses to report the truth or facts accurately,” Trump wrote.“They get record ratings, & the American people get nothing but Fake News. Not worth the time & effort!”What is the purpose of having White House News Conferences when the Lamestream Media asks nothing but hostile questions, & then refuses to report the truth or facts accurately. They get record ratings, & the American people get nothing but Fake News. Not worth the time & effort!On Thursday the US leader stunned viewers by saying doctors might treat people infected with the coronavirus by shining ultraviolet light inside their bodies, or with injections of household disinfectant.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“Then I see the disinfectant, where it knocks (the virus) out in a minute. One minute. And is there a way we can do something like that, by injection inside or almost a cleaning? Because you see it gets in the lungs and it does a tremendous number on the lungs,” he said.After a strong rebuff of his suggestion by top medical experts and disinfectant manufacturers, Trump on Friday claimed he had been speaking “sarcastically.” Also Read: ‘Knocks the virus out in one minute’: Trump’s disinfectant claims baffle citizensBut he limited that day’s briefing, which usually includes himself, Vice President Mike Pence and members of the White House Coronavirus Task Force, to just 19 minutes, and did not take any questions from reporters.And on Saturday, after 50 briefings over two months, the White House did not hold one at all.Trump has used the briefings to occupy television screens and promote his administration’s policies, fend off critics and attack political rivals -- from opposition Democrats to China to the US media.But after more than 53,000 Americans have died from the novel coronavirus, the briefings, opinion polls suggest, have not bolstered Trump’s popularity among voters as he gears up to battle Democrat Joe Biden in the presidential election in November.An AP-NORC poll published Thursday showed that most Americans -- and a crushing majority of Democrats -- don’t believe Trump when it comes to the health emergency facing the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-says-white-house-s-covid-19-press-briefings-not-worth-his-time/story-l7THZhkQdD9YlcgcJlWUJN.html
26-04-2020||World||Covid-19: UK PM Boris Johnson to be back at work on Monday a month||Boris Johnson will return to work on Monday and take charge of the U.K.’s handling of the pandemic, a month after he was struck down by the coronavirus.The government has been without a leader since the prime minister was admitted to the hospital on April 5.Since being released he’s been slowly easing his way back, holding daily video calls with Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab and his Downing Street team, and speaking to his key medical advisers Chris Whitty and Patrick Vallance.“The PM has been doing all the right things and following his doctor’s advice to come back to work,” a Downing Street official said. “He is raring to go.”Johnson’s return comes at another critical juncture for the government, which has found itself on the defensive since the Covid-19 crisis began. The country’s death toll, from hospitals only, has topped 20,000, the fifth highest in the world, and business has slowed to a crawl.Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey, in an editorial to the mass-circulation Sun newspaper on Saturday, sought to explain how the central bank was supporting the economy.There’s some evidence that Johnson’s experience in St. Thomas’ Hospital -- he was admitted to the intensive care unit, and credited the staff there with saving his life -- has made him less gung-ho in his attitude to the virus.When some European countries were beginning lockdown procedures in mid-March, Johnson said at the time that such a reaction was unnecessary.Fast forward a few weeks, and he’s said to be particularly cautious about whether lifting social-distancing measures would risk a second wave of the virus at a time daily cases have leveled off and deaths have started to decline.According to the Telegraph newspaper, travelers arriving in Britain will be placed in quarantine for up to two weeks under a plan being overseen by Home Secretary Priti Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-will-be-back-at-work-on-monday-report/story-oDeI7t1kZot0LlaacVYl9I.html
26-04-2020||World||US states lift Covid-19 restrictions, Donald Trump defends walks back disinfectant remarks||Three US states have allowed some businesses to reopen under the watchful eye of the rest of the country and other governors weigh options as the coronavirus epidemic crossed another grime milestone with fatalities going past the 50,000 mark and infections inching up to a million.The Trump White House continued Friday to deal with the outrage triggered by President Donald Trump’s suggestion to use household disinfectants to kill the virus inside human bodies as it does outside on surfaces. He himself tried to walk it back as a “sarcastic question” for reporters, which it was not.Though the spread of the virus has slowed with a drop in new cases, hospitalization, the number of infections and deaths continued to climb. Reported confirmed infections went up to 905,364 with 36,188 more over the past 24 hours and fatalities to 51,956 with 1,995 more, which is the lowest in weeks.As the situation has improved frustration has grown about the lockdowns and states are under increasing pressure to begin removing restrictions, either partially or fully. And calls growing more intense as the lockdown or variations of it are set to expire end of the month, on or around April 30.Georgia, Alaska and Oklahoma allowed the resumption of some business activities Friday, under strict obligation to abide by social-distancing rules. South Carolina reopened department stores and flea markets earlier in the week, and, Tennessee has announced it doe they do not plan to extend the lockdown.Hair and nail salons, spa, bowling alleys, gyms and tattoo parlors were allowed to reopen Friday and restaurants are set to reopen for in-dining next week in Georgia. Oklahoma has allowed salons, barbers and pet groomers. And Alaska has eased restriction on restaurants, retail stores and nonessential businesses, including hair and nail salons.Georgia is being seen as a test case by many other states who are eager to open too but are being careful to not trigger a resurgence. Governor Brian Kemp, a Republican, is being seen as rash and was publicly scolded by Trump for rushing into it, in defiance of the three-phase federal reopening guidelines.New York, the epicenter of the American epidemic, California and Illinois remain under strict lockdown orders with their governors saying they intend to keep them in place.New York is improving. Governor Andrew Cuomo has said deaths have declined, with 422 of single-day toll on Friday being the lowest since the start of the month. Toll for the state rose to 21,411 Saturday; with 16,646 in New York city alone.Citing new research, the governor said Friday that the virus came to New York from Italy, which runs counter to President Trump and his administration’s efforts to blame China for the epidemic and that he may have prevented a larger spread in the US by banning travelers from China in early February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-states-lift-covid-19-restrictions-donald-trump-defends-walks-back-disinfectant-remarks/story-93p6tMfvJJvpAMNXtdoaGM.html
26-04-2020||World||China checks on Kim Jong Un’s health, sends a team to North Korea||Chief ally China has sent a team including doctors to North Korea to check on its leader Kim Jong Un following reports last week that said the 36-year-old was critically ill.The delegation is led by a senior member of the Communist Party of China’s (CPC) international liaison department and left Beijing for Pyongyang on Thursday, a Reuters report said on Saturday.The visit is set to trigger further speculation about the health of Kim Jong Un who is said to be a heavy smoker, appears overweight and has a history of cardio vascular problems in the family.China is yet to confirm the visit.Also Watch | North Korea’s Kim Jong Un in critical condition? Watch China’s reaction Beijing is isolated and secretive Pyongyang’s chief ally and economic benefactor and President Xi Jinping has met Kim several times in the last couple of years including during his first state visit to North Korea in 2019 after more than a decade.Kim, according to earlier reports, was “conspicuously absent” from birthday celebrations on April 15 of his grandfather and state founder Kim Il Sung.He has not been seen in public since a meeting on April 11, which fuelled speculation about his health.The state-run Korean Central News Agency reported that Kim on Wednesday had sent a message to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.In North Korea, the health of its leaders is treated as a matter of state security.According to the Reuter’s report, when Kim’s father Kim Jong-il, suffered a stroke in 2008, Chinese doctors were involved in his treatment along with French physicians.US Media outlets had reported earlier that Kim had gone under a cardiovascular procedure, with CNN citing a US official with direct knowledge of the matter as saying that Washington was “monitoring intelligence” that Kim was in grave danger after a surgery.On Tuesday, the Chinese foreign ministry said it was aware of reports about the health of North Korean leader but said it does not know their source, without commenting on whether it has any information about the situation.Spokesperson Geng Shuang made the remarks during id not elaborate further during the daily briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sends-team-to-north-korea-amid-reports-of-kim-jong-un-s-ill-health/story-k5oEoVbIrH7ySFxiwF5yOM.html
26-04-2020||World||Kim Jong Un’s heart care centre has imported machines, doctors trained abroad: Report||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is being treated at a hospital which is meant for exclusive use of his family, according to Daily NK, a South Korean internet news outlet specialising in North Korea news.The Hyang San hospital has long been maintained as special facility to deal with heart-related ailments, Daily NK further reported.The hospital was built in 1994, after the death of North Korea leader’s grandfather, Kim Il-sung, who was in Hyang San (a place about 150 kilometres from capital Pyongyang) at that time. Kim believed that a hospital in the area would have saved him, the news outlet reported.It also said that there is one more reason to build a hospital away from capital Pyongyang: To keep the leader and his family away from any kind of surveillance.Daily NK further reported that the doctor who conducted Kim’s surgery is an expert in cardiovascular-related diseases and has even received training abroad. The doctor too is kept under tight security and moves around with his own guard, the news outlet reported.The medical equipment at the hospital is imported from Germany and Japan, reported Daily NK, which is run mostly by North Korean defectors.Daily NK had earlier reported thar Kim had undergone a cardiovascular procedure earlier this month triggered by heavy smoking, obesity and fatigue.CNN also quoted a US official as saying Kim was in “grave danger” after surgery.Speculation about Kim’s whereabouts started after he apparently skipped an annual visit to the Kumsusan Palace of the Sun last Wednesday on the occasion of the 108th birthday of his late grandfather and state founder, Kim Il Sung.Kim was last seen on April 11 in state media reports about his presiding over a political bureau meeting of the ruling Workers’ Party, where he called for “strict national countermeasures to thoroughly check the infiltration of the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-s-heart-care-centre-has-imported-machines-doctors-trained-abroad-report/story-YtH2C1SCmjUx7oV5pt4wzL.html
26-04-2020||World||‘Kim Jong Un’s exit wouldn’t change US goals’: Mike Pompeo||The United States will keep seeking North Korea’s denuclearization no matter who is in charge in Pyongyang, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Wednesday, amid speculation about leader Kim Jong Un’s health.US officials including President Donald Trump have declined to discuss Kim’s condition after a report, downplayed by South Korea, that the reclusive authoritarian was ailing.But asked in an interview, Pompeo said he had met Kim’s powerful sister, Kim Yo Jong, whose recent elevation in the hierarchy raised pundits’ view that she could be a successor.“I did have a chance to meet her a couple of times, but the challenge remains the same -- the goal remains unchanged -- whoever is leading North Korea,” Pompeo told Fox News.He renewed the US promise to bring the North Korean people “a brighter future” if the leadership gives up nuclear weapons.“They’ve got to denuclearize. We’ve got to do so in a way that we can verify. That’s true no matter who is leading North Korea,” he said.Pompeo flew to North Korea four times in 2018 as he arranged historic summits between Trump and Kim after more than a half century of enmity between the two countries.But hopes for a breakthrough before US elections in November have dimmed, with North Korea firing off rockets and the United States refusing Pyongyang’s demands for sanctions relief before full denuclearization.Daily NK, an online media outlet run mostly by North Korean defectors, said Kim had undergone a cardiovascular procedure earlier this month triggered by heavy smoking, obesity and fatigue.CNN also quoted a US official as saying Kim was in “grave danger” after surgery.But South Korea, which is technically still at war with the North, said it had detected no unusual movements in its neighbor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-s-exit-wouldn-t-change-us-goals-mike-pompeo/story-sLrdxUFkrUpieatVGqufIK.html
26-04-2020||India||Govt promotes Air India chief Rajiv Bansal to secretary-level rank||Air India chief Rajiv Bansal has been promoted to the secretary-level rank, according to a Personnel Ministry order issued on Sunday. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC), headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has approved in-situ upgradation of a total of 10 officers to the level of special secretary in the rank and pay of secretary by temporarily upgrading the posts held by them.Bansal, a 1988 batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Nagaland cadre, has been given the rank and pay of secretary to the government of India, the order said.He was appointed the chairman and managing director of Air India in February this year at the rank of additional secretary.Besides him, Airports Authority of India (AAI) chairman Arvind Singh has also been promoted to the top rank.Praveen Kumar Srivastava will be special secretary, Department of Home. He is at present additional secretary in the same department. Apurva Chandra has been made special secretary and Director General (Acquisition) in the Defence Ministry. He is currently additional secretary and Director General (Acquisition).   Senior bureaucrat Ali Raza Rizvi, additional secretary and financial adviser in the Information and Broadcasting Ministry, has been promoted as special secretary and financial adviser in the same organisation. Gujarat-cadre IAS officer Bidyut Bihari Swain will be special secretary in the Department of Commerce. He is additional secretary in the same department. The government has also approved promotion of Indevar Pandey as special secretary, Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region. He is working as the additional secretary in the same department.  PTI AKV KJ KJ||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-promotes-air-india-chief-rajiv-bansal-to-secretary-level-rank/story-RjcDJ84Ggayg3WE9etTRVL.html
26-04-2020||India||More rain, thunder likely across northern India: IMD||New Delhi: Thunderstorms are brewing over northwest India, east and northeast India, including Gangetic West Bengal, and across peninsular India including coastal Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, suggesting an extension of this week’s spell of rain in an unusually wet April. the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Sunday. A low-pressure area is also forming over the south Andaman Sea, which will result in rough seas and thundershowers around Andaman and Nicobar and the Sumatra coast starting April 30, IMD said. A western disturbance that started affecting parts of north India on Saturday evening and easterly moisture-laden winds are causing overcast skies, some thundershowers and moderate winds in most parts of northwest India including the National Capital Region (NCR) centred on Delhi. “There is intense activity in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Dust storms, hail storms and thundershowers are likely in these places. An orange alert has been issued so that authorities remain alert. In Delhi-NCR, light rain has been recorded in many parts. Similar conditions will continue till Monday,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, of the regional weather forecasting centre. April hasn’t been as warm as it typically is in Delhi because of back-to-back westerly disturbances which either led to rain or overcast skies.“Till Saturday, the average maximum temperature in Delhi has been approximately 8 degrees C below normal. But we are still analysing the data to see if it’s a record,” Shrivastava added.IMD’s Sunday bulletin said intense thunderstorm activity accompanied with squally weather and hailstorms with rainfall exceeding 5 cm had been observed on April 25 at many places over coastal Odisha, north-Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and north Tamil Nadu“Due to establishment of an east-west trough and wind convergence along Indo-Gangetic plains and accompanied moisture incursion from both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal in lower levels, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is very likely to continue over parts of east and northeast India during next two days with peak activity over Odisha, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal on Sunday,” the bulletin said.Heavy rainfall and hailstorms are expected in Odisha, Jharkhand, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next couple of days. Heavy rainfall over parts of Kerala and Mahe is likely for the next 4 to 5 days.“In east, northeast and peninsular India we are seeing some severe thunderstorm activity. It is normal during the pre-monsoon season. There is a lot of moisture incursion from Bay of Bengal over the east and northeast. It’s the kalbaisakhi Norwesters] season. Occasionally, some very intense activity can be there like a hailstorm or squall,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre. “In northwest India, the reasons are different. There is influence of a westerly disturbance here and moisture incursion from both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal. In Rajasthan where there is less moisture, there may be dust storms,” she added.According to various numerical weather prediction models of the IMD, a low pressure area is likely to form over the south Andaman Sea around April 30. It is likely to become more marked over the same region. Fishermen were advised not to venture into the sea along and off the north Sumatra coast, Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of southeast and east central Bay of Bengal from April 30 to May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-rain-thunder-likely-across-northern-india-imd/story-FPD0OoQcNCuFWtargNnVyH.html
26-04-2020||India||Uddhav warns against politics amid crisis as decision on his fate is awaited||Amidst the coronoavirus crisis, a bitter tussle is on between the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the BJP over the alleged delay by Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari in accepting state cabinet’s recommendation to nominate chief minister Uddhav Thackeray as a member of the State Legislative council.Thackeray will have to resign if he doesn’t become a member of the state legislature by May 28. MVA leaders suspect a political conspiracy behind the alleged ‘delay’ in clearing the recommendation sent by the cabinet to the Governor more than two weeks ago.While the Shiv Sena is building up pressure on Koshyari, Thackeray on Sunday said nobody should play dirty politics in the current situation. The BJP hit back saying the onus of getting Thackeray elected to the legislature was on the ruling party and not on the opposition and that the Sena should stop blaming the BJP for its problems.“I am keeping politics aside. Power comes and goes. Nobody should resort to dirty politics. This is not the time for politics. There are lives of people at stake,” Thackeray said while addressing people through social media.He also lauded union transport minister Nitin Gadkari for his advice to state’s politicians to stand behind the state government in the time of crisis.“I thank Nitinji Gadkari for appealing to everybody to keep politics aside and support the state government in its battle against coronoavirus,” Thackeray said.Sena MP and executive editor of party mouthpiece Saamana, Sanjay Raut on Sunday wrote that he trusted Governor Koshyari to accept the recommendation but at the same time cautioned that there could be repercussions if the state cabinet’s recommendation was rejected. He also pointed out two instances in the past when chief ministers were initially not a member of the legislature and were later nominated by the state’s governor ---C Rajagopalachari as the chief minister of then Madras province in 1951 and Chandrabhan Gupt of Uttar Pradesh in 1961. In case of Gupt, the decision was challenged before Allahabad High Court but it refused to intervene, he added.Last Sunday, Raut had tweeted: “Raj bhavan , governor’s house shouldn’t become center for political conspiracy. Remember! History doesn’t spare those who behave unconstitutionally.”Leaders of the Shiv Sena as well as other two ruling partners, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party, are not sure whether the Governor would nominate Thackeray, failing which he may have to quit by May 28 since the constitution makes it mandatory for a minister or chief minister to get elected to the state legislature within six months of swearing-in.Thackeray was not a member of the state legislature when he took oath as the chief minister on November 28 after breaking up with the BJP and joining forces with the Congress-NCP after last year’s assembly elections.“We suspect the Center wants to impose the President’s Rule in the state. If Thackeray is not nominated by the Governor, he would have to resign. Then the Governor may recommend the President’s Rule if we insist on Thackeray again swearing-in as the chief minister,” said a key MVA leader who did not wish to be named because Koshyari was yet to take a decision.Thackeray had planned to contest a by-election to the legislative council that was scheduled in April but was postponed due to Covid-19 outbreak. State cabinet on April 9 recommended that he be nominated to the council to occupy one of the two empty seats out of the 12 nominated by the Governor.State cabinet wants Koshyari to consider Thackeray as a special case in view of the emergency situation in the state.State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat who is also the state Congress chief, said, “The confusion should be ended by the Governor. We trust him not to let uncertainty prevail in the middle of an emergency situation.”Senior BJP leader Ashish Shelar said the Sena should stop blaming others for its problems.“Getting Thackeray elected to the legislature is the responsibility of the ruling party and not the opposition. Why didn’t he opt to contest the by-election for Yavatmal council seat held earlier this year? Why did Sena’s partner NCP not include Thackeray’s name when it recommended its two members for the council? Further, why didn’t Sena ask one of its legislators to resign so that Thackeray could contest the by-election,” asked Shelar. He added that the Governor would consider the constitutional provisions and accordingly take a decision.He also remarked that Thackeray should tell people why he is not taking opposition leaders into confidence on measures being adopted to handle Covid-19 outbreak instead of accusing others of playing dirty politics.Political analyst Prarap Asbe said: “Thackeray would have expressed his unhappiness because he is not happy with the way his government is being attacked by the BJP in the state.“As far as Thackeray’s nomination to the legislature is concerned, the decision of the state cabinet is binding on the governor. Still, if he chooses not to accept it, there could be a political crisis in the state. Of course, such decisions are taken by considering how the people will react,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-warns-against-politics-amid-crisis-as-governor-delays-decision-on-his-fate/story-ITI1rboK15MvUpMcJbAknL.html
26-04-2020||India||Migrant workers don’t need to go home, their needs being addressed: Centre tells SC||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that migrant workers don’t need to travel to their native places during the lockdown, as the government is taking care of their and their family members’ daily needs wherever they are. Highlighting its response to curb the spread of coronavirus in the country, the government filed a second status report in the apex court in response to a plea by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava, seeking relief for migrant workers including payment of wages. The status report filed by Union Home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla said that to obviate the difficulties faced by low wage-earners in the organized sector, cash transfer under PM Garib Kalyan Yojana has been made. The status report said the government has allowed such workers to withdraw EPFO money advance and as on April 9, 1,49,891 members have availed of the facility.The central government said it is taking care of psycho-social issues in shelter homes where migrant workers are staying and experts and counsellors from Central mental health institutes are visiting there. “In view of the steps taken by the government, it is submitted that there is no necessity for migration of workers to shift from places of their occupation to the place of their residence and rush back to their villages, Their daily needs are being taken care of wherever they are working and the daily needs of their family members were being taken care of at their respective villages,” the status report filed on an affidavit said. It said the movement of migrant workers on their own in large numbers during the lockdown defeats the very objective of the preventive measures taken by the central government. “As per the latest statistics furnished by the state governments and Union territories, 37,978 relief camps have already been set up by state governments and Union Territories and genuine NGOs. Nearly 14.3 lakh persons have been housed in these camps. In addition to the above, 26,225 food camps have also been opened giving food to nearly 1.34 crore persons,” the affidavit said.The Centre said that directions have been issued to district administration and superintendent of police to ensure migrant workers and other poor people who are living in rented accommodation are not compelled to pay rent by their landlords.“If any landlord flouts this direction, they shall be liable for action under the Disaster Management Act,” it said. It said that as per the order of apex court passed on March 31, a fact-check unit has been set up under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to check fake news. The affidavit said, “In view of the on-going efforts by the central government, presently the spread of Covid-19 in India is much slower than as has seen observed in several other countries.” The prompt measures particularly social distancing and lockdown have halted the spread of disease in the country so far, it added. On March 31, the apex court had asked the Centre to prevent migration of people due to coronavirus and set up within 24 hours a portal for disseminating real time information on the pandemic to counter the panic being spread through fake news.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrant-workers-don-t-need-to-go-home-during-lockdown-their-needs-being-addressed-centre-tells-sc/story-0FKT1v8IfRTtu8NsYYGOuN.html
26-04-2020||India||UGC meeting agenda: Exams with social distancing||New Delhi The University Grants Commission (UGC) will on Monday hold a video conference to discuss disruptions triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the academic calendar and the way forward, according to an official aware of the matter. High on the agenda could be holding exams in times of social distancing.The commission regulating higher education in India is expected to focus on two reports --- one by a panel on academic schedule headed by RC Kuhad, the vice chancellor of the Central University of Haryana; and the other by a committee on online education headed by Indira Gandhi National Open Univrsity (IGNOU) vice chancellor Nageshwar Rao.“…there are a variety of universities in different regions. Some of them are in hot spots (of Covid-19) and others are not. The universities which can begin their session early should be allowed (to do so). Others can be given a last date (to begin the new session). However, all this will be discussed. Our aim is to merge technology with equity,” a commission member who did not want to be named said.The Kuhad committee has recommended postponing the admission cycle till up to September, according to the commission member.But fresh admissions, ideally, can only take place if universities are able to close the 2019-2020 academic session for undergraduate or postgraduate by holding exams and declaring results.Generally, academic sessions end in colleges and universities in May-June and new sessions begin in July-August. Education institutes have been shut down across India since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19.“There are universities like JNU (Jawaharlal Nehru University in Delhi) or EFLU (English and Foreign Languages University in Hyderabad), which have fewer students. And there are others like the BHU (Banaras Hindu University) or AMU (Aligarh Muslim University), where the number of students… is more. We have to allow them different options depending on their location, size and circumstances,” said the commission member cited above.The panels created by UGC earlier this month has suggested options such as assignment-based evaluation, objective type questions in an internet-based evaluation model and even the traditional pen-and-paper exam in front of webcams to wrap up the academic session, said the commission member.“There are areas where even the mobile phone signal is weak, leave aside fast internet facility. The success of the solution hinges on ensuring that students’ concerns are addressed,” this official said, adding that exams for Sanskrit or any regional language could be challenging in an internet-based software. Some students’ organisations have expressed concerns that those in remote areas or those who are underprivileged may have to face difficulty if their challenges are not factored in while brainstorming a solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-meeting-agenda-exams-with-social-distancing/story-fCuebHHoVRTVLdGN9jyzPM.html
26-04-2020||India||National digital library extends help to students||The National Digital Library of India (NDLI) has opened up its 35 million-strong digital content, making available e-books, past questions papers and solutions, lecture materials and thesis, among others, to help students study at home.The NDLI is the largest online library in the country especially for academic purposes. It has also built a “Covid-19 research resource repository” with latest research from across the world – a kind of a single window access to various material related to Covid-19, be it data, research work, videos, challenges and funds.“NDLI is opening up its contents to students, researchers, teachers and learners of all ages and various languages,” said PP Chakrabarti, principal investigator of the library and a professor of computer science and engineering at IIT Kharagpur.The NDLI was set up by the Union human resource development ministry (MHRD) under its National Mission on Education through Information and Communication Technology (NMEICT) and is run and managed by IIT Kharagpur.In the content, while 270 million are open access document, another 7.7 million has been made freely accessible to NDLI users through national license by MHRD. “The library content includes a wide range of materials in the form of e-books, audio books, lecture materials, thesis, reports, articles, journal papers, questions papers, solutions, data and simulation tools in addition to otherwise popular formats of video lectures and courses,” he added.The library has also put up a special link called “Corona Outbreak: Study from Home” that contains specially curated materials for school and college students covering Engineering, Science, Management, Humanities and Law.“In the Covid-19 repository, around 40,000 research-related work and documents have been uploaded,” said PP Das, a professor of computer science engineering and the joint principal investigator of NDLI.The repository may be used for literature survey, to access data to carry out experiments, to study reports, to look at videos, to know about journals and conferences for carrying out research on Covid-19 and its induced effects and to design related activities.Innovators, incubators and entrepreneurs may use it for ideation, to identify challenges, to look around funding options and to plan for startup around Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-digital-library-extends-help-to-students/story-XC4IwUTlw5dGsQelN3K1kI.html
26-04-2020||India||Maha cases cross 8k with 440 infections; toll at 342||MumbaiThe number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 8,000 mark on Sunday with 440 new infections even as state government officials expressed confidence in existing containment measures and said they were preparing for the disease to peak by the second week of May. The daily rise was roughly half that of Saturday’s record figure of 811. There are now 8,068 infected people in the state, which also recorded 19 deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of fatalities to 342.Mumbai continued to record the majority of the state’s cases with 358 new infections on Sunday. The city now has 5,407 cases, while its surrounding areas of Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts have 936 cases in all. Mumbai reported 12 deaths, while Pune saw three, Jalgaon two and Solapur city and Latur saw one each on Sunday.Top officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which has 67.01% of the total Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, said they are preparing for a spike by May 15. The civic body, according to Manisha Mhaiskar, one of the bureaucrats on the Covid-19 task-force in the BMC, is basing is preparedness plan on the projections of the central team, which recently visited the state.“The current doubling rate of coronavirus in Mumbai is seven days. If seven days is taken as the input assumption, the modelling suggests that there would be around 70,000 cases towards second half of May. This has become the basis for preparing for the Ides of May,” Mhaiskar said. According to her post, the “obvious” task before the civic body is to improve the doubling rate. House-to-house surveillance, aggressive contact tracing, and containment strategies have been put in place, an official added.With cases rising in Mumbai and Pune, the state government is yet to take a call on the Centre’s notification allowing all neighbourhood shops to open. State government officials said that the administration is still considering the “pros and cons” of the move.“Allowing shops to reopen in non-containment areas of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune region could be harmful as hundreds of cases are being recorded daily. The chief minister is taking a review of all areas,” a second official said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday indicated that a decision on relaxation of restrictions in the state will be taken after a review of the situation once the national lockdown ends on May 3.“There are questions about what will happen after the lockdown ends on May 3. Since April 20, we have gradually eased restrictions at some places. In Mumbai, this led to crowds that we cannot afford… We are not opening district borders in rural Maharashtra, but gradually easing restrictions within districts to allow economic activity to resume. I am receiving daily reports. I will hold a review today evening and decide on further relaxations from May 3 onwards,” Thackeray said, during his address via Facebook Live.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-cases-cross-8k-with-440-infections-toll-at-342/story-1Pn6TLi8aa2868XQc57poM.html
26-04-2020||India||In lockdown, domestic violence threat a worry||In the second week of April, the Delhi Police recorded a “total event count” of 2446 that pertained to the “event type: women”. Put simply, nearly 2500 women in Delhi called emergency helpline numbers which triggers the Emergency Response Support System of the state police. Of these calls over 600 were classified as “women abuse”, 23 calls reported rape, while a majority — 1612 — pertained to domestic violence. One of these calls was about a 28-year-old woman from west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar. The woman’s brother, based in Nepal, first got in touch with a New Delhi-based government licenced shelter home for women and transwomen survivors of abuse and violence. Shakti Shalini, based in Jangpura, rang the police helpline and a policeman was sent to investigate the matter. The 28-year-old mother of two toddlers had allegedly undergone sustained physical abuse by her husband and his family. Initially, the police sought to mediate between the two, following which the woman was asked to stay home for the duration of the lockdown. But the woman said the abuse had worsened after the husband came to know that a police complaint had been filed. On April 14, the police took her for a medical check up, recorded her bruises and transported her and her two children to Shakti Shalini’s shelter home. “I was physically, mentally tortured for four years. Two days before [my brother called the shelter], my husband beat me up to an inch of my life. I begged him to spare me. He told me to get out of the house,” she said. The Uttam Nagar resident is one of the few women who have managed to access police help to reach a safe space. Singh, who has received 25 calls since the beginning of the lockdown said that in the cases where police needed to intervene, they mediated between the women and their abusers, asking them to stay put till the lockdown was over. A Hindustan Times analysis of cases recorded across the country reveals two important aspects of the issue. One, some states have reported a decline in the number of domestic violence complaints, others have reported a spike in the calls being received by helplines. Thus, rather than make claims on absolute decline or increase in the incidence of domestic violence during the lockdown, it is the ability of victims to make complaints while they share domestic spaces with perpetrators of violence that has been clearly affected. In some states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana, the number of complaints received by state-run helplines has decreased. In Ghaziabad, which forms part of the National Capital Region, instances of domestic violence during the first phase of lockdown saw a decline of about 50% as compared to the pre-lockdown period in March, according to the data compiled by 18 police stations in urban and rural areas of the city. “There used to be around 400 complaints related to Domestic Violence every day from all parts of the state till last month and now, the number has come down to around 150-200,” Inspector General of Police (Women Safety) Telangana, Swati Lakra said. However, in some other states the number of calls on domestic violence have, in fact, increased. The Punjab State Commission for Women (PSCW) has received at least 30 complaints everyday related to domestic violence since March 22. According to Manisha Gulati, chairperson of PSCW, prior to the lockdown, only a third of the calls they received pertained to domestic violence incidents. Even private helplines, such as that maintained by Mumbai-based Tata Institute of Social Sciences’ iCall helpline has seen a spike in calls. “We are getting phone calls from Ghaziabad, Noida, Mumbai, Hyderabad and many other cities Everyday there are at least three calls,” coordinator Ruchi Sinha said.The second aspect to this issue is that while there are several helplines and shelter homes available for women to call or live in — both state-run, and those maintained by non governmental organisations — the help that they can provide has been curtailed due to the lockdown. Women cannot travel to police stations, and social workers cannot reach them or arrange for their travel; the police are overburdened with Covid-19 duties, and visiting homes to investigate domestic disputes is often not considered a priority. What’s more, domestic violence cases are filed in lower courts as these are civil disputes and at present, courts are only open for emergency hearings, such as bail pleas. The National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma said that the commission received 250 domestic violence complaints between March 25 and April 22. “These were the numbers that could reach us. I am afraid the actual numbers would be higher. We’re trying to follow up on more cases. State bodies have also been asked to stay more alert,” she said. Across India, only the most dire cases seem to be getting addressed.Last week, Kerala State Women Commission member Shahid Kamal got a call from Chennai pleading for help. The caller told her that his sister, a resident of Idukki district in Kerala, and her daughter were hiding in a forest after the woman’s husband ejected them from their home. The caller said that the jungle had several wild animals so his sister’s life was at risk. Kamal immediately alerted the Idukki police, and the matter was investigated. The husband, who was brewing illicit liquor at home was taken into custody. “In some cases a little counselling and advice will do. But cases like this need serious intervention. It is fact during lockdown, domestic violence cases have increased. But if you ask me, data will be [lesser],” she said.Another counsellor said that parole granted to prisoners and undertrials — done in order to ease the pressure on overcrowded jails during the Covid-19 epidemic that requires strict social distancing to prevent the spread of the virus — has meant that several perpetrators of violence have returned home. In Kottayam, a family had approached the prisons department against the release of one of their male members from the jail on this account. The prisoner was released, but warned not to stay with his family. In Malda district of West Bengal last week, 26-year-old Sona Mondol was allegedly strangled by her husband of five years. In another incident in the district, another woman was allegedly killed by her husband for protesting against his extra-marital affair. “There is hardly anything we can do at this moment. We have helped the victims to connect with the local police station, lawyers and local NGOs,” said Debaprasad Roychoudhury, an official of Association of Protection of Democratic Rights, a NGO.Rituparna Borah, co-founder Delhi-based Queer Nazariya, a resource group for lesbian, bisexual women and transmen, said that the number of distress calls that they have received has increased, but unlike before where they could offer assistance in person — whether counselling or arranging for the queer person to leave their home if they needed to — the only help that they can offer at present is counselling over the telephone. The courts have taken cognisance of this issue. On April 18, the Jammu & Kashmir high court passed an order taking suo moto cognizance of domestic violence cases during the lockdown, and offered a slew of directions including creating a special fund and designating informal safe spaces for women like grocery stores and pharmacies, where they could report domestic violence/abuse without alerting the perpetrators. The Karnataka high court too asked the state government about the helplines, and action taken on domestic violence complaints. The state responded to the court on April 25 stating that helplines, counsellors, shelter homes and protection officers were working “round the clock” to help victims of violence. On April 25, the Delhi high court directed the state and Centre to take measures to protect women from domestic violence, following a petition filed by an NGO on April 15.The Centre, Delhi government and the national and state commissions of women had submitted status reports of what action was taken against domestic violence, including spreading awareness about helpline numbers, shelter or one-stop homes as well as appointment of protection officers.The government of Delhi told the court that on April 12, it put in place a protocol to tackle cases of domestic violence during the lockdown: once a survivor reaches out to the helpline (181), the telecaller will take down her complaint and then forward her case to a counsellor who is required to establish a phone communication with her on account of the lockdown. The counsellor is empowered to conduct sessions with the woman and her spouse or family if required. However, in case the woman is a victim of sexual or physical assault, the telecaller is required to inform the police about the case, and assist in filing an First Information Report. The counsellor is further required to inform the protection officer — Delhi has 17 — to allow them to file an incidence report.However, according to advocates Mithu Jain and her colleagues who filed the petition on behalf of All India Council of Human Rights, Liberties and Justice, the responses of both state and Centre offered no information in their respective status reports about victims who have been saved. “Is it their job to receive complaints alone? Where is the data to show that any action has been taken on these phone calls,” Jain asked.(With inputs from Saurabh Chauhan, Aneesha Sareen, Ramesh Babu, Joydeep Thakur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-lockdown-domestic-violence-threat-a-worry/story-EZy1svQYDa2xXoDLrnaXzN.html
26-04-2020||India||Health secy given 3-month extension in bureaucratic reshuffle||Deeksha BhardwajNew Delhi:The central government carried out a reshuffle of the top echelons of the bureaucracy on Sunday, giving health and family welfare secretary Preeti Sudan a three-month extension in the key post as it kept the focus of the exercise firmly on the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) . Rajesh Bhushan, a 1987-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Bihar cadre, has been appointed officer on special duty in the department of health and family welfare. In Bhushan’s place, the secretary of the department of border management in the ministry of home affairs, Nagendra Nath Sinha, will take charge as secretary of rural development, which too is a key post at a busy time in the agricultural cycle and amid efforts to protect the countryside from the coronavirus after an exodus of migrant workers from the cities back to the villages . “A reshuffle was due, but the focus has been on bolstering the departments that are fighting the Covid-19 from the front,” a Department of Personnel and Training official told Hindustan Times.Sudan was set for superannuation on April 30. She has been instrumental in coordinating anti-Covid-19 measures between the Centre and states during the Coronavirus outbreak, in formulating preventive measures and keeping her department abreast of the latest developments on the pandemic. “She has been with the ministry ever since the disease broke out,” a ministry official told Hindustan Times on the condition of anonymity. “She is familiar with all the facts of the case and it is better for her to continue as new officers would have had to familiarise themselves with the details from scratch. She has played a crucial role in managing the pandemic.” The move will ensure continuity in the ministry, said former secretary in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Shailaja Chandra.“The role of the health secretary spans across a wide canvas. During the Covid-19 pandemic it is essential to maintain continuity and see that the coordination that has been established runs seamlessly. Any sudden changes are avoidable,” Chandra said. “To oversee the containment of a highly contagious pandemic, it is paramount that the drill laid down with the States and expert institutions is implemented while managing the execution of fresh Government policies. It is good there is continuity in the coming 3 more months.”In other changes, Amit Khare, who is presently the secretary,department of higher education in the ministry of human resource development, has been given additional charge of the post of secretary, information and broadcasting (I&B). Khare has earlier served an I&B secretary. The present I&B secretary, Ravi Mittal, has been appointed secretary in the department of sports, ministry of youth affairs and sports.In the department of consumer affairs, ministry of consumer affairs and food and public distribution, Leela Nandan will replace secretary Pawan Kumar. Nandan is a 1987-batch, UP cadre officer who was earlier special secretary in the ministry of road transport and highways. Kumar has been appointed special secretary (logistics) in the department of commerce. Tarun Bajaj, presently an additional secretary in the Prime Minsiter’s Office, will take over as the secretary of department of economic affairs, ministry of finance. Anita Karwal, chairperson of the Central Board of Secondary Education, will take charge as secretary, department of school education and literacy, ministry of human resource development. On the superannuation of Arun Kumar Panda, secretary, ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises, the role will pass on to Arvind Kumar Sharma, presently an additional secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office. The present secretary of road transport and highways,Sanjeev Ranjan, will take over as the secretary, ministry of shipping. Armane Giridhar, presently an additional secretary in the cabinet secretariat, has been appointed in his place. Special secretary in the ministry of women and child development Ajay Tirkey will take charge as the secretary on the superannuation of the incumbent Rabindra Panwar. Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, presently special secretary of NITI Aayog, will take charge as secretary, ministry of environment, forest and climate change. Pradip Kumar Tripathi, special secretary and establishment officer, department of personnel and training, will take over from the incumbent secretary of steel Binoy Kumar on his superannuation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-secy-given-3-month-extension-in-bureaucratic-reshuffle/story-tRc5UElCnMDELc1A3SqLzM.html
26-04-2020||India||UP lab staffer says duty above personal life||Ritesh Raj Mishra, a lab technician at a community health centre, could only meet his wife, Neha, on her birthday for all of five minutes. He has been living at a quarantine centre in a city hotel, and she has been at her parents’ house. He met her at their doorstep and left within minutes.“I couldn’t even give her a gift,” Mishra said.For several weeks now, Mishra, has been collecting samples of suspected Covid-19 patients in the lab he works at. He knows the risk associated with his job, and that he may also contract the infection, but has no regrets. He feels it is a part of his duty emerging out of an extraordinary situation.A laboratory technician at the Urban Community Health Centre in Baloo Adda here, Ritesh said it was a manner of national duty. His eating habits too have been impacted by the hectic schedule at the centre.“There is no fixed time for lunch and dinner. I eat lunch as late as 4pm and dinner well past midnight,” he said.On April 13, Ritesh and his team had to go to Kasaibada locality to collect samples of 117 people. “We started working at 4pm and continued till 10.30 pm. Precautions had to be taken so that no one in the team got infected, he said. The area had earlier been declared a containment zone.“When the administration, police, doctors and paramedical staff are working 24x7, you don’t feel hungry or thirsty amid the pressure of work,” he said. Ritesh said he and his team work tirelessly, without fear, day and night. “I draw a lot of inspiration from my team members and seniors and I am confident that we will be able to defeat Covid-19,” he said. “There is always a risk, but we take precautions to ensure we don’t get infected,” the 28-year-old said. Talking about his routine, he said, “The in-charge of the chief medical officer’s control room prepares a list of patients whose samples have to be collected. Accordingly, I ensure that we have personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, N95 masks, gloves, sanitiser, tape, markers, bags to collect bio-waste, swab kits, etc. Collecting samples over the past few weeks has been hectic, because the number of Covid-19 cases has increased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-lab-staffer-says-duty-above-personal-life/story-hJntZPVp0COzZVIYpdM1JL.html
26-04-2020||India||Holding exam in time of social distancing on UGC agenda||The University Grants Commission (UGC) will on Monday hold a video conference to discuss disruptions triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the academic calendar and the way forward, according to an official aware of the matter. High on the agenda could be holding exams in the time of social distancing.The commission regulating higher education in India is expected to focus on two reports --- one by a panel on academic schedule headed by RC Kuhad, the vice chancellor of the Central University of Haryana; and the other by a committee on online education headed by Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) vice chancellor Nageshwar Rao.“…there are a variety of universities in different regions. Some of them are in hot spots (of Covid-19) and others are not. The universities which can begin their session early should be allowed (to do so). Others can be given a last date (to begin the new session). However, all this will be discussed. Our aim is to merge technology with equity,” a commission member who did not want to be named said.The Kuhad committee has recommended postponing the admission cycle till up to September, according to the commission member.But fresh admissions, ideally, can only take place if universities are able to close the 2019-2020 academic session for undergraduate or postgraduate by holding exams and declaring results.Generally, academic sessions end in colleges and universities in May-June and new sessions begin in July-August. Education institutes have been shut down across India since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19.“There are universities like JNU (Jawaharlal Nehru University in Delhi) or EFLU (English and Foreign Languages University in Hyderabad), which have fewer students. And there are others like the BHU (Banaras Hindu University) or AMU (Aligarh Muslim University), where the number of students… is more. We have to allow them different options depending on their location, size and circumstances,” said the commission member cited above.The panels created by UGC earlier this month has suggested options such as assignment-based evaluation, objective type questions in an internet-based evaluation model and even the traditional pen-and-paper exam in front of webcams to wrap up the academic session, said the commission member.“There are areas where even the mobile phone signal is weak, leave aside fast internet facility. The success of the solution hinges on ensuring that students’ concerns are addressed,” this official said, adding that exams for Sanskrit or any regional language could be challenging in an internet-based software. Some students’ organisations have expressed concerns that those in remote areas or those who are underprivileged may have to face difficulty if their challenges are not factored in while brainstorming a solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/holding-exam-in-time-of-social-distancing-on-ugc-agenda/story-cVEEhjvXxLMjDXjDpSHQxL.html
26-04-2020||India||293 new Covid-19 cases take Delhi’s tally closer to 3,000||Delhi recorded 293 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday to take its tally to 2918, the state health department said in its bulletin.Eight people recovered on Sunday to take the total recoveries to 877. The national capital now has 1,987 active cases while the total number of deaths stood at 54.Out of the 54 casualties, 10 were aged less than 50, 15 were between 50 to 59 years and 29 were in the age group of 60 and above, the bulletin said.The state government carried out 2,094 tests on Sunday. It has so far tested 37,613 people out of which 2,918 have tested positive. The results of 2,533 tests are pending.Meanwhile, the Delhi government has raised the number of containment zones to 97.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made an emotional appeal to people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma for those fighting for their lives.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma, which contains the virus-fighting antibodies, from people who have recovered from the infection to treat those who are severely ill with Covid-19.The Delhi government which started plasma technique trials a few days ago has said that results have been encouraging so far.Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/293-new-covid-19-cases-take-delhi-s-tally-closer-to-3-000/story-W0juyariDN2PtsNZdvso1H.html
26-04-2020||India||Indian firm to start making Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine in 2-3 weeks||Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) said on Sunday it will likely begin the production of a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine developed by Oxford University in the next two-three weeks and hopes to bring it to the market by October if human clinical trials of the same are successful. The company has partnered with Oxford University as one of the seven global institutions manufacturing the vaccine.“SII will be manufacturing the vaccine in anticipation of clinical trials succeeding by September-October in the UK… Following that, SII has undertaken the decision to initiate the manufacture at their own risk. The decision has been solely taken to have a jump-start on manufacturing, to have enough doses available, if the clinical trials work,” said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the Indian vaccine major, said in a statement.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageThe vaccines will be manufactured at the company’s facility in Pune as building a new facility for Covid-19 vaccines would have taken around two-three years, he added.The human safety trial of the vaccine began in Oxford on Thursday, with the first two of the 800 healthy volunteers recruited for the study being injected with ChAdOx1 nCoV-19. This is the sixth coronavirus vaccine to enter the first phase of clinical trials, raising hopes of an antidote against the virus that continues to ravage the world.If the trials are a success, scientists hope to have one million doses ready by September, and to dramatically scale up manufacturing after that.“Our team has been working closely with Dr Hill ( professor Adrian Hill) from Oxford University, and we are expecting to initiate production of the vaccine in two-three weeks and produce five million doses per month for the first 6 months, following which, we hope to scale up production to 10 million doses per month,” Poonawalla said, according to PTI.The company plans to initiate the trials in India for the vaccine with necessary regulatory approvals, which are underway presently, the news agency reported.“Keeping the current situation in mind, we have funded this endeavor at a personal capacity and hopefully will be able to enlist the support of other partners to further scale-up the vaccine production,” Poonawalla said.The trial will study whether the new vaccine is safe and can generate strong immune responses against Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, and protect healthy people from infection.The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus taken from chimps and genetically modified to make it impossible for it to infect humans.To develop the vaccine, researchers added genetic material to ChAdOx1 from the Sars-CoV-2 virus’s surface protein, spike glycoprotein (S), which helps the virus to bind to Ace2 receptors to enter human cells and cause an infection.Regulatory authorities are working with SII to ensure smooth procedural functioning. “We are in touch with the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research),” Poonawalla said.The company earlier said it will not patent any Covid-19 vaccine which it develops. Asked about that stand, Poonawalla reiterated: “We will not patent Serum’s vaccine for Covid-19 and will make it available for all to produce and sell, not just in India but across the world.”Whosoever makes and develops the vaccine will need multiple partners to manufacture it, he added. “I hope that whichever company develops the vaccine does not get it patented and makes it available based on royalties or a commercial understanding to as many manufacturers across the world to make billions of dosages at a fast pace,” Poonawalla said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-firm-to-start-making-oxford-university-s-covid-19-vaccine-in-2-3-weeks/story-GGIPHyzcbYCozuJfgLqpLJ.html
26-04-2020||India||Delhi’s Covid-19 containment zones near 100-mark. Complete list of 97 zones here||With 97 coronavirus containment zones recorded in the national capital on Sunday, the count neared 100. A month into lockdown, two more zones in Delhi were added to the list - areas from Kotla Mubarakpur and two streets from Majlis Park in Adarsh Nagar - indicating slight control over the virus spread by the authorities. The two new zones were added on the day Delhi recorded 293 cases of Covid-19, taking its tally to 2918, the state health department said in its bulletin.Eight people recovered on Sunday to take the total recoveries to 877. The national capital now has 1,987 active cases while the total number of deaths stood at 54.Read full list here:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka5. Dinpur Village6. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Bengali Colony, Mahavir Enclave7. Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti8. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas9. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar 10 (Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone 10. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II11. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension, Part-II12. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi 13. Mehela Mohalla, Madanpur Khadar, Delhi 14. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave15. E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi 16. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash17. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi 18. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash19. B Block Jhangirpuri20. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri21. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri22. 3 Galis of Khichripur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichripur23. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 11009224. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension25. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj26. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108 (towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension27. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension28. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar29. E-Pocket, GTB Enclave30. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden; G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri31. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony32. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony33. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh34. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi 35. Sadar Bazaar, Central District36. Chandni Mahal, Central District37. Nabi Karim, Central District38. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi - 11008439. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar, New Delhi 11001540. In and around area of B- 1/2, Paschim Vihar41. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar42. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden43. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, Pashchim Vihar, Delhi - 11006344. In and around area of A-280, JJ Colony, Madipur45. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi 11000846. Shop No.- J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki village, New Delhi 47. Jain Mohalla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi 48. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No- 11949. Gali No 1, 2 and 3, Block-D, Sangam Vihar, House No 112B, Gali No 2, New Delhi 50. Entire gali starting from house number G-54 to F-107 and Entire gali starting from house number CN-854 to 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlaqabad Village, Delhi 51. 1100 Wali Gali (house number 1181-1200), 1200 Wali Gali (house number 1238-1268), 1300 Wali Gali (house number 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi 52. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi 53. Nawab Ganj Area, Delhi 54. House number-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi 55. G,H and I Block of Police Colony, Model Town56. Street no. 6, A block, Abu Fazal enclave57. Shaheen Bagh58. Street no.s 3-5, East Ram Nagar59. Shahdara60. In and around area of C-105, Hari NagarFor Coronavirus Live Updates 61. In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar62. H. No. 300, Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi to H.No. 739/16 Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi 63. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No.2, Nangloi64. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar65. Gali No. 26 and 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 and Gali No. 27 and 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083, Tughlakabad Extension66. Entire effected area around H.No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar67. H.No. 153/B, 4th floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi 68. H.No. 716 to 785, H.No. 786 to 860, H.No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jahangirpuri, Delhi 69. A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony70. Israel Camp, Rang Puri Pahari71. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri72. Oberoi Apartment73. G-1 2nd Floor Mansarovar Garden74. E-51 and E-21 street 8, Shastri Park75. T-606 street-18 Gautam Puri76. A-97,98,99 near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park77. Plot No. 1294 in Theke Wali Gali opposite DC Office in Kapashera78. EA Block in Inderpuri79. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi 80. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area)81. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092, Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi 82. Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi 83. West Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar84. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 11009185. Gali No. 2, 3 & 4 Devli Extension, Delhi 86. H.No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No. 1 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali), Harsh Vihar,Hari Nagar Extension, Delhi 87. F-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sari and F-274, 2nd Floor of Lado Sari,New Delhi 88. F-258, Campa Cola Gali Lado Sarai, New Delhi 89. RZF-756/7, Gali no 1 Band, Raj Nagar II Dwarka New Delhi 90. H. No. 15 to 101 Dayanand Vihar, Delhi-9291. Entire affected area of Samshi Talab, Mehrauli including A-3, lake of view apartment, Mehrauli, Delhi 92. Gali No. 18, H.No. 701/23 to 500/36B, Vijay Park, Maujpur, Delhi 93. Gali number 3 Shalimar village94. Gali number 9, Shalimar village95. Block X, gali number 1-3 of Yadav villa96. New Addition today at S.No. 39 & 47 96. Whole Kumhar Gali (H. No 1751 to 1851) to Chaupal Chowk Kotla Mubarakpur97. Gali no 3,4 and 6 Majlis Park, Adarsh Nagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-s-covid-19-containment-zones-near-100-mark-complete-list-of-97-zones-here/story-v0RPKaYGH5abrkUOUj23oO.html
26-04-2020||India||Odisha artist spreads awareness on coronavirus with wall paintings||At a time when there is still not much awareness over coronavirus in Odisha, a 32-year-old youth in Odisha’s Kandhamal district is spreading information about the necessity of social distancing through his wall painting skills in the tribal villages of Kandhamal district.Pramod Dandia, who runs his family by doing wall painting in Baliguda block of Kandhamal district, has been painting the walls of villages with murals on Covid-19 to show the importance of maintaining social distance. Since last 12 days, Dandia, who has not attended any arts school, is painting the walls of government buildings with several messages on coronavirus with his own money.“While people are donating money to CM relief fund, I thought why not do something that would raise awareness among the tribals in Baliguda? There are very few posters about coronavirus in the panchayats of Baliguda. From what I know, it would take quite some time before we win over the virus. Awareness about social distancing, wearing masks and hand washing are going to be the main weapons in the fight. I am depicting that in my paintings,” said Dandia.Of the 30 districts in the state, Covid-19 cases have been reported in 10 districts. Till Sunday, 103 cases were reported with Khurda district topping the list with 46 cases. However, Kandhamal so far has not seen a single positive case. The youth spends around Rs 500 for each painting and has so far done about 60 wall paintings. “I plan to paint more villages in neighbouring Boudh district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-artist-spreads-awareness-on-coronavirus-with-wall-paintings/story-zMoh0EOYcRzfnhXu6NBPnM.html
26-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Maharashtra’s Covid-19 numbers breach 8,000 mark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Don’t blame an entire community for mistakes of a few: RSS chiefAsserting that an entire community cannot be held responsible for the mistakes of a few, the Rashtiya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat has said that the pandemic calls for national unity, and asked citizens to be aware of those who want to exploit the opportunity to “break the nation” and create tensions between communities.Read more. Indian diplomat Syed Akbaruddin set to retire, TS Tirumurti expected to take overSyed Akbaruddin, one of the most visible faces of Indian diplomacy in recent years, is expected to be replaced as India’s permanent representative to the UN by TS Tirumurti, a seasoned diplomat with experience of multilateral organisations. Read more. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 numbers continue to head north, breach 8,000 markThe tally of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra has gone up to 8,068 with 440 new cases, a state health official said Sunday. Countrywide, the number of Covid-19 cases climbed to 26,917. Read more. Centre dismisses tax- super-rich proposal by IRS officials, calls it irresponsibleThe income tax officers belonging to the IRS Association on Sunday suggested a slew of taxes for the super-rich including a wealth tax and a 4% Covid relief cess for people in the medium to high salary bracket. Read more. Hit by ‘disinfectant’ blowback, Donald Trump skips daily briefingPresident Donald Trump did not hold a daily news briefing of the coronavirus task force in weeks on Saturday as he sought to stave off continuing blowback to his shocking suggestion to try common disinfectants to kill the deadly pathogen inside infected people’s bodies, as they do externally, on surfaces. Read more. Never seen anything like that: Virat Kohli picks best shot in cricket in Instagram live with AB de VilliersWhen Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers bat together in the IPL, more often than not fireworks follow. The duo over the years has played some memorable innings for the Royal Challengers Bangalore and most of it came when they were batting together. Read more. Android 11 Developer Preview 3: New features spotted in the latest updateGoogle earlier this week rolled out Android 11 Developer Preview 3 ahead of the public beta launch next month. The latest DP3 was initially said to have skipped major features and focus only on improvements and bug fixes. Read more. Hrithik Roshan’s throwback pic from Fiza sets is a treat for his fans, he says ‘overwhelmed looking at this’Actor Hrithik Roshan retweeted a rare picture of himself from the sets of his 2000 film, Fiza. The photo shows him posing for the camera with other crew members. Read more. Lockdown love: Is it really love or just loneliness?Over the past month, I’ve hosted over a dozen events via Zoom for groups of single people. If there was confusion around relationships before Covid-19, multiply it tenfold now. Meeting in real life is out of the question during the lockdown.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-maharashtra-s-covid-19-numbers-breach-8-000-mark-and-all-the-latest-news/story-cTHcS2dNIdCbuESLga0hqJ.html
26-04-2020||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 numbers continue to head north, breach 8,000 mark||The tally of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra has gone up to 8,068 with 440 new cases, a state health official said Sunday. Countrywide, the number of Covid-19 cases climbed to 26,917.Nineteen fatalities on Sunday took number of casualties to 342. Out of the 19 deaths, 12 were in Mumbai.So far, 1,188 patients across the state have been discharged after recovery, the official said.Maharashtra continues to be the state with the highest number of Covid-19 infections.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.In the last 24 hours, Mumbai recorded 358 new cases. The city now has a total of 5,407 cases of Covid-19. It has recorded a total of 204 deaths.Pune recorded 72 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday to take its total to 1,139.Maharashtra has so far carried out 116,345 tests to detect coronavirus. In the last 24 hours, authorities conducted 7.373 tests.The state has been grappling to cap surging numbers of Covid-19 despite a stringent lockdown in place. Mumbai’s sprawling slums where more than half of the city’s 12 million population live, are posing a huge challenge to check the spread of infections.Mumbai is home to as Asia’s largest slum Dharavi which has now emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot. Dharavi which measures 2.4 sq km, has more than one million people. Most of them live in cramped dwellings where hardly anybody can practice social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-s-covid-19-numbers-continue-to-head-north-breach-8-000-mark/story-EDXyERBlT8BE9F5OujQfVI.html
26-04-2020||India||Wuhan’s L-strain may be behind Gujarat’s high death rate: Experts||The high Covid-19 mortality rate in Gujarat could be due to the dominance of the L-type strain of coronavirus, found to have been more prevalent in Wuhan in China, where the outbreak started, experts said.The dominance of the more virulent L-type coronavirus strain as compared to the S-type one could be behind the high mortality rate in the state, which has reported 133 deaths so far. However, no research has been conducted to confirm this, they said.A scientist at the state-run Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) said that the novel coronavirus used for genome sequencing recently conducted by it was found to contain the L-type strain.“Analysis done by scientists abroad has shown that the L-type strain has been dominant where more mortality is reported among coronavirus patients. This strain was found to be more prevalent in Wuhan,” director of GBRC, C G Joshi, said.“The coronavirus sample we collected from a patient for genome sequence contained the L-type strain. This strain has a much higher virulence as compared to the S-strain,” he said.“Variation in coronavirus is in terms of number and percentage of mutations. As per the analysis, the L-type strain is dominant where more mortality is reported.Scientists have earlier found that this strain has caused more deaths,” he said.The GBRC recently succeeded in decoding the entire genome sequence of the novel coronavirus, and identified its three new mutations.Joshi added that the patient from whom the virus sample was collected for sequencing has fully recovered.So far, no study has been conducted here to establish which strain of coronavirus is predominant in patients here.Atul Patel, a specialist in infectious diseases, attributed the presence of the L-type strain more than the S- type one in Gujarat is behind high mortality rate.Patel has said that a little higher presence of the L-type strain, or the original Wuhan strain, could be behind higher death rate in the state.The state government has also attributed the high mortality among coronavirus patients in the state to co- morbidities and high risk factors.Heart and lung diseases, diabetes, and hypertension, are among common diseases that have been found among COVID-19 patients who passed away in Gujarat.The risk factors includes patients in the age group of above over 60 years and under five years of age, and pregnant women, and they account for 90 per cent of patients who passed away, Principal Secretary (Health), Jayanti Ravi had recently said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wuhan-s-l-strain-may-be-behind-gujarat-s-high-death-rate-experts/story-CW5x4zXDmaFc7Xw9fgIyZO.html
26-04-2020||India||Syed Akbaruddin, India’s face at UN, set to retire; TS Tirumurti likely to take over||Syed Akbaruddin, one of the most visible faces of Indian diplomacy in recent years, is likely to be replaced as India’s permanent representative to United Nations by TS Tirumurti, a seasoned diplomat with experience of multilateral organisations. Akbaruddin, who took Indian diplomacy into the Twitter era during his stint as spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), is set to retire this month along with India’s high commissioner to the UK, Ruchi Ghanshyam, people familiar with the development said.Turmurti, who has been the secretary (economic relations) since early 2018, has earlier had stints at India’s permanent mission in Geneva and as director in the foreign secretary’s office and joint secretary (UN, economic and social).Ghanshyam, who was superseded for the post of foreign secretary earlier this year, is expected to be replaced in London by Gaitri Kumar, currently the envoy to Belgium, Luxembourg and the European Union, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. Santosh Jha, currently India’s envoy to Uzbekistan, is tipped to be the new ambassador in Brussels, they said. Rajiv Chander, another IFS officer who was superseded for the post of foreign secretary, is set to retire in August and is expected to be replaced as India’s permanent representative to the UN by Indra Mani Pandey. Pandey is currently the additional secretary (disarmament and international security affairs).Raveesh Kumar, who was, till recently the MEA spokesperson, is set to become the envoy to Finland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-diplomat-syed-akbaruddin-set-to-retire-ts-tirumurti-expected-to-take-over/story-lLzjPMilipwWkJjqQD6nHI.html
26-04-2020||India||Doctor, 2 health staff among 11 found Covid-19 positive in Kerala||A doctor and two health workers were among 11 people who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Kerala on Sunday, said health minister K K Shailaja, adding that the state will further ramp up testing in the coming days.Among the 11 cases, six were reported in Idukki and five in Kottayam district. In Idukki, a doctor at the primary health centre contracted the disease after she treated a woman who tested positive later. She got the infection from her son who came from Mysuru, said Idukki district collector H Dineshan.In Kottayam, one of those infected is a man who came back to the country from Spain 40 days back. The World Health Organization prescribed a 14-day incubation period, which the state later increased to 28 days. Now there are reports that some are turning positive after 30-40 days. Among 468 positive cases in the state, 342 have been discharged, leaving 126 in hospital, said the minister.The state --- the first in India to report the virus in January --- has also decided to increase the number of tests. It has so far tested 22,954 people. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has given instructions to the health ministry to speed up tests. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-2-health-staff-among-11-found-covid-19-positive-in-kerala/story-OiUZ4wvyvcxrajKXXdim7H.html
26-04-2020||India||Rain, thundershowers to affect many parts of India: IMD||Thunderstorms are brewing over northwest India, east and northeast India, including Gangetic West Bengal, and across peninsular India including coastal Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, suggesting an extension of this week’s spell of rain in an unusually wet April, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Sunday. A low-pressure area is also forming over the south Andaman Sea, which will result in rough seas and thundershowers around Andaman and Nicobar and the Sumatra coast starting April 30, IMD said. A western disturbance that started affecting parts of north India on Saturday evening and easterly moisture-laden winds are causing overcast skies, some thundershowers and moderate winds in most parts of northwest India including the National Capital Region (NCR) centred on Delhi. “There is intense activity in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Dust storms, hail storms and thundershowers are likely in these places. An orange alert has been issued so that authorities remain alert. In Delhi-NCR, light rain has been recorded in many parts. Similar conditions will continue till Monday,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, of the regional weather forecasting centre. April hasn’t been as warm as it typically is in Delhi because of back-to-back westerly disturbances which either led to rain or overcast skies.“Till Saturday, the average maximum temperature in Delhi has been approximately 8 degrees C below normal. But we are still analysing the data to see if it’s a record,” Shrivastava added.IMD’s Sunday bulletin said intense thunderstorm activity accompanied with squally weather and hailstorms with rainfall exceeding 5 cm had been observed on April 25 at many places over coastal Odisha, north-Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and north Tamil Nadu“Due to establishment of an east-west trough and wind convergence along Indo-Gangetic plains and accompanied moisture incursion from both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal in lower levels, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is very likely to continue over parts of east and northeast India during next two days with peak activity over Odisha, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal on Sunday,” the bulletin said.Heavy rainfall and hailstorms are expected in Odisha, Jharkhand, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura during the next couple of days. Heavy rainfall over parts of Kerala and Mahe is likely for the next 4 to 5 days.“In east, northeast and peninsular India we are seeing some severe thunderstorm activity. It is normal during the pre-monsoon season. There is a lot of moisture incursion from Bay of Bengal over the east and northeast. It’s the kalbaisakhi Norwesters] season. Occasionally, some very intense activity can be there like a hailstorm or squall,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre. “In northwest India, the reasons are different. There is influence of a westerly disturbance here and moisture incursion from both Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal. In Rajasthan where there is less moisture, there may be dust storms,” she added.According to various numerical weather prediction models of the IMD, a low pressure area is likely to form over the south Andaman Sea around April 30. It is likely to become more marked over the same region. Fishermen were advised not to venture into the sea along and off the north Sumatra coast, Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of southeast and east central Bay of Bengal from April 30 to May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thundershowers-to-affect-most-parts-of-india-imd/story-AfqPoBqLWLhDYaOcaAbEGJ.html
26-04-2020||India||As India fights Covid-19, 3-month extension for health secy Preeti Sudan||The central government carried out a reshuffle of the top echelons of the bureaucracy on Sunday, giving health and family welfare secretary Preeti Sudan a three-month extension in the key post as it kept the focus of the exercise firmly on the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) . Rajesh Bhushan, a 1987-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Bihar cadre, has been appointed officer on special duty in the department of health and family welfare. In Bhushan’s place, the secretary of the department of border management in the ministry of home affairs, Nagendra Nath Sinha, will take charge as secretary of rural development, which too is a key post at a busy time in the agricultural cycle and amid efforts to protect the countryside from the coronavirus after an exodus of migrant workers from the cities back to the villages . “A reshuffle was due, but the focus has been on bolstering the departments that are fighting the Covid-19 from the front,” a Department of Personnel and Training official told Hindustan Times.Sudan was set for superannuation on April 30. She has been instrumental in coordinating anti-Covid-19 measures between the Centre and states during the Coronavirus outbreak, in formulating preventive measures and keeping her department abreast of the latest developments on the pandemic. “She has been with the ministry ever since the disease broke out,” a ministry official told Hindustan Times on the condition of anonymity. “She is familiar with all the facts of the case and it is better for her to continue as new officers would have had to familiarise themselves with the details from scratch. She has played a crucial role in managing the pandemic.” The move will ensure continuity in the ministry, said former secretary in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Shailaja Chandra.“The role of the health secretary spans across a wide canvas. During the Covid-19 pandemic it is essential to maintain continuity and see that the coordination that has been established runs seamlessly. Any sudden changes are avoidable,” Chandra said. “To oversee the containment of a highly contagious pandemic, it is paramount that the drill laid down with the States and expert institutions is implemented while managing the execution of fresh Government policies. It is good there is continuity in the coming 3 more months.”In other changes, Amit Khare, who is presently the secretary,department of higher education in the ministry of human resource development, has been given additional charge of the post of secretary, information and broadcasting (I&B). Khare has earlier served an I&B secretary. The present I&B secretary, Ravi Mittal, has been appointed secretary in the department of sports, ministry of youth affairs and sports.In the department of consumer affairs, ministry of consumer affairs and food and public distribution, Leela Nandan will replace secretary Pawan Kumar. Nandan is a 1987-batch, UP cadre officer who was earlier special secretary in the ministry of road transport and highways. Kumar has been appointed special secretary (logistics) in the department of commerce. Tarun Bajaj, presently an additional secretary in the Prime Minsiter’s Office, will take over as the secretary of department of economic affairs, ministry of finance. Anita Karwal, chairperson of the Central Board of Secondary Education, will take charge as secretary, department of school education and literacy, ministry of human resource development. On the superannuation of Arun Kumar Panda, secretary, ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises, the role will pass on to Arvind Kumar Sharma, presently an additional secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office. The present secretary of road transport and highways,Sanjeev Ranjan, will take over as the secretary, ministry of shipping. Armane Giridhar, presently an additional secretary in the cabinet secretariat, has been appointed in his place. Special secretary in the ministry of women and child development Ajay Tirkey will take charge as the secretary on the superannuation of the incumbent Rabindra Panwar. Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, presently special secretary of NITI Aayog, will take charge as secretary, ministry of environment, forest and climate change. Pradip Kumar Tripathi, special secretary and establishment officer, department of personnel and training, will take over from the incumbent secretary of steel Binoy Kumar on his superannuation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-fights-covid-19-3-month-extension-for-health-secy-preeti-sudan/story-UFIJL8VTpseli3izPryd6H.html
26-04-2020||India||Domestic violence during Covid-19 lockdown emerges as serious concern||In the second week of April, the Delhi Police recorded a “total event count” of 2,446 that pertained to the “event type: women”. Put simply, nearly 2,500 women in Delhi called emergency helpline numbers which triggers the Emergency Response Support System of the state police. Of these calls over 600 were classified as “women abuse”, 23 calls reported rape, while a majority — 1612 — pertained to domestic violence. One of these calls was about a 28-year-old woman from west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar. The woman’s brother, based in Nepal, first got in touch with a New Delhi-based government licenced shelter home for women and transwomen survivors of abuse and violence. Shakti Shalini, based in Jangpura, rang the police helpline and a policeman was sent to investigate the matter. The 28-year-old mother of two toddlers had allegedly undergone sustained physical abuse by her husband and his family. Initially, the police sought to mediate between the two, and asked the woman to stay home during the lockdown. But the woman said the abuse had worsened after the husband came to know that a police complaint had been filed. On April 14, the police took her for a medical check up, recorded her bruises and transported her and her two children to Shakti Shalini’s shelter home. “I was physically, mentally tortured for four years. Two days before [my brother called the shelter], my husband beat me up to an inch of my life. I begged him to spare me. He told me to get out of the house,” the survivor told HT. Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageDolly Singh, the coordinator and counsellor at Shakti Shalini said the shelter home has received 25 calls since the beginning of the lockdown. In some of these cases, the police mediated between the women and their abusers, and asked them to stay put till the lockdown was over. A Hindustan Times analysis of cases recorded across the country reveals two important aspects of the issue. One, some states have reported a decline in the number of domestic violence complaints, others have reported a spike in the calls being received by helplines. This indicates that the incidence of domestic violence during the lockdown depends upon the ability of victims to make complaints while they share domestic spaces with perpetrators. In some states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana, the number of complaints received by state-run helplines has decreased. In Ghaziabad, which forms part of the National Capital Region, instances of domestic violence during the first phase of lockdown saw a decline of about 50% as compared to the pre-lockdown period in March, according to the data compiled by 18 police stations in urban and rural areas of the city. “There used to be around 400 complaints related to Domestic Violence every day from all parts of the state till last month and now, the number has come down to around 150-200,” Inspector General of Police (Women Safety) Telangana, Swati Lakra said. However, in some other states the number of calls on domestic violence have, in fact, increased. The Punjab State Commission for Women (PSCW) has received at least 30 complaints everyday related to domestic violence since March 22. According to Manisha Gulati, chairperson of PSCW, prior to the lockdown, only a third of the calls they received pertained to domestic violence incidents. Even private helplines, such as that maintained by Mumbai-based Tata Institute of Social Sciences’ iCall, has seen a spike in calls. “We are getting phone calls from Ghaziabad, Noida, Mumbai, Hyderabad and many other cities Everyday there are at least three calls,” coordinator Ruchi Sinha said.The second aspect to this issue is that while there are several helplines and shelter homes available for women to call or live in — both state-run, and those maintained by non governmental organisations — the help that they can provide has been curtailed due to the lockdown. Women cannot travel to police stations, and social workers cannot reach them or arrange for their travel; the police are overburdened with Covid-19 duties, and visiting homes to investigate domestic disputes is often not considered a priority. What’s more, domestic violence cases are filed in lower courts as these are civil disputes and at present, courts are only open for emergency hearings, such as bail pleas. The National Commission for Women (NCW) has received 250 domestic violence complaints between March 25 and April 22. “These were the numbers that could reach us. I am afraid the actual numbers would be higher. We’re trying to follow up on more cases. State bodies have also been asked to stay more alert,” said chairperson Rekha Sharma. Across India, only the most dire cases seem to be getting addressed.Last week, Kerala State Women Commission member Shahid Kamal got a call from Chennai pleading for help. The caller told her that his sister, a resident of Idukki district in Kerala, and her daughter were hiding in a forest after the woman’s husband ejected them from their home. The caller said that the jungle had several wild animals. Kamal immediately alerted the Idukki police, and the matter was investigated. The husband was taken into custody. “In some cases a little counselling and advice will do. But cases like this need serious intervention. It is fact during lockdown, domestic violence cases have increased. But if you ask me, data will be [lesser],” she said.Another counsellor said that parole granted to prisoners and under-trials — done in order to ease the pressure on overcrowded jails during the Covid-19 epidemic that requires strict social distancing to prevent the spread of the virus — has meant that several perpetrators of violence have returned home. In Kottayam, a family had approached the prisons department against the release of one of their male members from the jail on this account. The prisoner was released, but warned not to stay with his family. In Malda district of West Bengal last week, 26-year-old Sona Mondol was allegedly strangled by her husband of five years. In another incident in the district, another woman was allegedly killed by her husband for protesting against his extra-marital affair. Both men have been booked. “There is hardly anything we can do at this moment. We have helped the victims to connect with the local police station, lawyers and local NGOs,” said Debaprasad Roychoudhury, an official of Association of Protection of Democratic Rights, a NGO.Rituparna Borah, co-founder Delhi-based Queer Nazariya, a resource group for lesbian, bisexual women and transmen, said that the number of distress calls that they have received has increased, but unlike before where they could offer assistance in person — whether counselling or arranging for the queer person to leave their home if they needed to — the only help that they can offer at present is counselling over the telephone. The courts have taken cognisance of this issue. On April 18, the Jammu & Kashmir high court passed an order taking suo moto cognizance of domestic violence cases during the lockdown, and offered a slew of directions including creating a special fund and designating informal safe spaces for women like grocery stores and pharmacies, where they could report domestic violence/abuse without alerting the perpetrators. The Karnataka high court too asked the state government about the helplines, and action taken on domestic violence complaints. The state responded to the court on April 25 stating that helplines, counsellors, shelter homes and protection officers were working “round the clock” to help victims of violence. The Delhi high court recently directed the state and Centre to take measures to protect women from domestic violence, following a petition filed by an NGO. The Centre, Delhi government and the national and state commissions of women submitted status reports on the action taken against domestic violence, including spreading awareness about helpline numbers, shelter or one-stop homes as well as appointment of protection officers, which the court reviewed on April 25.The Delhi government told the court that on April 12, it put in place a protocol to tackle cases of domestic violence during the lockdown: once a survivor reaches out to the helpline (181), the telecaller will take down her complaint and then forward her case to a counsellor who is required to establish a phone communication with her on account of the lockdown. The counsellor is empowered to conduct sessions with the woman and her spouse or family if required. However, in case the woman is a victim of sexual or physical assault, the telecaller is required to inform the police about the case, and assist in filing a First Information Report. The counsellor is further required to inform the protection officer — Delhi has 17 — to allow them to file an incidence report.However, according to advocates Mithu Jain and her colleagues who filed the petition on behalf of All India Council of Human Rights, Liberties and Justice on April 15, the responses of both state and Centre offered no information in their respective status reports about victims who have been saved. “Is it their job to receive complaints alone? Where is the data to show that any action has been taken on these phone calls,” Jain asked.(With inputs from Saurabh Chauhan, Aneesha Sareen, Ramesh Babu, Joydeep Thakur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-violence-during-covid-19-lockdown-emerges-as-serious-concern/story-mMRq3NnnFvOehgLOOPpe8J.html
26-04-2020||India||Assam conservationists oppose move to construct more highlands in Kaziranga||Four prominent conservationists in Assam have opposed the move to construct more highlands in the state’s Kaziranga National Park as a means to give shelter to wild animals during floods.On Friday, union minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar had a video conference with Assam forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya to discuss ways to mitigate the loss of wildlife during the annual floods in Kaziranga and other protected areas of the state.“Directed that more highlands maybe made for wild animals, to take shelter at the time of floods,” the union minister wrote on his Facebook page. He also asked Assam officials to ensure wild animals are not killed due to accidental hits by vehicles.In a statement issued on Sunday, Anupam Sarma, Team Leader of Brahmaputra Landscape, WWF India, Bibhab Talukdar, founder of Aaranyak, Rathin Barman, joint director of Wildlife Trust of India and Kaushik Barua of Assam Elephant Foundation cited 10 reasons why the move was not a good one.Spread over 430 sq km, Kaziranga is the biggest habitat of the one-horned rhinos in the world. But every year during floods nearly 80% to 90% of the park gets inundated forcing animals to cross the national highway located nearby and head to the hills of Karbi Anglong district.In an attempt to protect animals, artificial highlands to allow wild animals to take shelter during floods were constructed inside the park. At present there are 144 highlands inside Kaziranga.Nearly 200 animals including 18 rhinos were killed in the park during floods last year. But though the floods bring devastation, it also helps regenerate the grasslands inside the park, which are crucial for survival of rhinos and several other species.In their statement the conservationists said construction of more highlands might change Kaziranga into a drier habitat and in the long run it might not remain suitable for rhino, swamp deer, wild buffalo etc.“In every flood, the highland will erode naturally and deposit extra silt in the wetlands and water channels will eventually dry out. This will cause more damage to Kaziranga’s already fragile eco-system,” the statement read.“Change of vegetation is likely to compel the animals to stray out of the park’s boundary, especially during dry seasons. This will bring more threat to the animals, especially the rhino,” it added.The conservationists said that the new highlands may affect prey-predator reflex as it will affect visibility, might introduce invasive plant species in the park and may reduce grasslands for rhinos and other herbivores to graze on.“It will be more beneficial if more emphasis is given to grasslands management, restoration of wetlands and anti-erosion matters rather than making highlands,” said the statement.The conservationists suggested undisturbed animal movement in the identified animal corridors in Kaziranga and construction of an elevated highway to allow the wild animals to move to the Karbi Anglong hills during floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-conservationists-oppose-move-to-construct-more-highlands-in-kaziranga/story-V71cOgdpda0Mf600pkypvI.html
26-04-2020||India||Don’t blame an entire community for mistakes of a few: RSS chief||Asserting that an entire community cannot be held responsible for the mistakes of a few, the Rashtiya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat has said that the pandemic calls for national unity, and asked citizens to be aware of those who want to exploit the opportunity to “break the nation” and create tensions between communities.Bhagwat also said that the pandemic has also shown the need to create a new development model, which should have Swadeshi at its core. The RSS has long-held swadeshi, which refers to boosting domestic capabilities and production and reducing external economic dependence and inter-linkages, as a core ideological belief. He also underlined the necessity of following the government’s protocol on social distancing.For Coronavirus Live Updates“If anyone out of anger or fear does something wrong, we cannot blame the whole community and distance from them,” Bhagwat said in a televised address. This is widely being interpreted as a reference to the Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, where thousands got infected. At the same time, Bhagwat warned against any attempt to disintegrate the country. He said it is incumbent on community leaders to ensure that people are not provoked by those who are “anti-India” to react with “anger or fear” to government’s instructions on physical distancing.“People don’t want any restrictions. We (RSS) stopped all programmes till June end. Some others might feel the government is trying to put restrictions ... some are creating a problem that leads to anger. The ones who will benefit from this will keep provoking” he said.The RSS chief also made a renewed pitch for encouraging Swadeshi or indigenous production and said the pandemic has given India the opportunity to become self reliant and cut dependence on other nations. He however cautioned that indigenous production will have to meet quality standards. “The PM (Narendra Modi) recently told the Sarpanches that this problem is teaching us self-reliance. We need to focus on employment. Will those who went (to their villages) come back, will people have jobs, will people be able to pay? We need to start preparing and think of self reliance,” he said.Political analyst Hari Desai said, “Bhagwat’s comments on not demonising a community and pushing for swadeshi are welcome. However it remains to be seen whether it will be followed by Swayamsevaks and BJP leaders who have been blaming a particular community for the spread of Covid-19.”Bhagwat also criticised the lynching of two Hindu religious leaders in Maharashtra’s Palgarh and said such instances should not be allowed.“…Should this (lynching) have happened, should law be disrupted, what role should the police have played? The sanyasis were beaten to death. They were people who served others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-blame-an-entire-community-for-mistakes-of-a-few-rss-chief/story-d5Q5PVLZMXk8bG8kHotOfM.html
26-04-2020||India||PM Modi greets people on Parshuram Jayanti||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended greetings to the people on Parshuram Jayanti, saying his ideals will encourage people for ages. “The symbols of tenacity, strength and courage, Lord Parshuram’s ideals will continue to inspire people for ages,” Modi tweeted in Hindi. Lord Parshuram is considered an incarnation of Lord Vishnu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-people-on-parshuram-jayanti/story-WMLbuxKzmxR9lg281epINO.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Kerala prepares for possible inflow of expatriates||The Kerala government is preparing for the return of thousands of expatriates from West Asia amid indications that Indians stranded around the world due to Covid-19-related travel restrictions are set to return to the country.On Sunday, the non-resident Keralites affairs (Norka) department started online registration of people who want to return to the state. Kerala’s higher education and minority affairs minister TK Jaleel said the government expects between 150,000 to 200,000 people to return within the space of a month.Kerala also wants the Central government to help in sending back migrant workers from north and northeast India stranded in the state before the expatriates arrive. At least 300,000 migrant workers are currently in some 10,000 camps across the state.The state government said among the people expected to return, pregnant women, relatives of expatriates who went abroad for a vacation and got stranded, patients with medical conditions other than Covid-19, students and people whose visas have expired will get priority.People who have tested negative for Covid-19 in other countries will have to give an undertaking that they will remain in quarantine for a fortnight on arrival in Kerala.“We have made all arrangements to receive our people. After tests, those who have symptoms will be shifted to our care homes. Others will be sent to their homes with strict instructions to remain in quarantine,” said Jaleel.“We will get a clear idea [about the number of people returning] once the registration is over. We will give preference to women and children,” he added.Last week, a woman from based in Dubai filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking help to return home to deliver her baby. She said she wanted to return for her first delivery in July, and that after seven months of pregnancy, she wouldn’t be allowed to travel by air.Many expatriates are upset with the government, especially at a time when Pakistan and the Philippines have evacuated their nationals from West Asia.Many Covid-19 care homes have come up near the four international airports in Kerala but authorities believe they may not be sufficient to cope with the flow, and vacant flats, locked houses and houseboats are also being prepared to house the expatriates. Work is progressing at Alapuzha to convert houseboats into quarantine homes and Covid-19 hospitals.There are about 1.8 million people from Kerala working in West Asian countries and their remittances during 2018-19 were worth Rs 88,000 crore, serving as the backbone of the state’s money order economy. A senior state health ministry official said on condition of anonymity that once the expatriates start arriving, Kerala will introduce reverse quarantine – the practice of separating the most vulnerable, elderly or people with co-morbidity conditions and closely monitoring their health indicators to protect them from infection.The government is working on the idea that in case of community spread, it can isolate the large greying population and check the mortality rate among them, unlike what happened in some Western countries, the official said. Since some those who returned from the Middle East last month emerged as super spreaders, the state will be more cautious this time.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to the prime minister to run special trains to take migrant workers in Kerala back to their states. Kerala is taking all steps to look after them but their presence is draining its coffers. “The state’s economy is in shambles. We want migrant workers to be sent back before the arrival of the expatriates. We hope the Centre will help us,” said a senior government official who declined to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-kerala-prepares-for-possible-inflow-of-expatriates/story-OiGKYQ0FwIUL1NTxyTdjmJ.html
26-04-2020||India||Centre rejects tax hike proposal by IRS officials, calls it ill-conceived||The government has “summarily” rejected an “ill-conceived” report prepared by a group of Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers that suggested raising income-tax rate up to 40%, imposing a super-rich tax and levy a 4% Covid-19 relief cess to rebuild the economy post-coronavirus pandemic, two finance ministry officials with direct knowledge of the matter said.An ill-conceived report named as Fiscal Options & Response to Covid-19 Epidemic (FORCE) put up by a group of officers through IRS Association giving suggestions on increasing the taxes, etc., in the difficult time of Covid-19 pandemic and releasing the same in the media through IRS Association’s twitter and website is “an irresponsible act” of few officers, they said requesting anonymity.“A departmental enquiry will be initiated against people responsible for creating panic among the public by uploading this unauthorised report in social media that could have a serious consequence for both, the economy and the market. Thankfully, the market was closed,” one of the officials said.Some of the key recommendations of the FORCE report are raising income-tax rate up to 40% for those with an income minimum Rs 1 core per annum, re-introduce wealth tax for those with a net wealth of Rs 5 crore and levy a one-time Covid Relief Cess of 4% on those with a taxable income of Rs 10 lakh and above.“The proposals are against the government’s existing policy on taxation,” a second official said.In the budget this year, the government gave option to individuals to opt for lower income-tax rates, provided they forgo exemptions. Earlier, it had reduced corporate tax rates drastically. In order to boost investments, the government in September gave a Rs 1.45 lakh crore bonanza to the industry by drastically reducing corporate tax rates. Accordingly, firms had option for a lower corporate tax rate of 22% (15% to newly incorporated companies) provided they forgo exemptions. Those interested in exemptions could pay the tax at 30% (25% for new firms).While forwarding the FORCE report, the IRS Association on April 23 wrote to the chairman and members of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) that it was prepared jointly by a group of 50 IRS officers. “Working from home, they have come together to leverage their combined knowledge, experiences, and commitment to building a healthy, strong and prosperous India,” the letter that was posted on its twitter handle late night on Saturday said.“The report is only recommendatory in nature and it is not an official document,” one executive functionary of the association said Sunday requesting anonymity.Later, on Sunday evening, the association tweeted, “The paper FORCE by 50 young IRS officers suggesting policy measures had been forwarded by IRSA to CBDT for consideration. It does not purport to represent the official views of the entire IRS, or the IT Dept.”A CBDT spokesperson said the board always takes direct feedback from its field formations to improve its systems and processes, but it does not entertain any such unsolicited suggestions from the association.“Neither the IRS Association nor any group of officers, mentioned in the said report, were ever asked by the government to give any report on the subject,” the first official said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesIt is prima-facie an act of indiscipline and violation of conduct rules which specifically prohibits officers to go to media with their personal views on official matters without taking prior sanction or the permission of the government, the official said.“The Chairman, CBDT has been directed to seek explanation from these officers for writing such ‘ill-conceived views’ in public without having any authority to do so,” he added.He said, “People should completely disregard such report. In fact, the Finance Ministry is doing its best to provide relief and liquidity into the system and ease the lives of people in these trying times.”The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-dismisses-tax-super-rich-proposal-by-irs-officials-calls-it-irresponsible/story-lJ6haLkNydtIzMNcm7gXNI.html
26-04-2020||India||After lockdown ends on May 3, Odisha to bring back its migrant workers from Gujarat, Maharashtra||With its lakhs of migrant workers getting restive to come back to their homes, the Naveen Patnaik government on Sunday said that it would arrange buses to Gujarat and Maharashtra to bring back stranded migrant workers after national lockdown on coronavirus pandemic ends on May 3.After a discussion through video-conferencing among Patnaik, his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani, Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackrey and union minister of petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan today, it was decided that a coordination committee comprising two officers each from all the three states will decide on the modalities of bringing back the stranded workers by buses or any other modes of transport available.“Registration(with the Covid portal) is mandatory for all those who wish to come back to their native places. Suitable arrangements are being made so that they can be sent to quarantine facility immediately upon their arrival,” said Patnaik. The chief minister’s office said Odisha is in talks with the governments of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh so that no road tax is levied on the buses carrying the migrant labourers from Gujarat and Maharshtra to Odisha.The decision to bring back the Odia migrant labourer comes in the wake of 70 Odia migrants working in Surat’s textile mills going on rampage on April 11 demanding salary and permission to be allowed to travel back to Odisha. At least 2 lakh Odia migrants have been working in textile mills of Surat, but majority of them live in congested rooms and have no job security. After all the textile units in Surat were closed following lockdown, many of them wished to go back to Odisha as they quickly ran out of money and food. Most of the workers in Surat are from Ganjam, the home district of Naveen Patnaik.Similarly, thousands of Odia workers are stranded across Maharashtra after lockdown was announced. But some like Mahesh Jena, a 20-year-old casual worker in an iron foundry of Sangli-Miraj had arrived in his home district of Jajpur after cycling over 1700 km. A day earlier, the Odisha government allowed intra-state movement of labourers who are stranded in the state due to Coronavirus lockdown. Around 86,000 workers, including 16,000 from within Odisha, are being accommodated in 2,610 camps in various districts in the state.The migrant workers who arrive in Odisha from Gujarat and other states from May 4 onwards would be housed in quarantine centres that the government is quickly putting up in around 7,000 panchayats. The quarantine centres would have 2 lakh beds which would be scaled up to 5 lakh as more and more people come back.But the government’s decision that all such migrant workers would have to give out their Aadhar number while filling up an online portal for registration was slammed by Citizens’ Action Group on Covid-19, a civil society group of the state.The CAG members said most of the migrants working in informal sectors may not have an Aadhar card or be carrying it. “We are witnessing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis and in such a situation, our approach should be one of making things easy for the most vulnerable sections of the society. Making Aadhar mandatory for registration doesn’t serve that approach well. Hence the government should look for other options such as voter ID card, driving license or a post-registration authentication by the Panchayat,” said Manas Ranjan Mishra, convenor of the group.The CAG also raised concerns about online registration being only source of mapping data on stranded people or workers. “Looking at the exploitative nature of the networks through which migrants seek work and travel, it is important that all steps are taken to ensure that the stranded workers are able to register themselves without any hindrance or coercion caused by people and groups that operate these networks. So offline registration should also be allowed,” the group suggested.In another development, the state government appointed over 20 senior IAS officers as Covid-19 observers to various districts as Odisha prepared for return of around 5 lakh migrants from other States. Several other IAS officers were also assigned specific responsibilitirs such as implementation of social distancing guidelines, management and welfare of stranded Odias in other States, IEC activities, registration of Odia returnees and procurement of essential medical equipment and supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-lockdown-ends-on-may-3-odisha-to-bring-back-its-migrant-workers-from-gujarat-by-bus/story-GCQ6grmiujhfSOdOmNfHeP.html
26-04-2020||India||J&K crosses 500 mark with 29 fresh Covid-19 infections||Jammu and Kashmir crossed the 500 mark after 29 fresh Covid-19 infections were reported on Sunday, officials said. The total number of positive cases in the UT are now 523. Officials said all the new cases were reported from the Kashmir valley’s Anantnag, Bandipora, Baramulla, Srinagar and Kupwara districts. The numbers in the Valley have risen to 466. Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal tweeted: “Total cases in J&K now 523. However, don’t let this number daunt you. This includes 137 recoveries too. Total active cases are 380. We will keep doing aggressive testing and strict containment. You have to support us by staying home.”“Also, 25 more patients have recovered and were discharged. Out of these, 10 are from Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Bemina, five from Jawahar Lal Nehru Memorial hospital, Srinagar, two from Kupwara and eight from Chest Diseases Hospital, Jammu,” an official said.On Saturday, the UT had witnessed sharpest single day jump with 40 new cases after it had tested more than 1,000 people for Covid-19 in 24 hours. So far, 137 patients—110 in Kashmir and 27 in Jammu–have recovered while six have died. Till date, 66,977 people have been put under surveillance—6,232 in home quarantine, 258 in hospital quarantine and 10,763 under home surveillance. Besides, 49,338 people have completed their 28-day surveillance period.J&K admn allows standalone shops to reopen with conditionsThe existing curbs will continue in red zones of Jammu and Kashmir while lockdown rules will be relaxed with certain conditions in some places in the Union territory, officials said on Sunday.In pursuance of the orders issued by the Union ministry of home affairs, J&K’s chief secretary and chairperson of state executive committee BVR Subrahmanyan issued an order permitting to open all standalone shops or neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes in urban areas with certain conditions.However, there are exceptions to the above shops which include eateries with sit-in facilities, cinema halls, malls, restaurants, parlours, saloons, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole said that the order is detailed and there will be relaxation rules with conditions.“The relaxations are not for red zones and besides these relaxations won’t apply to a cluster of shops like in main markets of municipal towns. Similarly, shops that can attract a crowd like beauty parlours or saloons won’t be allowed,” said Pole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/j-k-crosses-500-mark-with-29-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-tf7D3KLLkWuQAJV7Q2NMWO.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Two more test positive to take Uttarakhand’s count to 50||After a doctor from a military hospital in Dehradun tested positive for Covid-19 last week, a second healthcare professional from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, officials said.Another young woman, who delivered a baby on Saturday in Government Doon Medical College Hospital, also tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. With this, the tally of Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand has increased to 50.UB Mishra, dean of AIIMS Rishikesh said that a nursing officer working with the urology department tested positive on Sunday after first showing symptoms on April 24.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“The nursing officer first showed mild symptoms on April 24, after which his samples were taken for testing on April 25. Till now what we have understood is that the nursing officer might have contracted the virus from an asymptomatic person,” said Mishra.The officials at AIIMS Rishikesh are now tracing close contacts of the health care worker and everyone will be quarantined and tested.“We will be putting all the staff and patients who came into contact with the positive patient in quarantine and everyone will be tested. Patients will be discharged from the hospital only after their test results show negative. No new patient will be admitted to the block where the nursing officer worked. However, general OPD services and Covid-19 OPD will be working as usual,” added Mishra.In Dehradun, a 32-year-old woman who gave birth to a child on Saturday also tested positive for the virus on Sunday, the source of which is being confirmed by health officials.Dr Dinesh Chauhan, district surveillance officer for Covid-19 in Dehradun said that the woman is a resident of Azad Nagar Colony, a containment area in Dehradun and had already been admitted to the hospital as she was pregnant.“After observing the new-born baby for some time, the doctors will decide whether to test the baby or not. We are tracing close contacts of the patient and the immediate family has already been quarantined, who will also be tested,” said Dr Chauhan.So far, Uttarakhand has tested around 5,000 people with 50 positive cases and 4,609 samples testing negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-two-more-test-positive-to-take-uttarakhand-s-count-to-50/story-ATs8unO7oTmru3hxXKZe0N.html
26-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Some Bihar migrants test positive, state prepares for a possible second wave||While the migrants, faced with uncertainty and fear, are desperate to return to their native places in Bihar and the Patna High Court gets ready to hear four PILs (public interest litigations) on the issue on Monday, an alarmed Bihar government is working out plans to deal with the prospect of another deluge of migrants returning home leading to a spike in the spread of COVID-19 in the state.The government has reasons to be worried since some of the migrants, who managed to reach state using desperate and daring means despite the lockdown, have tested positive for the disease and there is no telling how many of the new lot, it if is allowed to return, will end up becoming the transmitters of disease if not checked in time.“It is a fact that one cannot prevent migrants from coming for a long time as many states have already started doing it despite lockdown. They were stopped in the larger interest, but in the case of Bihar, it will be a tough ask due to the sheer magnitude and risk involved. Many of those who have reached have proved why travelling in the midst of lockdown is fraught with risk,” said an official, adding the state would have to keep its plan ready to tackle another surge, as the number of returning migrants could go into several lakhs, even if just one-third of the 22-lakh migrants, who have got registered for Bihar government’s assistance of Rs 1000 each, return.During Bihar chief secretary Deepak Kumar’s video conferencing with senior health and field officials, it came to light that eight migrant labourers who reached Bihar from different states during lockdown have tested positive.Arwal district magistrate (DM) said that a migrant worker who returned from Gurgaon on April 19 had tested positive, while Saran DM said that another person who drove his own car from Vadodara in Gujarat to Bihar on April 15, without a valid pass, had also tested positive.In another such instance, a person reached Bhagalpur from Mumbai travelling in an ambulance via Gorakhpur, Gopalganj, Begusarai, Naugachia and got himself admitted in the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College. He was found Covid-19 positive on April 20.“There were three persons with him in the ambulance. One of them has also tested positive, while the results of two others are still awaited and contact tracing is on. Some people who came in contact with them have already been quarantined,” Banka district magistrate said.District magistrates of Patna and Bhojpur have also reported incidents of people returning to Bihar from states like Delhi and Haryana despite the restrictions before they were found coronavirus positive.The chief secretary directed all the DMs to maintain a close vigil on all the migrants reaching the state and to ensure 100% testing so that they could be accordingly quarantined to prevent the spread of the infection.“Awareness should be increased at the Panchayat level, particularly in bordering districts, so that prompt information about migrants reaching home could reach the authority for timely action,” he added.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Pushpendra, professor and chairperson, Patna Centre of the Tata Institute of social sciences (TISS), said that return of migrants was natural, as they had been left with a Hobson’s choice after being rendered jobless in the midst of a pandemic away from home and family.“They cannot sustain outside without work. Bihar will need to bring about policy changes to deal with the situation not only to cater to their immediate needs but also for the long term,” he added.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-some-bihar-migrants-test-positive-state-prepares-for-a-possible-second-wave/story-ag0rKVBr1MZGaqr00vDbiN.html
26-04-2020||India||To fight Covid-19, Bangladesh gets Hydroxychloroquine, surgical gloves from India||India on Sunday provided Bangladesh 100,000 hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets and 50,000 surgical gloves for use in the country’s efforts to prevent and control the spread of Covid-19.This was the second tranche of aid provided by India to the neighbouring country under the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) Covid-19 Emergency Fund. It had earlier provided a consignment of head covers and face masks.In a video message posted on social media, India’s high commissioner to Dhaka, Riva Ganguly Das, said many people in both countries had been affected by the coronavirus disease and India would stand by Bangladesh in the efforts to tackle Covid-19.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverage“A Saarc leaders’ video conference was held on March 15 and at that time, the Saarc Covid-19 Emergency Fund was created. Under that fund, today we have provided the Bangladesh government 100,000 hydroxychloroquine tablets and 50,000 surgical gloves for health professionals,” Das said in a brief video message in Bengali posted on social media.She said Bangladeshi medical professionals had benefited from an online training programme organised by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Raipur, and another course would soon be organised.Das also pointed to India’s “neighbourhood first” policy and said Bangladesh comes first within the region for India. “I am absolutely confident that we will overcome this crisis with our joint efforts,” she added.Bangladesh has so far recorded almost 5,000 infections and 140 deaths.India has prioritised the supply of hydroxychloroquine tablets to its neighbours such as Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-fight-covid-19-bangladesh-gets-hcq-surgical-gloves-from-india/story-oHMb0DYIbmfu87i8kX7muI.html
26-04-2020||India||Bangladeshi man swims across river to seek Covid-19 treatment in Assam, sparks panic||Panic spread across several villages near the Indo-Bangla border in Assam’s Karimganj district on Sunday after a Bangladeshi national claiming to be a Covid-19 patient swam across a river and entered India seeking treatment, the Border Security Force (BSF) said.The man in his mid-30s identified as Abdul Haque, a resident of Sunamganj district of Bangladesh, was later handed over by BSF authorities to Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB).“The Bangaldeshi national swam across the Kushiyara river located on the border between the two countries and entered India around 7:30 am on Sunday. When villagers on the Indian side saw him, they stopped him there and informed us,” said Deputy Inspector General JC Nayak, BSF spokesperson based at Silchar, 53 km east of Karimganj.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The incident happened at a place called Mubarakpur nearly four km away from Karimganj town on an unfenced portion of the boundary between two countries. “The person had fever, didn’t look too well and was speaking incoherently. He was claiming that he was suffering from Covid-19 and crossed the river to seek treatment in India,” Nayak said.The BSF authorities informed BGB personnel from across the border about it. The Bangaldeshi authorities came to the Indian side in two boats and took the man back around 9 am.“We have no idea whether he was Covid19 positive or not, but it was clear that he was unwell. Villagers on the Indian side were afraid to approach him because of coronavirus scare. Only tests will reveal his exact status,” said Nayak.Though Kushiyara river gets flooded several times during the monsoon, the water level at present is pretty low and a person who knows swimming will be able to cross it without much difficulty, said Nayak.“In view of Covid-19, we have intensified patrolling in the border areas to ensure no one enters India from Bangladesh. But the area where this incident happened is unfenced till now. We had carried out awareness programs in villages and that is the reason why they informed us immediately,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladeshi-man-swims-across-river-to-seek-covid-19-treatment-in-assam-sparks-panic/story-WGIwY07BW9uhf6HvAoUHYI.html
26-04-2020||India||5 questions for Modi government in Congress’ demand for national Covid plan||The Congress party on Sunday stepped up pressure on the Narendra Modi government over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic crisis by demanding a national action plan to contain the disease and its economic fallout. The party listed out five areas, it felt, must be addressed by a national plan so that the country and the state governments have clarity going forward.The party sent out a series of tweets through its official handle listing out the 5 core areas of focus the party felt needed further attention from the government in the form of a clear action plan. “A month of lockdown and there is hardly any clarity from the government on a number of issues. Does the govt have a national plan?” The party called attention to the following five areas in its tweet.-Procurement of more kits and increased testing-Lifting the lockdown-Economic revival-Stranded migrant workers-MSMEsOn the issue of testing, Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari had spelt out party’s stance that questioned Centre’s less-than-optimal utilisation of its full testing capacity. Tiwari said the government needed to explain if it was deliberately testing less in order to play down the true magnitude of the pandemic in the country.“If India’s capacity is to carry out one lakh tests a day, then what is the reason for capping the tests at 39,000?,” Tiwari had asked.On the issue of lifting the lockdown, the Congress party said the country and the state governments needed a clear plan of action since the disease was not going to go away post-May 3—when the second phase of the ongoing national lockdown ends.Also Read: ‘Covid-19 not vanishing on May 3, where’s the national plan’: Congress asks PM Narendra ModiThe party also repeated its concerns over economic revival and accused the government of taking confusing decisions.The BJP government is making all efforts to increase the pain instead of reducing it. It is stopping the dearness allowance when it is dearly needed. It is cutting down on the Indian military’s needs. The government has lost direction,” a party tweet said.Another asked, “Why is the government not withdrawing projects like Central Vista and diverting the funds to fight COVID-19?”.The Central vista project is an ambitious plan in the pipelines, aimed to revamp the area around India Gate in the capital that houses government offices and Parliament among others.On the issue of MSMEs and economic revival, Congress wanted to know when the second dose of financial assistance will be provided to industries. “Despite industry voices demanding assistance, why is the BJP government not announcing the second financial assistance package? What is the Govt waiting for,” the party asked.Also Read: On Akshay Tritiya, PM Modi calls on people to help each other amid Covid-19On the issue of migrant workers, Congress has been demanding that arrangements be made to send them home since they are stuck in states where they work. Several state governments have indicated that they want to move migrants back to their homes in a phased manner which doesn’t harm the containment efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-questions-for-modi-government-in-congress-demand-for-national-covid-plan/story-2Swa9WqgMaRdQ4DZ8SrWFL.html
26-04-2020||India||PM Modi to interact with CMs tomorrow to discuss way out of lockdown, Covid fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers via video conference on Monday morning on the way ahead in the fight against the novel coronavirus, amid indications that the discussions could also focus on a graded exit from the ongoing lockdown. This will be the third video conference of the prime minister with the chief ministers after the spread of the Covid-19 in the country. Sources in the government indicated that besides discussing the way forward in dealing with the pandemic, the discussion could also focus on a “graded” exit from the lockdown which is in place till May 3. The Centre and the state governments have been giving gradual relaxation in various fields and sectors to boost economic activities as also to provide relief to people. But some states are willing to extend the lockdown beyond May 3 to ensure that coronavirus cases remain under control. In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio address on Sunday, the prime minister said the country is in the middle of a ‘yudh’ (war) and asserted that people have to continue being careful and take precautions. His note of caution comes against the backdrop of the Union government and states relaxing lockdown norms to revive economic activities. “I urge you not to get overconfident. You should in your over-enthusiasm not think that if the coronavirus has not yet reached your city, village, street or office, it is not going to reach now. Never make such a mistake. The experience of the world tells us a lot in this regard,” he said. Modi referred to a popular Hindi idiom ‘Sawdhani hati, durghatna ghati’ (accident happens when caution is lowered) to make his point. The Centre has now allowed neighbourhood and standalone shops, including those located in residential complexes, in urban areas to open during the lockdown. But those in the markets continue to remain shut till May 3. In rural areas, all shops, except those in shopping malls, are allowed to open. In a late night order on Friday, the Home Ministry also said malls continue to remain shut but markets in rural areas can open. However, opening of shops located in Covid-19 hotspot and containment zones, sale of non-essential items by e-commerce platforms and sale of liquor continue to be prohibited. In the last interaction on April 11, several chief ministers had recommended extension of the 21-day lockdown by two weeks, which was slated to end on April 14 earlier. On April 14, the prime minister had announced that the lockdown is being extended till May 3. Before the lockdown was announced on March 24, the prime minister had interacted with the chief ministers on March 20 to discuss ways and means to check the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-cms-on-monday-to-discuss-way-out-of-lockdown-covid-fight/story-yiNM3ZAhr0PhCLSMUE65YN.html
26-04-2020||India||270k trees to be felled in Dibang, plans for compensatory plantations at 25 sites||For the 270,000 trees that will be felled to make way for the 3,097 megawatt Etalin hydropower project in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley, compensatory plantations will be raised in 25 different fragmented lots of land in the Valley’s Anini town, according to the project proposal. The rest will be taken up on land that’s over 400 kilometres away in Tawang district.Under the Forest Conservation Act 1980, every time forest land is diverted for non-forest purposes such as mining or industry, the project developer is supposed to identify non-forest land of an equal area and also pay for planting forests over this, or when that is not available, on twice the area of degraded forest land. The project is being developed by—M/s Etalin Hydro Electric Power Company Limited, a joint venture of Hydro Power Development Corporation of Arunachal Pradesh Limited with Jindal Power Limited (JPL). The total cost of the project is approximately Rs 25,296.95 crore, according to the factsheet.The proposed project, which is yet to get approval from the environment ministry’s forest advisory committee (FAC), is located in “subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest and subtropical rain forests” and is home to outstanding biodiversity, according to the FAC’s own documents. Environmentalists and local residents are now concerned that the same ecological value cannot be recreated through artificial plantations in fragmented patches of land.Compensatory afforestation for the project has been proposed over 1,074.329 hectares at a cost of Rs 19.6 crores, according to an FAC factsheet on the project reviewed by Hindustan Times .“So far in India we haven’t seen compensatory afforestation plots providing ecosystem and biodiversity services. There is also a concern that in many places monocultures have sprung up in the name of afforestation. There is no land to do such large-scale plantations either, so often public or forest lands are used. The spirit of compensatory afforestation is missing,” said NH Ravindranath, climate and forestry expert at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.He added that the acreage earmarked for the afforestation appears too small for plantations of the scale required to compensate for the trees to be felled to make for the Etalin project. “The forests that will be diverted appear to be dense as they have thousands of trees over 60 cm in girth. A lot may be lost,” he added.FAC’s factsheet, dated April 21, states that around 141,854 trees that are above 60 cm in girth which will have to be cleared.Local people of the Idu Mishmi community are concerned about the loss of native forests and wildlife and say they may end up losing grazing land for compensatory afforestation too.“There are two dams {proposed} in this region—the Dibang multipurpose project and the Etalin hydropower project -- which will together submerge a very large area. Most families in the project affected area don’t want to speak against the project because they want to get compensation for their land,” Aito Miwu, a resident of Anini, said over the phone“People in other parts of Dibang valley are not consulted and not allowed to speak up about the ecological loss in public hearings. The vegetation and biodiversity through compensatory afforestation cannot be the same. I have seen them planting pine which has no fertiliser value and nothing grows underneath pine trees,” he said.“These patches of land selected by the government are Mithun grazing land. One of the patches is in our village and none of us has been consulted about converting common grazing land. Many villages will oppose this,” he added.There is no mention in the FAC factsheet whether locals have been consulted on carrying out compensatory afforestation on grazing lands.“The FAC’s investigations have taken at face value the process of compensatory afforestation in a landscape like Arunachal Pradesh. This project will not only submerge old growth forests on mountain slopes, the compensatory afforestation measures proposed will governmentalize forest areas that are socially and economically accessible to communities as village forest reserves.Why have they not assessed how community access will be affected by these measures,” said Manju Menon, a senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research.According to FAC’s factsheet, the project falls under the richest biogeographical province of the Himalayan zone and under one of the mega biodiversity hotspots of the world. The proposed project location falls at the junction of the Paleoarctic, Indo-Chinese, and Indo-Malayan biogeographic regions, having luxuriant forests and a plethora of flora and fauna. It is also a “vital tiger area.”One of the FAC’s members, responding to a query from HT, said over the phone: “I am only a member. It will not be appropriate for me to comment on this matter. The FAC minutes will be published soon.” FAC discussed the issue of forest clearance to the project on April 23, but a decision hasn’t yet been taken, according to FAC members. “We had a long discussion and all views of members have been taken on record. Most members had a favourable view because its a clean energy project, so did the subcommittee that visited the site,” said FAC member. Both FAC members requested anonymity. A sub-committee of the FAC has recommended in its report dated April 21 that Etalin Hydroelectric Project of 3097 MW be allowed with a condition that the developer deposit money for wildlife conservation in the area.“We have been eagerly waiting for this clearance which is a must for grant of forest clearance for the project. The proposal for grant of FC to Etalin project was submitted to environment ministry in 2014. The proposal has since been discussed in FAC a couple of times. In the EAC (Expert Appraisal Committee) meeting scheduled to be held on April 23, the report and recommendations of sub-committee of FAC will be discussed for final recommendations on grant of FC to the project. We are hopeful that FAC will finally be recommending the proposal for grant of FC,” Bharat Rohra, MD & CEO, Jindal Power Limited said on April 22, responding to HT’s queries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-270k-trees-to-be-felled-in-dibang-plans-for-plantations-at-alternative-sites/story-ovSWP21DlEr9GsLZncG8NO.html
26-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Sharad Pawar writes to PM Modi, seeks financial package for Maharashtra and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sharad Pawar writes to PM Modi, seeks financial package for MaharashtraNationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has come with suggestions, including a “generous financial package”, as he called for help from the Centre towards Maharashtra, whose economy has taken a severe beating during the coronavirus pandemic. Read more. Amit Khare returns to I&B, Health Secy Preeti Sudan gets extension in reshufflePM Narendra Modi effected a massive bureaucratic reshuffle amid the coronavirus crisis with 1985-batch Jharkhand cadre officer Amit Khare returning as secretary, information and broadcasting ministry, health secretary Preeti Sudan given a three-month extension and additional secretary PMO Tarun Bajaj taking over as secretary, department of economic affairs.Read more. 80% Covid-19 patients asymptomatic, silent spread concern looms in RajasthanAs doctors grapple with Covid-19 cases, an added concern is that about 80% of people infected by the coronavirus in Rajasthan are asymptomatic, posing a risk to vulnerable groups and increasing the possibility of a silent spread. Read more. Pakistan hasn’t let Covid-19 halt terror factories, raises mobilisation at launch padsPakistan, which is struggling with the coronavirus disease like the rest of the world, has doubled the number of terrorists waiting to infiltrate into Kashmir from its 14 operational launch pads, a senior government official told Hindustan Times. Read more. First pandemic epicentre Wuhan discharges its last Covid patient from hospitalThe central Chinese city of Wuhan, the first Covid-19 pandemic epicentre where the virus emerged late last year, has no remaining cases in hospitals, China announced Sunday.Read more. Kanika Kapoor shares her truth on coronavirus diagnosis, receiving hate: ‘Negativity thrown at a person does not change reality’Singer Kanika Kapoor, who was the first celebrity in India to be diagnosed with Covid-19 last month, has shared a long note on Instagram about it. She has clarified allegations that she wasn’t responsible when she returned from UK in March and avoided screenings at airport to put others at risk. Read more. Covid-19: As businesses open slowly, here’s your guide to safe shoppingAs small stores opened on Sunday and shopping options widened for many, concerns over how to navigate markets and order in food and groceries have resurfaced. Is it safe to handle packages and cartons stocked in shops? Read more. Artist Zarina Hashmi passes away in LondonZarina Hashmi, 83, passed away after a long illness in London on Saturday. The artist, a proponent of minimalist art, had several ongoing shows, including solos at New Delhi’s Kiran Nadar Museum of Art and the Pulitzer Arts Foundation in Missouri. Read more. ‘Briefings not worth the time & effort’: Donald Trump after ‘disinfectant row’US President Donald Trump has lashed out at the media. Days after he stirred a massive row by suggesting that disinfectants could be injected into the body to deal with Covid-19, now the US President has said that briefings are not worth the time and effort. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sharad-pawar-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-financial-package-for-maharashtra-and-all-the-latest-news/story-YDUeO4IKt4MTkXW5x0nIAK.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Eight more patients discharged in Assam after testing negative||Eight more Covid-19 patients in Assam were discharged from two hospitals on Sunday after testing negative. Assam now has only seven active cases of Covid-19, health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.While four patients were discharged from Golaghat civil hospital in Golaghat district, four others were released from the Mahendra Mohan Chowdhury Hospital (MMCH) in Guwahati.“With this the total number of Covid-19 patients recovering in hospitals comes down to seven. Of the total 35 patients in the state, 27 have been discharged and one has died,” Sarma said.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.However, the status of the first patient of the state, a 52-year-old from Badarpur who is undergoing treatment at Silchar Medical College Hospital (SMCH) who tested positive on March 31, continues to remain positive after repeated tests. The patient also suffers from diabetes and cancer.Meanwhile on Sunday, the state government decided to allow two-way inter-district travel for three days starting April 28.Sarma said that the move will allow people having own their vehicles to travel across the state to pick up children and family members who were stranded due to the lockdown.From Saturday, the government had allowed stranded people to use their own vehicles to reach their homes or workplaces with prior permission from district authorities. Nearly 27,000 availed the opportunity on the first day. It will continue till Monday.“Over 34,500 of the applications received were from those who wanted permission for two-way travel. We have decided to allow them to travel for three days beginning April 28,” Sarma said.Till Sunday Assam government has transferred a sum of Rs 2,000 each to accounts of nearly 2 lakh people from the state working in other states stranded due to the lockdown.The helpline number for the same had received nearly 6 lakh calls from all over the country. Of them, 3.25 lakh had filled online forms and given details of their bank information.“We will be able to provide relief to nearly 3 lakh applicants by the end of this month. Another instalment of Rs 1,000 each will be sent to them next month,” Sarma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-eight-more-patients-discharged-in-assam-after-testing-negative/story-SMKzaq2CkKxnFafc2TYZcM.html
26-04-2020||India||Prolonged lockdown may push millions into margins of subsistence: Ex-RBI governor Subbarao||A prolonged lockdown may possibly push million of Indians into the “margins of subsistence”, former RBI Governor Duvvuri Subba Rao said on Sunday while expecting a V curved recovery once the Covid-19 crisis ends and the turnaround in India to be faster than some economies. He was participating in a webinar on History repeats - but differently- Lessons for the post Corona World,” organised by the Manthan Foundation here, in which former Deputy Governor of RBI Usha Thorat took part “Because most analysts believe that this year India will actually have negative growth or growth will contract. We must remember that even ahead of the crisis two months ago our growth slowed. Now it has completely stopped. Last year growth was five per cent. Just imagine, five per cent growth last year and we are going to negative or zero growth this year, a decline of five per cent growth,” he said. “It is true that India is going to perform in this crisis better than most other countries. But that is no consolation.... Because we are a very poor country and if the crisis persists and if the lockdown is not lifted soon enough, it is quite possible that millions of people will be pushed into the margins of subsistence, he said when asked about his views on the present situation. Subbarao said that as predicted by analysts, India will have a V shaped recovery which is far better than most of the other countries. “And why do we expect a “V” shaped recovery? Because unlike in a cyclone or in an earthquake, this is not a natural disaster constraint. No capital has beendestroyed. Factories are standing. Our shops are still standing. Our people are ready to work as soon as the lockdown is lifted. So it is quite possible the recovery will be V shaped and while we have a V shaped recovery, I think India has a better chance then most of the countries,” he opined. According to him, India’s recovery was faster than many other countries after the 2008 global financial crisis. On IMFs prediction that India may grow at 1.9 per cent during the current year against about five per cent in the last fiscal, Subbarao said many analysts feel that the prediction is outdated and the growth in GDP may slip into negative. He said the “life versus livelihood” dilemma for the country is arguably very “short while” for India. Usha Thorat said pumping more liquidity into the system alone cannot work and banks and Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFC) will need credit guarantee or enhancement to start lending. She also said that states need more support during the crisis and streamlining of non-merit subsidies was required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prolonged-lockdown-may-push-millions-into-margins-of-subsistence-ex-rbi-governor-subbarao/story-C6bfvVBUI0kEiAaNIh6iOK.html
26-04-2020||India||Sharad Pawar writes to PM Modi, seeks financial package for Maharashtra||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has come with suggestions, including a “generous financial package”, as he called for help from the Centre towards Maharashtra, whose economy has taken a severe beating during the coronavirus pandemic.In his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the NCP leader pointed out the economic indicators as well as strategy to overcome the state’s financial crisis.“So far Mumbai is the hardest-hit city in the Covid-19 outbreak and the prolonged lockdown conditions. It has severely impacted the economy of Maharashtra and may have detrimental consequences on Indian economy if not addressed urgently,” Pawar said in his letter.He said that there is an expected revenue shortfall of Rs 140,000 crore, or around 40%, and said that even if Maharashtra borrowed Rs 92,000 crore, based on the present borrowing limits at 3% of GSDP, it is not going to be enough. He said out of the borrowings Rs 54,000 crore has been planned for meeting the capital expenditure requirements for this financial year. “So, it is clear that state is going to face a shortfall of Rs 100,000 crore to sustain projected expenditure,” he said.Pawar also detailed the steps which could be taken to help Maharashtra, which has been the worst-hit state in the country.One of the steps he suggested was to enhance the borrowing limit under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act (FRBM). At the same time, he said, covering the entire shortfall only through borrowing will push the state towards potential debt trap. “The other strategy could be to cut public spending, however, that would be counterproductive in view of the subdued economy. In fact, there will be additional expenditure requirements in the area of public health and medical education and other public services,” he said.He put in a request to extend a two-year moratorium on the National Small Savings Fund Loan, saying it will “help in bridging the likely budgetary gap”.Pawar also requested financial assistance to the Maharashtra government to the tune of 1 lakh crore for FY 2020-21. “Almost all countries US, Spain, Germany, France, Australia etc have released financial packages of around 10% of GDP. Thus, a room can be created by the Government of India along with RBI for giving suitable financial package to states,” he said.“In the eventual recovery of the Indian economy the states will play a major role and if left out without any help the states will not be in a position to supplement the required national government efforts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-financial-package-for-maharashtra/story-clol6CKEq6h7RDyag1Q4fP.html
26-04-2020||India||Senior health official dies of Covid-19 in West Bengal||West Bengal recorded the first case of a senior health official dying after being infected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) when Biplab Kanti Dasgupta, assistant director of health services, died at a private hospital early on Sunday.Dasgupta, 60, was in-charge of the state’s central medical store. He was admitted to the hospital on April 18, a day after his samples tested positive, and had been on ventilator since then. His wife is also battling Covid-19.Condoling his death, chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “We have lost Dr Biplab Kanti Dasgupta, Assistant Director, Health Services, West Bengal, in the early hours of today. He was Assistant Director of Health Services, Central Medical Stores. We are deeply pained with his untimely demise.”Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageIn another tweet, she said, “His sacrifice for the cause of ailing humanity will ever be in our hearts and will make our COVID warriors fight the deadly virus with even greater determination. My heartfelt condolence to Dr Dasgupta’s bereaved family members and colleagues.”Following his death, Dasgupta’s colleagues remembered his last social media post on Facebook, dated April 9, which had said, “Trust god even if the answer is ‘wait’.”In a statement, the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum said, “This is the first reported death of a member of our medical fraternity in the state, who was tested positive for Covid-19…It is pertinent to note here that over the last few weeks, more and more healthcare workers are diagnosed with Covid-19, some of them asymptomatic, while several others are in quarantine.“We urge the health and administrative authorities to proactively look into the matter as it is a matter of grave concern. With limited resources at disposal, we cannot afford to have a situation where a shortage of healthcare providers poses a threat to delivery of care.” The forum requested all doctors in West Bengal to observe two minutes’ silence at 11 am on Monday to pay respect to the state’s “first Covid-19 martyr among healthcare professionals”. The number of health care staff affected in West Bengal was not immediately available.On social media, people demanded a state funeral for Dasgupta.“Dasgupta, who contracted Covid-19 while being on duty, has died. Let us demand a state funeral. No stigma please!” wrote retired civil servant Dinabandhu Bhattacharya, and many netizens supported his demand.According to the Union health ministry, a total of 611 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in West Bengal, of whom 105 have recovered. Though 57 persons who tested positive had died till Friday, the state has attributed only 18 deaths to Covid-19 and the rest to severe co-morbidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-health-official-dies-of-covid-19-in-west-bengal/story-M75bbs2sG7UO1AETwpsQKN.html
26-04-2020||India||Gangotri and Yamunotri open on Akshay Tritiya with 1st prayers on PM Narendra Modi’s behalf||Amid the lockdown, the portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines opened on Sunday on the occasion of the Hindu festival Akshaya Tritiya and rituals were done while following the norms of social distancing. Both the shrines, which are part of Uttarakhand’s ‘Char Dham’ pilgrimage, are located in Uttarkashi district of the Himalayan state. The portals of Gangotri shrine were opened at the auspicious time of 12:35 pm on Sunday with Ganga Pujan and recitation of Ganga Sahastranam. On Saturday, the palanquin of Goddess Ganga left from Mukhba, her maternal and winter abode for Bhaironghati, her summer abode.Following simple prayers and basic rituals, the portals of Yamunotri shrine were opened for this year at 12:41 pm on Sunday after the Goddess’ palanquin left from Kharsali for the shrine at 8:15 am the same day.Also Read: On Akshay Tritiya, PM Modi calls on people to help each other amid Covid-19Interestingly, the first prayers offered at Gangotri shrine was on behalf of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who donated Rs 1100 to Sripanch Mandir Samiti Gangotri on the auspicious occasion of Tritiya Mahaparva.Suresh Semwal, president of Gangotri Dham Temple Committee, said that sub-divisional magistrate of Bhatwadi area, Devendra Singh Negi gave the amount of donation sent by Prime Minister Modi to the temple committee.“After that, we offered the first prayers to Goddess Ganga on behalf of the prime minister to give us the strength to fight the pandemic and win the war against coronavirus,” said Semwal.Also Read: ‘Don’t be overconfident’: In Covid-19 fight, Modi cautions against complacencyAshish Chauhan, district magistrate of Uttarkashi, where both the shrines are situated, said that due to the nationwide lockdown, both the shrines were opened in a simple manner while following the restrictions in force to contain COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangotri-and-yamunotri-open-on-akshay-tritiya-with-1st-prayers-on-pm-narendra-modi-s-behalf/story-y2tJi0hH05taFaonbbOEoI.html
26-04-2020||India||Amit Khare returns to I&B, Health Secy Preeti Sudan gets extension in reshuffle||Prime Minister Narendra Modi effected a massive bureaucratic reshuffle amid the coronavirus crisis with 1985-batch Jharkhand cadre officer Amit Khare returning as secretary, information and broadcasting ministry, health secretary Preeti Sudan given a three-month extension and additional secretary PMO Tarun Bajaj taking over as secretary, department of economic affairs.In view of the serious challenges being faced by the news media, be it print or TV, as also the advertising and film industry in face of the coronavirus crisis, the charge of I&B has been entrusted to Amit Khare, who retains charge as higher education secretary in the HRD ministry.Khare has earlier headed the I&B ministry and is well versed with the issues involved. His earlier charge as secretary, schools, has been given to Anita Karwal, who was CBSE chairperson. Karwal is a 1988-batch Gujarat cadre officer.Other important postings are Arvind Kumar Sharma, the powerful additional secretary at the PMO, who has been appointed as secretary, micro, small and medium enterprises ministry.Rajesh Bhushan, who was secretary, rural development, has been appointed as OSD, health and family welfare ministry. He will succeed Preeti Sudan after she completes her extended tenure at the health ministry.Tarun Kapoor, vice chairman Delhi Development Authority, will take over as petroleum secretary. Apurva Chandra will take over as Special Secretary and Director General (Acquisitions) at the defence ministry.Anand Kumar, a 1984 batch officer of the Kerala cadre, will move from the department of new and renewable energy to head the department of culture. Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, a 1987-batch Gujarat cadre officer who was special secretary in NITI Aayog, has been appointed secretary in the ministry of environment, forest and climate change.Rajesh Verma, an Odisha-cadre officer of the 1987 batch, who was special secretary in the department of agriculture, has been appointed secretary, ministry of corporate affairs.Aramane Giridhar, an Andhra Pradesh cadre officer of the 1988 batch, who was additional secretary at the Cabinet Secretariat, has been elevated as secretary, ministry of road transport and highways.Nagendra Nath Sinha will be the new secretary of rural development department. He is at present secretary, department of border management in the Home Ministry.Pradip Kumar Tripathi, special secretary and establishment officer in the department of personnel and training, will be secretary in the steel ministry. He is a 1987-batch IAS officer of Jammu and Kashmir cadre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-khare-returns-to-i-b-health-secy-preeti-sudan-gets-extension-in-reshuffle/story-quDgVk7RnAnB8DghzR3L5J.html
26-04-2020||India||Hyderabad’s Rachakonda Police adopt orphanages, old age homes during Covid-19 crisis||In a benevolent gesture, the Rachakonda Police Commissionerate here has adopted as many as 41 old age homes, orphanages and homes for specially abled persons amid the ongoing lockdown. In view of the COVID-19 crisis, inmates of the homes are being supplied with groceries and other essentials by the police even as different NGOs have also come forward to join hands with them in arranging ration, medicines and safety equipment.Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M Bhagwat said the police force decided to adopt thehomes as they mostly depend on the service of kind-hearted people in society. During the lockdown which restricts people to venture out, such people were not able to serve the needy nor the managements of the homes were in a position to step out to manage things. The requirement of each of the homes is assessed by the SHO concerned and furnished to the Office of Commissioner of Police. The Citizen Volunteer Cell at Rachakonda Police Commissionerate is managing the procurement and distribution of food, ration and other relief material and then maps the donors to the homes and ensures all that is necessary is supplied to them, said Bhagwat, who himself has distributed groceries at some of these homes and personally ensuring that their needs are fulfilled. Bhagwat said so far 41 orphanages, old age homes and homes for specially abled housing nearly 1,630 inmates were identified and the police would meet the requirements of the homes. Rachakonda is one of the three Police Commissionerates covering Hyderabad and its adjoining areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-s-rachakonda-police-adopt-orphanages-old-age-homes-during-covid-19-crisis/story-J7KzNAn1kLxKUy3MD5JYDI.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Don’t be overconfident’: In Covid-19 fight, Modi cautions against complacency||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said India’s “people-driven” battle against COVID-19 is the only way for the country to overcome the pandemic, and asked people to shun any complacency that they will not be infected by the coronavirus because it has so far not affected the places where they live or work.In his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ broadcast, Modi said the country is in the middle of a ‘yudh’ (war) and asserted that people have to continue being careful and take precautions.His note of caution comes against the backdrop of the Union government and states relaxing lockdown norms to revive economic activities. “I urge you not to get overconfident. You should in your over-enthusiasm not think that if the coronavirus has not yet reached your city, village, street or office, it is not going to reach now. Never make such a mistake. The experience of the world tells us a lot in this regard,” he said.Modi referred to a popular Hindi idiom ‘Sawdhani hati, durghatna ghati’ (accident happens when caution is lowered) to make his point. In his 30-minute address, Modi hailed states, emergency workers and civil society groups for their contribution in combating the pandemic, and said that the resolve shown by the people of the country has led to the beginning of a transformation with businesses, offices, educational institutions, medical sector rapidly undergoing new changes.With the country under a lockdown since March 24 midnight, he said India’s people-driven battle against the pandemic will be discussed when the world discusses the crisis later. “India’s fight against the coronavirus is people-driven in the truest sense of the term. Along with people, government and administration are fighting it as well... This is the only way we can win over the virus,” he said. Citing a Sanskrit shloka, he said. “Fire, debt and illness, if taken lightly, grow again at the first opportunity, assuming dangerous proportions, so it is important to treat them completely. Therefore, in over-enthusiasm, there should be no negligence. We will always have to remain cautious.” Lauding the contribution of people in terms of helping the poor with food and medicines, he likened the exercise with ‘mahayagya’ in which everybody is eager to contribute. “We are fortunate that today the whole country, each and every citizen of the country, every person is a soldier in this battle and also leading the battle,” he said. India’s decision to export medicines needed by several countries, including developed nations, has earned it praise from world leaders, Modi said, noting that it did so as part of its ethos.The prime minister said wearing masks will now become a part of a civilised society and also exhorted people to stop spitting in public places, saying it was high time to get rid of this “bad habit” once and for all.This will not only boost our basic hygiene standards but also help in preventing the spread of the coronavirus infection, he said. The health crisis, Modi said, has made the world pay special attention to Indian heritage of yoga and ayurveda as people look to them to boost their immunity.Modi expressed confidence that the world will acknowledge the significance of India’s traditional medicine system in a similar way it adopted yoga, and lamented that hundreds of years of foreign rule have resulted in Indians failing to realise their own strengths. Everyone in this battle is putting up a fight as per one’s capacity and ability, and altruism has gained in strength in recent years, Modi said, asserting that he bowed to this sentiment. He asked people to join ‘covidwarriors.gov.in’, a digital platform that links volunteers, health professionals, representatives of civil society and local administration with each other to take care of relief works. Over 1.25 crore people are already part of this portal, he said.Airlines have clocked a distance of over three lakh km under “Lifeline Udan” project to deliver over five hundred tons of medical supplies to different parts of the country, while the railways has been running more than 100 parcel trains on close to 60 routes, Modi added. He also greeted people on Akshaya-Tritiya and noted that holy month of Ramzan had also begun.“We should pray more than ever before so that prior to the celebration of Eid the world is rid of the coronavirus and we celebrate Eid with enthusiasm and gaiety like earlier times,” Modi said, urging people to adhere to guidelines of local administration.The pandemic, he noted, has changed the manner of celebrating festivals all over the world, including in India. People recently observed many festivals such as Bihu, Baisakhi, Puthandu, Vishu and Odia new year while staying indoors, he said.The fight against the epidemic has also given people a fresh perspective to look at the world around them with the importance of sanitary workers and neighbourhood shopkeepers being realised like never before, he said. People used to think negatively of police but a humane and sensitive aspect of policing has manifested itself now as uniformed personnel has been helping those in need, he added.The prime minister hoped that there may be some good news in the fight against the coronavirus during his next ‘Mann ki Baat’ episode, usually the last Sunday of every month. He reiterated his advice to people to maintain a distance of two yards from each other to keep healthy.“Maintain a distance of two yards and keep yourself healthy. ‘Do gaz doori, bahut hai zaroori’,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-be-overconfident-in-covid-19-fight-modi-cautions-against-complacency/story-87PJdp7TDV3YtoyyUjaaIK.html
26-04-2020||India||CBI takes custody of DHFL’s Kapil, Dheeraj Wadhawan from Mahabaleshwar||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday took custody of Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan of DHFL group who are allegedly involved in the YES Bank scam from their bungalow in Mahabaleshwar in Satara , 260 km south of Mumbai after their quarantine ended, a senior official of the agency said.The CBI had obtained an arrest warrant against the two brothers after the family was caught holidaying in Mahabaleshwar. On April 18, the brothers had obtained a stay on execution of an arrest warrant after their lawyer pleaded that the two should not be arrested amidst the coronavirus pandemic. The Special court had granted them relief and stayed the warrant. The court order protected the two from arrest till May 5.However, CBI, which was not heard while staying the warrant, approached the special court to lift the stay. The Wadhwans’ interim relief was cancelled on Saturday (April 25) and a CBI team from Mumbai reached Satara Sunday afternoon to arrest the two brothers, a senior officer of the agency said.The agency was assisted by the Satara police. The two arrested men will be brought to Mumbai by the evening, the officer said.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh confirmed the arrests with a tweet.“A CBI team has taken both Kapil and Dhiraj Wadhwan into custody. Satara Police has given them all required assistance & an escort vehicle with one plus three guards upto Mumbai on a written request. The arrest procedures are going on,” Deshmukh tweeted.  A #CBI team has taken both Kapil and Dhiraj Wadhwan into custody.@SataraPolice has given them all required assistance & an escort vehicle with 1+3 guard upto Mumbai on a written request. The arrest procedures are going on.#LawEqualForAllAccording to the CBI FIR, between April and June, 2018, Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). In return, the Wadhawans allegedly “paid kickback of ₹600 crore” to Kapoor and family members in the form of loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.The CBI had obtained non bailable warrant against the two on March 17 but the two men had not been arrested. On April 9, the Wadhawans, with a group of 23 people flouted the lockdown and travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala after a senior home department official gave them a free pass. They were put in quarantine once the news of their lockdown violation became public. DHFL is already under probe ny teh Enforcement Directorate (ED) for allegedly siphoning of around Rs 13,000 crore taken from banks and for Wadhawans links with Iqbal Mirchi (now dead), an aide of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-takes-custody-of-dhfl-s-kapil-dheeraj-wadhawan-from-mahabaleshwar/story-K25x9bq0MbjAO34yPG0S7L.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Covid-19 not vanishing on May 3, where’s the national plan’: Congress asks PM Narendra Modi||The Congress party on Sunday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi presents a national plan to contain coronavirus as per the requirement under the National Disaster Management Act which has been invoked by the centre to implement measures like lockdown and other restrictions to prevent its further spread.Congress said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should present a national plan before the chief ministers during Monday’s video conference meet called to consult states over the current situation of the outbreak, so that the state governments can formulate their own plans and strategies which can then percolate down to the district level- where the actual containment efforts are being carried out.“Covid-19 is not going to disappear on May 3, the virus is here to stay, and therefore we have to prepare ourselves and the people to live with the virus. And what is the best strategy whereby India can cope with this pandemic which appears to be unrelenting at the moment,” he asked, adding that the national plan was a prerequisite for the country going forward.The questions were raised by Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari, who held a press briefing via video conference on Sunday afternoon to raise some other questions like, over testing, alleging it to be very low and sought an explanation from the government on its testing strategy.“If India’s capacity is to carry out one lakh tests a day, then what is the reason for capping the tests at 39,000? Is there an attempt to play down the magnitude of the disease or is the government unsure that testing to the full capacity will lead to negative outcomes that the government is not prepared to deal with,” he asked.He went on to say that there was a report in the public space that said India had only 3 lakh RNA kits left. “The RNA kit is the most important component of the entire testing process. If that is true, then we will exhaust our testing capacity in a week’s time and be left without our testing shield. The government needs to tell the country, how many testing kits have been imported or manufactured in the last 36 days, how many given to which states, what has been the demand from different states, what is the position in regard to PPEs (Personal Protection Equipments), ventilators and masks,” Tiwari asked.“Are we prepared to exit this lockdown in a calibrated manner,” he questioned further.Also Read: Pray more this Ramzan: PM Modi appeals on Mann ki BaatFormer Prime Minister and senior Congress leader Manmohan Singh has also raised a similar point and said that the battle against coronavirus can’t be won without more aggressive testing.Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the May edition of his monthly Man ki Baat address on the All India Radio delivered earlier today warned people against complacency in fight against COVID-19 and appealed for continued care and precautions. Prime Minister also said that all sectors of society and business were adjusting to the realities of a post-coronavirus world.Also Watch: Mann ki Baat key highlights: PM Modi on spitting, masks and moreCongress leader Manish Tewari, however, alleged that a senior government official in Niti Aayog had claimed that there will be no fresh cases of coronavirus in the country after May 16 as per the projection/modeling done by experts based on the current data. He demanded to know if the government agreed with this assessment.“We would like to ask the government if they stand by this projection that there will be no fresh cases by May 16, 2020,” Tiwari asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-not-vanishing-on-may-3-where-s-the-national-plan-congress-asks-pm-narendra-modi/story-czXW5BQPvc8JYBccb3bhjL.html
26-04-2020||India||Over 10 pollution hotspots in Delhi, Mumbai turn into green zones during lockdown||With vehicles off the road and most industries shut for over a month due to the coronavirus lockdown, over 10 pollution hotspots in Mumbai and Delhi have turned into green zones recording minimal or no pollution.In Delhi, eight locations which used to be pollution hotspots before the lockdown have now become green zones, said Gufran Beig, director, Centre’s System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).The areas are Vinobapuri, Adarsh Nagar, Vasundhara, Sahibabad, Ashram road, Punjabi Bagh, Okhla and Badarpur, he told PTI, sharing a comparative map of Delhi’s air quality before and during the lockdown period.In Mumbai, Worli, Borivali and Bhandup were among areas which recorded cleaner air as compared to other areas of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).These pollution hotspots in Delhi and Mumbai used to report high pollution mainly due to industrial activity or vehicular traffic. The air quality index in these areas now lie in ‘good’ or ‘satisfactory’ category.An AQI between 51-100 is considered ‘satisfactory’, 101-200 ‘moderate’, 201-300 ‘poor’, 301-400 ‘very poor’, and 401-500 ‘severe’.SAFAR also compared the concentration of the most dangerous air pollutants, PM2.5, PM10 and NO2, in the air during first phase of the lockdown from March 25 to April 14 with pre-lockdown period from March 1 to 21. The analysis was conducted in Delhi, Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad.PM2.5 (atmospheric particulate matter that have a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometers), PM10 (atmospheric particulate matter that have a diameter of less than 10 micrometers) and NO2 (nitrogen di-oxide released in traffic emissions) are some of the most dangerous pollutants and prolonged exposure to these can lead to serious respiratory disorders.In Delhi, PM2.5 concentration was found to be reduced by 36 per cent during the lockdown, PM10 by 43 per cent and NO2 by 52 per cent as compared to the pre-lockdown period, the analysis showed.The comparison in Mumbai in the same period showed a reduction in PM2.5 by 39 per cent, PM10 by 43 per cent and NO2 by 63 per cent.In Pune, a reduction was observed in PM2.5 by 25 per cent, PM10 by 26 per cent and NO2 by 57 per cent, according to the data.In Ahmedabad, PM2.5 reduced by 39 per cent, PM10 by 32 per cent and NO2 by 27 per cent, according to the data.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has also reported 46 per cent reduction in PM2.5 levels and 50 per cent depletion in PM10 concentrations in the national capital.The apex pollution control body has analysed data from continuous ambient air quality monitoring network of 38 stations in Delhi between March 16 and April 15. Air quality trends have been studied in two phases -- pre-lockdown phase from March 16 to 21 and the lockdown phase from March 25 to April 15.In its report, the CPCB said, “Significant reduction in PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 levels observed. Overall, 46 per cent reduction in PM2.5 and 50 per cent reduction in PM10 concentration observed during the lockdown period.” India is under the lockdown since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus, which has claimed over 824 lives and infected more than 26,496 people in the country. During the lockdown period, not only air quality has improved, the health of rivers has also seen a drastic improvement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-10-pollution-hotspots-in-delhi-mumbai-turn-into-green-zones-during-lockdown/story-gR1QoGLkQkgMjYYdKJ9kXJ.html
26-04-2020||India||From Pak’s terror factories, 450 reach launch pads to enter Kashmir||Pakistan, which is struggling with the coronavirus disease like the rest of the world, has doubled the number of terrorists waiting to infiltrate into Kashmir from its 14 operational launch pads, a senior government official told Hindustan Times.“Our information is that there are about 450 terrorists affiliated to different Pakistan -backed terrorist groups at these launch pads,” the official said. Pakistan has reported nearly 12,700 Covid-19 cases and 268 deaths.The new estimate, powered by new intelligence inputs received by national security planners in Delhi, indicates that Pakistan has doubled the presence of terrorists at the launch pads in just about a week or so.As reported by Hindustan Times on April 9, intelligence agencies had put the number of terrorists at the launch pads at about 230. “The situation has changed vastly over the last 2-3 weeks,” the official cited above said.According to information available with national security planners, the 450 terrorists include 244 from the Lashkar-e-Taiba, 129 from the Jaish-e-Mohammed and 60 from the Hizbul Mujahideen. Smaller groups such as the Al Badr make up for the rest.Most of these terrorists were minted recently from the many camps that are being run in Pakistan, mostly in its occupied territories.Available intelligence inputs with security agencies indicate that out of 16 terror camps, 11 are functioning in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), two in Punjab, Pakistan and three in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) region.Seven of the 11 terror camps running out of PoK are hybrid camps where the trainees include recruits of different terrorist groups. “The existence of such mixed terror camps is evidence that there is one force that oversees them; the Pakistani deep state,” a counter-terror official in Delhi said.Opinion | Pak’s troubled economy is hurting more than Imran Khan wants to believeThree other camps are dedicated to train Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and one for training Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) group. In the KPK region, the Hizbul Mujahideen runs two camps and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) runs one. The LeT and JeM share one camp each in Punjab province of Pakistan.Officials said Pakistan’s Inter Services Intelligence had gone to great lengths through the year to raise the presence of terrorists in Kashmir. This is the first summer after India scrapped Article 370 in August last year and there have been attempts to incite street protests, and violence, ever since.The terror reinforcements at the launch pads, an intelligence official said, were designed to beef up the strength of terrorists in Kashmir depleted due to some recent setbacks. It is estimated that there are about 240 terrorists in Kashmir including about 100 foreigners. Every 6 of 10 foreign terrorists are affiliated to the Lashkar-e-Taiba; the other four are linked to the Jaish.As things stand, officials said, Pakistan’s ISI has only operationalised 14 of the 86 launching pads or detachments along the Line of Control in Srinagar sector, Rajouri-Poonch sector and in Jammu sector across the international border.In the Srinagar sector, 10 out of 51 pads are used by terrorists belonging to LeT, JeM, HM, Al-Badr and other sundry groups. In Rajouri-Poonch sector, three out of 13 pads across the LoC are occupied while one out of four pads are occupied by terrorists in Jammu sector largely belonging to LeT, JeM and HM terror groups.“Pakistan Army has no option but to continue with jihad in Kashmir else the public will start focusing on the poor domestic situation on the economic and Covid-19 response front and start questioning the leadership,” said a senior Indian general.Even though Rawalpindi GHQ plans to underplay its role by projecting local participation through the newly-formed Resistance Front and Tehreek-e-Millat-e-Islamia (TMI), Pakistani terrorists are being infiltrated to ensure that things don’t go south in the Valley and international attention .Besides, a sustained effort is on by the Imran Khan government to raise the Kashmir issue at multilateral fora including filing a petition through an NGO in the International Criminal Court at Hague apart from moving the United Nations Security Council.Also read | ISKP commander who was its bridge with Pak’s ISI, Lashkar arrested||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-hasn-t-let-covid-19-halt-terror-factories-raises-mobilisation-at-launch-pads/story-4df2yg5EzNoQ0Ko36hHmDI.html
26-04-2020||India||96 booked in Rajasthan for funeral in violation of Covid-19 lockdown norms||Over 90 people from around two dozen villages in Rajasthan have been booked for allegedly attending a funeral without taking permission from the administration and violating social-distancing norms, the Jaipur Rural Police said on Sunday.Tarachand Sharma, station house officer (SHO) of Andhi police station, said a 75-year-old resident of Birasna Ramnagar panchayat was admitted in a local primary health care (PHC) centre on April 17 after he complained of pain due to gallstones. He was tested negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and a surgery was done on April 22 to remove the stones. “But his condition deteriorated and he died in the afternoon on the same day...his family members took the body from the hospital and his funeral was done at a crematorium falling in the limits of Andhi police station in the evening,” Sharma said.He said the family members didn’t inform the local administration even as more than a hundred people attended the funeral. According to federal guidelines, more than 20 people are not allowed at funerals during the lockdown announced to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease.“We received information from our sources that 124 people attended the funeral --- which was against the orders of the district administration. Police, along with local medical teams, surveyed the area and have so far identified 96 people who have been booked,” Sharma said.These people, including the family members of the deceased, have been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Sharma said all these people have been have been kept in quarantine at a private college in Sitapura area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/96-booked-in-raj-for-funeral-in-violation-of-lockdown-norms/story-0j1ohYnIqiha0SyWRFXhdO.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: 376 students from Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota depart for home||At least 376 students from the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh who were stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota amid the nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus departed for home on Saturday, an official said.One NEET aspirant from Kashmir’s Kupwara, Haris (19) said “We were stuck in Kota for the past one month due to which our parents back home were concerned. Now we are happy that we are returning home”. He thanked the Rajasthan government, Jammu and Kashmir government and their coaching institute in Kota for facilitating the students’ return.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Another NEET aspirant from Kupwara, Ghazi Rasool Batt said “I am relieved on returning home in this Covid-19 crisis”. Sharing his experience on the problems they faced during the lockdown, he said “there was much difference between the food they received prior to and after the lockdown.”Also read: ‘Strategy must’, Ashok Gehlot to Centre on getting migrant workers homeSince many students from the valley are observing Ramadan fast, they were provided meals by the Allen Career Institute of Kota.The 14 buses that left from Kota on Saturday carrying the students will cover a distance of around 1000 km to reach the valley.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Over 20,000 students from Kota have already returned to their states in buses including those from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Daman and Diu, Dadar and Nagar Haveli, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh,” Divisional Commissioner, Kota, LN Soni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-376-students-from-jammu-and-kashmir-ladakh-stranded-in-rajasthan-s-kota-depart-for-home/story-esNcLnGoNhdUyJrpSexfqL.html
26-04-2020||India||100 tonne medicine, payments worth Rs 452 crore: How India Post served Covid-19-hit country||In a month of service (till April 24) since the Covid-19 lockdown began, India Post delivered over a 100 tonne of medicines and medical equipment and enabled Postal Savings Bank Account transactions amounting to Rs 33,000 crore and Aadhar-enabled payments worth Rs 452 crore, officials privy to the matter told Hindustan Times.Department of Post, which falls under Essential Service Maintenance Act, has been the bridge for many people across states during the Covid-19 lockdown. The department adapted to the situation caused by the coronavirus pandemic in a very short period of time to ensure doorstep delivery of pensions and medicines across the country. “One of the silent revolutions has been the Aadhar-enabled payment system,” said India Post director-general Arundhaty Ghosh. “You can withdraw money from any bank account and the postman will deliver it your home once your biometric is cleared.”Nearly 23 lakh users have transacted Rs 452 crore using this system across the country.The system requires the user to download the India Post Payment Bank app, following which the request can be made. At a time, Rs 10,000 can be withdrawn. “Many people were facing difficulties reaching their banks, so we decided to take this step to ease their troubles,” Ghosh added. The app can also be used to pay electricity and mobile bills. India Post savings bank accounts, which saw transactions amounting to Rs 33,000 crore, have, however, been operating through ATMs and post-office counters.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also lauded the efforts of the Postal Department on Friday. “Kudos to the @IndiaPostOffice Network, our hardworking postmen for their stupendous efforts in assisting people during this time,” the PM said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-tonne-medicine-payments-worth-rs-452-crore-how-india-post-served-covid-19-hit-country/story-Y5jNWOPGDGNDti2wjOex4I.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Am alive’, says MP Covid-19 patient in video after being declared dead by doctor||Madhya Pradesh’s health department admitted its lapse in declaring a Covid-19 patient dead and issued a show cause notice to the concerned doctor who committed the error, a department official said in Ujjain on Saturday . The department swung into action and issued the notice to the doctor moments after a video clip, posted by the 30-year-old patient admitted to a private medical college in Ujjain, 190 kilometres west of state capital Bhopal, , was shared widely on social media. The patient is heard saying in the video clip, “I was admitted to RD Gardi Hospital two days back. I read in a newspaper on Saturday that I have been declared dead whereas I am alive and healthy. Nothing has happened to me. Please share this video with others and improve the arrangements here.”Chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Ujjain Dr Anusuiya Gawali Sinha said, “The name of the patient was entered in the record as dead in place of a 60-year-old Covid-19 patient from Ujjain who died on Thursday. The doctor who happens to be the nodal officer has admitted his lapse, saying that it happened due to confusion over names and addresses.”The CHMO said she had issued show cause notice to the doctor and warned him as well.“ I have issued a show cause notice to him and sought his explanation as to why action be not taken against him and his institution by the health department. Also, I have warned him that such an error should not be repeated in future.” The total number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh reached 2,096 on Sunday, according to Union health ministry data. Ninety nine people have died of the disease in the state, as per the ministry figures. Of these, 57 deaths have been reported from Indore alone– the worst affected district in the state- followed by 15 in Ujjain and nine in Bhopal. So far, 210 patients have recovered from the disease in the state and returned home.According to the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Good Governance and Policy Analysis, an institute set up by the state government in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh was the fifth among the states in the total number of persons affected as per the data available on Friday evening. The test positivity rate increased from 5.10% to 5.26% whereas recovery rate had fallen from 12.035 to 11.38%. The case fatality rate increased slightly from 4.92% to 4.98%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/am-alive-says-mp-covid-19-patient-in-video-after-being-declared-dead-by-doctor/story-G2UEEjzd4NNSwiKZDl2LTN.html
26-04-2020||India||On Akshay Tritiya, PM Modi calls on people to help each other amid Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the festival of Akshaya Tritiya signifies the “power of giving” and said any and all help will go a long way in the country’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic.In his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, the Prime Minister said ‘kshaya’ means decay but what can’t be destroyed or get over is ‘akshay’.“We celebrate this festival every year. But, this year, this festival has a special significance for us. In today’s tough times, it reminds us that our soul and feelings are akshay. This day reminds us that no matter how many obstructions, problems and diseases we face, our spirit to fight them is akshay,” PM Modi said.WATCH | Mann ki Baat key highlights: PM Modi on spitting, masks and more Also read: PM Modi says India helped others, lauds people’s fight against Covid-19“Do you know that Akshay Tritiya is also an occasion to celebrate the power of giving. Whatever one gives wholeheartedly is significant. It doesn’t matter what and how much we are giving, our small efforts can make a difference for many people around us during this time of crisis,” he said.The Prime Minister said it is believed on this day the Pandavas got the Akshaya Patra, or a bowl which is never short of food, with the blessings of Lord Krishna and Suryadev.“Our farmers work hard for the country in every situation with this feeling. Due to their hard work, today the country and all of us and the poor have akshay food grain stocks,” he said.The Prime Minister also called upon people to also think about the environment, forests, rivers and the entire ecosystem. “If we want to remain akshay, then we will have to first ensure that our earth is akshay,” he added.The Prime Minister said that this is an auspicious day in Jain tradition also.Also read: Masks will now symbolise civilised society, says PM Modi on Mann ki Baat“It has been an important day in the life of first Tirthankar Bhagwan Rishabh Dev. The Jain community celebrates this day as a festival. That is why it is easy to understand why people start something auspicious on this day,” he added.“Since it is a day to start something new, can we resolve to make our earth akshay with our efforts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-akshay-tritiya-pm-modi-calls-on-people-to-help-each-other-amid-covid-19/story-WMJxRo5fvyZu7RD05vyJjK.html
26-04-2020||India||Pray more this Ramzan: PM Modi appeals on Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to turn the month of Ramzan into a symbol of patience, harmony, sensitivity and service and follow norms of social distancing to break the chain of coronavirus infections. While addressing his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, the Prime Minister also said the coronavirus pandemic has changed the way festivals are being celebrated in India and across the world.“The holy month of Ramzan has also begun. While celebrating Ramzan last time, no one has thought that we will have face such a big crisis during Ramzan this time,” Modi said while speaking during the 64th edition of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.“But now when the whole world is facing this problem, it provides us with an opportunity to make this Ramzan a symbol of patience, harmony, sensitivity and service. We should pray even more this time so that the world is rid of corona by the time of Eid and we celebrate with the same fervour and enthusiasm as before,” he said.Modi’s message came a day after the Muslim holy month began and when prayers in mosques have been stopped and religious gatherings banned across India to contain the spread of Covid-19.The Prime Minister also said that he was confident that by following the guidelines of the local administration, people will strengthen the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.“It is essential right now to follow physical distance on the streets, residential areas and markets. I also express my gratitude to all those community leaders who are making people aware of maintaining a two-yard distance and staying home,” he said.Ramadan started on Saturday morning and is expected to end on May 24. Muslims fast during the daylight hours, a practice seen as one of the five pillars of Islam, over 30 days. They eat before sunrise and break their fast after dusk each day.The Union ministry of home affairs had on April 10 directed all states and the Union territories (not to allow any social or religious gathering and ensure strict compliance of lockdown ahead of various festivals like Baisakhi, Ambedkar Jayanti, Ramadan and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pray-more-this-ramzan-pm-modi-appeals-on-mann-ki-baat/story-X4Vh6DbmK5yLuDqVuUFEoK.html
26-04-2020||India||Assam to facilitate intrastate travel of 11k people in 700 buses today||Amid the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Assam government has begun transporting thousands of people from one part of the state to another in a three-day exercise.The one-time conditional travel allowing people stranded across the state due to the lockdown to reach their homes or workplaces began on Saturday and will continue till Monday.“Nearly 41,000 people had registered themselves at our helpline numbers. Of them, 5,000 were transported to various parts of the state in 300 buses of the Assam State Transport Corporation (ASTC) on Saturday,” industries and transport minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said.Coronavirus outbreak: Full coverageOn Sunday, over 11,000 passengers will be transported by nearly 700 ASTC buses free of cost to various destinations. The same exercise will continue on Monday while maintaining safety and social distancing norms allowing 15-20 persons to travel in one bus.ASTC carried out a similar exercise last month between March 24 and 28 when it helped 28,000 people who had reached Assam by trains, buses and flights reach their homes across the state.Patowary informed that since the beginning of the lockdown on March 25, 357 trains carrying food items and essential goods have reached Assam. The transport department engaged 33,000 labourers and over 1,500 trucks to take goods to 28 locations in the state.“The food supply chain in the state is functioning very well and at present there is no shortage of food items anywhere in the state,” he said.The government also allowed those having their own vehicles to travel from one destination to another and employers to transport their workers to the workplaces with prior permission from district authorities.“We got over 51,000 requests from people who wanted to travel using their own vehicles. If the lockdown gets extended beyond May 3, we may allow another travel window later,” state health and finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Friday. On Saturday, 12,000 people moved within the state using own vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-facilitate-intrastate-travel-of-11k-people-in-700-buses-today/story-gLCNqV42dVvccrqrOryc4I.html
26-04-2020||India||4-yr-old Kerala boy, separated from parents due to lockdown, re-united after a month||A four-year-old boy from Kerala, who was forced to be away from his parents for over a month due to the lockdown, was re-united, thanks to the intervention of firefighters.After the boy’s father, an electrician, was asked to go on home quarantine in mid-March, the parents--Sajith and Vishnupriya from Kambalakad at nearby Kalpetta --shifted their son to a relative’s house at Shoranur in Palakkad district.Sajith was working at Payyannur in Kannur, and a COVID-19 case was reported in that area in mid-March, following which he was asked to go on quarantine. By the time Sajith completed his mandatory quarantine, the lockdown came into force, due to which the parents were unable to bring their child back.The couple approached the Kalpetta MLA CK Saseendran for help and the legislator got in touch with Wayanad Collector Dr Adeela Abdulla, who intervened to reunite the child with his parents.Two fire and rescue officials from Palakkad, Anup and Santosh, picked up the boy and his uncle in their vehicle from Shoranur on Friday morning, brought him to Kozhikode and handed him over to their counterparts in Kalpetta.The child was then taken to his parents in Wayanad.“The boy was brought in a Fire Force vehicle from Shoranur to Kozhikode from where our team went and brought him here and handed over to his parents by noon,”K M Jomy, Station Officer, Fire & Rescue, Kalpetta, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-yr-old-kerala-boy-separated-from-parents-due-to-lockdown-re-united-after-a-month/story-GuKdwkgRSfnP97Ri5bfPxJ.html
26-04-2020||India||Delhi will implement Centre’s guidelines on reopening of shops, says Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday presented data on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital to say his government will not allow any more relaxation in rules during the ongoing lockdown than those permitted by the Union ministry of home affairs. Addressing a press briefing through video, the chief minister said his government will implement the Centre’s guidelines on the opening of neighbourhood and standalone shops during the lockdown till May 3 in the national capital.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Essential services will continue. Medical stores, grocery stores, fruits and vegetable shops, dairy will remain open. Besides this, no shopping complex or market will open. No shopping malls will open. But standalone shops in residential areas and neighbourhood shops will open as directed by the Centre,” he said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief, however, pointed out that no shop will be allowed to open in the more than 90 containment zones in the city.“We will not allow anything else to open till May 3 for the next one week. The restrictions will continue like this till May 3. All of you have worked hard to keep the situation under control and we need to keep it up,” he said.“The Prime Minister has decided to extend the lockdown till May 3. Our decision on what to do in Delhi after May 3 will depend on what the central government does,” he said.Arvind Kejriwal also said the last week was slightly better than the week before for the people of Delhi in terms of the number of cases and deaths. Many people went home after making a complete recovery, he pointed.“In the seventh week since the beginning of the corona pandemic, 850 new cases were reported and for once we were really worried and said the cases were increasing rapidly. And in the eighth week, the last week, 622 cases were reported,” he said. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage It has been seen across the world that when coronavirus cases go up they double up.“In the seventh week 21 people died and last week nine died. Our efforts are to save people’s lives. In the seventh week, 260 people recovered and were discharged from hospitals, in the eighth week 580 went home,” he said.There is good news, he said. “A patient in LNJP Hospital was in critical condition and doctors said he was sinking. He was administered plasma therapy and his health has improved significantly. This has encouraged us as far as plasma therapy is concerned,” Kejriwal said.“We are asking every patient, who has recovered and discharged, to donate plasma,” he urged.The number of coronavirus disease cases in Delhi stood at 3548 on Sunday morning, including 2625 patients and 869 discharges and 54 fatalities, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-delhi-will-implement-centre-s-guidelines-on-reopening-of-shops-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal/story-CK7sRV8MH0o0e7swOshLXN.html
26-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 cases reach 2,096, Indore has half of them and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 update: Cases reach 2,096, Indore has half of themThe total number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh reached 2,096 on Sunday, according to Union health ministry data. Ninety nine people have died of the disease in the state, according to the health ministry. Indore continues to be the hotspot in Madhya Pradesh; 56 fresh cases were reported in the city till Saturday afternoon. Read MoreCovid-19: The countries with most cases and deathsMore than 180 countries and territories have reported nearly 2.8 million confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and over 200,000 deaths since the contagion was reported from China’s Wuhan late last year. After the first death linked to the disease was reported on January 10 in Wuhan, global fatalities linked to the virus passed 200,000 on Saturday, more than one-quarter of them in the United States. Which are the 10 most affected countries?Read MoreRamayan: When Ram and Sita were photobombed by Laxman, Bharat, Shatrughan in this throwback picDoordarshan is revisiting its past glory in the times of coronavirus crisis as it telecasts its iconic series Ramayan and Mahabharat to help people tide over the lockdown. The social media generation has also found its latest fix in the Indian epics and the trivia involved with it. Throwback photos from the time when Ramayan was shot have become Twitter gold. Which is the latest one? Read More‘My family is more important than my game’Suresh Raina, ace India batsman who represents Chennai Super Kings in the IPL, where he is the second highest run-scorer in history. Sharing his experience of dealing with Covid-19, he told HT, “ It is everyone’s responsibility to be sensible, help each other and be united. The more you can stay at home, the better it is.”Read MoreYouTube app to save you from long scrolls by hiding the video comments sectionThis change will be coming to both Android and iOS versions of the YouTube app in the ‘next few weeks’ as mentioned in Google’s updated support page.Read MoreCovid-19: Proper intake of vitamins and minerals in your diet boosts immunity, here’s howAs the Covid-19 crisis disrupts economies globally, it’s vital to ensure adequate intake of micronutrients to boost overall immune functions and prevent life-threatening infections.Read MoreResidents help an elderly neighbour stay entertained in quarantine Being in lockdown is no easy task. Boredom and loneliness can really take a toll on one’s mental and physical health. For an elderly lady , her neighbours are the ones who are sharing their books and movies with her. Read MoreBihar BCECEB- ITICAT 2020 registration deadline extended due to lockdownBihar Combined Entrance Competitive Examination Board (BCECEB) has extended the last date to register for Industrial Training Institute - Competitive Admission Test (ITICAT) 2020 till May 10. Earlier, the registration window was scheduled to close on April 26. This has been done considering the hardships faced by the applicants due to the lockdown in view of Covid- 19.Read More‘Covid-19 has taught India a lesson…’: CDS General Bipin RawatChief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat commented on how Covid-19 has taught India a lesson. He said, “Covid-19 has taught us a lesson that time has now come to be self-reliant.” He added, “In India, when we’re looking at becoming a regional power, we’ll have to support others & not be dependent on support. It’s important that we start depending on Make in India.” Watch the full video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-madhya-pradesh-covid-19-cases-reach-2-096-indore-has-half-of-them-and-all-the-latest-news/story-E1oKuVAomS0DWGcquFRO4J.html
26-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Intense lockdown in 5 Tamil Nadu cities: Here’s what will remain open, what won’t||Five cities in Tamil Nadu, including the state capital of Chennai, have been put under an “intense lockdown” to check the spread of the highly infectious coronavirus disease or Covid-19 on Sunday.Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced the tightening of restrictions on Friday. The government decided to tighten curbs under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in select urban regions based on expert opinion as the number of infections rose.The “intense lockdown” in Tamil Nadu comes in the middle of a nationwide shutdown ordered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month and extended to May 3. The lockdown has been intensified for four days from Sunday till 9pm on Wednesday in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai. Two smaller cities of Salem and Tirupur are under stricter restrictions for three days till 9pm on Tuesday.Here what will remain open, what is shut and what people can do:* People cannot step out of their houses even to buy groceries. “To vend vegetables and fruits, only mobile outlets shall be allowed,” the chief minister has said.* Home delivery of food from restaurants is permitted but takeaways are also not allowed.Also read: India reports 1,990 new Covid-19 cases, 49 deaths in 24 hours* Authorities will carry out disinfection twice in the containment zones.* Government-run Amma canteens that provide food at subsidised rates, ATMs, hospitals, laboratories, pharmacies and allied services like ambulances will function.* During the intense shutdown, banks and central government offices are allowed only 33% of employees. * Employees in sectors like information technology have been allowed to work from home but other private sector firms shall remain closed, the government has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-intense-lockdown-in-5-tamil-nadu-cities-here-s-what-will-remain-open-what-won-t/story-QNrzyOp73EcHKZbyjBIBJP.html
26-04-2020||India||Aggressive testing key to fight battle against Covid-19, says Manmohan Singh||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Sunday said that without aggressive testing facilities, India cannot conquer challenges posed by Covid-19.Testing and tracing are the key to fighting the menace, he said in a video released by the Congress.“There are problems with regard to the inadequacy of testing facilities and without more aggressive facilities of testing, we are not going to conquer this menace,” Manmohan Singh said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe Congress shared the thoughts of various leaders in the video to resolve the current crisis relating to the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown. The leaders are members of a consultative group headed by Singh and formulate the party’s views on various matters. They also stressed on the issue of humanism, protection and financial security to drive the approach to dealing with migrant labourers.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the party should have a broad framework for protection of migrants.“We must insist that migrants are protected. But, we must also acknowledge that state governments are actually going to be responsible for driving this thing. Different state governments might choose different methodologies to solve this problem,” he said.Gandhi said, “Our migrant strategy should include protection. The idea that you can tell the migrant that it is his problem, that has to be central. Movement of the migrant should depend on the two states and they should have a conversation.” “Testing and Tracing are the key to fight COVID19. Humanism, protection and financial security must drive our approach to dealing with migrant labourers. This is the only way ahead,” the Congress said while sharing the video.Former finance minister P Chidambaram suggested that one must leave it to the state from where the migrant originally came in to find ways to take back the migrants from other states. “But, the bulk will have to remain where they are. They have to be immediately given cash and grain,” he noted.Congress general secretary K C Venugopal said “The government is failing in this battle and we have to put pressure on the government for the people of the country.” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the government’s financial action plan 1 has not really worked and “government needs to step up”.Another Congress leader Jairam Ramesh sought scaling up testing facilities and noted that the country had the capacity to triple the amount of testing. For reaching a threshold level of covering one per cent of population, “we have to do something like 10 million tests”, he said.Party spokesperson Manish Tewari said it is incumbent upon the Congress to collectively apply our minds and suggest a smart plan to how do we transition out of this lockdown due to all the issues arising out of it, especially the economic issue.The Congress also said that it believes in dialogue and discussion as the path to finding solutions. PTI SKC DV DV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aggressive-testing-key-to-fight-battle-against-covid-19-says-manmohan-singh/story-rMWj4VnKxrXi71204fl9AO.html
26-04-2020||India||Masks will now symbolise civilised society: PM Modi on Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday the coronavirus pandemic has effected several positive changes in the way people are living their lives and masks are one of them as he addressed the nation through his Mann ki Baat programme. Prime Minister Modi also vouched again for the traditional gamcha, which he has been using to cover his mouth and nose amid the Covid-19 crisis during several of his addresses.“You would also have noticed how this crisis has made us more aware of various subjects. One of the first effects are using a mask and keeping our faces covered,” Modi said during the Mann ki Baat programme.The Prime Minister said as the times are changing due to Covid-19, masks have become a part of people’s lives.“We have not been habitual of seeing people around us with masks but this is happening now. But this doesn’t mean that all those who use masks are sick,” he said.He elaborated his point with an analogy about fruits and diseases. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“When I talk about a mask, I remember an old thing. You also would be remembering, there was a time when a person seen buying fruits would be questioned whether someone in the family was sick. It meant, fruits could only be consumed during illness, such was the thinking that time,” he said.But with changing times, the way people thought about fruits has also changed, PM Modi said.“Similarly, perception regarding the mask is also about to change. You will see that mask will now become a symbol of civilised society,” he added.“If you want to save yourself and others from disease, then you will have to use a mask. And, I have a simple suggestion, gamcha,” he added. The Prime Minister also spoke about the harm of spitting in public and said people must shun this bad habit. “Another awareness that has come in our society is about the harm of spitting in public. Spitting here and there was a part of bad habits. This was also posing a grave challenge to cleanliness and health. In a way, we were always aware of this problem but this problem was not going away from society,” he said.“It is now time to eradicate this bad habit forever. It is also said, better late than never. It may be later, but this habit of spit should be given up,” he added.These things will not only increase the level of basic hygiene but also help to curb corona infection, the Prime Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/masks-will-now-symbolise-civilised-society-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-7QsZ3eJ2q9xluPuZiqVztI.html
26-04-2020||India||46 people discharged from Covid-19 hospitals in Jaipur, highest so far||Forty-six people were sent home from hospitals in Jaipur on Saturday evening after they recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), highest so far in Rajasthan as well as in the state capital. The last patient to be discharged in Jaipur was on April 1, said officials.Until Saturday, only six patients from Jaipur had been sent home from the three government hospitals where Covid-19 cases are being treated – SMS Hospital, Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) and Jaipuriya Hospital.According to the state health department’s medical bulletin on Sunday morning, 244 people had been discharged in Rajasthan even as the number of recovered cases was 513.“We wait for three negative reports before discharging patients,” said Dr DS Meena, superintendent of SMS Hospital.Also read: Rajasthan to organise passage for migrant workers, says CM GehlotJaipur continues to report the highest number of cases in Rajasthan at 799. The capital also accounts for more than half the state’s Covid-19 mortality; 19 deaths out of 35 are from Jaipur.Officials said seven of these deceased people tested positive for Covid-19 after death. Also read: States divided on extending lockdown beyond May 3“The first of such case came to us on April 14. The man was operated for abdominal trouble and he died on April 17. Later, four doctors who were part of the surgical team also tested positive,” Dr Meena said.Also read: Rajasthan seeks ICMR approval to begin trials for plasma therapyOfficials said 58 cases were reported in the state on Sunday morning, including 20 from Nagaur and 15 from Jodhpur, taking the state’s Covid-19 tally to 2141.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/46-people-discharged-from-covid-19-hospitals-in-jaipur-highest-so-far/story-aSDbCfQfpnxoqQ5OlWdCNK.html
26-04-2020||India||PM Modi says India helped others, lauds people’s fight against Covid-19||India has decided to supply medicines to others in this hour of crisis in line with its culture and ethos, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, while also saluting the country’s “people-driven” fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).In his monthly radio address, the Prime Minister said the government was doing everything to protect its citizens. He stressed that India, after meeting its requirements, has provided medicines to other countries.“Today, when world leaders say ‘thank you, India; thank you, people of India’ I feel very proud. India is caring for its own citizens and is contributing towards creating a healthier planet,” Modi said in Mann Ki Baat.The government has relaxed restrictions on the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine as several countries, including the US and Brazil, sought supplies from India, which is its largest producer.A large part of Modi’s address was dedicated to thanking citizens for what he described as an active participation in the fight against Covid-19 and motivating front line workers such as health care staff, sanitation workers and policemen, among others.“There was a time when some people had negative thoughts about the police, but now when we see them feeding the poor, there is greater appreciation, he said.“I am so happy to see the immense appreciation for the working of sanitation workers…The appreciation for doctors, nurses and health care workers is exceptional,” he said. Modi said people in the country don’t appear to trust its traditional knowledge --- a situation he attributed to the country’s colonial history that he said led to lack of self-confidence.He appealed to the youth to make ayurvedic practices on boosting immunity popular with evidence-based research. “Let us make these systems popular and share them in a language in which the world understands,” Modi said.The Prime Minister said due to the challenging times, when people are confined to their homes, businesses were adopting new technologies.“Be it our businesses, office culture, education, medical sector --- everyone is adapting to new changes…There is a strong desire to innovate in various areas,” he said.While congratulating people on Akshay Tritiya, Basaveshwar Jayanti and Ramzan, Modi also emphasised that social distancing should continue to be followed.“While celebrating Ramzan the previous year, no one would have thought that there would be so many difficulties during Ramzan this time. This time, let us pray that there will be some good news from different parts of the world by the time of Eid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-says-india-helped-others-lauds-people-s-fight-against-covid-19/story-8DdtzN2E1zCrbbxwHRNwlK.html
26-04-2020||India||States get a shoutout from PM Modi for ‘very active role’ in Covid-19 battle||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday acknowledged the contribution of the state governments in the war against the Covid-19 pandemic as he addressed the nation through his monthly Mann ki Baat radio programme.“I also appreciate the role of the state governments. They are playing a very active role in combating this pandemic. Local administrations, state governments, are playing a key role in the battle against Corona,” the Prime Minister said.“Their hard work is praiseworthy,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet chief ministers of states over video conference, the third such on issues related to the coronavirus pandemic, on Monday to discuss a number of issues including a decision on the lockdown.He also said earlier in his Mann ki Baat address that the fight against the coronavirus pandemic is “people-driven” and India’s efforts will be discussed the world over. India reported 26,496 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) with 1990 new infections in the last 24 hours— the biggest single-day spike so far. Out of this, 824 patients have died, data from the Union health ministry showed on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-get-a-shoutout-from-pm-modi-for-very-active-role-in-covid-19-battle/story-a0uR9blVNocwPvsPGGoTKM.html
26-04-2020||India||Govt issues preventive guidelines for essential service staff||The Maharashtra government has issued a circular stressing on the importance of social distancing, hygiene and wearing of protection gear, after some of its employees tested positive for coronavirus.The circular issued by the public health department on Saturday said some government staff involved in the maintenance of essential services in the state have tested positive for the disease.Employees should wear masks, hand gloves and if necessary, aprons, and ensure that soap, water and hand sanitisers (with at least 60 per cent alcohol) are available at workplaces, it said. “Wash your hands applying soap and with water for at least 20 seconds before beginning your daily work. Use hand gloves then. Do not touch (your) face, eyes, nose and mouth.Avoid putting hand gloves in pockets,” the circular said.The objects which are touched often, like door handles and taps, should be disinfected every two-three hours with a liquid containing one per cent sodium hypochlorite, it said.There should be a distance of at least one metre between two employees at the workplace, the circular said.“Use speaker mode while using mobile phone. Avoid contact of mobile phone with face whenever possible,” it said.“Take bath using soap and water immediately after reaching home if there is no facility to take bath at office or place of duty,” the circular said.Sanitation, health and police department officials and staff should use personal protection equipment, it said. “All officials and staff should not use or handle each other’s mobile phones, handkerchiefs, water bottles, glasses, etc,” the circular said. “All department heads should ensure supply of the personal protection kit, hand gloves, apron, jacket, masks, soap and sanitisers as per requirement,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-preventive-guidelines-for-essential-service-staff/story-b4o59z8gA5OooCmtTDo2eP.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Be a Covid warrior’: PM Modi urges people on Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to contribute on the government’s digital platform for those who are on the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus pandemic in the country.The Prime Minister, on his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat, said the government has linked volunteers of various social organisations, representatives of the civil society and the local administration on the website covidwarriors.gov.in.PM Modi pointed out that in a short time, doctors, nurses, ASHA and Anganwadi workers, NCC and NSS and professionals from various fields are among the 1.25 crore people who have come together through this portal. “They have made this portal their own… These people are contributing significantly towards preparation and implementation of a crisis-management plan,” he said on his monthly Mann ki Baat radio programme.Also Read| ‘Thaalis, diyas, taalis inspired one and all’: PM Modi praises people’s efforts“Even you can serve the nation by associating with covidwarriors.gov.in and become a Covid warrior. Friends, every difficult situation, every battle gives us some lessons and teaches us something, open up avenues of possibilities and guide us toward new goals,” he said.Also Read: ‘Our fight against coronavirus will be talked about world over’: PM ModiThe resolve displayed by Indians during this tough time has led to a new change in India, the prime minister said.During his address, Modi also praised the billions of Indians and said: “India’s fight against corona is truly people-driven”.“It is being fought by the people and the administration in close collaboration. A vast country like India, which is striving for development, fighting a decisive battle against poverty, this is the only option to win the war against corona,” PM Modi said.“We are fortunate that the entire country, with each of its citizen, is leading and fighting this war as soldiers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-a-covid-warrior-pm-modi-urges-people-on-mann-ki-baat/story-sH9rtXASd6DPlW7p0P8v1L.html
26-04-2020||India||With 811 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra records highest single-day jump||Maharashtra, which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country, recorded its biggest single-day spike with 811 new cases on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases in the state have gone up to 7,628 cases.The state also recorded 22 Covid-19 related deaths on Saturday alone, and the toll has now reached 323. However, the mortality rate in the state has dropped to 4.4 per cent, from its peak at eight per cent a few days ago. The doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra has increased, according to state officials.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, who had earlier said that lockdown will be extended in the state till May 18, said on Saturday the state government has not yet taken the decision. Maharashtra has also started giving hydroxychloroquine to asymptomatic patients and relatives of patients in densely populated areas such as the Dharavi slum in Mumbai.Maharashtra has decided not to allow standalone shops of non-essential services to remain open, despite the central government’s notification on Friday permitting their operations.As of March 25, Maharashtra has conducted 1,08,972 tests, of which 7,628 people have tested positive and 1,01,162 have tested negative. There are 555 containment zones in the state. On Saturday alone, 7,194 flying squads appointed by the state screened 31.43 lakh people in containment zones. A total of 1,076 Covid-19 positive patients have been cured and discharged in Maharashtra.The state government also pointed out that new Covid-19 cases are being reported from contacts of positive persons, but maintained that community transmission has not begun in the state. Meanwhile, Maharashtra’s first patient who will be administered plasma transfusion has been identified. The man is currently admitted to Bandra’s Lilavati Hospital in Mumbai. The transfusion process is likely to be carried out on Sunday.A plasmapheresis machine - which carries out removal, treatment, and return or exchange of blood plasma - has been installed at BYL Nair Hospital. Three units of plasma from recovered patients have been collected. Dr Daksha Shah, deputy director, health department of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said, “Five more recovered Covid-19 patients have been screened to donate plasma.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-811-new-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-records-highest-single-day-jump/story-iCdZuyCEg2onTW5RcaprXI.html
26-04-2020||India||Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ highlights: Wearing masks will become symbol of civilised society, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s view on the current Covid-19 situation in the country was the focus of his monthly radio programme Mann ki Baat. Here are the highlights of his speech:-“Every citizen is a soldier of the unprecedented battle India is fighting against Covid-19. Our fight is people-driven. ‘Taalis, thaalis, diyas, mombatti’ gave birth to an emotion that has driven Indians to help each other and the whole world is a witness to this,” PM Modi said.- “We are thankful to the farmers who are toiling hard, landlords who waived off rents, people who donated their prize money and pension to PM-CARES fund. Actions such as these give India the strength to fight the pandemic,” he said.-“A digital platform, covidwarriors.gov.in has connected all Covid-19 warriors who are volunteering to help the needy. I request you to connect to this platform and do your bit”, PM said.-“Every battle teaches us something, and gives us new opportunities. This battle has given birth to new scientific and technological temperaments. Every inventor is working on something that could help us during these times. I am also thankful to the state governments, officials of aviation sector, railway, and police for going out of their ways to ensure the delivery of essentials to the needy,” the PM said.-“Money is being directly transferred through PM Garib Kalyan Yojana to the accounts of the poor. All this is possible due to the hard work of Banking sector employees,” PM said.-“We are learning to appreciate all those who make our daily lives easier. People who clean our house, collect garbage, vegetable vendors etc are being recognised for their services and photos of people showering flowers on them have also reached me,” said PM Modi.-“It is in India’s culture to help the needy. We have provided essential drugs to many countries during this tough time and all countries are thanking the poeple of India for this. I feel proud when world leaders call me and say, ‘thank you, India’. India’s Yoga and Ayurveda are also being lauded overseas. We should recognise the potential of Ayurveda and work on evidence-based researches so that the world too sees it for the potential it has,” he added.-“Wearing masks and covering one’s face is the new norm and will soon become a symbol of a civilised society. We will also have to leave behind the habit of spitting at public places. This will help us fight coronavirus and improve our overall hygiene,” PM said.-“Today is ‘akshay tritiya’, and akshay means that which can never be destroyed. Let us take the pledge of making our earth ‘akshay’,” he said.-“It is also the month of Ramzan. Let us stay indoors and follow social distancing and work towards improving the situation so that we can celebrate Eid with our loved ones in a proper manner,” he added.-“If Covid-19 has not reached our offices or areas yet, it does not mean it will never. Let us make an example out of ourselves and learn from others’ mistakes. Our ancestors have taught us that one should never underestimate a dying fire, debt, and disease. We need to cure ourselves fully. We cannot afford any carelessness,” PM Modi said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highlights-pm-modi-mann-ki-baat-amid-covid-19/story-tz952FcxRr5XMZyrwdYKdP.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Have 25k kg onions, will travel’: Mumbai airport worker’s plan to beat lockdown||How do you travel from Mumbai to Allahabad when there is a lockdown? Buy 25 tonnes of onions, load them onto a truck and hit the road. Desperate to reach his ancestral village on the outskirts of Allahabad, Prem Murti Pandey, who works at Mumbai airport, says he did just that. He spent the first phase of the lockdown in Mumbai, but then it seemed that the restrictions could go on for a while. “Actually Azad Nagar in Andheri East, where I live is a very congested area and there is a bigger risk there of coronavirus spreading,” he told PTI. Buses and trains don’t run and flights are grounded during this lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus. “I realised that the government had left one way open,” Pandey said, referring to the relaxation on the movement of essential commodities like fruit and vegetable. His plan also involved watermelons -- 1,300 kilos of them. On April 17, Pandey hired a mini-truck for Pimpalgaon near Nashik, about 200 km way. There, he bought the watermelons for Rs 10,000 and sent the vehicle back to Mumbai with the consignment. He had already struck a deal with a buyer in Mumbai. Next, he studied the Pimpalgaon market for a good deal in onions. Pandey said he bought 25,520 kilos of onions at Rs 9.10 per kg, shelling out Rs 2.32 lakh. He then hired a truck for Rs 77,500 and set off on April 20 with the onions on a 1,200-km journey to Allahabad. He reached there on April 23 and headed straight to the Mundera wholesale market on the outskirts of the city. Unfortunately, he couldn’t find anyone who would pay cash for the load. So Pandey took the truck to his village, Kotwa Mubarkpur, a couple of kilometers away. The onions were unloaded there. TP Nagar police post in-charge Arvind Kumar Singh said Pandey came to Dhoomanganj police station on Friday and a medical team examined him. For now, he has been asked to quarantine himself at home. As for the onions, Pandey still hopes to get a good deal.Right now, the mandi is full of onions from Sagar in Madhya Pradesh. Once the Sagar supply is over, onions from Nashik will find buyers, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-have-25k-kg-onions-will-travel-mumbai-airport-worker-s-plan-to-beat-lockdown/story-cVIbpL1X5CnnmPveZb2kmJ.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Our fight against coronavirus will be talked about world over’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on his Mann Ki Baat radio programme on Sunday tnat people across the globe will discuss India’s battle against the coronavirus pandemic as he pointed out how every citizen has come forward to help each other.“When the entire world is battling this pandemic, in future whenever this war with the pandemic will be discussed, its events recalled, I am confident that India’s people-driven war will surely be discussed,” the Prime Minister said on his Mann ki Baat programme.“In every nook and corner of the country, people have come forward to help each other. From feeding the poor to arranging ration, observing lockdown, manning hospitals to indigenous production of medical equipment, the entire country is marching hand -in- hand in one direction towards one goal,” he said. Modi also praised the billions of Indians and said: “India’s fight against corona is truly people-driven”.“It is being fought by the people and the administration in close collaboration... We are fortunate that the entire country, with each of its citizen, is leading and fighting this war as soldiers,” he said.Also Read| India striving for development, only option is to win war against coronavirus: PM Modi on Mann ki BaatThe Prime Minister also said the suggestions and phone calls for this edition of Mann ki Baat have been many times higher than usual.“Encompassing many subjects, your Mann ki Baat suggestions have reached me. I have tried to read them and listen to them as much as possible. In the hustle and bustle of life, I got to focus on several topics which remain unnoticed through your suggestions,” he added.This is one of Modi’s several addresses to the nation since the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown began last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/our-fight-against-coronavirus-will-be-talked-about-world-over-pm-modi/story-0NwYd8JjzQHq3CzVNXpkGM.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Thaalis, diyas, taalis inspired one and all’: On Mann ki Baat, PM Modi praises people’s efforts in Covid-19 fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the spirit shown by people of India when they together clapped for Covid-19 frontline warriors during Janta Curfew, has inspired everyone. He said this during his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’.“The claps (taalis), lamps (diyas), candles and the sentiment generated by people, the spirit by which people resolved to do something, has inspired one and all,” PM Modi said.In his address to the nation last month, PM Modi had announced a self-imposed one-day quarantine known as ‘Janta Curfew’ to fight the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. The Janta Curfew lasted for 14 hours - from 7 am on March 22 to 9 pm. The Prime Minister also urged people to praise the efforts of emergency workers by clapping or blowing conches - a call which was widely responded.Then, on April 5, PM Modi asked people to switch off the lights at the homes and light lamps or candles to spread the light and “fight the darkness of coronavirus”. Millions of people across the country responded to the call.“From towns to villages, everywhere people are coming together in this giant endeavour. Look at our farmers, in the middle of this pandemic, they are working day and night in the fields to ensure that no one sleeps hungry. Everyone is fighting this battle according to their capacity,” PM Modi further said on ‘Mann ki Baat’.In his last Mann Ki Baat address on March 29, four days after announcing the first phase of nationwide lockdown, the PM had apologised to the nation for imposing the shutdown but justified the step, saying it was needed to ‘win this battle’.“I apologise for taking these harsh steps which have caused difficulties in your lives, especially the poor people. I know some of you would be angry with me also. But these tough measures were needed to win this battle,” he had said.Since that address, a second phase of nationwide lockdown has been imposed which will end on May 3. The government has also announced some relaxations in the lockdown rules including opening neighbourhood and stand-alone shops providing non-essential goods and services but with certain conditions.According to the Union health ministry figures released on Sunday morning, India’s coronavirus count stood at 26,496 including 19,868 active cases and 824 deaths from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thaalis-diyas-taalis-inspired-one-an-all-on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-praises-people-s-efforts-in-covid-19-fight/story-eKw00aDINJgo2t1fvnFf9I.html
26-04-2020||India||India striving for development, only option is to win war against coronavirus: PM Modi on Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his monthly radio address “Mann ki Baat” on Sunday once again praised the billions of Indians, who he said have fought shoulder to shoulder in the country’s efforts to stop the spread of the deadly coronavirus infection.“Friends, India’s fight against corona is truly people-driven. It is being fought by the people and the administration in close collaboration. A vast country like India, which is striving for development, fighting a decisive battle against poverty, this is the only option to win the war against corona,” PM Modi said in the latest edition of Mann ki Baat.“We are fortunate that the entire country, with each of its citizen, is leading and fighting this war as soldiers,” he said.The Prime Minister also said the suggestions and phone calls for this edition of Mann ki Baat have been many times higher than usual.“Encompassing many subjects, your Mann ki Baat suggestions have reached me. I have tried to read them and listen to them as much as possible. In the hustle and bustle of life, I got to focus on several topics which remain unnoticed through your suggestions,” he added.This is one of Modi’s several addresses to the nation since the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown began last month.He has tried to reach out to people by apologising for the government’s tough decisions, spoke on the need to care for the poor, and honoured those at the forefront of the fight against the coronavirus pandemic while outlining the next course of action.In his last address on March 29, four days after announcing the first phase of nationwide lockdown, the Prime Minister had apologised to the nation for imposing the shutdown but justified the step, saying it was needed to ‘win this battle’.“I apologise for taking these harsh steps which have caused difficulties in your lives, especially the poor people. I know some of you would be angry with me also. But these tough measures were needed to win this battle,” he had said.Since that address, the second phase of nationwide lockdown has been imposed which will end on May 3. The government has also announced some relaxations in the lockdown rules including opening neighbourhood and stand-alone shops providing non-essential goods and services but with certain conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-striving-for-development-only-option-is-to-win-war-against-coronavirus-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat/story-GUHeuqVRISAaBwthOwKgzL.html
26-04-2020||India||On Mann ki Baat, PM Modi hails ‘people-driven war’ against Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed the “people-driven war” in India against the coronavirus disease, and said it will be discussed in the future. He said this during his monthly radio programme Mann ki Baat.“Suggestions and phone calls for this edition of Mann ki Baat are many times higher than the usual. Encompassing many subjects, you mann ki baat has reached me. In hustle and bustle of life, several topics remain unnoticed have come to the fore through your feedback. I intend to share a few such aspects with the countrymen,” he said.“India’s fight against coronavirus is people driven. It is being fought by the people and the administration in close collaboration,” added PM Modi.Be it businesses, offices, education institutes or medical sector, everyone is adapting to changes in the post-coronavirus world, he said.“A vast country like India which is striving for development, fighting a decisive battle against poverty, has only this option to win the war against coronavirus. We are fortunate that the entire country with every citizen as a soldier is leading and fighting this war,” he said.“Wherever you see, you will find that it’s a people-driven war. When the entire world is battling this pandemic, in future whenever this war with pandemic will be discussed, its events recalled, I am sure that this people-driven war of India will be surely discussed,” the Prime Minister further said.India’s decision to supply medicines to countries which needed them amid the Covid-19 pandemic was guided by its ethos, he said, adding that he feels very proud when world leaders thank India and its people for the assistance.In his over 30-minute-long address, Modi hailed the contribution of state governments in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, saying they have played a very active role.In his last Mann ki Baat address on March 29, four days after announcing the first phase of nationwide lockdown, the PM had apologised to the nation for imposing the shutdown but justified the step, saying it was needed to ‘win this battle’.“I apologise for taking these harsh steps which have caused difficulties in your lives, especially the poor people. I know some of you would be angry with me also. But these tough measures were needed to win this battle,” he had said.Since that address, a second phase of nationwide lockdown has been imposed which will end on May 3. The government has also announced some relaxations in the lockdown rules including opening neighbourhood and stand-alone shops providing non-essential goods and services but with certain conditions.According to the Union health ministry figures released on Sunday morning, India’s coronavirus count stood at 26,496 including 19,868 active cases and 824 deaths from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-hails-people-driven-war-against-covid-19/story-sfBB2dKJmAR7XH5vNqB6zM.html
26-04-2020||India||Armed Forces understand their responsibility in fight against Covid-19: CDS Gen Bipin Rawat||General Bipin Rawat, the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) says that the armed forces understand their responsibility in the fight against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and have to ensure that they remain safe to support the people of the country. “As armed forces, we understand our responsibility that at this time when the nation is fighting against Covid-19 menace, the defence services must operate beyond the mandate and come to the support of our people and government in whatever way we can,” General Rawat told ANI in an exclusive interview on Sunday. He added that for the forces to support the country, they have to first ensure that ‘we remain safe from Covid-19.“In order to do so, we have to first ensure that we remain safe from Covid-19 because if our own sailors, soldiers and airmen get affected by this virus, how are we going to support our people,” he added.General Rawat said that strict directions have been issued to the armed forces on social distancing, wearing of masks and ensuring that people who need to be isolated remain in quarantine. Twenty five Indian Navy personnel and eight Army personnel including two doctors and one nursing assistant have so far tested positive for coronavirus. According to Navy sources, the reported cases are asymptomatic and were traced to one sailor who tested positive on April 7. Twenty of these sailors are from INS Angre, a shore establishment in Mumbai. The navy men have been admitted in naval hospital INHS Asvini in Mumbai’s Colaba after testing positive for the novel coronavirus.Speaking about the Covid-19 cases in military, General Rawat said discipline and patience has helped the armed forces in preventing the spread of disease.“Covid-19 has affected the three services in a very limited number. I would say that this is the discipline and patience which has helped us in preventing the spread of the menace,” he said. The CDS said that armed forces personnel have downloaded the Aarogya Setu app and if anyone contracts the disease, authorities would be able to pick up the case very soon and ensure that the disease doesn’t spread. With Covid-19 cases spreading at a fast rate across the country, the army has said all its personnel will be classified as ‘green’ (who have completed 14 days of quarantine), ‘yellow’ (those who need to undergo 14 days quarantine) and lastly, ‘red’ (who are symptomatic and require isolation and further treatment in Covid hospitals).Referring to the nationwide lockdown, in place till May 3, General Rawat said that this is not the time to be impatient. “We do know when the country is under lockdown and (when) people are told to stay indoors, they tend to become impatient. This is not the time to be impatient. Patience is very important to ensure that we remain disciplined. Maintaining discipline in armed forces is not very difficult as we are accustomed to be in discipline but to maintain patience is the need of the hour,” he said.On the operational preparedness of the armed forces, the CDS said that India’s military is capable of undertaking any operational task assigned to it. “Whatever budget has been given to us, we must spend it pragmatically, avoiding any wasteful expenditure. We don’t see any major drop in our operational preparedness as far as the three services are concerned,” General Rawat said.“Covid-19 has taught us a lesson that the time has come to be self-reliant.”In India, when we are looking at becoming a regional power, we’ll have to support others and not be dependent on others. It becomes important we support Make in India (programme) and ensure that whatever (weapons systems) we are importing, gradually we get it through Make in India,” General Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-understand-their-responsibility-in-fight-against-covid-19-cds-gen-bipin-rawat/story-Q9lIg60rPBpwbcZFyVuA6H.html
26-04-2020||India||Number of Covid-19 cases in Varanasi rises to 34 after 7 cops test positive||Eight people, including seven policemen, tested positive for coronavirus disease Covid-19 on Saturday in Varanasi, taking the number of infected people in the district to 34. These policemen were posted in Sigra police station in the city.District Magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said that 95 reports were received from the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) on Saturday in which seven police personnel tested positive for Covid-19. The police personnel include a sub-inspector, three head constables and three constables. The other 87 samples tested negative, said Sharma.He further said that the sub-inspector first developed dry coughing and fever. Thereafter, some police personnel exhibited symptoms. They all lived in the same barrack at police outpost. Three days ago, they were quarantined in a guest house and their sampling was done. On Saturday, their report was received and seven policemen were tested. They have been shifted to isolation ward of BHU.Another 39-year-old person has also been tested positive. He has also been shifted to DDU government hospital.There are 25 active Covid-19 cases in the city and eight have been cured of the disease. One person has died.The district administration is using specially designed drones to disinfect Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency.A statement by the principal scientific advisor’s office said it has collaborated with Invest India, the country’s National Investment Promotion Agency through the AGNIi Mission, and Invest India’s Business Immunity Platform (BIP) - to facilitate the use of specially designed drones to sanitise Varanasi, news agency PTI reported.The statement said using drones, authorities can spray disinfectant over large, crowded, vulnerable urban areas by protecting city-dwellers from Covid-19, while reducing human contact to keep frontline workers safe.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh reached 1,793 on Sunday with 177 new patients reported in the last 24 hours.“The total number of samples found negative is 54,216. The total number of samples result awaited is 842,” Uttar Pradesh’s Directorate of Health Services said in a bulletin on Saturday.The media bulletin further said, “The total travellers screened at the border check posts is 15,59,010. These are all travellers and not suspects. 35 patients have been declared recovered and discharged today, taking the total number to 261.”Total number deaths due to Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh is 27 - one each at Basti, Varanasi, Bulandshahar, Lucknow, four at Meerut, six at Moradabad, one at Firozabad, eight at Agra, three at Kanpur, and one at Aligarh, according to state health officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-covid-19-cases-in-varanasi-rises-to-34-after-7-cops-test-positive/story-OIptfgXZ5t2bZrDtmk3KJM.html
26-04-2020||India||2 judges travelling over 2000 km by road amid lockdown to assume charge as HC chief justices: Report||With air and rail passenger services suspended due to a Covid-19-induced lockdown, two judges have embarked on a road journey, each of them covering over 2,000 km, as they gear up to take charge as chief justices of high courts in separate corners of the country. The judges -- who were elevated to the position of high court chief justices only recently -- hit the road amid the nationwide shutdown to ensure trials and justice delivery system do not go off the track.Justice Dipankar Datta, a judge at the Calcutta High Court, is taking turns with son to sit behind the steering wheel, as the family moved to Mumbai, where he would be taking over as the new Chief Justice of Bombay High Court, sources privy to the development said. Allahabad High Court judge Justice Biswanath Somadder, who has been elevated as the Chief Justice of Meghalaya High Court, is driving to Shillong via Kolkata.Justice Somadder, who had served at the Calcutta High Court before being transferred to Allahabad, set out on the journey from the north Indian city along with wife on Friday evening in an official car, the sources said. He had a chauffeur by his side, who took charge of the wheels from time to time. The judge reached Kolkata on Saturday afternoon, and left for Shillong in the evening, after a few hours of rest at his Salt Lake residence here.He is scheduled to reach the Meghalaya capital on Sunday afternoon.Justice Datta left for Mumbai from Kolkata on Saturday morning and plans to reach the country’s financial capital by Monday afternoon with overnight breaks on the way.President Ram Nath Kovind had on Thursday elevated Justice Dipankar Datta, senior judge of Calcutta High Court, as the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court, and appointed Justice Biswanath Somadder of Allahabad High Court as Chief Justice of Meghalaya High Court.Both Justice Datta and Justice Somadder were elevated as permanent judges of the Calcutta High Court on June 22, 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-judges-travelling-over-2000-km-by-road-amid-lockdown-to-assume-charge-as-hc-chief-justices-report/story-O4LA6EaGeLJN2dW35LOvbO.html
26-04-2020||India||Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 update: Cases reach 2,096, Indore has half of them||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh reached 2,096 on Sunday, according to Union health ministry data. Ninety nine people have died of the disease in the state, according to the health ministry.Indore continues to be the hotspot in Madhya Pradesh; 56 fresh cases were reported in the city till Saturday afternoon. More than 100 people tested positive for the disease in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday.Indore, the worst affected district, alone accounts for 57 deaths.Indore has the highest tally of Covid-19 cases at 1,085 followed by Bhopal (388) and Ujjain (103). A month ago, there was not a single Covid-19 case in Indore.“We feel the virus is more virulent in the Indore belt. We have sought help from the National Institute of Virology in Pune. They have agreed to study the virus from culture at other places and compare it by extraction of virus genome,” Jyoti Bindal, Dean of Government Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, told news agency IANS.The Inter-ministerial Central Team (IMCT), which has been in Indore since April 22 to monitor the efforts to combat coronavirus, asked the state administration to identify the hotspots in the city and draw up a special plan for places where 10 or more positive patients have been found. The number of coronavirus cases in Jabalpur has now climbed to 43. Hoshangabad has 30 cases, Khandwa 36 and Chhindwara five.The number of cases in other districts is: Barwani 24, Raisen 26, Morena and Vidisha 13 each, Ratlam 12, Mandsaur eight, Shajapur six, Sagar five, four each in Gwalior and Sheopur, three in Alirajpur, two each in Shivpuri and Tikamgarh and one each in Betul and Dindori, according to state health officials.So far, 210 patients have recovered and returned home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-covid-19-update-cases-reach-2-096-indore-has-half-of-them/story-K442ULvSCTRrX6oPoG4DFO.html
26-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Rajasthan to organise passage for migrant workers, says CM Gehlot and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajasthan to organise passage for migrant workers: CM GehlotMigrant workers will now be able to go out of Rajasthan and those in other states can come back in a phased manner after his government coordinated with others, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday evening. Ashok Gehlot said the state government wants to send all migrants workers to their homes safely and expected their support.Read MorePost-lockdown plan, migrants in focus at Centre-states meetHundreds of thousands of workers , currently in migrant labour camps around India want to return home -- something not possible when no interstate travel is being allowed and passenger trains are not running. Several states have suggested running special trains to transport these workers. At Saturday’s meeting some states including Punjab, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal asked the centre to set a protocol for such movements.Read MoreBailout plan: Play more matches with IndiaThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), the richest body in world cricket, has come up with a plan to help countries facing losses due to the cancellation of cricket worldwide -- although the idea is contingent on games resuming.Read MoreSara Ali Khan bonds with brother Ibrahim over intense workout and knock-knock jokesSiblings Sara Ali Khan and Ibrahim Ali Khan seem to be bonding over fitness. On Saturday (April 25) night, the actor shared a picture of the two of them after an intense workout.Read MoreNetflix has secret codes for hidden movies, shows: Here’s the whole listNetflix has a whole list of secret codes that you can use to find movies and shows, according to genres, to watch. Your Netflix home page is customised according to movies and shows you watch normally. Genres you don’t watch often enough will not be shown unless you specifically search for it with movie or show names. However, there is a way to navigate to content that fly below our radar. Read MoreWord of the Week: Saturnine - A grump by any other nameIn the old days people ascribed many qualities to the planets. In 15th century Europe, savants believed that the astrological influence of the planet Saturn -- which was considered in those days to be the planet most remote from the Sun and thus the darkest, coldest and slowest in its orbit – would generate the same qualities in human beings. Accordingly, anyone of a dark disposition, somewhat cold, remote or forbidding in manner, and grave and slow in movement and speech, was described as “Saturnine” . Read MoreUGC to issue guidelines next week on measures to be taken for current, next academic sessionThe University Grants Commission (UGC) on Saturday said that the two committees which were earlier formed have submitted their reports and the regulatory body will issue guidelines next week to universities and colleges regarding the measures to be taken for the current and next academic session.Read MoreCovid-19: How a WhatsApp group helped UK man travel India for treatmentA WhatsApp group helped a UK man travel to India for treatment. BJP leader KJ Alphons had received a message from the Mayor of Bristol about a patient in the UK. Alphons along with Justice Kurian formed a WhatsApp group for Covid-19. Alphons said that they have different help desks and volunteers who reach out for help with food and other needs. Watch the video for more details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-rajasthan-to-organise-passage-for-migrant-workers-says-cm-gehlot-and-all-the-latest-news/story-uuGganhI0WfJxNVhq9qATL.html
26-04-2020||India||Gujarat Covid-19 update: Cases cross 3,000-mark, Centre says situation in Ahmedabad and Surat ‘serious’||The total number of coronavirus disease Covid-19 cases crossed the 3,000-mark (3,071 to be exact) on Sunday, according to the Uniokn health ministry data. Two hundred fifty six new cases were reported across the state on Saturday.Six more deaths have taken Gujarat’s Covid-19 death toll to 133. The state has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases after Maharashtra.Two teams of the Union government on Saturday met local officials in Ahmedabad and Surat districts where the number of Covid-19 cases has risen sharply in the last few days.On Friday, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had said the situation in these two emerging hotspots in Gujarat was “especially serious”.Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad crossed 2,000-mark to reach 2,003 on Saturday as 182 new cases were recorded in the city, while in Surat the number went up to 496, with 34 new cases.The state has recorded new Covid-19 cases in three digits daily for the past fortnight.After Ahmedabad Surat, Banaskantha recorded 11 new cases, Vadodara seven, Bhavnagar and Anand five each, Gandhinagar four, Chotta Udepur and Panchmahals two each. One case each was recorded in Patan, Mahisagar, Navsari and newly added district Surendranagar.There are no cases in Amreli, Dwarka and Junagadh districts.As many as 36,730 persons are quarantined, including 32,119 at home, 3,565 in government facilities and 246 in private facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-covid-19-update-cases-cross-3-000-mark-centre-says-situation-in-ahmedabad-and-surat-serious/story-wldSqAN7D4kkX7wuFkQboO.html
26-04-2020||India||Watch: How Chandigarh cops maintain social distance, yet catch lockdown violators||Police in Chandigarh now know how to follow social distancing norms and catch violators of the lockdown, put in place to curb the spread of the deadly disease, at the same time.Sanjay Baniwal, director-general of Chandigarh Police, shared a post on Twitter where a policeman can be seen demonstrating how the device functions.“VIP Security wing of Chandigarh Police has devised this unique way of tackling non-cooperating corona suspects and curfew breakers. Great equipment, great drill !!! Way to go @ssptfcchd and Insp Manjit, HCt Gurdeep, HCt Pawan and Ct Usha,” Baniwal tweeted. VIP Security wing of Chandigarh Police has devised this unique way of tackling non-cooperating corona suspects and curfew breakers.Great equipment, great drill !!!Way to go @ssptfcchd and Insp Manjit, HCt Gurdeep, HCt Pawan and Ct Usha pic.twitter.com/oTLsGoe6ytThe instrument, made by the VIP Security wing of Chandigarh Police, has a long metal rod, which can be strapped to a policeman’s arms, with a tong-like shape at the other end. The device’s other end can be used to catch violators by attaching it around the person’s waist and leading them to the police vehicle without coming in any kind of contact with them.Also read: In this UP city, police perform aarti, give bananas to lockdown violatorsAuthorities have declared Chandigarh as a hotspot and a curfew has also been imposed in the city.Despite the country-wide lockdown, which has been extended till May 3, many have violated the rules and ventured out on the roads.Police across the country have used punishments—making violators do jumping jacks and sit-ups— to naming and shaming them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-how-chandigarh-cops-maintain-social-distance-yet-catch-lockdown-violators/story-KOP0IvpBuqbHYi9uzaDSLK.html
26-04-2020||India||5 cities in Tamil Nadu under complete lockdown from today to check Covid-19 spread||Five cities in Tamil Nadu - Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem and Tirupur - will be shut down completely starting Sunday to check the spread of coronavirus diease Covid-19. The tightening of restrictions was announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday.While Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai will be shut for four days, the restrictions will be applicable for three days in other two cities.Grocery shops will be completely shut after the government order and movement of public will be fully curtailed. Palaniswami has assured people that vegetables and fruits will reach their doorsteps via mobile outlets.But, despite the assurances from the state government, Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai saw huge crowds on Saturday as people came out in large numbers to stock up essentials.“Usually I come to the market only twice a month. However, today I came here as CM Palaniswami has announced a complete lockdown for the next 4 days,” Gaurav, a resident of Chennai, told newa agency ANI.“I believe that hunger is scarier than coronavirus. Hence, I took the risk of coming to the Koyambedu market to stock up on vegetables as this 4-day lockdown might get extended by 6-7 days,” he added when asked about contracting the infection by coming in the crowded place.Following a review meeting on the Covid-19 scenario in Tamil Nadu on Friday, Palaniswami said public health and medical experts have opined that imposing further restrictions in urban regions alone will help prevent the spread of contagion.Till date, Tamil Nadu has 1,821 confirmed Covid-19 cases, according to Union health ministry data.Madurai and Salem have 56 and 30 cases respectively.The district collectors of Chengelpet, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram have also separately issued directions for implementing the full lockdown in their respective areas which are close to Greater Chennai Corporation neighbourhoods and falling under the jurisdiction of Chennai Police.Suburban Tambaram and Madambakkam in Chengelpet district, Avadi and Poonamallee in Tiruvallur district and Kundrathur and Ayyappanthangal in Kancheepuram district are among the localities that will be shut, the respective district authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-cities-in-tamil-nadu-under-complete-lockdown-from-today-to-check-covid-19-spread/story-ApTyECnYqFpLei72J4MN1I.html
26-04-2020||India||India reports 1,990 new Covid-19 cases, 49 deaths in 24 hours||India reported 1,990 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), 561 more than Saturday, and 49 deaths in the past 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Sunday morning.The ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed 19,868 people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2 and 824 people have now died of the respiratory disease across the country. The number of patients who have been cured or discharged has also gone up to 5803 on Sunday morning from 5062 from a day earlier.Maharashtra and Gujarat, where the coronavirus outbreak has been growing at a much faster pace recently than the rest of the country, had the most number of cases. Also read: Post-lockdown plan, migrants in focus at Centre-states meetWith 7,628 infections and 323 deaths, Maharashtra continued to report the most number of cases in the country. In Gujarat, there were 3071 Covid-19 patients and 133 deaths.Officials have said the national doubling rate of infections was 9.1 days. According to HT’s analysis of the numbers reported by the states, this was 4.3 and 6.7 days respectively for Gujarat and Maharashtra.Officials said the overall growth in the number of cases in India has been linear, compared to some other countries where it has been exponential.Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and secretary of the department of health research, has said the case positivity rate has been about 4.5% throughout. Positivity rate is the proportion of people who test positive among all individuals tested on a particular day. “So we can safely say that we have managed to flatten the curve,” Dr Bhargava said.Also read: States divided on extending lockdown beyond May 3While officials and experts argue that this number suggests India been testing adequately, the total number of tests carried out across the country is still a mere 420 per million population.ICMR data shows there were close to 40,000 tests carried out by the government as well as private labs across the country on Friday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet chief ministers of states over video conference, the third such on issues related to the coronavirus pandemic, on Monday to discuss a number of issues including a decision on the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-1-990-new-covid-19-cases-49-deaths-in-24-hours/story-QJbUgznsdlDuEllV2AAXGI.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: Maharashtra crosses 7,000-mark, lockdown in Tamil Nadu cities||The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 26,496 on Sunday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 19,868 active coronavirus cases in the country, 5,803 patients have been cured or discharged while 824 people have died from the deadly contagion. Coronavirus cases in Maharashtra crossed the 7,000-mark while in the national capital, the number of cases has crossed 2,600. Gujarat continues to have the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country after Maharashtra. Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 7,628 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 323 deaths so far while 1,076 patients have recovered.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 3,071 coronavirus cases and 282 recoveries so far. One hundred thirty three people have died from the infection in the state.DelhiAs many as 2,625 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Firty four people have died from the infection while 869 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 2,083 on Sunday. The state has reported 33 fatalities, and 493 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 2,096 positive cases of Covid-19. Ninety nine people have died from Covid-19 here while 210 have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 1,821 Covid-19 cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 960 recoveries and 23 Covid-19 deaths. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has announced complete lockdown in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai for four days starting Sunday.Uttar PradeshNearly 1,800 (1,793 to be exact) people have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 261 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 27 have died from the infection here.TelanganaThe total number of infected people is touching 1,000 in Telangana (health ministry data showed 991 Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday). Two hundred eighty people have made a recovery from the virus while 26 people have died from Covid-19.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1,061 positive Covid-19 patients and 171 cases of recovery. Thirty one people have died.West BengalThe state now has over 600 cases of Covid-19 (the latest health ministry data shows 611 Covid-19 positive patients in West Bengal). There have been 18 deaths and 105 recoveries in the state.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 500 Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths. One hundred firty eight people have been cured and discharged.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 494. Six people have died from the infection while 112 were cured.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 457 coronavirus cases on Sunday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 338 people have successfully recovered.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 289 and 298 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 17 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. One hundred seventy six people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 67 in Punjab.In Bihar, 243 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 46 patients have recovered. Odisha has 94 Covid-19 positive patients, 33 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 67 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 13 have recovered.Uttarakhand has 48 coronavirus patients, 26 patients have recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 22 have recovered. Assam has reported 36 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 19 people have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 37 cases of coronavirus and 32 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 28 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 15 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered.Ladakh has 20 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Pondicherry has reported seven cases, three have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur had reported two coronavirus cases, both patients have recovered. Tripura too had two cases of Covid-19, both recovered. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3.India entered the twelfth day of the extended lockdown phase on Sunday.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-maharashtra-crosses-7-000-mark-lockdown-in-tamil-nadu-cities/story-otxBMPzuLOs4MkLcF0epeI.html
26-04-2020||India||Will enquire about mortal remains of Indian who died in UAE: Centre to Delhi HC||The Central government on Saturday informed the Delhi High Court that it will enquire about the state and location of the mortal remains of an Indian national who recently died in United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the corpse was returned to the Middle Eastern nation due to immigration issues.“We will find out from the embassy concerned about the location and condition of the mortal remains of Kamlesh Bhatt, who died of heart attack in Abu Dhabi on April 17” the Centre told a single judge bench of the high court presided by Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva.The submissions were made while the court was hearing a plea filed by deceased’‘s brother Vimlesh Bhatt, resident of Tehri Garhwal in Uttarakhand seeking direction to repatriate the mortal remains of his brother, which were sent to India by Etihad airport services cargo on April 23, respectfully to Delhi from UAE.He sought direction to the authorities to bring back the mortal remains of his 24-year-old brother who was working in Abu Dhabi and on April 17, his family in India received the information regarding his death due to sudden cardiac arrest.“In a most inhumane, insensitive and unexpected conduct of the respondents the human remains of the deceased were sent back to UAE on the same flight without citing any order/notification/circular or furnishing any medical report by a medical officer or giving any explanation or reason to the petitioner who kept praying for handing over of the mortal remains of his 24-year-old younger brother,” the plea said.During the course of the hearing, Advocates Rituparn Uniyal and Abhishek Kumar representing the petitioner said that on April 23, a social worker at UAE shipped the human remains from Etihad Airport to Delhi’s International airport and even the petitioner was informed when the cargo had arrived here.The petitioner further told the court that it was shocked after the cargo company informed them that they were not allowed to unload the corpse due to a few immigration issue despite having complete documentation and legal formalities which were required for repatriation of human remains to India as laid down by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA).Responding to the submissions Additional Solicitor General Maninder Acharya, appearening for the Central government told the court, “This being a unique case, the ministries of Home Affairs and Health and Family Welfare are in the process of framing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in order to avoid such problems in the future.After conducting an urgent hearing through video conferencing, the court has now posted the matter for hearing on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-enquire-about-mortal-remains-of-indian-who-died-in-uae-centre-to-delhi-hc/story-MZm5c81UgDZ9iV10kuPiNO.html
26-04-2020||India||India records biggest single day spike, virus can survive on particulate matter: Covid-19 news today||India’s tally of confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases shot past the 26,000-mark on Saturday with the biggest single-day spike in infections. Tests in Italy found the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, can cling to air pollution particles.India crosses 26k Covid-19 cases with biggest 1-day spikeThe spike in coronavirus infections on Saturday was driven largely by Maharashtra and Gujarat where the outbreak has been growing at a much faster pace recently even as the rest of the country shows some improvement.Read MoreVirus could cling to air pollutantsSARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, can cling to air pollutants, tests conducted in Italy have found -- a finding which, if validated, should cause concern in India, especially Delhi, where air pollution is a recurring problem, although both the researchers themselves and experts said it remains to be see if the virus remains viable and virulent on these particles.Read MorePost-lockdown plan, migrants in focus at Centre-states meetHundreds of thousands of workers , currently in migrant labour camps around India want to return home -- something not possible when no interstate travel is being allowed and passenger trains are not running. At Saturday’s meeting some states including Punjab, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal asked the centre to set a protocol for such movements.Read MoreCEA points at Spanish Flu lesson in Covid fightChief Economic Advisor KV Subramanian has presented his findings at the Finance Commission advisory council meeting on Friday where he said because India’s economy resembled the US economy at the time of the Spanish Flu, “its study can provide a reasonable guesstimate about what will happen in the Indian scenario”. Read MoreLockdown period will not count in insolvency proceedings: GovtThe government has issued two orders that exclude the lockdown period because of the Covid-19 outbreak from any corporate insolvency resolution or liquidation processes, the notifications issued on Friday said.Read MoreWHO warns against ‘immunity passports’ as nations look for ways to exit lockdownsThe World Health Organization (WHO) on Saturday warned governments against issuing “immunity passports” or “risk-free certificates” to people who have recovered to enable travel or return to work because there is no evidence that people who have recovered are protected from a second infection.Read More2 cell types are entry points for virusScientists have identified two types of cells in the nose that are likely to be point of infection for the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, in the body.Read MoreVentilation, humidity key in AC rooms: Govt guidelines Rooms and offices with air conditioning must be well-ventilated and humidified, according to government’s guidelines to public sector offices after a report by a group of experts outlined precautionary measures that need to be taken to curtail the possible spread of Covid-19 in such environments.Read MoreDelhi to open neighbourhood shops outside Covid hot spotsDelhi decided to open all neighbourhood stores, even those selling non-essentials, in areas outside hot spots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, a day after the Union home ministry allowed the conditional operation of stand-alone retail outlets.Read MoreHere’s something for you to do this Sunday: BirdingSince the lockdown began, and people started spending all their time at home, there’s been a huge upsurge of interest in birding.Read MoreCentre team says West Bengal not cooperating, row escalatesOne of the two interministerial central teams (IMCTs) sent to West Bengal to assess how the state was dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic has again complained that it is not getting support in accessing hospitals and that local officials are refusing to accompany it.Read MoreGovt planning special flights for Indians stranded abroadThe Centre has started making preparations to run scores of special flights early next month to bring thousands of Indians stranded abroad due to the cancellation of international flights from March 22.Read MoreSonia writes to Modi, seeks Rs 1L-cr for helping MSMEsCongress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce an immediate Rs 1 lakh crore “wage protection” package for the revival of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), warning that if problems of the sector are not addressed, it could have a devastating effect on the economy.Read MoreMaharashtra records highest one-day spikeMaharashtra recorded the highest single-day increase in the number of Covid-19 cases with 811 infections and 22 people succumbing to the disease on Saturday but officials in the state worst hit by the contagion took heart in a dipping mortality rate and stricter containment measures.Read MoreGlobal deaths surge past 200,000The worldwide Covid-19 death toll zoomed past 200,000 on Saturday as the United Nations launched a global push for a vaccine to defeat the pandemic.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-biggest-single-day-spike-virus-can-survive-on-particulate-matter-covid-19-news-today/story-WANk0UoFH42j3DcDdXLDSM.html
26-04-2020||India||‘Bored’ truck driver plays card game with friends, 24 test Covid-19 positive||A bored truck driver’s effort to kill time by indulging in a game of cards with friends and neighbours led to the infection of coronavirus in 24 people in one locality of Vijayawada city in Andhra Pradesh, Krishna district Collector A Md Imtiaz said here on Saturday.A social grouping for whiling away time by another truck driver resulted in the virus affliction to about 15 people in another locality in Vijayawada.These two instances accounted for about 40 cases in the city in the last couple of days, he said.The truck driver in Krishna Lanka locality was bored and played cards with his friends and neighbours while the women grouped up and played tambola.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage All this resulted in the spread of the dreaded virus in 24 people, he said.“The same thing happened in Karmika Nagar. The truck driver moved around socialising and in the process about 15 people got afflicted,” Imtiaz added.Also read: India crosses 26,000 Covid-19 cases with biggest one-day spikeFailure to maintain physical distance was the sole cause for the transmission of the coronavirus in these cases, he said in a recorded video message.Vijayawada is one of the major hotspots of coronavirus in the state where over 100 cases have been registered so far.Also read: States divided on extending Covid-19 lockdown beyond May 3In the last 24 hours alone 25 fresh cases were reported in the city, which is part of the state capital Amaravati.The Collector appealed to people to strictly maintain physical distance to avoid the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bored-truck-driver-plays-card-game-with-friends-24-test-covid-19-positive/story-0DDOclFzZgNo7heYNHzHtM.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19 update: After UP, Madhya Pradesh brings back migrant workers stuck in Gujarat||Thousands of migrant labourers from Madhya Pradesh have returned home from Gujarat, more than a month after the lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus pandemic was imposed, news agency ANI reported.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan had said on Friday the state government will bring back migrant workers stranded in other parts of the country.ANI quoted the chief minister as saying on Saturday that at least 2400 migrant labourers reached Madhya Pradesh in 98 buses and were screened for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).They reached the central state’s Jhabua district from Gujarat.“We are bringing back migrant labourers from Rajasthan and this will continue…” Shivraj Singh Chouhan said.Also read: Post-lockdown plan, migrants in focus at Centre-states meetThe chief minister said the state government is also making efforts to send labourers stranded in other districts of the state to their home districts.“We have arranged vehicles for them. They are being screened before leaving for their homes,” he added.This also comes after Chouhan’s counterpart in Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath announced that his government will bring back labourers and workers who have been stranded in other states and have completed 14 days of quarantine in a phased manner.On Saturday, Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba met chief secretaries of the states to talk about the thousands of workers, currently in migrant labour camps around India who want to return home, among other things.With no interstate travel being allowed and passenger trains not running, several states have suggested running special trains to transport these workers. At Saturday’s meeting, some states including Punjab, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal asked the Centre to set a protocol for such movements.Prime Minister Narendra Modi placed the country under a three-week lockdown from March 25 to April 14 to prevent the spread of coronavirus. As the number of coronavirus disease cases continued to increase, the lockdown was extended till May 3.The lockdown brought the entire country to a standstill but hit thousands of daily-wage migrant workers in big cities the most, who were seen walking back to their homes.The Centre directed the state governments to ensure strict enforcement of the lockdown, and provide food and shelter to those distressed to avoid a nationwide exodus of labourers.Last week, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) allowed stranded migrant labourers across India to return to their places of work within the city which are non-containment zones.“In the event, that a group of migrants wish to return to their places of work, within the state where they are presently located, they would be screened and those who are asymptomatic would be transported to their respective places of work,” MHA said in a statement.The ministry, however, said labourer cannot move outside any state or Union territory they are in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-after-up-madhya-pradesh-brings-back-migrant-workers-stuck-in-gujarat/story-kVQm0NA5iInolXU2Jhia3I.html
26-04-2020||India||All you need to know about SVAMITVA scheme and its coverage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced a scheme that has the potential to change the dynamics of rural areas. The announcement of SVAMITVA scheme coincided with the Panchayati Raj Day.The SVAMITVA scheme aims to provide an integrated property validation solution for rural India, according to the Ministry of Panchayati Raj.The schemeAccording to the panchayati raj ministry, SVAMITVA, or Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas, is a scheme for surveying the land parcels in rural inhabited area using drone technology and Continuously Operating Reference Station (CORS).The survey will be done across the country in a phase-wise manner over a period of four years - from 2020 to 2024.The projected outlay of the project is Rs 79.65 crore for the pilot phase (2020-21).Objective of the SVAMITVA schemeThe scheme will bring financial stability to people living in rural areas by enabling them to use their property as financial asset for taking loans and other financial benefits. It will also lead to creation of accurate land records for rural planning and determination property tax.Through the SVAMITVA scheme, the government hopes that property disputes and legal cases will be reduced.How will the scheme helpThe outcome from the scheme would include updating the record of rights in the revenue/property registers and issuance of property cards to the property owners. This would facilitate monetisation of rural residential assets for credit and other financial services. Further, this would also pave the way for clear determination of property tax.The SVAMITA scheme will also enable updation of property and asset register to strengthen tax collection and demand assessment process of gram panchayats.Other gram panchayat and community assets like vilage roads, ponds, canals, open spaces, school, anganwadi, health sub-centres etc will also be surveyed and GIS maps will be created. These maps can be used to prepare better quality gram panchayat development plan.CoverageAbout 6.62 lakh villages in the country will be eventually covered in the SVAMITVA scheme. The pilot phase will extend to six states - Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand covering approximately one lakh villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-svamitva-scheme-and-its-coverage/story-qwMGmugQXo0cnhFQq9tCYM.html
26-04-2020||India||Covid-19: States divided on extending lockdown beyond May 3||As India continues to grapple with the coronavirus outbreak amid a nationwide lockdown, some states are considering the option of extending the shutdown beyond May 3 while some others are in favour of restricting it to containment zones and their buffer areas and not the entire districts. So far, Telangana is the only state that has extended the lockdown till May 7. An official of Delhi government’s Covid-19 committee has suggested that the ongoing lockdown will have to be extended till mid-May for the epidemic curve to flatten as the national capital reported 2,625 infections including 54 deaths. “India is still on the ascending limb of the epidemic curve and so, to ease the restrictions will mean the cases will multiply uncontrollably. And, Delhi has a large number of containment zones, so it will be wise to extend it,” Dr S K Sarin, chairman of Delhi government’s committee on combating COVID-19, said on Saturday, reports PTI.“The lockdown will have to be extended till May 16 as that is when the epidemic curve is likely to start declining, which happens after the flattening of the curve,” he said.Maharashtra, too, is considering continuing the lockdown . The state government is considering extending the lockdown in Mumbai and Pune, the two biggest Covid-19 hotspots in the state. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday told HT’s business publication Mint that the lockdown will need to be extended if the spread of coronavirus is not contained. “The main objective of implementing the lockdown was to stop the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and if the spread is not getting contained, we will have to extend the lockdown,” Tope told Mint.“If required, we will extend the lockdown for 15 more days after 3 May only for the containment zones, if not for the entire Mumbai and Pune,” the minister added. Of Maharashtra’s total 6,817 coronavirus cases, 4,447 come from Mumbai while 961 cases are from Pune, according to official data. In Madhya Pradesh, officials have indicated that there is no likelihood of immediate relaxation in lockdown restrictions in the hotspot districts after May 3 as there haven’t been any signs of improvement. “There are no signs of improvement in the situation in the state particularly in the hotspot districts. Hence there is no likelihood of any immediate relaxation from lockdown restrictions in these areas after May 3. Rather, there will be stricter compliance of restrictions to control the situation,” said an official on condition of anonymity on Saturday. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has said he would go by the advice of the expert committee, set up to formulate lockdown exit strategy, in the matter of opening up the state.State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Saturday said that the chief minister will consult all the departments and there could be a state cabinet meeting over the same.In Uttar Pradesh, the administration has decided not to allow any public gatherings till June 30.Officials in most BJP-ruled states have said they will follow the Centre’s directions on the lockdown.The decision on whether to lift or extend the lockdown is expected to be among the issues likely to be discussed in Prime Minister Modi’s video conference with chief ministers on Monday. Some chief ministers want lockdown to be lifted in districts not affected by the pandemic, even as differences remain on how the curbs should be enforced in the remaining areas.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa and his Andhra counterpart, YSR Jagan Mohan Reddy, want the lockdown to be restricted to the containment areas and their buffer zones and not entire districts.Chief ministers of Rajasthan, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar are expected to seek relaxation on interstate transport for allowing stranded migrant labourers to return home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-states-divided-on-extending-lockdown-beyond-may-3/story-o1Lul35IR8Uw6YXc91zOrK.html
26-04-2020||India||Bengal Governor pans CM with markaz statement, Muslim leaders irked||The West Bengal Imams’ Association on Saturday shot off a letter to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, accusing him of “trying to disturb the communal harmony from a constitutional position” and seeking retraction of his statement on Nizamuddin markaz in Delhi.The imams’ body threatened to start a movement if Dhankhar does not retract his statement or clarify himself. Of around 40,000 mosques in the state, clerics of 26,000 mosques are members of the association. Dhankhar referred to Nizamuddin markaz in his letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday. He wrote a day after Banerjee sent him a five-page letter, accusing Dhankhar of forgetting his constitutional role.“I can figure out that your entire strategy is crafted to deliberately divert people’s attention from your abject failure in combating and containing coronavirus in West Bengal. Your appeasement of the minority community was so explicit and awkward that as regards a question about the Nizamuddin markaz incident by a journalist, your reaction was ‘Do not ask communal questions’. This is most unfortunate and cannot be appreciated,” Dhankhar wrote to Banerjee.As Muslims across West Bengal observed the first day of the month of Ramzan, the imams’ body raised strong objection to Dhankhar’s comment.“Nizamuddin markaz incident was related to Delhi Police and Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was completely their issue... we all are very much aware that general Muslims of India don’t have any relation with (the) markaz incident,” Md Yahiya, chairman, Bengal Imams Association, wrote to Dhankhar. Copies of the letter were sent to important officials at Raj Bhawan.If the authorities at Nizamuddin have made any mistake law will take it own course, said the letter. “As a lawyer by profession, I hope you are well aware about that.” Yahiya added and accused the Centre and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of targeting Muslims.This is the first time any religious body in the state has spoken out against Dhankhar whose acrimonious relationship with the Trinamool Congress government has been in news since last year. “The Bengal chief minister said in her press conference (when a journalist asked about Nizamuddin Markaz incident) that it is a communal question. What’s wrong with that reply? As a chief minister she also has right to freedom of expression,” said Yahiya’s letter.The letter said that when students of Jadavpur University (JU) once asked Dhankhar questions on the Jamia Millia University incident, Dhankhar, in his capacity as chancellor of JU, said Jamia Millia is not related to Bengal. “By avoiding such question in her (Banerjee’s) press meet how is it appeasement of Muslims of Bengal as you mentioned in your letter? Please clarify or retract publicly for trying to disturb the communal harmony from a constitutional position, as early as possible. Since in this lockdown period we can’t move towards Raj Bhavan, we need to do our movement from home,” the letter said.A Raj Bhawan official said the offices were closed during the weekend and correspondences would be checked on Monday. Trinamool Congress leaders were not willing to react. However, BJP Bengal unit general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “This (the letter) is part of a greater conspiracy. It is well known that a large number of people from Bengal attended the markaz in Delhi and many of them have not been traced and placed under quarantine.”“The Governor has only warned the government. Mamata Banerjee must remember that one can ride a tiger but getting off the tiger is not easy. She must stop her communal politics,” said Basu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-pans-cm-with-markaz-statement-muslim-leaders-irked/story-YNVX9gRhrIDV7xcQdRf5NM.html
26-04-2020||India||MEA minister Jaishankar speaks to his counterparts from African countries||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday spoke to his counterparts from African countries Burkina Faso, Comoros, Uganda and Mali and discussed health cooperation and development partnership with them.“An Africa-focus working day. Useful conversations with Foreign Ministers of Burkina Faso, Comoros, Uganda and Mali. Historical solidarity on display in the midst of contemporary challenges,” he said in a tweet. An Africa-focus working day. Useful conversations with Foreign Ministers of Burkina Faso, Comoros, Uganda and Mali. Historical solidarity on display in the midst of contemporary challenges.In conversation with Mali’s Foreign Minister Tiébilé Dramé, Jaishankar discussed health security and solar energy.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“Health security and solar energy discussed with FM @T_Drame of #Mali. Our medical supplies will be reaching there shortly,” he said in a tweet.Health security and solar energy discussed with FM @T_Drame of #Mali. Our medical supplies will be reaching there shortly. Underlines India’s growing cooperation with the Sahel.Jaishankar spoke to Uganda Foreign Minister Sam Kutesa and confirmed the impending shipment of medicine supplies and health equipment to combat coronavirus.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreak“Followed up on PM @narendramodi’s talk with President Museveni by talking with FM Sam Kutesa of #Uganda. Confirmed the impending shipment of medicine supplies and health equipment to combat #coronavirus. India and Uganda will address this global challenge cooperatively,” he said in a tweet.Followed up on PM @narendramodi’s talk with President Museveni by talking with FM Sam Kutesa of #Uganda. Confirmed the impending shipment of medicine supplies and health equipment to combat #coronavirus. India and Uganda will address this global challenge cooperatively.He also spoke to Comoros Foreign Minister Mohamed El Amine Souef. “A SAGAR friendship reaffirmed. Wonderful talking to FM Mohamed El Amine Souef of #Comoros. Our will surely grow further,” he said in a tweet.A SAGAR friendship reaffirmed. Wonderful talking to FM Mohamed El Amine Souef of #Comoros. Our health cooperation and development partnership will surely grow further.So glad to learn that Minister Alpha Barry of #BurkinaFaso has recovered from #Coronavirus. Wished him and his other colleagues good health when I spoke to him today. Indian medical supplies will be reaching Burkina Faso very soon. Friends stand by each other in times of crises.Jaishankar also wished good health to Burkina Faso Foreign Minister Alpha Barry who recovered from coronavirus infection.“So glad to learn that Minister Alpha Barry of #BurkinaFaso has recovered from #Coronavirus. Wished him and his other colleagues good health when I spoke to him today. Indian medical supplies will be reaching Burkina Faso very soon. Friends stand by each other in times of crises,” he said in tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-minister-jaishankar-speaks-to-his-counterparts-from-african-countries/story-1tArB3sAVz3ZzTdrZNrFXP.html
26-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Rajasthan HC closed till May 3 as key official tests Covid-19 positive||The Rajasthan High Court was on Saturday declared closed till May 3 after one of its key officials, sitting close to judges during the judicial proceedings, was tested positive for Covid-19.In a statement, the high court said it shall remain closed till May 3 and no matters, except only immensely urgent matter, will heard.Also read: India crosses 26k Covid-19 cases with biggest 1-day spikeClick here for complete coronavirus coverage The concerned judge, to whose court the official was attached, however, tested negative for the infection. The notification to this effect has been issued today on April 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-rajasthan-hc-closed-till-may-3-as-key-official-tests-covid-19-positive/story-wfAhKBNurs2RVnnxw12nxM.html
26-04-2020||India||PM Modi addressing nation on Mann Ki Baat, focus on Covid-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat today as the country continues to be in a lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus pandemic.His address is focussed on the progress in the fight against Covid-19 disease and his views on the road ahead. “Have been getting several insightful inputs for this month’s #MannKiBaat. Do tune at 11 am tomorrow,” the prime minister had tweeted on Saturday.  Have been getting several insightful inputs for this month's #MannKiBaat. Do tune at 11 AM tomorrow. pic.twitter.com/bwPKfiXOYCIn his last Mann Ki Baat address on March 29, four days after announcing the first phase of nationwide lockdown, the PM had apologised to the nation for imposing the shutdown but justified the step, saying it was needed to ‘win this battle’.“I apologise for taking these harsh steps which have caused difficulties in your lives, especially the poor people. I know some of you would be angry with me also. But these tough measures were needed to win this battle,” he had said. Since that address, a second phase of nationwide lockdown has been imposed which will end on May 3. The government has also announced some relaxations in the lockdown rules including opening neighbourhood and stand-alone shops providing non-essential goods and services but with certain conditions. According to the Union health ministry figures released on Saturday evening, India’s coronavirus count stood at 24,942 including 18, 953 active cases and 779 deaths from Covid-19.Sunday’s broadcast of Mann Ki Baat will originate from AIR Delhi and be relayed by all AIR stations, AIR FM channels, including FM Gold and FM Rainbow, local radio stations and all five community radio stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-mann-ki-baat-at-11am-today-focus-likely-on-covid-19-situation/story-28Do83sK2TtrRSQ4ZMdTQK.html
26-04-2020||India||India crosses 26,000 Covid-19 cases with biggest one-day spike||India’s tally of confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases shot past the 26,000-mark on Saturday with the biggest single-day spike in infections, driven largely by Maharashtra and Gujarat where the outbreak has been growing at a much faster pace recently even as the rest of the country shows some improvement.According to HT’s analysis of daily new cases reported by states, the latest 5,000 were reported over four days, a day longer than it took for countrywide infections to rise from 15,000 to 20,000. The national doubling rate of infections was 9.1 days, federal officials said on Saturday. For Gujarat and Maharashtra, this number was 4.3 and 6.7 days respectively, according to HT’s analysis of the numbers reported by the states.The two regions together accounted for 1,067 of the 1,834 new cases on Saturday. Maharashtra alone reported 811 new cases. Maharashtra’s capital city Mumbai logged an increase of 602 infections. In all, 824 people have now died of the disease across the country, an increase of 46 since Friday.Also read: PM Modi to address Mann Ki Baat at 11am today, focus likely on Covid-19 situationOfficials said the overall growth in number of cases in India has been linear, compared to some other countries where it has been exponential. “It is hard to say whether the peak will arrive next month or later, but if you look at the graph it is quite linear. The case positivity rate has been about 4.5% throughout, so we can safely say that we have managed to flatten the curve,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and secretary, department of health research.Positivity rate refers to the proportion of people who test positive among all individuals tested on a particular day. While officials and experts argue that this number suggests India been testing adequately, the total number of tests carried out across the country is still a mere 420 per million population. “It is not possible to stop an infectious disease but what lockdown has done is delay the spread, and successfully so,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, community medicine specialist, Safadrjung Hospital, Delhi. According to ICMR data, there were close to 40,000 tests carried out by the government as well as private labs across the country on Friday. Also read: Man kills wife in red zone, is asked to walk out of area so he can be arrested“This is the capacity if we work in a single shift, but it can be scaled up to do almost double the number of tests. We have enough testing kits to perform tests for at least eight weeks and ICMR is in the process of procuring more. There is absolutely no shortage of kits or any other material in the country that would hamper the testing. Everyone who needs testing is being tested,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head, epidemiology and communicable disease division, ICMR.According to government data, 5,209 people have recovered from the infection, taking the India’s overall rate of recovery to 20.88%. As on Friday, India’s fatality rate was at 3.1%, which officials said was lower than what has been seen in several large countries. In the US, for instance, it is 5.6%.In the national capital, which had the highest number of cases for several weeks when the outbreak began last month, 111 new cases were detected and one additional fatality was reported.In Maharashtra, 22 new deaths were recorded on Saturday. In Gujarat, two teams form the Union government reached Ahmedabad and Surat, which were identified on Friday as particularly serious hot spots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-crosses-26k-covid-19-cases-with-biggest-1-day-spike/story-ayJwjZoPCa4uv0Kqf66GEN.html
26-04-2020||India||Here’s something for you to do this Sunday: Birding||I have been working largely from home for the past two weeks. Every evening, at around 6pm, I head up to the terrace, where I spend 15 minutes watching the Rosy Starlings that are staging in Delhi ahead of their north-western journey to Europe and Central Asia. I haven’t seen any murmurations, but some of the flocks are large. On Friday evening, I saw one with a few hundred birds. And then I got back to work.Birding is one of the few outdoorsy things you can still do during the lockdown — even in a Mumbai apartment with no balconies (one of my colleagues in Mumbai wrote a fascinating article on how people are feeling the pinch of this now; over the past two decades, developers in the city decided that balconies were a luxury and decided people would happily give them up for a small extra room).Since the lockdown began, and people started spending all their time at home, there’s been a huge upsurge of interest in birding. And people are realising that there are a lot of birds around. One of my friends, a recent convert, sends me photographs taken in his garden, asking for bird IDs. They are common birds, but it is likely he is seeing them for the first time. Just like I did around 14 years ago.I started birding in 2006 when my son (then four years old) picked up an interest in birding. And I suddenly started seeing birds — they’d always been there; I just hadn’t noticed them before. I still don’t see all of them. On Sunday morning for instance, I was helping my son out with a concept in differentiation when he pointed out a Blyth’s Reed Warbler on the moringa tree outside his window — it was on its way back to Eastern Europe and Central Asia. The math session didn’t go very well.Delhi is an especially good place to bird — although the best bird picture of the lockdown is from Mumbai (and was taken by HT’s own photographer, Pratik Chorge, in Navi Mumbai). Delhi has the second highest number of bird species in a city after Nairobi (Kenya) where you can sometimes see Marabou Storks nesting on the top of street lights. The closest relative of the Marabou in India, the Greater Adjutant Stork is a common sight in Guwahati’s urban landscape (especially where there is garbage). Even in the heart of Delhi, near the HT office, I’ve seen Indian grey hornbills, and, back when my office was a corner room at the 16th floor, a pair of Egyptian vultures that were nesting on the terrace of an adjoining building. From that office, on clear winter days, I’ve also seen the Delhi zoo’s resident population of great White Pelicans — they live in an open-air aviary and do not leave because they are well fed — soaring on thermals. Now, I’m grounded in a first-floor office in the same building, and the only birds I see (and hear, more often than I see) are the rose-ringed parakeets in the solitary tree outside the window. Delhi is also a good place to bird because it, Gurugram, and parts of Haryana and Rajasthan lie along the Central Asian Indian flyway, which is an important migration route, largely for water birds.So, what birds can you expect to see at home?If you have a garden, you can see most of the garden birds — barbets of two kinds, pigeons of two kinds, doves of two kinds too, the Rufous Tree-pie, the Indian Silver Bill, two species of bulbuls, the Common Tailor Bird, the House Sparrow, three kinds of starlings, the Common Crow, the Indian Grey Hornbill, the Purple Sunbird, the Oriental Magpie Robin, the Shikra, babblers of two kinds (maybe three), the Black Kite, and a few others.Even a few plants in a balcony are bound to attract a few of these birds. If you are lucky and have an old tree in or near your house, you may even be able to see owlets, a Barn Owl, maybe even a Golden Oriole.And then, of course, you could look skywards. I’ve spotted ibises of two kinds and an Oriental Honey Buzzard flying over the house; the son has spotted a Booted Eagle, an Egyptian Vulture, and a flock of Common Cranes. In the winter months, we see ducks, sometimes geese. We are locked down. The birds are still free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/here-s-something-for-you-to-do-this-sunday-bird/story-iWXJGGJ69zmfTbnFiqhbyJ.html
26-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand shops in 9 hill districts with no Covid-19 cases to reopen from Sunday||Uttarakhand government has allowed most shops selling goods to open in nine of the total 13 districts from Sunday. The permission doesn’t apply to liquor shops and other commercial establishments offering services like salons and beauty parlours. The decision was taken after a meeting of officials chaired by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. A state government official privy to the development said on condition of anonymity, “During the meeting, it was decided that the nine districts in the hilly areas of the state which have so far seen no cases of COVID-19 will have their shops opened from Sunday as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. They will open from 7 am to 6 pm in the evening while maintaining necessary precautions like social distancing.”The official added, “However liquor shops and hair-cutting salons will remain shut. In the four major districts of the state including Dehradun, Haridwar, Nainital and US Nagar which have witnessed COVID-19 cases, there will not be any relaxations. Only shops of essential items will open there as per the status quo, from 7 am to 1 pm.”The official, however, said that the district magistrates of the four aforementioned districts can take a necessary decision on any relaxation in certain areas after evaluation of the situation.Earlier on Saturday, CM Rawat had announced the reopening of the non-Covid hospitals in the nine hill districts from Sunday to treat people suffering from other diseases. “The hospitals there would treat the patients suffering from various ailments like they used to do before the lockdown. As the season of diarrhoea and dengue is also near, these hospitals will be needed to treat these diseases in coming days,” he said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe CM also said that “The four hospitals which will continue to treat the COVID-19 patients in the state will be Government Doon Hospital in Dehradun, Dr Susheel Tiwari Government Hospital in Haldwani, Government Medical College in Rudrapur and Mela Hospital in Haridwar.”Uttarakhand has a total of 48 coronavirus patients till Saturday, 26 of them have recovered. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-shops-in-9-hill-districts-with-no-covid-19-cases-to-reopen-from-sunday/story-Mfp0qz5an2vVH1HMlhbAfO.html
26-04-2020||India||A girl without a jaw, her father with a back injury wait outside AIIMS for lockdown to end||During meal distribution every day, Sneha Kumari hopes that the volunteers will dole out khichdi rather than any other dish. The semi-solid rice and lentil stew is the only food she can swallow without having to chew, for the comfort of her dislocated jaw. “My jaw hurts due to which I can’t eat food. Because of the pain, I only prefer something light like juice,” said the 16-year-old who has been staying in a tent outside the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here along with her father since the lockdown began. The father-daughter duo came to the national capital from Nepal’s Parsa district in February for Kumari’s jaw surgery at the premier medical institution. There was a tumour in her jaw which doctors at the AIIMS surgically removed two years ago along with her jawbone, which they had replaced with metal plates. “In February 2018, we came to Delhi after the Cancer Hospital in Nepal referred my daughter to AIIMS. The doctors here took out the jawbone and placed a metal plate. They said that after one year, they will take a bone from her leg and place it in her jaw,” said Nand Kishore, Kumari’s father. Kishore, 39, himself cannot walk without support from a stick due to a backbone injury for which he underwent surgery in Nepal around four years ago.Kumari’s surgery, initially scheduled for February 25, was postponed several times, finally being rescheduled for March 24. “But the Prime Minister imposed a lockdown in the country after the Janta Curfew on March 22. We spoke to the doctors and they said nothing can be done about my daughter’s condition till the lockdown is in place,” Kishore said. The metal plates in Kumari’s jaw have now dislocated. In need of an urgent surgery, she is mostly under enormous pain. “I had Rs 15,000 when I left Nepal and thought it would be enough for us to sustain for around 15 days. But we are stuck here for so long and have run out of money. We can’t even return to our country,” said Kishore, who worked for an NGO in Nepal.Unable to travel back to their country because of restrictions in people’s movement, they now live in a tent outside the hospital and depend on food distributed by the Delhi government, police and NGOs. Kumari feels lucky on the days when khichdi is on the menu as otherwise she has to stay hungry. “If I try to eat dal-rice, my jaw hurts because of the effort made to chew,” she said. Not having any idea about if and when his daughter’s surgery will take place, Kishore longs to return home. “When the lockdown will be removed, I will ask someone in Nepal to put some money in my account so that we can go back,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-girl-without-a-jaw-her-father-with-a-back-injury-wait-outside-aiims-for-lockdown-to-end/story-nQX4N2v1JVoLwgylq6i0rJ.html
26-04-2020||India||29 insurance companies, 9 securities-related entities can collect Aadhaar for KYC: Here’s the list||The finance ministry has allowed 29 insurance companies and 9 securities entities to collect Aadhaar for the purpose of know your customer (KYC), a move aimed at checking money laundering and routing investments into shell companies.Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said that the two notifications issued in this regard by the Ministry of Finance “to allow these entities to use Aadhaar authentication services under Aadhaar Act with necessary standard security and privacy measures would help these entities to perform in real time, do e-KYC and would also reduce their cost of transaction”.“This would also be beneficial to the customers or the investors, especially the small and retail investors, as they need not submit physical papers or documents for KYC,” Pandey, who is also the Revenue Secretary, said.The move is aimed at checking laundering of funds into insurance companies and shell companies. An official said use of Aadhaar authentication service by these entities is voluntary and if an investor gives Permanent Account Number (PAN), he or she does not need to go for Aadhaar authentication.Through two notifications, the finance ministry has allowed 29 insurance companies and 9 stock/securities entities to undertake Aadhaar authentication services of Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) under section 11A of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002.The BSE, National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL), Central Depositary Services (India) Ltd, CDSL Ventures Ltd, NSDL Database Management Ltd, NSE Data and Analytics Ltd, CAMS InvestorsServices Ltd, Computer Age Management Services Pvt Ltd and Link Intime India Pvt Ltd are the 9 stock/securities related entities.The 29 insurance companies include Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance, Bharti AXA Life Insurance, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, HDFC Life Insurance, HDFC Ergo General Insurance and SBI General Insurance.The ministry has allowed these insurance and securities entities to use Aadhaar authentication services under the PMLA subject to the satisfaction of their regulatory authorities, namely - the Insurance Regulatory Authority of India (IRDAI) and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), respectively that they are complying with the standard of privacy and security as per Aadhaar Act.“This would ease their KYC process and reduce cost and time besides preventing money laundering activities, if any,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-insurance-companies-9-securities-related-entities-can-collect-aadhaar-for-kyc-here-s-the-list/story-j0kDi5XuA5S40u8ooJhtqL.html
26-04-2020||India||38 new Covid-19 cases in West Bengal, total count 541||At least 38 new Covid-19 cases were reported in West Bengal, taking the total number of coronavirus patients in the state to 541, officials said on Saturday.The death toll due to the contagion remained 18 in the state, a bulletin released by the West Bengal Health Department said.Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha had on Friday said the panel set up to ascertain the exact number of Covid-19 fatalities in the state, after auditing 57 suspected deaths, certified that only 18 of them were caused “directly by the disease”. The 39 other deaths were due to severe co-morbidity conditions, he had said.With the 38 new cases, the total number of active coronavirus cases in the state stood at 423, the department said.Since Friday evening, 947 samples were tested, it said, adding, a total of 9,880 samples have been examined in the state so far.In the last 24 hours, two persons were discharged from hospitals after they recovered from Covid-19.Till date, 105 coronavirus patients have been discharged from hospitals in the state, the bulletin said.While the West Bengal government said the number of Covid-19 cases is 541 in the state, the figure put up on the Union health ministry website for West Bengal is 571.Meanwhile, the Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata (I- NK) on Saturday evening said two administrative officials tested positive for coronavirus and have been shifted to a government hospital for treatment. They had come in contact with a Covid-19 patient, it said in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/38-new-covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal-total-count-541/story-HCgam1GBvWPtibdaLnstHM.html
26-04-2020||India||Delhi to open neighbourhood shops outside Covid hot spots||Delhi decided to open all neighbourhood stores, even those selling non-essentials, in areas outside hot spots of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, a day after the Union home ministry allowed the conditional operation of stand-alone retail outlets, even as Maharashtra and a few other regions chose not to relax restrictions over fears of the outbreak spiralling out of control.Delhi’s salons, barber shops, liquor stores and restaurants will remain closed and e-commerce platforms will be allowed to sell only essentials. The tentative easing of restrictions under the national lockdown – in place till May 3 – did not include shopping malls, liquor and cigarette shops and sale of non-essential items through e-commerce platforms. Releasing the revised guidelines late on Friday, the home ministry said neighbourhood and stand-alone shops, including those located in residential complexes, were allowed to resume operations with immediate effect.A Delhi government official said shops selling non-essential products too can open, but not in Covid-19 containment zones. “No activity will be allowed in containment zones,” the official said, adding that other restrictions on industries and private organisations remained in place.The national capital currently has 92 containment zones, areas where clusters of the infection have prompted hard lockdowns. Residents in these hot spots are not allowed to step out of their homes, with the authorities home-delivering essentials to their doorstep.India is among dozens of countries across the world that have been forced to take the tough decision of locking down their populations at home to halt the spread of the pathogen that has killed at least 200,000 people. While crucial to break the chain of infections, these measures gravely threaten economic activity, with many likely to lose their jobs or have their pay cut as nations brace for a recessionary period.The central government said that while malls will remain shut, markets in rural areas can open. While allowing these shops to operate, a move seen as a relief to both traders and consumers , and seen as an important step towards reviving economic activity, the government said that the establishments will function with 50% workforce and after adhering strictly to precautions, including social distancing and wearing masks.The home ministry clarified on Saturday that only shops engaged in “sale of items” were allowed, which meant barber shops, salons, liquor shops and restaurants (except delivery chains) were not allowed. E-commerce companies were told they could continue delivering only essential items.Several stand-alone shops opened in Delhi early on Saturday after the late-night announcement of the home ministry. A senior official who attended a meeting at Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office to discuss the matter said that the Delhi Police faced law-and-order problems while trying to get some outlets to close in some areas. “Actually, the Delhi government was left with no other option than to allow the shops to open because the news spread like wildfire across the city and many owners resumed their business. Altercations with the owners were reported in some parts of north and north-east Delhi. Others would show the MHA order on their WhatsApp,” the official said on condition of anonymity.The police and the district magistrates informed the CM that it would be impossible to go to pockets of the city and get shops to stop operations now, a second official said. The government later decided to allow the shops to resume operations.The Delhi government said that a decision to further relax some restrictions of the lockdown will be taken on Monday.Several outlets such as stationery shops, electronic stores and hardware shops among others were open in different parts of the city on Saturday. Many of those shops, in areas such as Laxmi Nagar and Lajpat Nagar, were closed after police intervention.The Delhi government’s decision to comply with the Centre’s directive prompted strong reactions from resident welfare associations (RWAs). “This will create crowd on the roads and social distancing will go for a toss. The government’s own projections show that the Covid-19 situation is not good. The CM had two days back said that the number of Covid-19 cases may increase if relaxations are given, then what changed in these two days?” said BS Vohra, president, federation of east Delhi RWAs.The Centre has allowed states to take their own decisions on opening up shops. Kerala, which was previously asked by the Centre to withdraw its order allowing restaurants and limited public transport, welcomed the order. “It will ease some pressure,” said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.The state governments in Gujarat, Odisha, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Goa, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana also said they would follow the Centre’s new norms.“We have to slowly revive economic activity but social distancing has to be maintained. If social distancing is not maintained around the shop, it will be closed by the police and will remain closed till May 3,” Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said.Maharashtra and Assam, however, said there would be no immediate let-up in the restrictions. “We will get more clarity after a video conference with the Prime Minister on Monday,” Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said. “We haven’t taken any decision on the order of the ministry of home affairs as yet. But there will be no further relaxation in lockdown rules till May 3,” he added.The chief ministers of states are scheduled to have a video conference meeting with the Prime Minister on Monday. Assam chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said a decision on opening shops or further activities will be taken only by April 27.The number of Covid-19 cases in the country crossed 25,000, with the deaths surpassing 800, on Saturday. A month has passed since the lockdown was clamped across the country, and data shows that the sweeping measure has slowed the spread of the disease.The latest order issued by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, which was an addendum to the April 15 guidelines, said: “All shops registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective State/UT, including shops in residential complexes and market complexes, except shops in multi-brand and single-brand malls, outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, with 50 per cent strength of workers with wearing of masks and social distancing being mandatory (will be allowed to function).”“All shops, including neighbourhood shops and stand-alone shops, shops in residential complexes, within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective State and UT (will be allowed),” it added.Later, the home ministry issued clarifications on its order. “In rural areas, all shops, except those in shopping malls are allowed to open. In urban areas, all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open,” it said . “Shops in markets/market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open,”the ministry said in a statement.A senior home ministry official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that gyms, bars, sport complexes and theatres will not be allowed to function as they provide services, not the sale of items.Dealers of electronics and electrical items and other shops in residential areas outside containment zones in urban centres can now open.“The latest decision will reopen major economic activity in rural, semi-rural and even urban areas and concerns raised by people on social media about non-availability of certain items will now be addressed,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named. “However, everyone should observe complete safety measures as we are still in a critical phase of the Covid-19 spread,” the official added.The latest order is likely to benefit rural areas the most, opening up commercial activities further as all non-essential items will now be available to the public through shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-open-neighbourhood-shops-outside-covid-hot-spots/story-KoCSqIxaiLQRCcOwm4K1tL.html
26-04-2020||India||Delay in test results has Centre, states worried||A diagnostic result for a Covid-19 test in Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Gujarat takes up to five days as compared to a day in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, officials in these states said, admitting that this delay was hampering the fight against the pandemic. The Central government this week had sent inter-ministerial teams to Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Gujarat to suggest measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases. The teams have asked the state governments to improve the efficiency of Covid-19 testing labs to reduce the time in getting the results.Also read: Virus could cling to air pollutantsThe health department officials of these states told the Central teams that despite allowing more labs to conduct Covid-19 tests, there was still delay in getting the test results in the absence of automatic extractor machines. The officials in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan said that the RNA extraction, a crucial component of the test, was being done manually, thereby delaying the results by at least a day, if not more.As the number of Covid-19 cases has increased, the state governments began taking more swab samples, without realising the limited capacity of laboratories in these states. Many of these states have now sent samples to laboratories outside the state to get faster test results. Rajasthan last Tuesday sent around 4,000 samples to Delhi, after there was a delay of four to five days in getting results from the labs in the state. “We had no option as RNA extraction kits were not available. In the majority of our [state government] labs, the RNA test has to be done manually,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, Rajasthan’s additional chief secretary (health). On Friday, Madhya Pradesh sent about 1,600 samples to a lab in Puducherry after there was a delay of up to six days in getting the results from labs in Nagpur, Mumbai and Noida, a MP government official said. Newly appointed Madhya Pradesh health minister, Narottam Mishra, on Friday urged union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, to instruct labs in Noida and Mumbai to release the tests results early. Also read: All you need to know about SVAMITVA scheme and its coverageResults of about 8,800 tests were pending for the past four days, said an MP government official, who was not willing to be named, adding that the delay was preventing doctors from going ahead with the treatment of thousands of suspected cases. “Without a test, we cannot give any medication and a delay of four to five days can prove fatal for a patient,” said the official quoted above. MP has 11 labs for conducting Covid tests but only three have automatic extractor machines. State health commissioner, Faiz Ahmad Kidwai, said they have got more automatic RT-PCR machines, which were being installed. “The testing capacity of the state will further increase with these machines functioning and pendency will be almost nil,” he said. In West Bengal, the average time to get Covid-19 results is three to four days, which has doubled since the first week of April. “Earlier we used to get fewer samples and results would come in one day or two at the most. Now hundreds of samples are coming every day. With a backlog piling up, it takes around three to four days to test samples,” said a senior doctor of a state run testing facility. The lab has the capacity to test 100 samples every day; it is getting more than 400. “Our technicians are now working in double shifts and we are testing around 130-140 samples per day,” the doctor said, adding that the other 14 labs in West Bengal were labouring under similar pressure. Health secretary, Vivek Kumar, did not respond to phone calls.In Maharashtra, where the government has conducted over one lakh tests till Friday, the average time to get the results is three to four days even though the state has 49 labs, including 23 private ones.On April 16, the family of a 36-year-old doctor from Shivaji Nagar died because of Covid-19 and his family got his report on April 17, two days after the samples were taken. Similarly, a 27-year-old woman from Grant Road, who was nine months pregnant, had to wait for four days to get her report from a private laboratory for admission in a hospital for delivery. She gave swab samples on April 11. State government officials said there was huge pressure on government labs to conduct Covid-19 tests because they are free; private labs charge Rs 4500 for each test. However, private labs claimed that whenever they confirm presence of virus in a patient, the state government gets it rechecked, leading to delay in declaring the Covid-19 test results. In Uttar Pradesh, officials said they were delivering test results between 24 and 48 hours. “About 85% of the samples are tested in 24 hours. The majority of labs in Uttar Pradesh have maintained the consistency in time taken for testing samples,” said state surveillance officer, Dr Vikasendu Agrawal.Officials in Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh said test results were available within a day. Arja Sreekanth, Andhra Pradesh nodal officer for Covid-19, said both the pace of testing and time taken to submit results have improved. Between April 7 and 8, only 217 samples were tested and on April 13, around 1,000-1100 tests were done.“We provide results in seven to eight hours,” he said, adding that till Friday, the nine laboratories in Telangana, on an average, are testing 500 to 600 samples as against the capacity of 1,560 samples a day. In Kerala, test results come within a day, a marked improvement of the state of affairs at the end of March, a state government official said. In Karnataka, the average the number of tests being conducted per day has gone up from around 500 in the first week of April to nearly 3500 every day on Friday, officials said, adding that the result were coming within 48 hours.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delay-in-test-results-has-centre-states-worried/story-VJU6Doa3RSyxmWsWSf073J.html
26-04-2020||India||National plan must for dealing with crisis: Sibal to govt||The Congress on Saturday urged the government to formulate a national plan under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, for handling the Covid-19 crisis.Addressing a news conference through video, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal also said it is time the government rethink its lockdown measures as the country cannot have the “lockdown of people and lockout of the economy”.“As per the act, the government is duty bound to formulate a national plan to deal with Covid-19 but strangely it has maintained a conspicuous silence. The Centre seems to have delegated its responsibilities to state governments,” he said.Without the necessary human and physical infrastructure and adequate financial resources, Sibal said state governments are not in a position to effectively deal with this pandemic.Calling upon the judiciary to evolve a policy to ensure that the justice delivery system is considered an essential service during such a crisis, Sibal alleged that bureaucrats, who do not have any idea about ground realities, were formulating policies during the lockdown period.“Apart from a few exceptions with available yet depleting resources, states are doing a commendable job. However, our Prime Minister’s limited role is addressing the nation from time to time,” he said.The Congress leader said the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) made no preparations to put in place a plan despite the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring the virus to be a public health emergency by the end of January.“Why were detailed plans not made within seven weeks of the WHO declaration? We are in the fourth week of April. There is no plan in place even now,” he said.Sibal added the union home secretary, presumably presiding over the National Executive Committee (NEC) under the act, is issuing directions to state governments to deal with the situation.“Going by the advisories issued so far, it is clear that NEC has neither prepared a plan which is to be submitted to the NDMA for approval nor have various ministries prepared disaster management plans,” he said.“The NDMA, chaired by the Prime Minister, has distanced itself from the responsibilities of the Union government and in gross violation of the provisions of the act, authorised the MHA to issue such directions as it chooses. This too was dehors the law,” Sibal added.The former union law minister said the government advisories pay scant regard to the responsibilities of the NDMA.“We would like the Prime Minister to inform the nation about minimum standards of relief that are required to be provided to persons affected by the disaster,” he said.Instead of discharging its solemn responsibilities to provide relief to the poor and helpless stranded migrants, Sibal said the Centre was shifting the onus to state governments to do what they can without a plan and without guidelines prescribing minimum standards of relief.“It is unfortunate that even till date, there is no plan. We are all aware that the provisions in shelters are pathetic without adequate sanitation, medical cover, food and clean drinking water. States are not able to make available adequate food supplies to those affected,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-plan-must-for-dealing-with-crisis-sibal-to-govt/story-XO0PcjX6PsYUKMwYxJXu2N.html
26-04-2020||India||Manmohan Singh criticises govt over dearness allowance freeze||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Saturday slammed the Centre for freezing the dearness allowance (DA) of central government employees and added it was unnecessary to impose these hardships. “We should be on the side of people whose dearness allowance is being cut. I sincerely believe it is not necessary at this stage to impose hardships on government servants and also on the armed forces people,” Singh said at a meeting of Congress’s Consultative Committee.Gopal Agarwal, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s economic affairs spokesman, clarified the government has announced a freeze only on the additional part of the DA. He added what was being paid earlier has not been stopped.Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and other leaders like Rahul Gandhi, P Chidambaram, KC Venugopal, Randeep Singh Surjewala and Manish Tewari spoke on the DA issue at the meeting. The meeting was convened two days after the Centre held back revision of the DA for 18 months and proposed a similar move by state governments to save about Rs 1.2 lakh crore to fund the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Sonia Gandhi, who last week formed the Singh-led committee to formulate the party’s views on important issues, attacked the Centre over the central vista project that involves redeveloping of iconic landmarks in New Delhi.“I see the problem is that you are building your central vista at the same time. ... you are taking away money from the middle class, you are not giving money to the poor people and you are spending it on your central vista.”Chidambaram cited the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train and the central vista development projects and added these should be first halted before the DA is frozen.Surjewala said it would have been fine if the money spent on the central vista project is transferred to migrant labourers, who have been hit hard by the Covid-19 lockdown. “But you are continuing with the new Parliament house, new buildings for ministers, new house for the Prime Minister. You are continuing with zero cut on expenditure of the government which could save you close to 2-2.5 lakh crore rupees. But you are denying relief to your armed personnel, to your pensioners, to your government servants.”The BJP’s Agarwal said: “The Congress is trying to give this issue a spin. I do not understand how they are linking it to the central vista and the bullet train projects.”He added that the pandemic has prompted the government’s to freeze the DA. “These are difficult times and the government needs money for taking care of the poor. Everyone is helping in whatever way they can.”BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh hit out at Singh in a tweet. “Looks like economist in him [Singh] has disappeared silently ..? Aghast at the way he argues ... Maharashtra , Telangana Govt have cut 30% salary of class 1,2,3 employees. He was silent then. He opens his mouth when increment in DA is halted not DA.”Sanjeev Sanyal, the Union finance ministry’s principal economic advisor, said the freeze is a temporary measure. “It should be noted that such measures are not unprecedented. In the aftermath of the 1962 & 1971 wars, much stronger measures had been instituted. The Compulsory Deposit Act 1963 applied to all taxpayers, property owners & all government employees,” he tweeted.The National Council (Staff Side), a joint consultative body of the central government employees, has written to the cabinet secretary protesting against the freeze. “Central government and state committee employees are the ones who are playing their frontline roles in the fight against Covid-19 virus by taking all risks and working in the field exposing themselves without any sufficient PPE [personal protection equipment] and freezing of DA will have a serious impact on their HRA,” the council said in its letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-singh-criticises-govt-over-dearness-allowance-freeze/story-HUx2qP9C4DFizKgNMOt4VM.html
26-04-2020||India||Rajasthan HC adjourned after lawyer appears in vest||A lawyer appeared before the Rajasthan high court in a vest on Friday and prompted adjournment of a bail hearing and an order asking lawyers to wear proper uniform even when they appear before courts via video conferencing.The court said that the Advocates Act requires lawyers to appear before courts in a prescribed dress. It added the decorum of courts should be maintained even when they are functioning through the virtual medium because of the Covid-19 pandemic that has prompted a lockdown to ensure social distancing to check its spread. “Learned counsel for the petitioner was contacted through video conferencing. He was found to be wearing Banyan [vest]. Even through video conferencing, the decorum of court is required to be maintained,” justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma said in his order. The judge adjourned the case while referring to an earlier instance when he had similarly cautioned lawyers to appear in proper uniform after a lawyer appeared in his vest to argue the case on April 7. “This court has already observed that during this pandemic where court functioning is being done through video conferencing, lawyers must appear in proper uniform. Keeping in view that the petitioner’s counsel was not in proper uniform, the matter is adjourned.”Sharma had on April 7 asked the Rajasthan High Court Bar Association to urge lawyers to be dressed appropriately when appearing through video conferencing. The Bar had subsequently assured compliance with the court’s directions.Section 49 (1) (gg) of the Advocates Act empowers the Bar Council of India to frame rules prescribing the dress or robes to be worn by advocates after taking into account the climatic conditions. An advocate has to wear a white shirt and long trousers which can be black striped, white or grey with black open breast coat and gown. They are also required to wear a white band. Lawyers can also wear black, white or grey dhoti instead of trousers. After courts across the country started hearing cases through video conferencing due to the Covid-19 lockdown, various high courts and the Supreme Court have issued orders asking lawyers to be dressed in the prescribed uniform while appearing through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-hc-adjourned-after-lawyer-appears-in-vest/story-euOie1pd805jPG7Wt8779H.html
26-04-2020||India||President’s ex-secy Sanjay Kothari takes oath as CVC||Retired IAS officer Sanjay Kothari, who was secretary to President Ram Nath Kovind, took oath as the new Chief Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) on Saturday, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a communication. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and Vice President Venkaiah Naidu were present during the ceremony.The post of CVC, an autonomous anti-corruption watchdog, was lying vacant since June last year. Vigilance Commissioner Sharad Kumar had been in interim charge.Kothari, an officer from the 1978 batch from Haryana, was named the new CVC by a high powered committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February this year. In the same meeting, ex-Broadcasting Secretary Bimal Julka was appointed as the next Chief Information Commissioner (CIC).“At a ceremony held today at 1030 hrs at Rashtrapati Bhavan, Sanjay Kothari was sworn in as the Central Vigilance Commissioner,” the Rashtrapati Bhawan communication said.At the time of his appointment, Congress floor leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who was in the selection panel along with Prime Minister Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, had opposed the decision.The Congress had then termed the process of appointing the CVC as “illegal, unlawful and unconstitutional” and demanded immediate scrapping of the decision.The CVC is a statutory body and derives its powers from Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2013. It is free of control from any executive authority and has the responsibility of monitoring all vigilance activities in the Central government besides advising various authorities on planning, executing, reviewing and reforming their vigilance work. A major part of its work is to refer important corruption activities to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The CVC was instrumental in removing former CBI Director Alok Verma from his post in January 2019 after allegations of corruption were levelled against him in 2018.All the Central Vigilance Officers (CVOs) in government departments submit reports to the CVC and operate on the basis of guidelines/circulars issued by the CVC.The new CVC worked as the secretary, department of personnel and training (DoPT), and special secretary, tourism, at the Centre. In Haryana, he held various important positions, including District Magistrate (DM) Gurgaon, home secretary Chandigarh, and Managing Director of Haryana Tourism. He has spent around 15 years in the field of tourism, both at the Centre and in Haryana.Officials close to him say he has a special interest in administrative reforms, creation of institutions and carrying out reforms for “good governance”. He is the author of a book, Good Governance Initiatives and Reforms (2007).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-s-ex-secy-kothari-takes-oath-as-cvc/story-1hqRs1iCfvbUG0XDUSdGWI.html
26-04-2020||India||Govt ramps up manufacturing capacity of key medical items||India has ramped up its domestic manufacturing capacity of some essential medical items needed in managing coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and it is placing orders for ventilators, personal protection equipment (PPE) and even respiratory masks with many domestic manufacturers, a health ministry official said on condition of anonymity. From entirely importing all these items a couple of months ago, India is now manufacturing more than 100,000 PPE kits and N-95 masks each day in the country. About 104 domestic manufactures of PPE, and three companies that make N95 masks, have been identified. Nine domestic manufacturers have also been identified to make ventilators, and they have already started production to cater to the government’s order of 59,000 units, the official added.“Earlier everything was imported, but now, we have managed to build an ecosystem wherein these products are being manufactured domestically. It may still be some time before these units manufacture the numbers required to meet our requirement but we have made a great start,” the official said. Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, chaired the 13th high-level meeting on Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) of the group of ministers (GoM) on Saturday. The group reviewed the adequacy of isolation beds, wards, personal protection equipment (PPE), N-95 masks, drugs, ventilators, oxygen cylinders and other equipment. The health minister also said that India has been saved from getting into the stage three of transmission, which is the community transmission stage where getting to the source of infection is near impossible.“We are prepared to deal with any kind of situation; in fact, we are over prepared. There is no shortage of any medical equipment anywhere,” said Harsh Vardhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-ramps-up-manufacturing-capacity-of-key-medical-items/story-UH1AzRTciPmIyWp70GSA9O.html
26-04-2020||India||Post-lockdown plan, migrants in focus at Centre-states meet||Are you willing to take your people stuck overseas back? What kind of concessions would you want after May 3? How do we get migrant workers stranded outside their home states back? These were some of the questions discussed at a meeting chaired by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba with chief secretaries of the states on Saturday -- two days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi is to meet with the chief ministers of states over video-conference, and some of the officials present at the meeting said that these may be indicative of the kind of issues that will be discussed at that meeting, the fourth such on issues related to the Covid-19 pandemic. Also read| Here’s something for you to do this Sunday: BirdThousands of Indians stuck abroad are eager to return, although there is no clarity when international flights will be allowed -- although there’s been talk in some government circles of so-called rescue flights to bring back Indians after May 3, even if the skies aren’t opened. And hundreds of thousands of workers , currently in migrant labour camps around India want to return home -- something not possible when no interstate travel is being allowed and passenger trains are not running. Several states have suggested running special trains to transport these workers. At Saturday’s meeting some states including Punjab, Gujarat, Bihar and West Bengal asked the centre to set a protocol for such movements. The brainstorming session was also attended by secretaries of key departments, Directors General of Police, and district magistrates. All the DMs were on listen-only mode.Guidelines to start industries, shops and services outside the containment zones were allowed from April 20. But in opening speech, Gauba told the states that the instructions issued by the union home ministry have not been followed properly at the ground-level. According an official present in the meeting, Gauba said that local administrations were either far too lax or too strict, and some had “ushered in a kind of inspector-raj”.The cabinet secretary underlined that although there has been a “substantial improvement” (in checking the spread of the virus) it was not uniform, this official added on condition of anonymity.Also read: Delay in test results has Centre, states worriedHe reiterated that there is a need to focus on containment even while relaxing restrictions further, indicating the Centre’s strategy after the lockdown ends. Gauba also stressed on the need for “strong action on surveillance front” to “actively identify people and areas” who are vulnerable to or have been infected by the virus.Maharashtra chief secretary Ajoy Mehta—representing the state worst hit by the pandemic—suggested tougher norms. Home secretary Ajay Bhalla chipped in and said any state is free to impose additional measures over and above the Centre’s rules for so-called hot spots.“You should not lower your guard,” Bhalla said.Mehta also highlighted that many private labs are taking huge number of swab samples but are unable to test them and give reports in time. He suggested that ICMR must have an oversight on private labs, a suggestion well-received by union officials.The migrant workers’ issue took much of the time in the meeting. Punjab chief secretary Karan Singh said that there are about 1.1 million daily wage workers from UP and Bihar working in Punjab’s farms and as the harvest season is over, these workers want to return to their home states.Several states including Bihar maintained that the states can’t negotiate such tricky matters among themselves and the Centre needs to come up with a protocol. West Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay claimed that everything is under control in his state till Bhalla reminded him of hundreds of loaded trucks stuck at the Indo-Bangladesh border in West Bengal that need to be unloaded for Bangladesh.West Bengal and the Center have been sparring for days, most recently over a report by a central team that visited the state and found problems in its response to Covid-19. Gujarat informed that it has allowed 28,000 industries to start in rural areas while asking the Centre to make arrangements for shifting migrant workers.While many states spoke of the work done in their areas, only Karnataka demanded that liquor shops must be opened. Karnataka chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said that liquor shops can be allowed to operate with strict social distancing norms in place as the state needs them for its “budget-balancing exercise”. Liquor sales are a major source of excise for all states. On the question of bringing back Indians stranded overseas, Kerala was the most vocal. Its chief secretary Tom Jose said that the state government is under “immense pressure” to bring back 5 lakh Malayali workers and students stranded in West Asia.Jose also explained the elaborate plan in place to quarantine expat Malayalis if the union government decides to bring them back.Bandopadhyay and some other states didn’t give any specific assurance to accept their domiciles from abroad. Bandopadhyay said he will have to talk to the chief minister. Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla pointedly responded to this and said a large number of Indians are stuck in a few neighbouring countries and states must come up with plans on how to deal with them if the Centre allows their return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/post-lockdown-plan-migrants-in-focus-at-centre-states-meet/story-0fn00XSpkNYidCeCDZS2dK.html
26-04-2020||India||CEA points at Spanish Flu lesson in Covid fight||A paper recently published by the US-based National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER) is bringing considerable comfort to policy makers here. Chief Economic Advisor KV Subramanian was the first to draw attention to the research and others like it on the Spanish flu pandemic (1918-1920) because he finds several lessons that the management of that pandemic holds for the Indian government. And if history were to repeat itself, he suggested, maybe India’s economic recovery after the crisis could be V-shaped. Subramanian presented his findings at the Finance Commission advisory council meeting on Friday where he said because India’s economy resembled the US economy at the time of the Spanish Flu, “its study can provide a reasonable guesstimate about what will happen in the Indian scenario”. He was also present at the Prime Minister’s meeting with economists on Wednesday.The Spanish flu emerged in 1918 and claimed 39 million lives till 1920. “The Spanish flu infected 1/3rd of the population in the US and had a mortality rate of 6%. So, by itself, the percentage of people that are infected by Covid-19 is much less as here the mortality rate is just 3%,’’ Subramanian told Hindustan Times, adding that important lessons can be derived by looking at the economic impact of the flu in 1920.“There are several similarities that the US economy at the time and the Indian economy now have. For example,the proportion of urban population in the US was 45% while India’s, some say, could be closer to 45% (now),’’ he said.Subramanian also points out that the proportion of various sectors like manufacturing, agriculture and services at that time in the US are similiar to the Indian economy’s numbers now. “There are some differences like India’s services sector is 5% greater than what the US’s was and the agri sector -- India’s is at a much lower share now than US was at the time. But at the macro level, there are similarities.’’And there are learnings, he added. The first and most important one, is the beneficial impact of the lockdown. Back then, “some counties (like our districts) enforced lockdown-like restrictions called Non Pharmaceutical Interventions (NPIs),’’ he said. This involved shutting churches and schools. “It turns out that the counties that had stricter NPIs had lower mortality. They also were able to bounce back economically soon. That means that jaan hai, aur jahaan bhi hai (lives and livelihoods were both saved),’’ he said riffing off the PM’s phrase during his second address to the nation.The second lesson for Subramanian is the one on GDP. While many research firms expect India’s growth this year to fall to near-zero, the CEA is taking heart from US numbers post-Spanish flu -- they dropped to 3.5% but went to 7.5% soon after. “It’s the V-shaped recovery,’’ he said. “However this analysis has to come with the caveat that we are dealing with enormous uncertainties,” Subramanian added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cea-points-at-spanish-flu-lesson-in-covid-fight/story-bMWrrU9fXxrCfKLjyVM96M.html
26-04-2020||India||AIR’s Dawn Chorus to ring across globe||On Sunday, May 3, All India Radio (AIR) will air morning songs of birds from around the globe to spread a message of hope and a victory over odds.May 3 is International Dawn Chorus day, and every year the morning melodies of birds is broadcast live by radio channels. The spectacular live broadcast moves from one country to another, from east to west, along with the sun’s rays. However, with Covid-19 ravaging many countries, live broadcasts have become difficult and Ireland’s RTE radio and the European Broadcasting Union (which represents radio companies across 56 countries) , prime movers behind the project, decided to cal it off this year.However, the country’s own All India Radio (AIR), decided to step forward. AIR’s External Service Division (ESD) decided to put forward its own crowd sourced dawn chorus. “India had been participating in the EBU-RTE dawn chorus event for the past four years. We were looking forward this year also. But when we learnt that the dawn chorus may not happen because of coronavirus related concerns, we considered taking our own crowd-sourced version to the global level,” said a senior AIR official who asked not to be namedThe official said AIR wrote to several broadcasters many of whom sent in their own crowd-sourced recordings.“There has been a response from the European Broadcasting Union, BBC Scotland, Bangladesh,Around 22 countries from the EBU have already sent recordings which are also crowd-sourced. AIR’s recordings and compilation will be sent to broadcasters in at least 20 countries that have shown interest and many of them will be telecasting the crowd-sourced chorus this year, according to the official. “The programme used to happen once a year but this year, it was not happening the way it did. We thought it would be interesting, because the regular dawn chorus was not happening, to ask for recordings from others,” said Shashi Shekhar Vempati, CEO of Prasar Bharati.“Prasar Bharati has taken a lead in this year’s dawn chorus. The recordings we have taken through crowd-sourcing and which have been shared by other broadcasters will be aired on the 3rd of May. The recordings will also be shared with other broadcasters who will air them according to their requirements,” said Amlanjyoti Majumdar, Director of the External Service Division of AIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-s-dawn-chorus-to-ring-across-globe/story-DkWE23MFSaWn62tQZ8cQfP.html
26-04-2020||India||Ventilation, humidity key in AC rooms: Govt guidelines||Rooms and offices with air conditioning must be well-ventilated and humidified, according to government’s guidelines to public sector offices after a report by a group of experts outlined precautionary measures that need to be taken to curtail the possible spread of Covid-19 in such environments.The recommendations come after scientists in China’s Guangzhou found that 9 of 90 people having lunch at a restaurant on a particular day contracted the coronavirus disease from an infected person because they were sitting in the same air current, a finding that has prompted worry over closed spaces such as offices, hospitals and even homes.According to the guidelines issued to the central public works department, the Union government asked air-conditioning units to be set at 24°C and 30°C and relative humidity to be maintained between 40-70% in all government buildings. The guidelines added that some windows should be open or exhaust units activated to ensure fresh air circulation.The guidelines are part of recommendations by the Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (ISHRAE), which said that people at home can maintain humidity levels by keeping a flat pan filled with water out in the room.While using an air conditioner unit at home is safe, central air conditioning in large offices, malls, and hospitals can raise the risk of an infection, especially if the air blows over groups of large people or if there is little fresh air. Many hospitals have shut centralised air conditioners to ensure there is no circulation of the virus between Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 areas. “We have stopped the central air conditioning in the suspected Covid-19 ward and the screening area. Window air conditioners have been installed here. As for the trauma centre, it is a Covid-19 hospital, so the central air conditioning is running,” said Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).At Lok Nayak and Rajiv Gandhi super-specialty hospitals, all central air conditioning have been switched off.“There is a problem when it comes to centralized air conditioning in hospitals because most do not have proper filters. So, window AC can be used in Covid-19 wards, to at least separate them from the rest of the areas. In fact, in Covid-19 wards – pumps and filters should technically be used to create negative pressure just like in bio-safety laboratories,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of department of microbiology at AIIMS.The ISHRAE guidelines suggest maintaining positive pressure in non-Covid-19 areas and negative pressure in areas with Covid patients, so that infected air from the room does not leak out and infect others.The study in Guangzhou found that while the air conditioning air flow played a part in the spread of the infections, the AC ducts itself had no traces of the virus. The concern, according to the researchers, appeared to be of virus droplets spreading through wind in enclosed places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ventilation-humidity-key-in-ac-rooms-govt-guidelines/story-Bzsd3Jm2UVA7PiyJKRLNDK.html
26-04-2020||India||Amid lockdown, Supreme Court heard 593 cases via video facility||The Supreme Court has heard a total of 593 cases through video conferencing facility in the last 34 days.203 out of the 593 cases were connected cases, that is, cases involving the same issue which were heard along with the main case.The top court also delivered judgments in 41 cases during this period. Through these 41 judgments, the court disposed of an additional 174 cases which were connected matters.The apex court started hearing cases through video conferencing on March 23, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the national lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The top court also issued a circular on March 23 suspending entry of lawyers and litigants to the court premises and directing that only extremely urgent cases would be taken up for hearing through video conferencing during the lockdown period.Since then, the court sat for hearing on 17 working days with a total of 34 benches hearing cases through video conferencing.Besides, 53 benches also sat to decide review petitions though those were decided in chambers without oral hearing; 84 review petitions were disposed of by the court during this period.The hearings in Supreme Court is conducted through the Vidyo app which can be downloaded on mobile phones and desktop. The platform is hosted on the servers of National Data Centre of National Informatics Centre.While the judges on the bench join the video conference from the residence of one of the judges, the lawyers join from their respective houses.The court also came out with standard operating procedure (SOP) for filing, mentioning and hearing of cases through video conferencing on three occasions - March 23, March 26 and April 15.But there have been criticism from various quarters regarding hearings through video conferencing.“I was party to the video conference proceedings in a case on Kerala-Karnataka issue. But my experience was slightly disappointing. On the first day, when the cases were taken up there were serious technical glitches on the part of the Registry as the Vidyo app did not function. So the court had to eventually fall back upon Whatsapp video calling facility. Whatsapp video call cannot take more than 3 to 4 persons simultaneously. Therefore, the judges said they will hear only government counsel. Since I was appearing for an individual, I was disconnected and an order was passed about which we came to know later. During the next hearing, the case was disposed of based on the statements made by the solicitor general without hearing us”, said advocate Haris Beeran.“Majority of the complaints raised regarding video conferencing are with regard to technical glitches faced by lawyers. But this is due to internet connectivity issues at lawyers’ residences or offices. Supreme Court judges have been provided with internet connectivity with speed upto 100Mbps at their residences. They have, therefore, not experienced any difficulties during video conferencing. Besides, many lawyers join the hearing through their mobile phones and they are disconnected when their device receives another call. These issues can hopefully be worked out ”, a Supreme Court official said on condition of anonymity.The SOP issued by the Supreme Court on April 15 contained instructions to minimize technical glitches. Besides, the court also provided helpline numbers for addressing queries relating to mentioning of the matters for urgent hearing, technical support for video conference, or e-filing,“It is only common to expect technical glitches in the first few days. That should, however, not blind us from the long term benefits of this initiative”, said Surya Prakash, Programme Director at Daksh, a civil society organsiation.Another issue which has been highlighted is regarding how the hearing through video conferencing affects open court hearing.One of the important facets of our court system is open court hearing. It means hearings in courts are open to public except in certain special cases involving privacy issues of parties.But the hearing of cases through Vidyo app can be accessed only through a weblink sent by the Supreme Court Registry to the lawyers involved in the case.The lawyer can join the video conference by clicking the link. Hence, the public cannot access or listen to the case. Access to media is also restricted with only a limited number of journalists permitted to view the hearing through a screen set up for this purpose at the Supreme Court.“Open court hearings are important in retaining the trust of the citizens in the functioning of the judiciary. While implementing hearings through video conferences, enabling open court features should also be prioritized. Access to archives of these recordings could also be made available to public but after taking into account privacy concerns. This is best achieved by a statutory backing. It is heartening to see that Supreme Court has asked high courts to frame rules in this regard”, Surya Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-lockdown-sc-heard-593-cases-via-video-facility/story-NTBvCTQorBVUHbOPooFKfP.html
26-04-2020||India||Centre team says West Bengal not cooperating, row escalates||One of the two interministerial central teams (IMCTs) sent to West Bengal to assess how the state was dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic has again complained that it is not getting support in accessing hospitals and that local officials are refusing to accompany it.The state and the Centre have exchanged words over the central teams and the availability of testing kits. The team in question has pointed to several gaps in West Bengal’s response to Covid-19, most of which the loal administration has denied. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused the Centre of maligning the state and spreading “canards” about its testing figures when the “real problem” was with the testing kits supplied to the state.In a letter to West Bengal chief secretary Rajiva Sinha and Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday, the leader of one of the IMCTs, Apurva Chandra, said that even as the team repeatedly seeks a schedule of visits to hospitals, quarantine centres and containment zones, it is being given only half-an-hour notice for the visits when they happen. Chandra referred to Sinha’s press statements that the teams are free to visit anywhere but “senior officers of the state government cannot waste their time accompanying the IMCTs” and termed it a violation of Union home ministry’s order directing the state government to provide logistics support and facilitate field visits of IMCTs.Hitting out at the central teams, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien said their real aim was to spread the virus in West Bengal as they visited districts with no hot spots and asked the state for an audit committee that had already been in place since early April.“Their real aim is to spread the political virus. They are doing it shamelessly. Blatantly. Take your pick. IMCT = India’s Most Callous Team. IMCT = I must cause trouble (in Bengal),” O’Brien said.The central teams have sought escorted visits to hospitals and Personal Protection Equipment from the West Bengal government.Chandra in his letter said the state is also yet to provide any further details on aspects such as supply of essential commodities, conditions in relief camps, enforcement of lockdown measures etc. “IMCT has been in Kolkata since 10 am on April 20. Four letters have been written by IMCT to the state government till today. No response has been received to any of the letters till date,” Chandra said in his letter on Saturday. HT has seen a copy of the letter.Chandra asked the West Bengal government whether it will take responsibility of their safety and security in the absence of police escort and if the Border Security Force is permitted to take any action to ensure their safety in case of any incident.A central government official, who did not wish to be named, said another central team visited Kalimpong on Saturday on its own after informing the chief secretary. “They returned without visiting any hospital or meeting with the district magistrate or chief medical officer-- all refused to meet the team,” the official said.The central teams has asked West Bengal to furnish the details of quarantined and tested persons, who returned from to the state after visiting Tablighi Jamaat’s headquarters in New Delhi that last month emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot.North Bengal affairs minister Rabindranath Ghosh said, “They (IMCT) are only wasting the time of officers. They should visit other states instead.” The IMCT headed by Chandra had earlier highlighted several anomalies in its letter to Sinha after visiting two hospitals in Kolkata. It said there was a waiting period of at least five days for test results of patients in isolation wards and possibility of dead bodies lying on beds in wards for four hours and a lack of social distancing at hospitals. Apart from West Bengal, the Centre has also deputed inter-ministerial teams to Gujarat, Telangana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu to probe perceived lapses in efforts to control Covid-19 and violations of lockdown regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-team-says-west-bengal-not-cooperating-row-escalates/story-J7SxiYlJccAgIgARDWkrUI.html
26-04-2020||India||Mamata govt asks hospitals to ensure faster test results||The West Bengal government has directed hospitals to ensure faster Covid-19 test results as part of a series of directions issued to them for better handling of the pandemic. The directions were issued hours after a central interministerial team sent to the state to assess the handling of the Covid-19 situation raised concerns over the testing, treatment of patients, and sought an explanation.The number of Covid-19 cases rose to 571 in the state on Saturday with 38 new cases while the death toll stood at 18. State chief secretary Rajiva Sinha and top health department officials met principals and senior doctors of medical colleges and hospitals on Friday and issued the instructions. The hospitals have been instructed that no patient shall be refused treatment and collection or swab samples and their results should be done in 12 hours. The testing process currently takes over two days.The government instructed the hospitals to make ambulances available for referral of patients to other facilities and that dead bodies be shifted from wards without delay. The instructions came after one of the IMCT teams visited Kolkata’s Bangur Hospital, where a patient recorded the video of a body lying on a bed. The video went viral on social media and prompted the state government to ban the use of mobile phones inside Covid-19 wards.The government has instructed hospitals to ensure that doctors working in emergency and outpatient departments wear protective gear and the areas where they work and clothes they change are sanitized on a regular basis. There was no official media briefing on Saturday and officials refused to comment on the new instructions.Sinha on Friday said the health department’s audit committee formed on April 3 had reviewed 57 deaths of people, who had tested positive for Covid-19. It added the panel concluded that only 18 deaths were caused by the virus. The remaining 39 were “due to severe comorbidity” and that Covid-19 was not the immediate cause of these deaths. “We have been asking the audit committee to submit a consolidated report as a lot of questions have been raised... The report could have come three days ago. We got it today… We are not in a game of proving anything,” said Sinha when asked whether the report was a response to the central teams.Dr Kaushik Chaki, secretary, West Bengal Doctors’ Forum, said the tussle between the state and the Centre is uncalled for because the interest of the patients should be the only priority. “However, we strongly feel that the audit committee in its present form should be scrapped and its terms of reference changed.” Reacting to the instructions, Dr Chaki said doctors have been raising most of these issues for over a month.One of the two Interministerial teams sent to West Bengal highlighted several anomalies in its letter to Sinha on Friday. They included a waiting period of at least five days for test results of patients in isolation wards, the possibility of dead bodies lying on beds in wards for hours, and the lack of social distancing at hospitals. The observations were based on an inspection of two hospitals in Kolkata. West Bengal is among the states where the Centre has deputed interministerial teams to probe perceived lapses in efforts to control Covid-19 and violations of lockdown regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-govt-asks-hospitals-to-ensure-faster-test-results/story-fGK7399GHstrlWCukmlEKP.html
26-04-2020||India||Maharashtra records highest one-day spike in Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day increase in the number of Covid-19 cases with 811 infections and 22 people succumbing to the disease on Saturday but officials in the state worst hit by the contagion took heart in a dipping mortality rate and stricter containment measures.The state now has 7,628 cases and 323 deaths. Of this, nearly two-thirds are in the capital Mumbai, which shot past the 5,000 case mark with 602 new infections on Saturday. The city has 5,049 cases and 191 deaths.Maharashtra took 30 days to register the first 1,000 cases on April 7. It crossed the 2,000 mark in six days, took another three days to reach 3,000 and a further three days to touch 4,000 cases. From thereon, the state recorded 1,000 cases every two days.But officials insisted that the government’s containment measures are working and underlined a drop in the mortality rate of around four percentage points over the past two days. The government also decided to not allow any non-essential shops to open despite a federal directive permitting their operation.Dr Avinash Supe, head of a committee appointed to advise the state government on management protocol for serious Covid-19 patients, said that the mortality rate has dropped satisfactorily, but the graph of fresh cases would have to be observed for the next two weeks.“The doubling rate has reduced to over seven days, when many other countries are still lingering at 3.5. Similarly, our mortality rate has dropped to 4.4% from 8% in the state and 4% in Mumbai. If we maintain this trend of doubling it would help us in containing the spread,” he said. Supe added that unless the trend of cases was reviewed for at least two weeks, it would be difficult to comment about the curve.Dr Sadhana Tayade, DESIGNATION of Directorate of Health Services, said that the mortality rate was expected to fall further in Maharashtra. “We have been strictly monitoring the containment zones and have been following protocols strictly. There is the central government’s prediction of rise in cases by May-end and we are prepared for it. The rise is also because of the rise in testing,” she said.Maharashtra currently has 555 containment zones, of which 987 are in Mumbai.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the World Health Organization (WHO) and central government were continuously reviewing the situation in the state. “We have been concentrating on slums and congested areas than buildings and individual apartments. As directed by the central teams that visited Mumbai and Pune, we are concentrating on containment in areas like Dharavi and the hygiene in these areas,” he said .Tope said that though the federal protocol mandated testing of people with symptoms, the state government was testing of asymptomatic contacts too. “We have been aggressively doing testing and quarantining contacts of patients. Now, the relatives of patients in areas like Dharavi will be administered with hydroxychloroquine,” he said.The health minister, however, clarified that the state government was unlikely to extend relaxations to non-essential shops. A senior state government official said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray felt that lifting of restrictions might further jeopardise social distancing and lead to rise in cases. “Even if we extend the relaxation and allow stand-alone shops to operate, the police and revenue machinery will be engaged in implementing lockdown orders to a great extent. Secondly, shortfall of raw material and manpower will continue to persist until the lockdown is not lifted completely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-highest-one-day-spike/story-vgXBhDajR3fdJHlwqAZJFI.html
26-04-2020||India||Effective testing reduces cases, key to successful lockdown exit, finds study||A periodic lockdown, combined with extensive testing, may be the best strategy to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a new modelling study has found, indicating that non-pharmaceutical interventions are significantly less effective in the absence of ramped-up screening and strict quarantine.The working paper, published by a group of 10 scientists from Chennai, Bengaluru, Goa and Pune, looks at three kinds of lockdowns: a 30-day single lockdown (India’s ongoing lockdown is to continue for 40 days); a periodic lockdown of seven days followed by five days of relaxations; and a light-switch lockdown, in which restrictions are clamped for two weeks every time the number of infections cross a particular threshold.The study found that a single lockdown with no testing merely delayed the peak number of infections without affecting the quantum, but effective testing and lockdown reduced the peak infection by roughly 80%.A periodic lockdown with no testing reduced the peak by roughly 60% while periodic lockdown, testing and quarantine reduced it by about 90%. A light-switch lockdown reduced the peak further – because restrictions came into effect every time a threshold was crossed – but the disease was seen to persist in the community. “In this case, the number of infected cases will just keep oscillating between some minimum value and the threshold. Thus, the disease will persist as those susceptible keep getting infected,” said Snehal Shekatkar, a professor at the Centre for Modelling and Simulation, Savitribai Phule Pune University, and one of the authors.In all three scenarios, the efficiency of lockdowns was significantly increased by ramping up testing.Scientists found while the light-switch model was the best theoretically, it was not of much use practically because the total number of infected individuals is never known, and, therefore, preferred the periodic lockdown model.A second simulation also showed that for periodic lockdown model, different combinations of lockdown days and workdays were possible to achieve similar number of hospitalizations and infections. For example, seven days of lockdown corresponded to five work days but 20 days of lockdown allowed 10 work days – for the same number of cases.The study, which did not take into account the economic and social costs of a lockdown, also offered two clues about exiting lockdowns.The first was increased testing. “Lockdown substantially slows down the spread, but doesn’t get rid of the virus. If enough tests are not done, infected individuals will start infecting the healthy ones when the lockdown is lifted. Thus, massive testing during the lockdown is the key to locating these infected cases so that the lockdown doesn’t need to be extended,” said Shekatkar.The second was on exercising caution while opening transportation networks. Considering 318 cities connected via direct rail links, the scientists found that in the absence of any testing and quarantine, it took between 60 and 90 days for an infection to start in a node (Delhi or Mumbai) and sweep across the country.“We tried to show that starting transportation has a potential risk until the entire population is cured. Of course, our model does not incorporate economic costs and policymakers can consider alternatives such as starting local transport and limiting the number of people,” said Bhalchandra Pujari, another author.“But ramping up tests or keeping testing facilities along transportation routes may be a feasible solution,” he added. The 10 authors of the paper are part of the 500 scientists’ consortium, Indian Scientists’ Response to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/effective-testing-reduces-cases-key-to-successful-lockdown-exit-finds-study/story-gNbFmeZSUpGPoi3TAGFpuN.html
26-04-2020||India||2 cell types are entry points for virus||Scientists have identified two types of cells in the nose that are likely to be point of infection for the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, in the body.The respiratory tract is filled with numerous cells, among which are goblet cells and ciliated cells. While goblet cells secrete mucous to trap pathogens and foreign matter, ciliated cells have hair like structures that transport such trapped matter out of the body. According to a study published in Nature Medicine, these cells also have high levels of the proteins ACE2, which acts as a receptor for the virus’s spike protein to attach itself to, and TMPRSS2 which helps the virus to enter the cell, and thereafter replicate and causes infection. The conclusions of the study stress the importance of wearing masks to both prevent infection and also reduce transmission of the disease, experts said.In usual circumstances, ACE2 is recognized as a potential therapeutic strategy in hypertension and cardiovascular disease, diabetes, lung injury, and fibrotic disorders. TMPRSS2 is understood to be involved in a variety of biological processes, whose malfunction often leads to human diseases and disorders.The researchers analysed multiple Human Cell Atlas (HCA), which provides reference maps of all the cells in the body. These included cells from the lung, nasal cavity, eye, gut, heart, kidney and liver. They looked for cells that expressed the of two key entry proteins and found them in the nose, eyes and intestine.This suggests infection via the eye and tear ducts, and a potential for faecal-oral transmission, the study said.“Earlier studies had also pointed out that the ACE2 receptor is expressed more in the epithelial cells of the nose but this study shows that the protease which helps with the binding of the spike protein of the virus are co-expressed in the nose and hence these cells are more likely to get infected. This study shows that the upper respiratory tract gets affected first by the infection. This is why its transmissibility increases manifold, making SARS-CoV-2 more infectious than SARS,” said Dr. Shobha Broor, former head of the AIIMS department of virology who has read the study. Dr Martijn Nawijn, from the University Medical Center Groningen in the Netherlands and co-author of the study, said in a statement published in ScienceDaily, a website for latest research: “While there are many factors that contribute to virus transmissibility, our findings are consistent with the rapid infection rates of the virus seen so far. The location of these cells on the surface of the inside of the nose make them highly accessible to the virus, and also may assist with transmission to other people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-cell-types-are-entry-points-for-virus/story-VZ250MIqdc4r0OIzxsTqPJ.html
26-04-2020||India||Virus could cling to air pollutants||SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, can cling to air pollutants, tests conducted in Italy have found -- a finding which, if validated, should cause concern in India, especially Delhi, where air pollution is a recurring problem, although both the researchers themselves and experts said it remains to be see if the virus remains viable and virulent on these particles.Preliminary findings from the study suggest that if weather conditions are stable and concentrations of particulate matter (PM) are high, the virus could create clusters with PM.There is no reason to panic yet because no assessments have been conducted on the viability of SARS-CoV- 2 when absorbed on PM.The yet-to-be-peer-reviewed test results published in Medrxiv — a website on health research papers — says it needs to be studied what average PM concentrations are required for a potential “boost effect” to the outbreak. The study led by the University of Bologna and University of Trieste was conducted by collecting PM10 (coarse, respiratory pollution particles) from Bergamo in Italy’s Lombardy region.The highest number of Covid-19 cases were recorded in Lombardy and Po Valley in northern Italy, an area also characterised by high concentrations of PM. Data available till April 12 shows about 30% of Covid-19 positive people live in Lombardy, according to the paper.The research team conducted their studies on 34 PM10 samples from an industrial area in Bergamo collected with air samplers over a period of three weeks from February 21 to March 13. The study found several samples tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 gene markers.India has among the highest PM concentrations globally. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) under the Union ministry of health released a report in December 2018 which concluded that one in eight deaths in India in 2017 were due to air pollution.Professor Kalpana Balakrishnan, who was one of the lead authors of the ICMR study and director, department of environment health engineering, Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Research Institute in Chennai, said: “It is well known that viruses and bacteria can be components of PM. They were detected along with PM fraction during measles, H1N1, and viral haemorrhagic fever outbreaks. An article in BMJ has also captured this. In fact, it has also been seen that during seasonal peaks of the outbreak, the virus or bacteria is found more in the PM component. But I will not attach much importance to it as of now because we don’t know if the virus on the PM remains viable. Is it virulent?” She added that she was “more concerned about long-term PM exposure leading to population level vulnerability to Covid-19 health outcomes”. “Long-term exposure causes cardio-respiratory issues which can make people very vulnerable,” she said.The findings of ICMR published in The Lancet Planetary Health also found that air pollution lowers life expectancy by 1.7 years on average in India. India’s average annual PM 2.5 concentration was more than 80 micrograms per cubic metres in 2018, eight times the World Health Organization guideline for annual average PM2.5, according to a study by IIT-Delhi.Prolonged exposure to air pollution leads to a chronic inflammatory response even among the young and healthy which makes people living in polluted areas more susceptible to developing chronic respiratory conditions. This is borne out by the high Covid-19-related death rates in northern Italy compared to the rest of the country, scientists said in a paper published in The Journal of Environmental Pollution on April 4.The aerosolised virus can put health workers at risk. Manufacturers of protective garments for health care workers say that increase in humidity and pollution levels can mean that the Covid-19 virus stays suspended in aerosolised state. “The health ministry demands that the PPE kits be fluid-resistant with seam-sealing because earlier it was thought that the virus can only be transmitted through droplets. Seam-sealing is of no use against the aerosolised virus unless the material for the coverall is viral-resistant. Currently, the manufacturers are using laminates to make the non-woven material fluid-resistant, but these laminates are also porous and can allow particles less than the size of 2.5 micrometer to pass through; the size of the coronavirus is between 60 and 140 nanometer,” said Sanjiv Relhan, chairman, Preventive Wear Manufacturers Association of India.“The study found evidence of Covid-19 on particulate matter. However, we cannot draw parallel with India or any other country, since the longevity of the virus on PM may vary with temperature and humidity. Unless such relation is established, it is practically difficult to model for Indian condition. Nonetheless the study implies that risk is greater for airborne transmission in polluted places, a theory proven true in USA, Italy, UK so far (based on studies reported),” said Sagnik Dey, associate professor and air quality expert at IIT Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virus-could-cling-to-air-pollutants/story-3IVTDluMJ7UIGGZlm7L64J.html
26-04-2020||Today's||Pak’s troubled economy is hurting more than Imran Khan wants to believe | Opinion||Even as the Covid-19 pandemic continues to hog the limelight with nearly three million cases around the globe, almost daily there are a couple of stories on how the outbreak is likely to impact Pakistan’s economy. That the Pakistani economy was in shambles much before the lockdown and has been so for decades, should give people strength. There is not much scope for downside, it is already scraping the bottom of the barrel. As far as the cost of living and quality of life of the masses are concerned, these might get a little worse, but nothing people are not already used to. Pakistan is perhaps one of the poorest countries in the region and had it not been for the bailouts and concessionary loans, it would have fallen to pieces years ago.Before coronavirus disease struck the world, Pakistan’s GDP growth rate was estimated to be 3.3% for 2020 and 2.4% for 2021, its lowest in a decade. Now, Pakistan’s real growth rate for 2020 has been projected by the World Bank to go into the negative, between -1.3 per cent and -2.2 percent.Also Read: Donald Trump speaks with Pak PM Imran Khan; discusses Covid-19 and regional securityPakistan’s total GDP in 2017 was roughly $305 billion, lower than that of Iran ($454 bn), and expected to grow to $340 billion in 2020. Compared to Iran, a country struggling under economic sanctions, Pakistan’s per capita GDP in 2018 was $1,565, much lower than Iran’s at $5,417. It also scored significantly higher than Iran in its debt to GDP ratio which was 71.69% vs 32.18% of Iran. Its defence expenditure in 2018 was 18.5% of its budget, much higher compared to its rival neighbour India at 8.74%. Struggling with a double-digit inflation, almost 13%, and a budget deficit of almost 9%, Pakistan would need to grow in double digits to break even. The likelihood that this will happen is next to nothing. In layman terms, the country will continue to get poorer and deeper in debt as it borrows more and more to meet its expenditure. Low sources of revenue combined with high non-development expenditures has been Pakistan’s problem for a long time and with or without Covid-19, it will continue to remain so. Interestingly, Pakistan has one of the lowest tax to GDP ratio (1%) which means that it is basically the poor that bear the tax burden through indirect taxes perpetuating the cycle of poverty.Also Read: US signals growing unease with Pakistan, tightens export of nuclear byproductsAmid the corruption, mismanagement and misplaced priorities, the one thing that has kept Pakistan afloat has been borrowings, both domestic and foreign. It has received $ 1.39 billion under a rapid financing instrument of the IMF to combat the pandemic. The Pakistan Institute of Development Economics has advised economic diplomacy initiatives to reschedule its other bilateral debts to the tune of $ 24 billion. Even though the Chinese have indicated their willingness to consider Islamabad’s request to reschedule debt favourably, the numbers just don’t add up for a pretty picture. Its debt to GDP ratio is 85% and expected to increase to 90% with negative GDP growth and a higher budget deficit than the previous year (8.9 per cent). Pakistan’s total external debt stands at a whopping $111 billion. Unless rescheduled, its debt servicing obligation for 2020 is over $29 billion. The numbers keep increasing as Pakistan borrows more to be able to service its debt obligations and pay for its imports, a classic debt trap. Its foreign exchange reserves at under $11 billion are barely sufficient to cover 3 ½ months of imports.While Pakistan owes over $11.3 billion to the Paris Club, $27 billion to multilateral donors, $5.765 billion to International Monetary Fund, and $12 billion to international bonds such as Eurobond, and Sukuk, the largest chunk, more than $22 billion, is owed to China, largely as a result of the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). When the project was launched in 2014, it was valued at $46 billion. By 2019, this figure had gone up to $62 billion, increasing its indebtedness to China in a very short time. Moreover, this indebtedness has come at a time when the country is already living beyond its means.The unsustainable situation keeps pushing Pakistan to borrow more, including from the IMF, which despite failing to introduce structural changes a dozen times, had agreed last year to conditionally lend $6 billion to “reset” its economy. One doesn’t need to be a rocket scientist to predict the outcome. Like on earlier occasions, the latest decision is also based more on optimism than reason.With the CPEC project far from over and cost overruns, it is very likely that Pakistan will have to reschedule its debt several times before it’s over. It is following the same pattern as that of Sri Lanka, which, caught in a similar debt trap, finally had to swap debt with equity and hand over control of a strategic resource to China. The fate of CPEC seems to be headed in the same direction. Frequent warnings from observers have been shunned by the Pakistan establishment with the argument that this is propaganda directed against its all-weather friend and intended to spoil their relationship. By the time Pakistan wakes up to the realisation that China is not its “milk and honey” bosom buddy and has only encouraged a relationship of dependency, it just may be too late.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/pakistan-s-troubled-economy-is-hurting-more-than-imran-khan-wants-to-believe-opinion/story-O0zzLJUYjsBzbwxqxTpeDI.html
26-04-2020||Today's||Covid-19 and China’s wildlife trade are linked more closely than you think | Opinion||Nowadays, terms such as lockdown, social distancing, isolation centers, self-quarantine, vaccine, immunity and ventilators are dominating the media and discussions across the globe. And the reason is Covid-19.A deadly disease caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 or Sars-CoV-2. It spreads when a healthy individual comes in contact with the droplets produced by an infected person when he exhales, sneezes or coughs.The disease has proven to be a huge disaster for the developed economies, which had the best medical facilities, as well as the underdeveloped economies. And governments of different countries and global health organisations are racing against time trying to develop a vaccine to stop it. With a ban on travel through air, rail and road, the world has literally come to a standstill. The loss of jobs, the fall in prices of oil and disruption in the supply chains of commodities have been some of the unprecedented fallouts of this fatal disease on the global economy. We have the USA closing its borders and putting a hold on immigration for 60 days to protect its interests and for the well-being of its citizens. One can expect others to follow suit.Everywhere, the economists and policymakers are trying to understand and estimate the aftermath of this lockdown and how the world will recoup from it.However, the entire focus has been more on the economic implications of the situation. And yes, the world is discussing its spread and origin from China, but barring a few international organisations working for animal welfare, nobody is focusing on the real cause.The origin and cause of Covid-19, which will help in its containment and eradication.The World Health Organisation (WHO) has indicated that 70 percent of new viruses originate in animals. It has been confirmed that in the past different types of diseases such as AIDS, SARS, Ebola and MERS have originated in wild animals.Scientists have tentatively concluded that the Covid-19 originated in bats and entered humans from a secondary host animal, most probably pangolins. It is also claimed that Huanan seafood market in Wuhan is the origin for this virus. Unfortunately, seafood markets (in China) have more than just seafood. They have wild animals such as primates, crocodiles, wolf pups, civets, snakes, turtles, bamboo rats, porcupines, live fish and mongoose, packed together in cages. They are live specimens, most of them illegally smuggled from their wild habitats, and butchered on demand by the sellers. To keep the remaining meat fresh, it is kept on ice slabs from where blood spreads, as the ice slabs melt, into the small walkways of the market.And this is the reason why these markets are called the wet markets.Scientists at the Zoological Society of London (ZSL) have already declared these wet markets as “Time Bomb” for future diseases. Many viruses are confined to a small population of wild animals and remain in wild habitats for a long time. Such viruses are of zoonotic nature and remain dormant till the animal host comes in contact with a human host. And most of these viruses remain inactive and undiscovered.Once these wild animals enter, through illegal wildlife trade, the wet markets or are consumed as bushmeat by humans, these viruses being zoonotic in nature multiply in their human hosts. And create a disease that can either be endemic in a community or result in a pandemic.So if we are not able to contain illegal trade of wildlife, it is certain that we are going to face more pandemics in the near future.Thus illegal wildlife trade is the main reason for a pandemic such as Covid-19.Chinese wet markets are very popular and have a collection of illegally-traded wildlife from all over world. I visited these wet markets in three big cities in China in the mid 1990s. And a person who is not culturally tuned to such wet markets will leave them immediately. The latest addition in these markets is a section for live insects.Many international organisations working for prevention of illegal wildlife trade viz. IUCN, CITES and TRAFFIC are trying to contain illegal wild trade to stop extinction of many species in their habitat. Unfortunately, Chinese and similar wet markets in Southeast Asia are a big challenge for them. Another cause of concern is domestic farming of many wild animals in China for traditional medicines and meat. The production of traditional Chinese medicines has resulted in illegal trade and poaching of many wild animals in India. The tiger, the leopard, musk pods from musk deer, and bear bile are some of the products used in the traditional Chinese medicines. Recently, a few cases have been reported from the USA where the skin of a dead wild animal used for making drums caused a disease in humans. Now it is certain that wild animals can cause unknown diseases to humans even through contact with the body parts of the dead animal.Many animal welfare organisations have demanded an immediate blanket ban of illegal wildlife trade and the closure of wet markets. They also opine that even if a minuscule proportion of the money being spent to stop the spread of Covid-19 had been invested in the prevention of illegal wildlife trade, we would have been saved from this pandemic.However, a blanket ban of illegal wildlife trade will be counterproductive, because it will go underground and will escape the supervision of the authorities concerned. This will result in more epidemics where it will be difficult to pinpoint the source population of wild animals.Also, it is important to understand the cultural significance of wild animal consumption in China. Consumption of wildlife in China was confined to the southern part of the country before Mao Zedong brought about a change in the social and economic fabric of the country. It was done by the implementation of the Great Leap Forward, an economic and social campaign enforced by him between 1958 and 1962, which aimed at transforming the agrarian Chinese economy into an industrial state.It has been estimated that between 18 to 45 million deaths occurred due to starvation, disease and violence during this period. To combat the shortage of food, people started killing and consuming wild animals. In the process, many species went extinct.This also resulted in the world’s largest wildlife domestication operation to fulfill the country’s demand for wild animal meat.So it would be safe to conclude that a deep-rooted tradition can’t be stopped by any enforcement or legislation. A multi-pronged strategy is needed. Outreach campaigns by role models, religious leaders, preachers, doctors and social workers should begin in China to convince people to stop eating wild animals. This campaign will take a few years but will be more effective than any enforcement and ban. A similar campaign in Mizoram was very successful in the early 1990s to reduce consumption and illegal trade of wildlife.Strict vigilance in wildlife habitats to prevent poaching, and cooperation among different nations to share information in prevention of wildlife crime and illegal wildlife trade will further fix the loopholes in this process.Finally a paradigm shift in Chinese policy is required to convince people to shift from the consumption of wild animal meat to safer and an alternative form of protein. A successful example of this is the one-child policy implemented by the Chinese government in the last century to flatten the population curve in its country.If a similar approach is not taken immediately by the authorities concerned, then humankind will find itself battling a new pandemic that it won’t be prepared for. And the way we are living now will become the way of life forever.(Digvijay Singh Khati is a former Indian Forest Service officer and retired as principal chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid-19-and-china-s-wildlife-trade-are-linked-more-closely-than-you-think-opinion/story-6sOSmAOctNCnCovZTFPBpJ.html
26-04-2020||Editorials||An agenda for the PM and CMs | HT Editorial||On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have another meeting with chief ministers of Indian states. This is the fourth such meeting on the coronavirus pandemic; and it is a reflection of how the challenge is a common national agenda, requiring both the Centre and states to work together. Despite occasional differences, it is heartening that the federal structure has worked at this crucial time.But it is time to use this meeting to address three key issues. The first is that of migrant workers. Ever since the lockdown, migrant workers have suffered excruciating conditions and have been seeking to return home. Governments have been reluctant to facilitate their return for good reason — mass travel can lead to the spread of the virus and can take the infection to unaffected areas. But this has not been accompanied with adequate communication and relief measures. For both material and emotional reasons, millions of workers are now restless. Some states have sought to organise buses and bring them back home. But there needs to be greater policy clarity on whether migrant workers can go back home; if so, what are the routes and transport mechanisms they can use; how best to mitigate any danger to public health this may represent; and what are the financial relief measures that can be provided to them.The second issue is the broken financial condition of the states. While they are in the frontline of the battle — health is a state subject — states are now out of money. Their expenditure has increased; but their revenue has almost collapsed. Many states will soon not have enough resources to meet their salary commitments, let alone provide enough funding to ramp up health needs and continue with welfare. The Centre has been slow in announcing a stimulus for the economy; it must, alongside, draw up a comprehensive financial package for the states. And finally, there needs to be clarity on what happens after May 3. This newspaper supported the lockdown — it slowed down the rate of growth of the infection and allowed the government to prepare better. But it is now time to lift restrictions in non hotspot areas, and allow economic activity to resume even in other districts. Of course, safeguards must be in place; mass gatherings must remain prohibited; social distancing norms must be enforced; but India now needs to, slowly, open up. Otherwise, the costs are too high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/an-agenda-for-the-pm-and-cms-ht-editorial/story-T04FF6cpm0OuWZ1qmL06wO.html
26-04-2020||Editorials||The quest for self-reliance | HT Editorial||Last week, addressing the heads of gram panchayats across the country, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi spoke of how a big lesson from the pandemic was the need for self-reliance — how each village, district, state, and the country as a whole, needed to become self-sufficient. He underlined that it was no longer possible to depend on the outside world. His assertion is understandable. As global supply chains break down, borders become tighter, flow of goods and labour becomes more difficult, countries turn insular, and protectionist policies become acceptable, the world will not be what it was. India will, thus, have to boost domestic capabilities. But, at the same time, the PM’s claim represents a significant shift in what has been India’s trajectory for at least three decades. From the days of seeking self-reliance as a post-colonial country in the 1950s and 1960s, India — partially in the 1980s, but more substantially in 1991 and subsequent decades — embraced the idea of connectivity and globalisation. The idea that a country, let alone a state, cannot produce everything; that leveraging each other’s comparative advantages was economically sound through a liberal trading regime; and that being interconnected was an asset gained ground. This has helped India grow. The pandemic may represent a partial reversal in this worldview. More crucially, is the ambition of villages, or districts, or states being self-reliant possible? Migration has taken place, consumer goods have penetrated into each corner, agricultural markets are tied together, supply chains are interlinked, and technology and connectivity drive the economy and society in intricate ways. Boosting domestic capabilities is necessary in the new context, but self-reliance may not be the most realistic goal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-quest-for-self-reliance-ht-editorials/story-iGDTw54FVdOJoofurcrIKN.html
