28-04-2020||News||Lessons from Bihar on the migrant worker crisis, writes Sanjay Jha||At the interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, Bihar’s chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar raised the issue of migrant workers and protocols related to their movement. The extended lockdown has firmly brought the spotlight on these workers, with Bihar among the most severely affected states, as millions from the states remain stranded.Amid hunger, monetary crisis and uncertainty, migrant workers have been treated as outsiders, which is why many set off on foot to their homes. Reports of the exodus of migrant workers from Delhi and other cities were proof of their alienation. With widespread panic, migrants became easy targets on social media and were labelled coronavirus carriers. Frantic efforts by Bihar — home to India’s second-largest migrant labour population — to address the exodus including localised containment measures at the state borders, were not nearly enough to counter this stigma. In many places, the enforcement of lockdown through the use of police force, as well as several infection control measures such as stamping those identified for isolation and /or quarantine, made things worse for them. It was only when the Supreme Court intervened to dispel this prejudice that the media and governance responses changed to some degree.As states begin devising measures to bring workers back to assembly lines, they could take a leaf out of Bihar’s book on how to reach out to migrant workers and treat them in a humane manner. This model is already being replicated by Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand to reach out to workers stuck in other states.Bihar was the first state to respond to the needs of its migrant workers stranded in other states. CM Nitish Kumar first ensured that people who reached out to the state government in the early days of the lockdown were called back, so that the government could sort out their problems. Their deprivation related to their lack of money and assured food. In one of his first directives immediately after allocating Rs 150 crore from the CM Relief Fund to fight the pandemic (this has now been increased to Rs 250 crore), the CM instructed senior officials on April 2 to remit Rs 1,000 directly to the bank accounts of Bihari workers stranded outside.By April 6, the department of disaster management (DMD) not just developed and tested a dedicated software app for this, but successfully accomplished the transfer of funds to individual bank accounts, while launching helplines for people to continue reaching out to the state government.The enormity of the task might seem daunting, but it is nothing new for the state machinery that has extended monetary relief to the vulnerable in the past. This was, however, the first time that migrants living outside Bihar were identified, verified, and reached. The state government, by April 27, had transferred Rs 1,000 through direct bank transfers (DBT) to over 1.6 million accounts of non-resident Biharis. Delhi, Haryana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh stand out prominently in this DBT scheme list.The state government set up helpline numbers for people stranded outside, erected relief centres at state borders for homebound migrant workers, set up community quarantine centres in villages and panchayats, and ensured that local employment through government schemes absorbed as many returning migrants as possible. Even before the partial easing of the lockdown from April 20, the state government directed all departments to use the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to provide employment for the local labourers.Outside the state, the DMD and the Bihar Foundation have been running 52 relief centres in 12 cities in different states to provide cooked food and food packets. Over 20,000 people are being provided with meals every day at the 12 centres in Delhi alone. Similarly, the 24*7, 60-line state helpline responded to over a 100,000 calls, facilitating affirmative action for 2.5 million individuals, mostly pertaining to monetary and food issues.Beyond financial assistance through DBT and support through community centres and phone helplines, the state’s initiatives have succeeded in looping hundreds of thousands of migrant workers into an extended community. This is a challenging time for both, the state government as well as for migrant workers. But taking care of them, through protective mechanisms, while remaining careful that the disease does not spread, is both the ethical and pragmatic thing to do. After all, it is these workers who will have to steer the economy back to its feet when India opens up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/lessons-from-bihar-on-the-migrant-worker-crisis-writes-sanjay-jha/story-pyAXNAl5tzGYmTSsMlm1iI.html
28-04-2020||News||Covid-19 has devastated the entire world of sport | Opinion||With the world in lockdown, sports stars have taken to social media with fervour, sharing experiences, anecdotes and expertise, among other things. At one level, it keeps them engaged with their fans. But at another, as more time passes in isolation, it also seems to be revealing growing anxiety.Recently, the Big Four of men’s tennis — Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray — chatted with each other on Instagram. This went viral on social media. Fans logged in from all over the world to listen to the interaction between the champions. Banter and bonhomie laced the conversation as the legendary players spoke of life, their concerns and, of course, tennis. Yet, throughout the session, there was a certain amount of pensiveness, some wistfulness, even some restiveness.The uncertainties we face today seem to have brought out apprehensions among athletes cutting across age, genders, and sports disciplines. Psychologically, the problems they face today go far deeper than missing a few games; it could scar many of them for life.Multiple medal-winning Olympic gymnast Simone Biles told The Wall Street Journal recently, “Physically I have no doubt that my coaches will get me back in shape. But mentally going another year, I think that’s what’s going to take a toll.’’ Biles had planned to retire after the Tokyo Olympics. With the games pushed to next year, with a possibility that it may not be held at all, she told the newspaper she will now play it by ear. The fact that even athletes at the top of their game are feeling distressed is one aspect of the devastation the virus has wrought on the world of sport.After the World Health Organization declared the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as a pandemic around mid-March, major tournaments have been either cancelled or suspended indefinitely. Remember, this was supposed to be a golden year for sports with the Tokyo Olympics and the T20 Cricket World Championship added to the regular roster of mega-events. Now, 2020 can only be described as annus horribilis for sports.The only bright spots are chess and e-sports, which have gained traction during the lockdown. All others have gone for a toss.There has been no estimate so far of the extent of financial turmoil facing the sports world but a back-of-the-envelope calculation suggests enormous havoc. If the Indian Premier League is not played this year, for instance, the Board of Cricket Control in India (BCCI) could suffer losses between ~3,500-4,000 crore. The BCCI can still survive this setback, but most other cricket boards are on the verge of ruin because of cancelled events.Deferring the Tokyo Olympics till 2021 will likely cost the International Olympic Committee and Japan around $6 billion dollars. Suspending the American Basketball and Football Leagues will dent their balance sheets by a couple of billion dollars at least. The list is long, and the overall losses staggering. Apart from promoters and players, thousands employed within the ecosystem of a sport/tournament — broadcasters, vendors, suppliers, and those in the hospitality and travel sectors — have been thrown completely off-kilter.The only gainer, oddly enough, during this calamitous phase is the All England Tennis Club that conducts the Wimbledon Grand Slam. Through chance or prescience, the tournament was insured against a pandemic and the club could receive over 100 million pounds in compensation.Suggestions that events be staged in a “quarantined” environment, without spectators and only for a TV audience, have been tried successfully in a few instances recently. But, it is unlikely to generate sustained interest and acceptance over a long period of time both for fans and the athletes themselves.It could be argued that the TV audience for most sport, in any case, is far larger today than ever before; so why agonise over the presence, or rather the absence, of people in stadiums. But that runs against the ethos of competitive sport, as we have known it to be played. Sportspersons are performing artistes and crave a live audience to inspire them to perform at their best. Keeping fans away from the arena of action would make sport bland rather than the lively throbbing experience it should be. Also, this will require a massive shift in mindset which could take decades at the very least.In any case, sport played for TV or online audiences may not be a panacea for a raging virus. All sports demand large numbers of coaching staff, administrative personnel and other support systems. Moreover, without extensive, time-consuming and expensive testing, how do you allow players to even play with or against each other?The problem is not limited to the elite level. The bigger challenge going forward will be at the lower levels, particularly at the grassroots, where parents/guardians will be chary of allowing their wards to participate in group activities. That could ring the death knell for many forms of sport.Ironically, sport holds out the best promise for recovery post-Covid-19. It unarguably helps in building immunity, is a great psychological prop in times of stress and, along with sharpening the competitive instinct, also promotes cooperation and mutual accommodation, which the human race badly needs now. Realistically, life can return to normal only after an effective vaccine is found. Expert opinion suggests this may be 12-18 months away. But human ingenuity, particularly when it comes to survival, has worked wonders as the history of our species shows. The world of sports — like all else — waits with fingers crossed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/covid-19-has-devastated-the-entire-world-of-sport-opinion/story-9TfIoJaMOaAfuom9vbZELO.html
28-04-2020||News||It is time to resume political activity | Opinion||Five weeks ago, the nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi placed the Indian economy in cold storage. It also seems to have put politics on ice. As the government prepares to gradually dial down the economic freeze on May 3, politics, too, must emerge from its hibernation. Politics — at its core — is about forging a settlement out of diverse public policy positions. Indeed, the very nature of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) invites divergent approaches to halting the spread of the virus and blunting its impacts.And yet, the current moment presents a set of paradoxes in the political realm.First, although the pandemic presents a unique political moment with enduring consequences for parties and leaders, it also is a fraught time for political mobilisation. National crises are usually conceived as opportunities for citizens to rally around the flag, perhaps even more so in India than in many other democracies. Therefore, it is not easy for the Opposition to critique the government’s handling of the crisis.Second, the government is taking monumental, high-cost decisions with the objective of shielding citizens from the pandemic. But, citizens, the Opposition, and civil society struggle to hold it accountable. On March 24, India instituted one of the most stringent lockdowns in any country in the world. Was this a wise, far-sighted decision or a hasty overreaction? The counter-factuals are too complex to answer this question with precision. Thus, it is hard to pin the blame on the incumbent because the crisis feels unprecedented.Third, the crisis reveals huge faultlines in India’s political economy — poor capital-labour relations, weak protections of migrants and informal workers, neglect of public health systems, and grave disparities between the haves and the have-nots. And yet, given the scale of the mobilisation and its expected duration, chances are that citizens will be gasping for air when the dust finally settles. At that point, there may be little appetite for translating the lessons of the crisis into actionable reform. The emotional and psychological bandwidth of 1.3 billion Indians will be stretched to its outermost limits.Fourth, while the states are doing the bulk of the heavy lifting — albeit with significant variations — their efforts are likely to be overshadowed by the central government’s unparalleled visibility. Of the scores of measures taken to curb the pandemic, it is state health workers, police officers, and administrators that are on the frontlines. In normal times, state-level differentiation might be possible. But the Centre’s invocation of the Disaster Management Act (DMA) has shrunk available political space because it is the Centre that is issuing guidelines on the lockdown, testing, procurement and treatment infrastructure. States are cast as mere implementers of central edicts. Even a success story like Kerala found its attempts to widen the scope of permitted economic activities thwarted by New Delhi.Going forward, politics should not continue to operate in a state of suspended animation. After all, other democracies have managed — however imperfectly — to balance the demands of democracy with the imperatives of crisis response. In the United States, there is a daily display of political wrangling between Washington and state capitals and in the ongoing presidential campaign. Closer to home, South Korea just held a presidential election — recording the highest turnout in three decades.Politics must resume its course in India as well. While open political contestation faces practical hurdles, some aspects of this crisis actually deserve to be politicised. Perversely, the effort to depoliticise the crisis is itself a form of politicisation.First, this should not become a purely rally-round-the-flag crisis. The objectives are too ambiguous and trade-offs too complicated to justify such a framing. Although the Bharatiya Janata Party’s dominance makes effective critiques of the Centre’s decisions difficult, questions must be raised about alternative strategies and policy approaches.Second, even though accountability for outcomes is difficult, the government must be held responsible for its crisis modelling, mitigation efforts, and measurable outputs such as treatment infrastructure. Citizens deserve detailed, data-driven, model-based explanations for key strategic choices, and regular updates on personal protective equipment procurement, hospital bed availability, intensive care unit capacity and supply of ventilators.Third, since the crisis has revealed huge social and economic fractures — from the issue of seasonal migrants to the urban poor — the challenge for politics is to keep these issues on the front-burner rather than waiting for the crisis to subside.Fourth, states must demand more space to chart their own paths. There is enormous subnational diversity in economic realities, health systems, and administrative capacity. Legally, the states have a case. The Constitution places public health in the State List, while controlling the inter-state transmission of epidemics is in the Concurrent List. While the Centre has invoked the DMA, it is debatable whether the Centre can supersede the states in an epidemic, especially because the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, empowers the states to regulate activities to reduce virus transmission (and the Centre to regulate ports of entry). However, this space needs to be reclaimed — it will not be easily ceded.Crises are often moments when political fortunes are made or unmade. Pressing the pause button on politics for too long would be both unwise and unhealthy for the long-term prognosis of Indian democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/it-is-time-to-resume-political-activity-opinion/story-BFlj0kQXIbecD69WlU0VOM.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||Yogi seeks plan for reopening of MSMEs||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday instructed officials to prepare a plan on resuming functioning of industrial units after May 3, when the second phase of lockdown ends.Various industry lobby bodies have also conveyed to their members to gear up to resume production after May 3.Presiding over a meeting, the chief minister instructed officials to make a plan which could ensure jobs for migrant labourers.After nationwide lockdown from March 25, around five lakh labourers have returned to Uttar Pradesh from Delhi and Mumbai among other places.The state government’s top priority is to engage all these labourers when Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) start production from May 4 onwards, said an official.The Indian Industries Association (IIA), an industry lobby body of MSMEs sector, has also conveyed to all its members to get ready to resume production from May 4 onwards.Till then, the IIA is trying to get all its issues resolved with the Centre and the state government. The IIA is taking feedback from its 40 chapters across the state through webinars.“List of problems is being prepared and apprehensions of industrialists are being dispelled,” said Pankaj Kumar, national president, IIA.“From Noida to Varanasi, we are in touch with our members in 40 districts across the state. We have conveyed that industrial production will resume from May 4 onwards. So, they have started taking adequate measures,” added Kumar.Major problem before industrialists is getting back the adequate workforce and resumption of inter-state transport services.“We are ready to employ migrant workers if our labourers do not return. The MSMEs do not have any objection in hiring migrant workers,” said Manmohan Agarwal, general secretary, IIA.Various lobby bodies of industrialists have conveyed to the state government that maintenance of supply chain was essential for smooth operation of industrial units.“For this, the government will have to make sure that both intra-state and inter-state transport services remain smooth. Availability of raw material and market place for goods manufactured is must for smooth functioning of industrial units,” said Agarwal.The state government has already issued directives for reopening of all industrial units in rural areas.At present only around 7000 MSMEs listed under the ‘essential goods’ category are operational while there are around 9.5 lakh MSMEs in Uttar Pradesh registered with the IIA.Issues passes but ensure sanitization norms are fulfilled: CSLucknow: Chief secretary,Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Tuesday sent a letter to all the district magistrates (DMs) directing them to arrange early operation of rural micro and small industries situated outside the containment zones/hot spots in rural areas. He asked them to provide permission for operation of all such rural industrial units. Tiwari, however, asked DMs to ensure inspection of such industries by deputy directors, district industry centres and doctors from time to time for compliance of social distancing and sanitization norms. The CS said employees of all such industries must pass through thermal screening and their RT-PCR test should also be done as extra precaution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-seeks-plan-for-reopening-of-msmes/story-9UqKpzmgYZbCtVy08bcP5J.html
28-04-2020||City||After Covid cases, some areas of APMC market to be shut for trading||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Tuesday withdrew its order to shut the wholesale APMC market in Vashi for two weeks. It instead demarcated areas on the market premises where no trading will be allowed.These areas and stalls in the market are where Covid cases have been detected. Municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “The earlier order of shutting the market for two weeks has been cancelled. The entire market is not being shut as it will affect supplies of essential agriculture commodities to Mumbai Metropolitan Region.”The instructions will be enforced for the next 14 days.APMC secretary Anil Chavan said, “Six traders have been tested positive for Covid in the market in the past 10 days. Their shops and those adjoining them have been shut.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-covid-cases-some-areas-of-apmc-market-to-be-shut-for-trading/story-nV3D2nuPNFT7cFti5U0UdM.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Migrants workers mortified about going home empty-handed||Ratan Lal, a 24-year-old migrant labourer from Bihar eagerly awaits to go back to his home in Bettiah, as he has not yet seen the face of his infant son, who was born amid the lockdown about 20 days ago.“I want to see my son and wife. My son is 20 days old today, and I haven’t even seen him. Can you imagine how desperate I am to be with my family,” says Ratan, wiping his tears. However, he regularly phones his wife, who is at her mother’s house and does not have an internet-enabled cellphone to send him photo of his son. “I have named my son Krishna, and I pray every day for this lockdown to end so I can meet them.”Ratan and his four friends, who are construction workers in Chandigarh, reached Karnal on March 29 and are waiting for Bihar government to ferry them home.This month, more than 700 labourers have been sent home, but 41 migrant labourers are still awaiting their turn Karnal’s shelter home. The place still reverberates with painful stories of the struggle of migrant labourers. Most of them earn less than ₹500 a day and have left families back home, to come to other states to earn a living.Ruhideen Khan, another Bihari labourer wishes to reach home before his sister’s wedding on May 20.“I promised her I would make it to the wedding, but I am stranded here. Now nobody knows when we will reach home,” he told HT.Most people left in this shelter home are daily wagers and live alone in other cities as they cannot afford to keep their wives and children. Now their biggest problem is that they have no money as they couldn’t work amid the lockdown.“My wife and three children are worried as I could not send a single rupee this month,” said Nawab Singh of Karauli of Rajasthan. Nawab and three other labourers from his hometown worked as masons in Zirakpur, Punjab, and they decide to reach home on foot on March 27. However, they were stopped by police in Karnal the next day and were sent to the shelter home in Kunjpura. “We pass time playing ludo on the cellphone and talking to each other. Although our lives are already full of trials and tribulations, this lockdown is the worst period I have experienced,” said Sonu Sharma, a youth from Khyala in Delhi, who sells sarees in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/migrants-workers-mortified-about-going-home-empty-handed/story-drCPjYT5WBJmLqNrYmL56M.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh industries’ body demands reassessment of preventive measures, calls for fiscal stimulus||The Industries Association of Chandigarh (IAC) has demanded reassessment of preventive measures imposed in the city, including curfew and containment zone.The association has also sought immediate fiscal stimulus from the central government for revival of industry. Chandigarh has been declared a hotspot (red) zone by the Centre.In a letter to UT finance secretary, association president Pankaj Khanna Khanna said, “Let it not be a trade-off between life and livelihood. Government should do whatever it takes to contain the disease. However, the same sensitivity should be shown towards hand holding the industry in its gravest hours as well.” “The industry is facing its death-knell due to mounting fixed costs including interests, wages, utility bills, taxes and statutory dues. The entrepreneurs here are now defaulting on every statutory financial obligation and there is a dire need for an immediate fiscal stimulus from the Centre,” he added.“As far as rebooting local industries is concerned, it is possible only if parameters of hotspot zones are tweaked by the MHA. If this is done, it would be appropriate to start ‘activities’ permitted by the government in the whole country. Starting these industries in a uniform, hassle-free manner, would be the first ‘tiny’ step in the direction of reviving industries,” Khanna said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-industries-body-demands-reassessment-of-preventive-measures-calls-for-fiscal-stimulus/story-JGjVU1Ssp5ptIHCV80dY6H.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Difference in Covid-19 case count: Maharashtra government and BMC blame system||An anomaly in the cumulative and daily counts of confirmed Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, collocated separately by the state health department and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), has raised several questions about data discrepancy. The BMC is out of sync with the state health department over data on Covid-19 infections in the city but has claimed that this is due to 851 duplications of names in the count. The discrepancy has been evident since the day the state and city agencies started releasing Covid-19 data. For instance, the state health department on Monday said the number of infections rose to 5,776 in Mumbai, however, the BMC recorded 5,589 cases during the same period.Civic officials have attributed the discrepancy to the system adopted by private laboratories which have been permitted to conduct tests on suspected Covid-19 patients. Private laboratories report their numbers to the India Council of Medical Research (ICMR) following which the BMC adds them to its tally. The state government receives the private lab data from ICMR but also gets BMC’s count. This often leads to duplication while collating the data, say civic officials. The civic body is now planning to reduce the city’s Covid-19 count, stating that it has detected dual entries in the case of 851 patients. Mumbai municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said, “Duplication of names is one of the reasons behind the confusion over data. By Monday (April 27) we identified 851 duplicate names on the list of Covid-19 positive patients. Now the process of identification and elimination of duplicate names is on. After readjustment of data, the city’s final count will be reduced.” He added that he had discussed the issue with concerned authorities and assured that the collation system will be streamlined within the next two days.Another senior civic official said private labs were to blame as they delayed submission of reports. “Recently, the BMC served a show-cause notice to one of the private labs for the delay in submission of reports on samples of coronavirus cases tested. Many times, cases tested earlier by private labs were added to the fresh lot, which led to data discrepancies,” the official said.As per officials from the state health department, numbers are reported only after coordinating with municipal corporations and receiving ground-level confirmation from districts. “We collect daily information from respective districts, municipal authorities, and private laboratories by 2pm, as we have to process the data. Cases detected after 2pm are added to the tally the next day. There were some discrepancies,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.The discrepancy between the health ministry and BMC data can be resolved by following a uniform data capturing method. Considering this, the state health department has decided to collect data from ICMR’s website. “Now we have decided to follow data on ICMR’s website as a base and after processing. After minimising duplication we will declare the data on a daily basis,” said Anup Kumar Yadav, commissioner, National Health Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/difference-in-covid-19-case-count-maharashtra-government-and-bmc-blame-system/story-FrYpqpmCSue7D4gJc0xpvJ.html
28-04-2020||City||Thane records 15 new Covid cases||Fifteen new Covid cases were reported from Thane on Tuesday, taking the total count to 256. Forty-one people were discharged from hospitals. Two teenage boys, aged 13 and 15, from Kausa and Wagale Estate were among those found positive. Both of them were close contacts of earlier positive cases. A senior journalist of a local daily was also among those found positive.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Among the 15 new cases, five cases are from Kopri, out of which, three are from Chendani Koliwada. Three cases are from Wagale Estate and three from Kausa.”Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) reported six new Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday. Among the new cases are a 12-year-old boy who was in close contact with a positive patient from Mohane, a 47-year-old police officer from Kalyan (East) and a 28-year-old reporter from Dombivli (East) working for a media firm in Mumbai. The other five positive patients work for emergency services and used to travel out of KDMC jurisdiction regularly.The total number of cases in KDMC is now 143. “Except for the 12-year-old boy, all others have travelled for work to Mumbai or other places and must have come in contact with a positive patient. We are tracing their contacts,” said Madhvi Pophale, public relations officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/thane-records-15-new-covid-cases/story-bpmQ8pRhldcbjVLvA8fy5I.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||BJP-JJP govt betraying farmers, says Surjewala||Senior Congress leader Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday accused Haryana’s BJP-JJP government of betraying the farmers with its ‘dilly-dallying’ approach during wheat procurement and imposition of new ‘diktats’ every now and then. Addressing mediapersons, Surjewala said the state government has amended its procurement policies at least six times in just nine days. “This reflects an anti-farmer mindset. Till April 27, only 21.6 lakh MT of wheat had been procured in Haryana, whereas 91 lakh MT of wheat was procured during the same period in 2019,” he claimed. The Congress leader said the farmers were facing problems as their hard-earned produce was lying in the grain markets.Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja also said that inadequate arrangements for crop purchases have put farmers in deep trouble. “The government had promised to pay farmers for their crop within 24 hours, but not a single farmer in the entire state has been paid even after several days. Seven days have passed since the beginning of the wheat procurement, but payment has neither been made to the farmers nor the arhtiyas,” she alleged. Meanwhile, in a statement, additional chief secretary, agriculture, Sanjeev Kaushal, said about 30.67 lakh MT of wheat has been procured from 3.54 lakh farmers in last nine days. He said that 4.12 lakh MT of wheat was procured on Tuesday. He added that about 2.98 lakh MT of mustard has also been procured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bjp-jjp-govt-betraying-farmers-says-surjewala/story-df0NODivOjllwiP8350V7L.html
28-04-2020||City||Special cell officers visit Old Boys Association office in Jamia campus||New DelhiThe Delhi Police Tuesday visited the Jamia Millia Islamia campus and inspected one of its offices within the university as parts of its probe into the recent Northeast Delhi riots. Though no senior police officer, authorised to speak to the media, was available for a response, HT has learnt from university officials that police visited the office of the Old Boys Association inside the university campus. The office is also called the Alumni Association Office of Jamia Millia Islamia. A university official who did not wish to be named said that a team of five special cell officers reached the office in the afternoon and inspected documents inside the office. Police seized documents related to the alleged mobilisation of different groups and violence during the North East Delhi riots in February. On Sunday, police had arrested the president of Jamia Millia Islamia Alumni Association under the stringent UAPA in connection with the riots in Northeast Delhi in February. Police said Shifa-Ur-Rehman, who is also a member of Jamia Coordination Committee, was booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). At least 50 persons died in clashes between Hindu and Muslim residents in different parts of North East Delhi. The clashes started after a clash between protesters and supporters of the Anti Citizenship Amendment Act snowballed into riots across parts of NE Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/special-cell-officers-visit-old-boys-association-office-in-jamia-campus/story-RVqhEAcjX5Lxl80oSoZrwK.html
28-04-2020||City||Covid recoveries in city cross 1,000-mark||New Delhi: The number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 in the city crossed the 1,000 mark, with 201 recovering from the infection on Tuesday. On the same day, 206 new cases were reported from the city, taking the total number of cases to 3,314.Around 67% of all infections are among those younger 50. However, that age group accounts for only 18.5% of deaths.No deaths have been recorded in Delhi for three days in a row. So far, 54 people have died of the infection in Delhi.Of the 2,182 active cases, 693 are admitted to hospitals, with 53 people in intensive care units and 12 on ventilators. Other than that, 788 people with mild symptoms have been admitted to seven Covid Care Centres in the city and 121 with moderate symptoms requiring more care to the two Covid Health Centres.Over 3,400 samples were collected for testing on Tuesday, with 3,295 pending for testing at the laboratories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-recoveries-in-city-cross-1-000-mark/story-dLW1BuzcVAdU5c2Xl2lMCK.html
28-04-2020||City||Sisodia asks MHRD to promote all students of classes 10 and 12 based on internal exams||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Tuesday asked the Union human resources development ministry to promote all students of classes 10 and 12 on the basis of their scores in internal examinations, just as it had done for students of classes 9 and 11. The government has also asked the ministry to provide Delhi government teachers slots on Doordarshan and AIR [All India Raido] to broadcast classes, amid the Covid-19 lockdown. Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia made the requests during a video conference with Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. Pokhriyal had convened the meeting with education ministers of all states to take stock of the status of online classes for students amidst the lockdown.“It’s not feasible to conduct the remaining exams for class 10 and 12 students anytime soon. The CBSE should follow the same process it is adopting in case of Class 9 and 11 and promote them on the basis of their internal marks,” Sisodia said in a statement issued after the meeting.Explaining the rationale behind the suggestion, Sisodia in his statement said, “Other states have their own state boards but Delhi has CBSE [Central Board of Secondary Education] as its board. Most CBSE students come from Delhi. Therefore, I appeal to the Union HRD minister that the CBSE is asked to take a similar route for promoting the students as it proposed for classes 9 and 11. In these uncertain times, I don’t know if we will be able to conduct examinations again, so on the basis of same formula like internal assessments, papers already conducted, and others, the students of class 10 and 12 too should be evaluated. This will help us not waste our students’ time and help us not push their academic cycles further and get their studies hampered. The HRD ministry had, earlier this month, announced that all students of classes 9 and 11 will be promoted based on their scores in internal assessments. Sisodia further recommended that the NCERT [National Council of Educational Research and Training] and CBSE reduce the syllabus in the next academic cycle by 30% across classes. “All assessments should be conducted from the truncated syllabus. The same reduced syllabus should be the basis of entrance exams like JEE, NEET, etc, in 2021,” he said.Sisodia further requested the HRD minister to help the Delhi government get Doordarshan and AIR airtime to broadcast their classes live. “We are using the online medium and collaborating with the best organisation (in the education domain) to conduct online classes for our students. But I further want to request the MHRD to provide us with Doordarshan and AIR slots to broadcast our own classes. I would request you to give us separate slots for elementary, secondary and senior secondary education. If you grant us the slots, we will have our teachers on board to conduct the classes and air as per our lesson plan,” he said.The minister said that only 68% of students in the national capital’s government schools have access to smartphones at home. “It is very important for us to reach the parents and the students through Doordarshan and All India Radio with our classes and content.”In Delhi, while are no examinations pending for class 10 students, as many as 12 examsare yet to conducted for those in class 12, including business studies, geography, Hindi, sociology, home science, computer science, information technology and bio-technology, among others.In northeast Delhi, where board exams were suspended mid-way through owing to the communal riots in the last week of February, six exams are pending for class 10, including Hindi, English, science and social science. For class 12, as many as 11 exams are yet be conducted in northeast Delhi.Pokhriyal told the officials and state ministers present at the video-meeting that the ministry would extend its support to all states in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sisodia-asks-mhrd-to-promote-all-students-of-classes-10-and-12-based-on-internal-exams/story-38OqCgLAmb6tLrNo2YLeWL.html
28-04-2020||City||Navi Mumbai sees highest single-day spike with 43 cases||Navi Mumbai recorded the highest one-day spike in Covid 19 cases with 43 new cases on Tuesday. The total count in the city is 188. A total of 16 cases have been reported from Turbhe, nine from Kopar Khairane, seven from Ghansoli, five from Vashi, three from Airoli, two from Nerul and one from Belapur.Six people, who had come in contact with a Covid positive waiter in APMC market at Turbhe, have tested positive.A six-year-old daughter of a Covid positive video journalist from Sanpada has tested positive.Five members of a family of a Covid positive patient in Ghansoli have tested positive. Five family members of a Covid positive labour contractor from Turbhe have tested positive. Three people, who came in contact with a vegetable vendor at Kopar Khairane, have tested positive.A 35-year-old nurse, who lives in Jui Nagar and works at Shatabdi hospital in Govandi; a 57-year-old traffic cop from Divagaon posted at Kalanagar in Bandra; a doctor working at a hospital in Bandra; a 50-year-old constable posted at Goregaon police station and his 21-year-old son from Airoli; a 52-year-old bank manager working in Mira-Bhayander and a 58-year-old banker working in Belapur are among the new cases.There are 46 containment zones in the city.Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Annasaheb Misal said, “We appeal to all residents to not go to Mumbai in the interest of their family members. Those who have no other option should arrange for an accommodation in Mumbai itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/navi-mumbai-sees-highest-single-day-spike-with-43-cases/story-L5Om8lCgXXcc5vA6nleXsN.html
28-04-2020||City||Dist admn nod to restart certain construction works in Ludhiana||As per the orders of the Punjab government and the central government, the district administration has given the nod for the construction work of certain halted projects to restart, said deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal.“The construction work of roads, irrigation projects, buildings, water supply and sanitation, laying of power transmission lines and telecom cables, industrial projects including MSMEs, in rural areas outside the limit of municipal corporations, renewable energy projects and those in industrial estates has been given the green signal by the district administration,” the DC said, adding that no construction activities will take place in Covid hotspots or containment zones.He said, “The district administration has also allowed for the construction work of those projects to begin where the workers are already present on site. However, all these works can commence only after the employer gets the permission from the district administration. For this, a pro forma has been uploaded on the official website of the Ludhiana district administration– www.ludhiana.nic.in–and on the official Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/dproludhianapage/) and Twitter handle (@LudhianaDpro) of the Ludhiana district public relations officer.”“After filling this pro forma with the details of employees, labourers and vehicles which will be engaged in the construction work, the employer can send the same on the email ID acgludhiana@gmail.com. But the employer applying for the work to start will have to follow all directions of the Punjab government such as social distancing and provision of hand sanitisers and masks to the workers. Also, the workers will have to remain on the site even after work,” the DC added.PERMISSION LETTER TO BE SENT ON EMAILThe permission letter will be sent to the person concerned on email and the permission will be cancelled without notice if anyone is found not taking precautions against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dist-admn-nod-to-restart-certain-construction-work-in-ludhiana/story-BEopPo3LQBIqLrK3T4wqUJ.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||Tuition fees of schools should not be exempted: HC||The Delhi High Court has said that the tuition fees of the schools should not be exempted since education is being imparted online. As students continue to avail the benefits of classes, schools cannot be treated as “closed”. In a judgment passed on April 24, a copy of which was uploaded on the official website on Tuesday, a bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar said that the expenditure incurred in disseminating education online may conceivably be greater than that involved in imparting classroom teaching.It also said that providing online education is no child’s play and not allowing schools to charge to tuition fees would be “bordering on absurdity”.The court’s decision came while it was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Naresh Kumar who had challenged the April 17 notification of the Delhi government wherein it had directed schools to not charge anything except the tuition fees in the wake of the lockdown. The plea had also sought that the fees for the lockdown period be waived off and parents not be coerced to pay the fees. However, the court dismissed the petition and said, “While there can be no cavil, to the proposition that the requirement of payment of school fees would, necessarily, become enforceable only where the fees are payable, i.e., where the parents are physically in a position to pay the school fees, we cannot agree that, during the period of lockdown, or during the period when online education is being provided by the schools, and availed of, by students, tuition fees should be exempted. “So long as schools are disseminating education online, they are certainly entitled to charge tuition fees. Rather, the expenditure involved in disseminating education online may, conceivably, be much greater than that involved in classroom teaching. Providing e-education is no child’s play, and involves the requirement of extensive infrastructural adjustments, including all incidental expenses in arranging access to online platforms, over which education could be provided, and in actually providing such education. To suggest that, having made all these arrangements, schools should not be permitted to charge tuition fees, would be bordering on absurdity [sic],” the bench said.The petitioner had sought that the April 17 notification of the Delhi government be modified by granting complete exemption from payment of any fee, including tuition fee, at least for the period during which the lockdown continues to be in place.However, rejecting his plea, the court said the Delhi government has correctly analysed the situation, by distinguishing between the expenditure incurred by schools “on co-curricular activities, sports activities, transportation, other development-related activities, etc.” and expenditure incurred on “salary, establishments and curricular activities”. “The impugned order, however, does not exempt students from the requirement of payment of tuition fees, for the simple reason that tuition fees cover salary, establishments and curricular activities, the expenditure where on continues to be incurred by schools, even during the period of lockdown, and before they can resume normal work. “Money does not grow on trees, and unaided schools, who received no funds from the Government, are entirely dependent on fees, to defray their daily expenses. We, therefore, find that, in allowing unaided schools to charge tuition fees, whereby expenses incurred on salary, establishments and curricular activities may be defrayed by them, the impugned Order dated April 17, 2020, strikes a wholesome balance, with which we are ill-inclined to interfere [sic],” the bench said.The court also noted that painstaking efforts are being made by schools and teachers to provide education and hold classes vis online platforms. It said that the effort in physically teaching students, in a regular classroom, cannot even remotely be compared with the effort that the teacher has to expend to provide education online.“It is a matter of common knowledge that, in doing so, the effort required to be put in, by the teacher, and the strain to which the teacher subjects herself, or himself, is tremendous, and the efforts of teachers – referred to, often, as the noblest among all noble professions – require to be commended in the highest terms. We unhesitatingly place, on record, our wholehearted appreciation, of the efforts of teachers, and schools, towards this end,” the court said.The bench said that the idea of the petitioner was “fundamentally misconceived” and the city government has already taken care of the action to be taken against the schools indulging in any other misdemeanour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tuition-fees-of-schools-should-not-be-exempted-hc/story-xYKZ6sqJ1vtJ9qHi8gNtEO.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Lawyer writes to Governor, President on CM’s MLC nomination||Even as governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is yet to take a decision on nominating Uddhav Thackeray as a member of the state legislative Council, city advocate Tanveer Nizam on behalf of social activist Irfan Qureshi has written a letter to the governor as well as President Ram Nath Kovind requesting them to accept the recommendation made by the state cabinet. In the letter, Nizam has said the state needs a stable government as it is facing a public health emergency.“Article 163 clearly states that the Governor is required to exercise his functions on the aid and advice of the council of ministers. Further, it is important to note that Maharashtra is in a state of a medical emergency and has the highest number of Covid-19 cases. There is every reason to ensure a stable government, as the current one, is in place and at the helm Uddhav Thackeray as MLC and a chief minister. Hence, my client humbly prays that the nomination of Uddhav Thackeray by the state council of ministers pending since April 10 is allowed at the earliest in the spirit of democracy, rule of law and justice,” states the letter. Thackeray, who was sworn in as chief minister on November 28 last year has to get elected to one of the two houses of state legislature within six months, else he will have to resign. In that case, the entire cabinet will have to resign. The six-month period in Thackeray’s case is ending on May 28.Thackeray had planned to contest a by-election to the legislative council, but it got postponed due to Covid-19 outbreak.The governor has powers to appoint people on 12 seats that come from various walks of life such as arts, culture, literature and social service. Of them, two seats are currently vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lawyer-writes-to-governor-president-on-cm-s-mlc-nomination/story-NSWomvAL5CQiSgOIR3RA5L.html
28-04-2020||City||Truck drives arrested with 7kg poppy husk in Mohali||Police arrested a truck driver with 7kg poppy husk from a naka in Phase 8, Industrial Area, Mohali, on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Gurdhyan Singh, a resident of Adarsh colony in Balongi. Police said the accused’s truck was stopped at a naka that was setup to check curfew violations near Cheema Broilers on Airport Road . The accused has been booked under the NDPS Act at Phase 1 police station and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-drives-arrested-with-7kg-poppy-husk-in-mohali/story-B43eEXXZEdGIjP3xI9bQGJ.html
28-04-2020||Gurugram||Nodal officers appointed to check learning among students; e-portal in the works so students can clarify queries||To ensure that academic learning among children continues despite the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown the education department has appointed district- and block-level nodal officers for overseeing the implementation of remote learning practices in government and private schools, alike.In a statement released by the state administration on Tuesday, district education officer Indu Boken said classes in government schools were being conducted remotely through Whatsapp and Edusat channels. Further, the department had allocated responsibilities to nodal officers for monitoring and ensuring that lessons are delivered to students without fail, he said, adding that teachers will be relaying feedback about the e-lessons to school heads, who will be sharing the information with the nodal education officers. Guidelines had been issued to ensure efforts as part of the remote learning campaign materialise. Teachers have also been told to maintain a log of students’ feedback. For this, the department is in the process of starting an e-platform where students will be able to ask teachers their doubts during a dedicated hour. A WhatsApp number from the Directorate Office in Panchkula will be shared with students for the same.While the lockdown continues, the department will also be carrying out activities related to state-level basic skill competency programme Saksham. A meeting with district and block education officers is slated to be held on Wednesday for discussing the results of Saksham exam, which took place in February and the district-wise progress made by students under the remote learning education campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nodal-officers-appointed-to-check-learning-among-students-e-portal-in-the-works-so-students-can-clarify-queries/story-J35JbVY7n3WTqArrJH6UzN.html
28-04-2020||Gurugram||Welfare scheme beneficiaries urged to not visit banks||The district administration on Tuesday urged beneficiaries of various government welfare schemes to avoid visiting banks to collect their due financial assistance. The administration officials said that the money was being directly deposited into the beneficiaries’ bank accounts and they need not come to the bank. Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner, said to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease it is important that people do not rush to banks, and hence all monetary benefits were being directly transferred into the bank accounts of the intended beneficiaries of these schemes. Khatri appealed to the people to call the bank helplines instead of rushing to the banks to check whether they had received the money or not.Over thirty-four banks, including public sector banks and private banks, have set up helplines in the district for the beneficiaries who can check their balance and inquire about information about money transfers over the phoneBank officials said instead of visiting bank branches, the customers and beneficiaries should use ATMs to withdraw money, and get in touch with bank appointed associates and relationship officers over the phone to check their balance and for other enquiries.Administration officials also reiterated that beneficiaries need to be worried about their money as many people wrongly tend to believe that if the money is not withdrawn quickly from the bank accounts then it would be returned to the government. “This is a wrong notion and only a rumour. People should not pay any heed to this,” said Prahlad Singh Godara, district lead bank officer.Financial assistance is disbursed under various central and government welfare schemes.Under the Mukhya Mantri Parivar Samridhi Yojna (MMPSY), the state government will provide financial assistance to over 12.50 lakh families registered under the scheme through direct bank transfer (DBT). Financial assistance of ₹1,000 per week is also being transferred into the bank accounts of over 3.50 lakh registered construction workers, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/welfare-scheme-beneficiaries-urged-to-not-visit-banks/story-7cDPtNHIrfNUDwLX3Yzo9J.html
28-04-2020||City||KDMC extends quarantine period for contacts of Covid-19 patients to 28 days||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Tuesday extended the quarantine period from 14 days to 28 days for those coming in contact with Covid-19 patients. The decision was taken after the KDMC health department found that there were some who contracted the novel virus despite the 14-day quarantine.“There were a few cases of those who had a travel history or those who had come in contact with Covid positive patients had symptoms after the 14-day period. This prompted us to take the decision to extend the quarantine period. All those who were in contact with Covid positive patients in KDMC jurisdiction will now have to self-quarantine themselves for 28 days,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC.KDMC has 143 Covid positive cases. Dombivli has the highest number of coronavirus patients at 85.“As per the state government’s interim guidelines, the quarantine period can be extended to 28 days. A team of KDMC health experts found some showing symptoms and testing positive even after 14-day quarantine,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kdmc-extends-quarantine-period-for-contacts-of-covid-19-patients-to-28-days/story-VXGXIqrNDlOgcF3Mk3UzgO.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Rewari-based NGO starts free online coaching for underprivileged students preparing for IIT-JEE, NEET||Vikalp, a Rewari-based NGO, has started giving free online coaching for underprivileged students preparing for IIT-JEE and NEET exams amid Covid-19 outbreak.The NGO, in collaboration with the Haryana government, has already been providing training to 200 underprivileged students (100 each from classes 11 and 12), under the ‘Super 100 Programme’ for IIT-JEE and NEET.Now, the NGO has started providing online coaching to underprivileged students other than those who are already enrolled under the programme.Naveen Mishra, founder of Vikalp and head of the super 100 programme at Rewari, said, “Apart from our 200 students, as many as 71 students have enrolled for the IIT-JEE and NEET exams. I had started this NGO with five of my IIT alumni friends to provide free of cost education to underprivileged students preparing for these exams. Considering students’ plight amid the lockdown phase, we have started free of cost online coaching for them.”He said that they are providing online coaching for Class 11 students from 9am to 12am and Class 12 students from 3pm to 6pm.As many as 46 out of 48 students enrolled in the ‘Super 100 Programme’ had cracked the joint entrance examination (JEE Mains) in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/rewari-based-ngo-starts-free-online-coaching-for-underprivileged-students-preparing-for-iit-jee-neet/story-pzjjlWGV4eQVDwsWa4lB7L.html
28-04-2020||Gurugram||Wait likely to get longer for industries in unauthorised areas||The wait for industries located in non-conforming or unauthorised areas to start manufacturing operations in their units is likely to get longer as the district administration has put their applications on hold.The industry and commerce department said that the industries in the unauthorised areas can’t reopen yet as the current guidelines of ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued on April 15, do not permit these industries to resume operations.Digvijay Singh, joint director industry and commerce department, Gurugram, said, “The 15(1) clause of the MHA guidelines clearly states that industries operating in rural areas outside the municipal limits can be allowed. These industries are located within the municipal limits of Gurugram. Secondly, clause 15(2) states that industries in planned townships, SEZ etc can be allowed to operate. These industries do not fit this parameter either.”However, the government granted permission to some industries in these areas that were manufacturing essential goods. “We have granted permissions to some industries manufacturing essential goods in these areas,” said Singh.A non-conforming area is one where industrial buildings have come up without building plans approved by a competent authority and industries are run without the approval from the industry and commerce department of the state government.In Kadipur, Basai and Daulatabad, more than 3,000 small and micro scale industries are located, while 6,000 odd industries are located in the conforming zones such as Udyog Vihar, Manesar, Sector 34 and Sector 37.Associations of Kadipur, Basai and Daulatabad met Singh on Monday, seeking approval for the resumption of their industries. “We have applied for allowing the resumption of work on the Saral Haryana portal and applications have been accepted by the industry and commerce department of the government. If the MHA guideline is the base, the department should have rejected our applications. And if we are in a non-conforming zone, then why are factories producing essential goods allowed to operate? The industry and commerce department of Haryana government is doing a survey to declare these areas industrial and we have been paying tax to government as industrial parameters,” said Shripal Sharma, Basai based industry owner.Umesh Dwivedi, Daulatabad-based industry owners, said, “We supply our products to big industries which got permissions. If our factories are shut any longer, there is possibility that we will lose our clients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/wait-likely-to-get-longer-for-industries-in-unauthorised-areas/story-HogQfJcCoK3gvPPDSy5LiK.html
28-04-2020||Gurugram||Medical tourism in Gurugram grinds to a halt amid Covid-19 crisis||Medical tourism in the city, as with the rest of the country, has ground to a halt in view of the Covid-19 outbreak in India. Proprietors of several medical value travel (MVT) companies in Gurugram and Delhi-NCR said the industry is “on the verge of collapse”, and that large scale job cuts in coming months could be inevitable.Gurugram, according to MVT company owners, is India’s largest medical tourism hub. “In the last financial year, India issued close to 168,000 medical visas. Of these, assume that only half were patients, who travelled with attendants. In any given year, about 45% of patients coming to India seek treatment in Delhi-NCR. Of these, about half are treated in Gurugram, which sees more international patient inflow than any other city,” said Dalip Chopra, president of the Foundation of Healthcare and Wellness Promotion (FHWP), India’s largest association of international MVT facilitators. With business dependent on international travel, and with no new patients expected to arrive in the country anytime soon, revenue streams are expected to remain dry for the foreseeable future. Meanwhile, MVT facilitators are straddled with the costs of paying wages and renting office space (in India and abroad). Ancillary services provided by vendors -- transporters, guesthouses, language interpreters and those involved in post-operative care -- have also come to a standstill. Abhik Moitra, president of a private MVT player operating in Gurugram, said: “Even if the lockdown in India is lifted entirely within the next couple of months, the regions from where our clients come -- Africa, Central Asia and most of West Asia -- are still in early stages of the coronavirus pandemic. We have no idea when things will get back to normal.” However, Moitra and others said that they were expecting business to resume, albeit at a greatly reduced capacity, by September. As per a presentation made by the FHWP to Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) earlier this month, the industry would need a bailout package of ₹300 crore “to sustain our businesses for at least 4 months.” The FHWP has also, through FICCI, appealed to the ministries of commerce, finance, and tourism, seeking financial assistance during the ongoing crisis. “The 60-odd leading MVT players in India together earn about $370 million annually. Ninety percent of this goes towards salaries, rents, managing overseas offices, marketing and work related travel. Our average expense for four months works out to approximately ₹850 crore. We are requesting about 35 percent of this expense as a bailout, to be allocated mainly towards salaries and essential expenses, hoping that we will manage other expenses once we receive pending tax refunds and are able to recover pending dues from hospitals,” Chopra explained. Praveen Mittal, a director at FICCI overseeing the MVT industry, said, “We have made a representation last week to the ministry of finance emphasising the need for assistance required by about 60 industry segments, including medical value travel, which is valued at between $ 5 to 6 billion annually in India. It is a crucial business which brings in large amounts of foreign exchange. No bailouts have been announced yet, but it is certainly needed to help MVT facilitators tide over the crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/medical-tourism-in-gurugram-grinds-to-a-halt-amid-covid-19-crisis/story-zeufvHLhYvT33Dpg9ol5oJ.html
28-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram: Without rapid testing kits, health dept races against time to check Covid-19 spread in Jharsa, Sec 39||The containment zones of Sector 39 and Jharsa village, which account for the highest number of cases in the city, have become critical hot spots as they are inhabited by health workers employed at the Medanta Hospital, which is barely 500 metres away. Six hospital employees who live here had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on April 24. Of them, four were asymptomatic, making the health department officials race against time to trace those who may have contracted it from these silent carriers.In this backdrop, Medanta Hospital, too, has restricted the entry of all its staffers from these areas, which includes junior nurses and sanitation staff.“Medical staff from Jharsa has been restricted from coming to the hospital. We are managing with limited staff to prevent further spread and contamination,” said Dr Yatin Mehta, chairman, critical care, Medanta Hospital.The hospital refused to disclose how many members of its staff life in these containment zones.“We recently collected samples of all the medical staff on duty in the Covid ward and other wards of the hospital. Test results showed that senior doctors, nurses and health staff in the Covid-19 ward were negative. The staff who tested positive were junior nurses and paramedical staff of other wards,” Dr Mehta said, adding that these patients may have contracted the disease locally in Jharsa, which was declared a containment zone on April 9. “They might have contracted the virus from their area or any other source while commuting,” he said.Of the 51 cases reported in Gurugram till now, at least 9 cases are reported from the two containment zones. Out of these, six are health care workers.TROJAN HORSE EFFECTDr Dhruv Chaudhary, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana, said any asymptomatic case is like a Trojan Horse. “Coronavirus in an asymptomatic patient works in concealment. A person can remain asymptomatic throughout the 14 day quarantine period, but he can easily transmit the virus to others in this time frame. In all likelihood, the other person who contracts the coronavirus might get influenza-like illness (ILI) or get critically unwell. The concern is to trace this Trojan Horse.”Usually, symptoms of Covid-19 start developing after 5-6 days, but patients can remain asymptomatic or show very mild symptoms for up to 14 days.According to Dr Chaudhary, the state is adopting two epidemiological strategies to trace asymptomatic cases. “To trace asymptomatic cases one of the ways is contact tracing and the other is selecting containment zone residents randomly for sampling and testing,” he said.Dr Chaudhary added that random testing cases through antibody testing kits, which is currently on hold due to faulty kits, was a useful tool. “Since we are waiting for the approval from ICMR on the use of rapid testing kits (RTKs), teams deployed on ground are going door-to-door and visiting the same house every fourth or fifth day to check whether the asymptomatic case has developed any symptoms. If required, samples are being taken.”The health team, engaged in contact tracing, has mapped 1,900 houses in the 1km radius covering a population of more than 8,000 people, and is now going to each house. A mobile van to collect samples for RT-PCR has also been stationed for easy collection of samples.Gurugram chief medical officer Dr Jaswant Singh Punia said, “We are taking the samples of all suspected cases through this van to trace maximum cases in limited time. We have also increased the number of teams doing surveillance in the area. Our ASHAs/ANMs are visiting every household enquiring about ILI symptoms in all families.”RAPID TESTING ONLY WAY TO CHECK ASYMPTOMATIC CASES Public health expert Dr K Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), agrees that RTKs are required for tracing asymptomatic cases through random sampling in hot spots.“Random sampling is done for profiling the disease in a particular area. By doing door-to-door surveillance we are only tracing symptomatic cases with ILI but we are missing out on asymptomatic cases. To trace a proportion of the population in a hotspot zone, who are exposed to the virus and are not aware of it, RT-PCR testing is expensive and time consuming. Rapid testing helps in validating such asymptomatic cases while being less time taking and cost-effective,” said Dr Reddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/without-rapid-testing-kits-health-dept-races-against-time-to-check-covid-19-spread-in-jharsa/story-zQ5aU3qlL9nzjN8xZrUd8H.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC distributes 1.7 million HCQ tablets as preventive medicine||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), as mandated by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), has distributed 1.71 million anti-malarial hydrochloroquine (HCQ) tablets across 85 hospitals and municipal wards, over the last 19 days, as preventive medicine against Covid-19.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, said, “We have started giving HCQ to people. But first, we are providing it to those working on the frontlines as per the protocol prescribed by ICMR.” Asked if the civic body will start giving HCQ to slum dwellers, Kakani said, “We are yet to make a decision.”On Tuesday, the civic body issued a circular of do’s and don’ts, which stated that frontline workers, while takin the HCQ, have to ensure use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and triple-layer masks.Doctors, nurses, members of squads going for tests, close contacts of Covid-19 patients, and hospital staff working in areas where there are positive cases can be given the tablets. While those suffering from hypertension, cardiovascular diseases must consult their doctors before taking the pill, patients with retinopathy and hypersensitivity should not take HCQ. Dosage for health workers involves 400 mg twice a day post lunch/dinner on day one. From the second day to seven weeks, it’s 400 mg, once a day, post lunch or dinner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-distributes-1-7-million-hcq-tablets-as-preventive-medicine/story-fuTTJW97yZ1H8DSp7tG9JN.html
28-04-2020||City||Panchkula on path of recovery as another Jamaat man discharged, active cases drop to 5||With another Covid-19 patient having been discharged on Tuesday, Panchkula is now on a path of recovery with the number of active cases dropping to five. As per the health department officials, another Tablighi Jamaat man was discharged from the civil hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, after the report of his second test came as negative on Tuesday. This comes day after two Jamaat men, aged 18 and 27 and hailing from Banoi Khuda Baksh village in Pinjore , were discharged from the hospital.Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “A 20-year-old Jamaat man from Nava Nagar in Pinjore has recovered after being tested negative for coronavirus for two consecutive times. The man has been discharged from the hospital, she added. Dr Kaur further said that with this, a total of four Jamaat men have so far been discharged while three are currently admitted in the hospital.The case of this 20-year-old Jamaat man was the last to be reported in eight days in Panchkula. The district count presently stands at 18. On April 26, seven family members of the positive Sector-15 woman were discharged from Maharishi Markandeshwar Hospital, Mullana in Ambala, where they were admitted after being tested positive on April 16. The 44-year-old woman however is admitted in a private hospital in Sector 21, Panchkula, with her husband, and will remain under clinical observation. On April 20, a 37-year-old Jamaat man was discharged. While on April 11, the first two positive patients in Panchkula, a woman salon worker and a staff nurse were discharged.Till April 1, Panchkula only had two cases, which later reached to five on April 9 with three Jamaat men testing positive. Later, Panchkula witnessed spike in cases after the 44-year-old woman of Sector 15, Panchkula, tested positive on April 14, followed by her husband and then seven family members. Following this, four Jamaat men tested positive till April 20, taking the count to 18.However, with sudden spike in cases, Panchkula also witnessed 72.2% recovery rate so far with 13 patients being discharged from April 11 till Tuesday. Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said although most of the cases in Panchkula have come from a specific area, around 22 teams of the health department with over 400 personnel are working vigorously day and night. “The health department teams have so far screened over 41,000 people in several sectors and villages included in the containment zone,” he added.Dr Kaur said that first, the work on the containment plan was started and sampling was continued. Also, to keep the district’s security cycle strong, 12 new mobile medical teams have been activated, which are engaged in completing the survey work besides providing health care to every household, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-on-path-of-recovery-as-another-jamaat-man-discharged-active-cases-drop-to-5/story-Jo1qOORbrHSG2TiRWmPaeL.html
28-04-2020||City||Gzb to send details of ‘late’ govt officials to their offices in Delhi||In order to curb the traffic flow at Ghaziabad-Delhi border areas, the Ghaziabad administration on Tuesday said the details of those claiming to be Delhi government or Central government employees, arriving at the borders after 9am, will be collected and sent to their respective departments.On April 20, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey had prohibited travel between Ghaziabad and Delhi, except for those involved in essential services or having valid passes. He later revised the directions and issued an advisory to such commuters to leave Ghaziabad borders by 9am and return after 6pm daily.“As per the decision taken on Tuesday, the details as well as the vehicle numbers of all such commuters who arrive at borders after 9pm will be noted down and an officer will send these details to their respective departments. This will help their departments realise that their employees are coming late to office and not adhering to duty timings,” a spokesperson of the district magistrate said.“There were frequent verbal altercations between commuters and the police. We will allow such commuters to proceed to Delhi after 9pm, but their details will be communicated to their respective departments,” the spokesperson said.The administration claimed that a number of Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad had connections to Delhi. Two more cases were reported from Ghaziabad on Tuesday which took the tally of Covid-19 positive cases to 60. “Press briefing regarding coronavirus cases is done at the state level every day. All CMOs are requested to inform the media through respective DMs only,” the CMO texted when his comment was sought.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to repeated calls on Tuesday.The officials from the health department and the district administration however said that one of the two cases was of a bank employee in Loni and he is stated to be resident of a high-rise near Mohan Nagar.“The sample of the bank employee was taken on April 26 and he was tested positive on Tuesday. Seventeen other employees of the branch were also sent to facility quarantine as a precautionary measure. His other contacts are being traced besides his family members,” a district administration officer from Loni said.A health department official said the second case was related to a pathologist who is resident of Vaishali and has a job in Delhi.“He visited a private hospital in Kavi Nagar and the staff members of that hospital were also sent to quarantine in two hotels. Another man, a resident of Meerut, also tested positive. He is a contact of a Covid-19 positive man and was sent to Meerut. The count of this man is not added to the tally of Ghaziabad,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gzb-to-send-details-of-late-govt-officials-to-their-offices-in-delhi/story-78bn5sKqFUXfx1MejkIFbI.html
28-04-2020||City||Case registered for seeking money through fake duplicate Facebook profile||A resident of Greater Noida has alleged that someone created a fake account using his name and photograph on a social media platform, and tried to dupe his friends and acquaintances.The complainant, Arjun Singh Rawat, a resident of Jaypee Greens, lodged an FIR in Sector Beta 2 police station on Monday.Rawat said the suspect took his profile picture from his Facebook account. “The suspect made an account similar to mine on Facebook and sent requests to some of my friends. The suspect then started asking people for money, claiming a medical emergency during the lockdown,” he said.Rawat got wind of this fraud when one of his friends, Vivek Bansal, informed he had transferred Rs 2,500 to the account number the suspect had given him.“Rawat told his friend that he had not made any such request. His friend then told him that he received a request on Facebook and transferred the money accordingly. Later, the complainant found out that somebody had made a duplicate profile and was asking people for money,” said Sujeet Upadhyaya, station house officer, Sector Beta 2 police station. The victim then filed a complaint in the local police station.Police have registered a case against the suspect under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67 of the IT Act. “We do not know the number of people the suspect has cheated. We have contacted the cyber cell to trace the suspect using the IP address and bank account details. The suspect will be arrested soon,” Upadhyaya said.The Gautam Budh Nagar police department had, last week, issued an advisory and urged the public to be wary of cyber fraud amid the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/case-registered-for-seeking-money-through-fake-duplicate-facebook-profile/story-3EEpHFJF4dDUlMZRn1KTtK.html
28-04-2020||Noida||Migrants ready to leave Noida at the earliest opportunity||Over 35 days into the lockdown to tackle the coronavirus crisis, stranded migrant workers in the district are still willing to risk their health to return to their home towns.A three-week nationwide lockdown was first announced on March 24, later being extended up to May 3. Shortly into the lockdown, there was a rush across state borders as migrant workers scrambled for ways to reach their home towns.Although state governments had come up with shelter homes and hunger centres for daily wagers, migrants preferred to walk hundreds of kilometres back to their homes, after public transport was discontinued.“I got my salary this month but my husband, who used to work in a factory, has lost his job. The contractor doesn’t even bother to pick our calls. We could not survive on my salary alone and were forced to seek help from others, who were kind enough to give us enough ration for almost 10 days. We are running out again and are unsure if we would get help again. Had we gone back home, we could have lived with either of our families, which would have been preferable to our present condition,” said Rukmani, a domestic help from Ranchi who lives with her family at a shanty cluster near Sector 75.If given a chance, the family is ready to leave the city to return home.The district administration, on March 28, had instructed landlords not to evict tenants, especially those from low-income groups, if they were unable to pay rent.The order, however, did not stop scared tenants from moving out.“We used to live in Mamura earlier. We did not know that the government had made a rule about rent. We just knew that we would not be able to pay our monthly rent of ₹5,500 and so, moved to an empty plot in Chhajarsi earlier this month. I work as a security guard but I would love to send my wife and kids back home as soon as travel is allowed,” said Abbas, who moved to Gautam Budh Nagar from Deoria district.In some cases, migrants are risking violating the lockdown guidelines to reach home and are purchasing bicycles for the purpose.The Noida police has arrested one cycle shop owner and booked at least one other for selling cycles. The Phase-2 police booked a shop owner, after police intercepted four migrants on bicycles, on their way to Bihar this Sunday.Also on Sunday, another person was arrested by the Sector 39 police for secretly selling a cycle from his shop in Chhalera village. Upon questioning him, they found that he had sold four cycles earlier this month, the police said.Migrants were also caught while travelling through fields of Jewar and Dadri last month.With no clarity about future travel, going back home is not just important from an economic perspective for some migrants, but also about being with their family.“My parents, siblings, their families and in-laws are in Siwan. We have been in Noida for five years now. We could not go home this year for Holi, but now, we wish more than ever that we had gone. We are anyway not working and are dependent on either the government or the generosity of other people for food. Had we gone home, it would have been much easier. Even talking to them daily is not an option. Last month, an acquaintance in Sector 27 had recharged our phone. We don’t know how we will manage going forward,” said Sarita, a resident of Atta, who used to run a tea stall in Sector 18.Officials said that migrant movement is under control at present. “The situation is nothing like what we had seen in the initial days (of the lockdown). There are a few isolated incidents where people are still trying to move to other states. Whenever such migrants are found, they are transferred to shelter homes after explaining the rules and possible solutions to their problems, such as food or medical services. However, if anyone tries to violate guidelines despite warnings, we can take legal action against them,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police.Violators can be booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/migrants-ready-to-leave-noida-at-the-earliest-opportunity/story-PEupdC4BCznf3ktU1HCiUJ.html
28-04-2020||Noida||35 days on, only Covid-19 patient to develop pneumonia yet to be discharged||A 39-year-old employee of Ceasefire company in Sector 135, Noida, is yet to be discharged from hospital, even after spending 35 days there, getting treated for Covid-19. The man says since April 16, three of his blood samples have been collected for testing, but he is still awaiting the reports without which a call on his discharge cannot be taken.According to health officials, the man and his 33-year-old wife tested positive for Covid-19 on March 25. The couple was admitted to the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Sector 30 and they were later shifted to Sharda Hospital after the man’s condition deteriorated and he developed pneumonia.The Ceasefire employee is the only patient to develop pneumonia, which is serious complication in those with Covid-19. He had to be put on ventilator support, doctors said. His wife got discharged on April 16 while his three samples have been collected since then but he has not been informed about the results. His last test result, on April 14, was positive for Covid-19, doctors said.“I am waiting for the results to know if I am still positive. I was among the first patients to be admitted for Covid-19. I have seen people leaving in 10 days after completing the treatment, but I am stuck here even after 35 days,” said the 39-year-old Ceasefire employee.“Doctors have collected three samples of mine since April 16 and no result has come so far. I have recovered but still I have to share the ward with around 30 others who are infected. Even if I am positive, they should tell me. I am tired of waiting,” the Ceasefire employee said.A senior government official deployed at Sharda hospital said the Ceasefire employee was the only patient to develop pneumonia.“It has taken a lot of effort to save his life. He is getting impatient to get discharged as it’s been over a month since he was admitted. Three of his reports are delayed. We need to receive two negative reports before we can discharge him,” a senior government official from the district health department, on condition of anonymity, said.The chief medical officer was unavailable for comments on the issue.There are hundreds of incidents wherein people under institutional quarantine and the positive patients have to wait for days to receive the sample reports which has been leading to panic among people. On April 12, a 32-year-old man who was under quarantine at the Galgotias hostel in Greater Noida jumped to his death and later, he was found negative for the infection.On Tuesday, five more Covid-19 cases were reported in Gautam Budh Nagar. The total number of cases has reached 134 in the district. The new patients include a 45-year-old man from Sector 34, an 18-year-old woman from Sector 50, an 18-year-old man from Sector 15, a 71-year-old man from Sector 93 A and a 50-year-old woman from the Begumpur area of Greater Noida.There are 50 hot spots, of which 16 have completed the quarantine period and are to be eligible to be declared as green zones as no new Covid19 case has been reported from these areas in the past 28 days. A total of 10 hot spots have entered the orange zone, as no new case has been identified in these areas in the past 14 days, while 23 hot spots are still in red zone as new cases have been reported from there in the past 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/35-days-on-only-covid-19-patient-to-develop-pneumonia-yet-to-be-discharged/story-R5GWI07htL9QaiS8QKIHOM.html
28-04-2020||Noida||GB Nagar district administration refuses to allow NSEZ to operate despite govt orders||The entrepreneurs of the Noida Special Economic Zone (NSEZ) of Gautam Buddh Nagar district are unhappy with the district administration’s decision of not granting them permission to operate despite notifications from the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the state government to allow the operations of industries. Although the district administration has pointed out that the area falls under the containment zone, the entrepreneurs say that the administration has given permission to 13 units in the same area that are involved in the manufacture of medical items, such as PPE kits, sanitisers and masks. As a result of this refusal, the SEZ units are staring at heavy losses. Ajay Goel, the president of NSEZ entrepreneurs’ association (NSEZEA), said that while the units are closed in this country, the export markets are still open. “Even amid Covid-19 crisis, our overseas customers are eagerly waiting for supplies from India. Our competitors from China, Vietnam and Malaysia are open, which are successfully diverting our orders, subsequently forcing the Indian exporters to suffer losses both in revenue and orders,” he said.He further said that the MHA had issued an order, allowing the SEZ units to operate, provided that the employees of these units use dedicated vehicles and the units have only 30 to 40% occupancy. “Even the state government has issued an order to allow the SEZ units to operate, provided that Covid-19 norms are followed. But, when it came to district administration for taking a call, it outrightly refused, saying that the SEZ falls under the containment zone,” he said.Echoing similar views, the NSEZEA vice-president Puneet Kapoor questioned the set of rules made by the district administration in declaring any area as containment zone. “The administration has its own whims and fancies in demarcating the areas around the hotspots. The gates of NSEZ are at least 1.5 kilometres away from the nearest hotspot (Kendriya Vihar-2 in Sec 82), but it falls in the containment zone. On the other hand, Swarnim Vihar that shares boundary with the same hotspot and the nearby market do not fall in the containment category,” he said.Kapoor further said that most of the NSEZ units are on verge of losing their customers permanently if the exports orders are not fulfilled by these units. “We are unable to understand the administration’s logic behind this refusal. NSEZ has high boundaries and custom-controlled gates. Many units want to keep their employees quarantined within the closed complex during this period. Since all movements of persons and goods are regulated by the security officials of government of India, there is no scope of adversely affecting the Covid-19 crisis,” he said.Vilas Gupta, regional chairman (north), Export Promotion Council of EOUs and SEZ, also said that the NSEZ has over 262 units engaged in export business. “Presently, they are passing through a very difficult phase and are scared about the shipments that are ready in their units as well as future business. Overseas buyers are cancelling their orders and there is a lot of fear among businessmen over heavy losses that they might face if the shipments are not sent immediately. Despite advisories from the MHA and the state government, the district administration has not allowed units to start operations even with less than 50% strength of 50,000. If the units don’t start operation soon, it may lead to mass unemployment soon,” he said.LB Singhal, the NSEZ development commissioner, said that the district magistrate is the final authority to take any call in such pandemic situation. “If the entrepreneurs’ appeal doesn’t appear permissible in such pandemic situation, he may reject their request,” he said.Singhal further said that sudden flow of workers, who are mostly from adjoining areas, may put adverse impact on Covid-19 situation in the district, which is improving now. “Only 13 manufacturing units of health products like masks, sanitisers and PPE kits have been permitted by the administration and they are operational,” he said.Despite repeated attempts via the phone and text messages, district magistrate Suhas LY did not respond to comment on this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gb-nagar-district-administration-refuses-to-allow-nsez-to-operate-despite-govt-orders/story-T051WqoxPRyaQ04FPsfKvL.html
28-04-2020||City||Newborn girl is the youngest in Ghaziabad quarantine facility||A 12-day-old girl at a private hospital in Nandgram is yet to see her home in Kaila Bhatta. For she is the youngest member at the quarantine facility in Ghaziabad. Immediately after her birth on April 16, the newborn and her 25-year-old mother, who tested positive for Covid-19, were sent to the Covid hospital where they were kept separately. The baby was later handed over to her maternal grandparents who are presently admitted to the quarantine facility in Dasna. Doctors said the newborn’s Covid-19 test results are yet to come.The child’s mother got discharged from the ESI Hospital in Sahibabad on April 27 and was sent home to Kaila Bhatta locality after her two successive tests came negative for Covid-19. “She is my daughter’s first child but her in-laws did not visit my daughter from Meerut. It is due to their demands of dowry that the relations have turned sour and we have also filed a case of dowry harassment. She is my only daughter and I gifted her every household item after her wedding. But her in-laws later demanded a car, something that I could not afford. This is why she was sent home six months ago while she was three month’s pregnant,” girl’s maternal grandfather, who works at a small oil processing factory in Ghaziabad, said over the phone.“My daughter is now eager to see her baby and hold her in her arms. Both of them have been separated as doctors told us that the baby needs to be away from her Covid-19 positive mother. The staff members at the quarantine facility are helpful and they have arranged her milk and even diapers,” he said.The man is however annoyed with the health department team which came to his house after his 25-year-old daughter tested positive for Covid-19.“They told all of us that we need to go along with them for two hours for testing purposes. But, they got us lodged at the quarantine facility in Dasna. The mother is yet to breastfeed her child as she hasn’t seen the baby since her birth. The health department has taken samples of the baby girl also. We are awaiting reports and will rush back home to look after my daughter as she had Caesarean delivery and has stitches,” he added.Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad, said, “She was under treatment at different private facilities before and during her delivery and it is likely that she picked up the infection from one of these hospitals. Although she has been discharged after her test reports came negative, it will take another couple of days for the reports of her infant daughter and her parents to arrive. We are trying our best to ensure that the infant gets every facility in the quarantine and is able to see her mother soon,” A part of Kaila Bhatta locality in old Ghaziabad city is already sealed by the administration after the 25-year-old woman tested positive. Her father is now worried as she is alone at home.“No one is allowed to come out of their homes in our locality and I cannot even ask anyone to help out my daughter who is alone at home and yet to recover from the C-section surgery. Despite my meagre earnings, I tried to give her best treatment at private hospitals but she ended up contracting the Covid-19,” her father said.According to the records of the Ghaziabad health department, a total of 99,311 persons are under quarantine, including 86,026 in home quarantine and another 759 in facility quarantine till April 27. The facility quarantine is meant for people who are close contacts or relations of Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/newborn-girl-is-the-youngest-in-ghaziabad-quarantine-facility/story-ZREGB73IAKmipjj98Yy4bJ.html
28-04-2020||City||Two men travel over 2,000km from Karnataka, Telangana to their homes in Loni, Ghaziabad||His desperation to return home was so high that a 40-year-old man, working as supervisor at a construction site in Karnataka’s Davanagere, undertook an arduous journey spanning 2,000km to reach his home town in Loni, Ghaziabad, during the nationwide lockdown. He walked some of the distance, sought lifts from several truckers, before walking some more. It took Ram Vir almost 10 days to traverse the distance Karnataka to Ghaziabad.He was not the only one unable to resist the call of home. Nehruddin, who works in Hyderabad, Telangana, reached his home town in Ghaziabad after traversing a distance of over 1,500km in about 14 days. While Ram Vir reached Ghaziabad on April 26, Nehruddin reached home on April 27. Both men are now in a 14-day quarantine at Tronica City, health department officials said.“I had gone to Karnataka about a month and a half ago but all my work was cancelled after the lockdown was announced. It was on April 17 I decided to return home, but there were no buses or trains running. So I decided to take lifts from trucks and also walk as much as I could. I reached Loni on the evening of April 26 after entering NCR from Faridabad. I then crossed over to Delhi and from there to Ghaziabad,” Ram Vir, a resident of Jawahar Nagar in Loni, said.The man said he sought rides from about six or seven truckers he met on the way. The driver asked him to pose as a cleaner.“I chose trucks which had only one or two persons, besides the driver, as such vehicles are not stopped by police during the checks. I travelled through Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh, before finally reaching Faridabad in trucks. Some truckers, in order to avoid police checks, asked me to pose as a conductor/cleaner,” he added.He said he also walked about 10 to 15 kilometres each day, especially to avoid checks in border areas.“Each day, I stayed at roadside dhabas or in vacant places where truckers stopped to sleep. Then again the journey would start. Most of the truckers from whom I sought lifts did not charge me money. During the entire journey, I was not caught by police even once. Otherwise, I would have had to stay in quarantine in those states. I was happy to return home, but am yet to meet my wife and three children,” Ram Vir said.He said he worked as supervisor at construction sites and was engaged in supervising the drill machines at a site in Davanagere, Karnataka.After he reached Loni around 4pm on April 26, the man went to a hospital for a checkup and the doctors finally sent him to the nearest police post from where he was taken to the quarantine facility.“The man is stable and has no symptoms of Covid-19 but we have got him admitted to our Asra-2 quarantine facility in Tronica City. When we spoke to him, he told us about his journey from Karnataka to Loni. We also have a 32-year-old man, Nehruddin in quarantine who undertook a similar journey from Hyderabad, Telangana. He too is stable and reached Loni on April 27,” Dr Rajesh Teotia, superintendent of Loni’s government community health centre, said.Nehruddin he worked in a company that installs mobile towers in Hyderabad. The man is a resident of Purana Check Post area in Loni.“He started his journey by foot about 14-15 days ago and reached Loni on April 27,” Praveen, his mother, said.“Every officer who interacted with these two persons was awed by the determination they showed in reaching their home towns after traversing about 2000km from Telangana and Davanagere. Both are in quarantine and their families have been informed. We are also ensuring that ration and other items of need are given to their families and tat their children are taken care of,” Khalid Anjum, subdivisional magistrate (Loni), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-travel-over-2-000km-from-karnataka-telangana-to-their-homes-in-loni-ghaziabad/story-lVZfAHRX0K00VkQxejbFwN.html
28-04-2020||City||Residents miffed with frequent power cuts in Kalyan||Residents of Kalyan-Dombivli are hassled with frequent power cuts during lockdown. Most of them are working from home and they said the power cut is without any prior notice.They said sometimes there is no electricity for five hours at a stretch.“Every alternative day, there is power in our area, without any prior notice. Already people are hassled because of lockdown. Power cuts have inconvenienced us as we are working from home,” said Ratish Raghvan, 35, a resident of Thakurli, which has seen most number of complaints.Sandeep Nair, 34, a resident of Dombivli (East), has tweeted: “Frequent power cuts creating a problem for all of us working from home. Location Dombivli, Thakurli,” (sic)Officials of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) said they have to disconnect electricity because of the ongoing pre-monsoon maintenance work.“We are carrying out pre-monsoon maintenance work and so we have to disconnect power. However, we are unable to give residents prior notice as we have staff shortage in the technical department,” said a senior official from MSEDCL.“The maintenance work is likely to continue till May or beginning of June,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/residents-miffed-with-frequent-power-cuts-in-kalyan/story-tgJ01w5DiirtEWqi3MO3tN.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Private labs can’t collect samples from home: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to stop the collection of medical samples from home by private laboratories for Covid-19 testing. Citizens will now have to go to fever clinics or visit private laboratories to get tested.Till now, people could either call the helpline number of the BMC seeking requests for Covid-19 tests or get in touch private laboratories for the collection of samples from home. However, there have been complaints that the private labs are not submitting reports on time. Apart from this, the BMC has received several other complaints about violation of testing rules, leading to the decision to stop the home collection facility.“We are going to stop home collection of samples. Now, fever clinics will collect samples from suspected patients if they show any symptoms or have comorbid ailments,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner (health), BMC.According to the BMC, under the new plan, any symptomatic person; high-risk patients on dialysis or chemotherapy, and women who are over 36 weeks pregnant can call the BMC’s helpline number, 1916 and get directed to a fever clinic.“If the doctor at a fever clinic thinks the individual requires testing, the medical staff will collect the samples and send them to our laboratories for testing. This will be free of cost,” said Kakani.People who want to opt for a private testing facility and pay the charge of ₹4,500, can visit private laboratories directly. After scrutiny, if the person falls into the criteria for testing, the lab will collect the samples.Though the BMC has put a cap of ₹4,500 on tests, private labs charge around ₹7,000, inclusive of the cost of personal protective equipment and service charges.78% cases diagnosed via contact tracingAccording to data provided by BMC, almost 78% of the city’s Covid-19 patients were diagnosed through contact tracing Till Monday evening, over 5,700 people in Mumbai were diagnosed with Covid-19, of which around 4,500 were identified through contact tracing of infected people “We have so many asymptomatic patients because we could identify them before they started showing symptoms,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/private-labs-can-t-collect-samples-from-home-bmc/story-lF59ltA3bnjJzeMP6IdYIM.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Woman constable in dock for thrashing complainant at police post in Chandigarh||The UT police on Tuesday ordered a departmental inquiry against a woman constable for allegedly thrashing a man who came to the Bapu Dham police post with a grievance.The orders were issued by SSP Nilambari Jagadale after a video of the incident went viral on social media. In the video, constable Anita was seen hitting and manhandling a man. Sources said the assistant superintendent of police (ASP, south), Neha Yadav, will probe the matter and file a report.On Monday, a person living in Bapu Dham Colony came to a nearby police post to inform them that a man, who is allegedly suffering from a mental condition, had been indulging in stone pelting at the residents of the colony.However, instead of taking action, constable Anita allegedly began thrashing the complainant saying that he had abused the mentally-challenged man multiple times in the past. Later, she also claimed that he had abused her as well. Beat officials have made a daily diary entry of the incident.This is the second such incident reported in seven days, where the conduct of a woman police official has come under question. On April 21, an inquiry was marked against lady constable Usha Yadav, after she misbehaved with an on-duty Punjab Police sub-inspector and his team at a checkpoint in Nayagaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/woman-constable-in-dock-for-thrashing-complainant-at-police-post-in-chandigarh/story-tq22gA4Yc0CbdSsBl1nnpO.html
28-04-2020||City||Mohali woman held for running flesh trade racket||With the arrest of a 32-year-old woman from Saraswati Vihar in Dera Bassi, police claimed to have busted an inter-state prostitution racket. The accused brought five victims from Assam in February on the pretext of providing jobs in a private firm in Delhi and forced them into prostitution. The complainant and one of the victims, a 22-year-old woman, told police that after putting up for two weeks in Delhi, they were taken to Chandigarh for a few days and were later shifted to Saraswati Vihar in Dera Bassi.She said she managed to flee from the flat and reached the police. Sub-inspector Narinder Kumar said based on the statement of one of the victims, they raided the flat and arrested the accused, who was sent to judicial custody. He added that police were trying to trace others involved in the racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-woman-held-for-running-flesh-trade-racket/story-5SJxzd7m5mVdE6jBq6wu7N.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh DGP orders daily screening of all cops as Covid cases surge||The director general of police (DGP), Sanjay Baniwal, on Tuesday ordered the screening of the entire police force on a daily basis and also directed officials to maintain records of the same.The orders come in the backdrop of a surge in Covid-19 cases in the city and after multiple front-line warriors including doctors, nurses and ward attendants have begun testing positive for the coronavirus.“Our motto for Covid-19 is ‘Mehfooz raho, mehfooz rakho’. Since the force is exposing itself, it has become absolutely necessary to get them screened on a daily basis. Anyone with even the slightest of suspicion will be tested immediately to avoid spread. The police officials will be checked even when on duty,” said Baniwal.Police are working round the clock and in areas most affected by the virus, he said, adding, “The risk of getting infected is quite high and we can’t afford to get the health of our frontline heroes compromised.”Till now, the lower rung officials with longer duty hours working at checkpoints were being screened, but fresh orders include checking of senior superintendents (SSPs), superintendents (SPs), deputy superintendents (DSPs), station house officers (SHOs) and sub-inspectors as well. At present more than 4,000 police men and women from all units are deployed to enforce curfew orders and maintain law and order. ALL UNIT IN-CHARGES TO CHECK FOR SYMPTOMSThe orders instruct all unit in-charges to ask questions to the men and women working with them, related to basic symptoms like cough, difficulty in breathing, if a family member has flu-like symptoms, did he/she come in contact with a Covid-19 positive case in the last 15 days, diarrhoea, loss of taste and smell.SSP CLEARS AIR OVER HER SELF-ISOLATIONSSP Nilambari Jagadale came under scrutiny after her picture along with a person who tested positive for Covid-19 at Bapu Dham went viral on social media. Jagadale stated that even though she didn’t come in direct contact with the person while distributing langar in the area, on Tuesday she contacted the health department to get herself examined. “According to health officials, I don’t require to go under quarantine or self-isolation because I didn’t come in close or direct contact with the concerned person. And as per the guidelines framed by the Union health ministry, I don’t need to be quarantined,” she stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-dgp-orders-daily-screening-of-all-cops-as-covid-cases-surge/story-R2Zx2V1puuiGk8G48clSrN.html
28-04-2020||City||Two lose money while selling products online||In two separate incidents of cheating, two women lost money while trying to sell products on an online portal. In both incidents, scamsters posed as customers and sent them links of money transfer application.Garima Sahu, 23, a student at Kopar Khairane, wanted to sell her phone and she posted an advertisement on the portal. On Sunday, a caller said he wanted to buy her phone for ₹10,000 and sent her a scan code through WhatsApp. When Sahu scanned it and completed the transaction, she lost ₹10,000.“When she told the caller, he said it happened by mistake and sent her another scan code. She again lost ₹10,000. The accused said there was a technical issue and to gain her trust, he paid her Re1 to show payment is happening from his end. When he sent her the code the third time, she lost ₹20,000,” said an officer from Kopar Khairane police station. Sahu collectively lost ₹40,000 in the fraud. In the second incident, an Ulwe resident Rita Pandey, 36, was cheated of ₹10,000 when she while trying to sell her dress on the same portal.Pandey, a nurse with a Chembur based private hospital, had put up an advertisement on April 21.“Pandey received a call within an hour of posting the advertisement. The caller said he will pay ₹5,000 online and sent her a link for the transaction. But, money was deducted from Pandey’s account,” said an officer from Nhava Sheva police station.Claiming it was a faulty transaction, the accused sent her another link, and she lost another ₹5,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-lose-money-while-selling-products-online/story-HpRZd0VVGnLZigpnEeIm7L.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University guard booked for defying quarantine norms, hostellers asked to self-quarantine||A security guard at Panjab University, Chandigarh, was booked on Tuesday for violating quarantine norms and attending work despite being identified as a community contact of a Covid-infected neighbour.As many as 15 residents of boys’ hostel number 1, where the guard was on duty, have been advised to self-quarantine till his test report comes back.The guard resides in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, and is a neighbour of the 30-year-old operation theatre attendant of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 24, triggering a spike that has seen the number of cases in Chandigarh doubling to 56 within four days.“We were checking if all people who attended the party are following quarantine norms at their homes. The PU employee wasn’t at home, and following verification, it came to the fore that he was going for duty for the past three days,” said a police official, privy to the matter.PU in its statement said the guard stayed at the servant quarter of the hostel for a night after he was denied entry into Bapu Dham Colony, which has been declared an “affected pocket”, with just one entry and exit point and police deployment.Police have removed him from the varsity campus and booked him under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection disease dangerous to life) of Indian Penal Code (IPC).Professor Navdeep Goyal, who is the chairman of PU’s Covid-19 advisory committee said: “Students living in the hostel have been advised to quarantine themselves as a precautionary measure till the test report of the guard comes back. Packed food is being delivered to them.”Hostel warden Rajeev Kumar said: “The hostel is being sanitised and students have been advised to maintain social distancing.” The warden has also recommended termination of the hostel staffer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-guard-booked-for-defying-quarantine-norms-hostellers-asked-to-self-quarantine/story-HRrspI0ZXEU3RQbFFZFbKI.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||42 new cases bring Dharavi’s count to 330; toll touches 18||A growing hotspot for Covid-19 cases, Dharavi recorded four new deaths and 42 new positive cases on Tuesday, the highest number of cases recorded in the area in a day. Of the 42 new cases, 30 were already quarantined by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), while the rest were directly reported at the BMC hospitals. The total number of cases in Dharavi have crossed the 300 mark with the total reaching 330 positive cases so far. So far, there have been 18 deaths in the area due to Covid-19.Among the four people who died on Tuesday, a 60-year-old male and 60-year-old female died at Sion Hospital and a 48-year-old male and a 55-year-old male were reported to be dead at KEM Hospital. Of the 330 positive cases, 104 were already quarantined by the BMC, 98 have been found through screening and 128 have directly reported to the hospitals.After no new cases were reported for three consecutive days in Dadar and Mahim, four new cases were found in Dadar and five new cases were reported in Mahim on Tuesday. The total number of cases in Dadar has reached 33 so far whereas a total of 30 cases have been reported in Mahim. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of G North (Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim), said, “Majority of the people who are found to be positive are already quarantined by the BMC. This is because of our focused approach by screening and testing through multiple sources. We are doing door-to-door surveys, screening people in private clinics and immediate isolation of high-risk contacts and its a result of that.”As per BMC’s data, 1,530 tests have been conducted in Dharavi alone and nearly 61,500 people have been screened. The civic body claims to have conducted a door to door survey of 47,500 people, 2000 people have been screened in fever camps, 5,500 people have been screened in private clinics and 6,500 people in municipal dispensaries. While screening involves checking a patient for all possible symptoms of the Covid-19, testing involves the collection of swab samples that are later sent to the labs.As of Tuesday, about 2,100 people have been advised to be home quarantined in Dharavi and 1,857 people have been admitted in institutional quarantines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/dharavi-records-42-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-in-a-day/story-rRjfuf1sTbauzKC8qklEiJ.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s PGIMER to train 31 medical colleges in region for starting Covid-19 testing facility||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, which is providing the Covid-19 testing facility to the tricity and adjoining districts of Punjab and Haryana during the times of crisis, has been identified as a mentoring institute by the Indian Council of Medical Education and Research (ICMR), New Delhi, and the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), Government of India (GoI).Under this, the institute has been given the responsibility of increasing the capacity for Covid-19 testing in all the government and private medical colleges of Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Uttarakhand.A total of 31 medical colleges with no Covid-19 testing facilities need to be strengthened in collaboration with the state governments by assessing their infrastructure, space, staff, expertise, equipment and reagents as testing requires sophisticated molecular laboratory set-up with proper bio-containment facility.On the directions of PGIMER director Jagat Ram, a core committee has been constituted for giving approval to the labs of these medical colleges to start the Covid-19 testing facility.A professor from the PGI’s virology department, Mini P Singh, has been appointed as the principal coordinator for the establishment of these Covid-19 testing facilities. Department head RK Ratho is also a member of the core committee.A total of 40 lab personnel including senior faculty members from various medical colleges and medical institutes had also received trained in the department of virology at PGIMER from April 4 to April 26. The department is also providing diagnostic services for testing around 200 samples per day for Covid-19.The training for real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing kits was imparted along with quality management system as the department of virology is WHO-accredited national measles laboratory for molecular and serology testing.Previously also, the department had conducted hands-on -training for Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH-32) and Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) for Covid-19 testing. In the first phase, additional labs of Command Hospital and Civil Hospital, Panchkula, have been trained, thus preparing the tricity to meet an increased demand for testing. Under the guidance of ICMR, a total of 7 labs have been given green signal to initiate the Covid-19 testing and two are under process of getting approval in the first phase. For the second phase, gap analysis has been done and the help of state governments will be taken to establish the facilities of Covid-19 testing and subsequently training will be provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-pgimer-to-train-31-medical-colleges-in-region-for-starting-covid-19-testing-facility/story-BY3uGehm7oApQ1er7s3T8I.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Palampur MGNREGA labourer donates₹5,000 to CM’s Covid fund, gets a call from guv||As the country grapples with the coronavirus pandemic, people from all walks of life have come forward and contributed to the battle against the virus.While frontline warriors are risking their lives, common people are also doing their bit, be it feeding the needy, delivering medicine to the elderly or by donating generously for the cause irrespective of their economic conditions.A heartwarming story has emerged from Bharmat village near Palampur town in Himachal Pradesh, where a MGNREGA worker donated ₹5,000 to the chief minister’s Covid Response Fund.The donor, Vidya Devi, 58, also has an ailing husband to look after. Her two sons are stuck in other states due to the lockdown.“I have been hearing stories about corona warriors and people selflessly working to help others,” said Devi, “Our desires are endless, but at this time of distress I just wanted to make a contribution to help the coronawarriors, who are fighting in the field,” she added.She withdrew the ₹5,000 she had saved for a rainy day and walked at least 3km to reach the Palampur sub-divisional magistrate Dharmesh Ramotra.The SDM, who was hearing people’s grievances, thought she had also come with some complaint.He, however, was moved when Devi told him that she works as a MGNREGA labourer and wanted to contribute in the fight against the virus.Given her humble background, the SDM urged her to donate a small token amount and keep rest of the money.However, Devi told the officer that she wanted to donate all the money she had brought.Her gesture did not go unnoticed, on Monday evening, she received a call from governor of Himachal Pradesh Bandaru Dattatreya who thanked Devi for her generosity and service to humanity.The governor also sent her a pack of sanitisers and masks as a return gift. “The amount I donated was not much. I wanted to give more but it was all that I could manage,” Devi said.Meanwhile, she expressed delight that the authorities recognised her contribution and the governor himself called her.Former chief minister and veteran BJP leader Shanta Kumar, too, hailed Devi for her compassion. “She reminds me of Bindo Devi, who donated ₹11,000, she had saved by working as domestic help, for Vivekananda Hospital,” said Shanta.Meanwhile, the Palampur SDM said Devi’s donation will inspire many others to contribute to the fight against Covid-19.The SDM also handed her a commendation letter on behalf of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/palampur-mgnrega-labourer-donates-5-000-to-cm-s-covid-fund-gets-a-call-from-guv/story-FIpJXIhdNb80ukTrvF9dcO.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Kotkhai custodial killing: Zaidi seeks 60 days bail from HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday sought a response from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on a plea seeking 60 days bail by Himachal Pradesh’s senior IPS officer Zahur Haider Zaidi in the 2017-Kotkhai custodial killing case.The high court bench of justice Alka Sarin has sought a response from CBI by May 1.Zaidi had pleaded he was suffering from hypertension and not keeping well otherwise, too. In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, he had pleaded for bail saying he was susceptible to the infection. His petition seeking restoration of bail is pending before high court, but could not be taken up due to the epidemic.Zahur Haider Zaidi, an IGP–rank officer, is an accused in the Kotkhai custodial death case and was taken into custody in January this year, after Chandigarh CBI court cancelled his bail for attempting to influence the trial. He had been granted bail by Supreme Court in April 2019. The trial court cancelled the bail after prosecution witness and SP–rank officer Soumya Sambasivan gave a statement before it, saying she was being pressured by the accused in an attempt to influence the trial. The custodial killing case is an offshoot of the rape and murder case of a 16-year-old school-girl in Kotkhai area of Shimla district. Six men were initially arrested by Himachal police in the case, and one of them was later found dead at the Kotkhai police station.The nine accused in the custodial killing case are Zaidi; then SP, DW Negi; then DSP Theog, Manoj Joshi; former Kotkhai SHO, Rajinder Singh; ASI Deep Chand, who was investigating officer of the case; head constables Surat Singh, Mohan Lal and Rafee Mohammad and constable Ranjit Steta.The trial in the 2017 case was transferred to Chandigarh on orders of Supreme court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kotkhai-custodial-killing-zaidi-seeks-60-days-bail-from-hc/story-xCVCLzjZZAkFxGvkfIRQHO.html
28-04-2020||City||CM seeks ₹536 cr for 17 roads, 10 bridges in Himachal||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, on Tuesday, urged Nitin Gadkari, the Union minister for road transport and highways, to grant approval for 27 projects worth ₹536 crores.These include 17 roads and 10 bridge projects under the Central Road Infrastructure Fund for the state.In the meeting held by the Union minister with the CM and public works minister of state via video conferencing, Thakur said that in view of the density of vehicular traffic on Shimla-Matour and Pathankot-Mandi national highways, it was crucial that periodic renewal and maintenance of these roads be ensured.The Himachal CM also urged for providing adequate funds for this to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). He said that the 97–km Sainj–Aut NH–305 including Jalori tunnel must be included under World Bank Green National Highways Project.Meanwhile, he also thanked the Union minister for sanctioning ₹1,486 crore for the Paonta Sahib–Gumma–Fadus Pul road and ₹1112 crore for Hamirpur–Mandi roads under Green NH projects. He expressed gratitude for handing 205–km Samdho–Kaza–Gramphu stretch of NH–505 to State Government for development and maintenance. “This will boost development of tribal areas besides promoting tourism activities,” he said.Jairam also urged Gadkari for early clearance to 69 highways sanctioned to Himachal so work could be started at the earliest. He thanked him for according approval in principle to 25 NH to the state. He said the state has resumed work on 11 NH projects that were closed due to Covid outbreak. He said the work was being carried out while following social-distancing norms. The NHAI has also restarted seven state projects whereas about 200 workers have been engaged, Thakur said, adding that NHAI office in the state must be strengthened to expedite work.He also urged the Union minister to rationalise the toll barrier in Manali which was causing much inconvenience to commuters.Nitin Gadkari assured the CM for sympathetic consideration of the state’s demands. He also stressed on smooth plying of goods carrier on highways as the road and transport ministry will play a vital role developing the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jairam-seeks-536-cr-for-17-roads-10-bridges-in-himachal/story-bzlHtRmNZ2dqvba71UEv9M.html
28-04-2020||Pune||PMC suspends 12 teachers for failing to participate in survey work||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday suspended 12 teachers who have not been participating in the field survey work currently undertaken by the health department in the city.Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrwal on Tuesday issued the suspension order for these teachers who have been avoiding survey work. PMC is undertaking a massive survey in the city to identify suspected patients by going door-to-door. Health department, PMC clerical, non-medical staff and PMC school board’s teachers have been appointed for doing the survey work. Assistant medical health chief Vaishali Jadhav is leading the survey work.It had been found that these teachers were not participating in the work and filing leaves repeatedly without giving any information. Despite issuing notices, these teachers were not filing satisfactory answers and hence, additional municipal commissioner suspended the 12 teachers on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-suspends-12-teachers-for-failing-to-participate-in-survey-work/story-7MRoMf2YzFyDOjfVSgALQK.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||SpiceJet engineer tests positive for Covid-19||A SpiceJet engineer tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. This is airline’s second case. The airline said that the engineer had last reported to work on April 22 at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport and was tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, April 27. “As a precautionary measure, all crew and staff who had been in direct contact with him have been asked to self-quarantine for the next two weeks,” said the airline spokesperson. The airline said that they are taking all the measures to provide appropriate medical care to their infected employee. “We have been diligently following the guidelines issued by the Government of India and WHO,” added the spokesperson. The airline is disinfecting all their aircraft since January end. The disinfectants, the airline said, are being used as per the WHO standards.The airline’s pilot was detected positive for Covid-19, last month. According to the airline, he had not flown any international flight in March. The last flight he operated was from Chennai to Delhi. After this, he had quarantined himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/spicejet-engineer-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-Zo4NsGLPbem5zIur5sAJ9M.html
28-04-2020||City||60-yr-old man arrested for sexually molesting minor boy in Shimla dist||A 60-year-old man has been arrested for sexually molesting a seven-year-old boy in Rampur Bushahr, Shimla district.The accused has been identified as Shyambir, a resident of Bharoli village in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh, who worked as a street food vendor in Rampur Bushahr. He also asked the victim to keep quiet or face dire consequences.A case was registered under section 377 (unnatural offences) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section three and four (penetrative sexual assault) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Rampur Bushahr, Abhimaniyu Verma, confirmed the report and said police were investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/60-yr-old-man-arrested-for-sexually-molesting-minor-boy-in-shimla-dist/story-FwWGNedARAi8TaVc40vntM.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||BMC surveys 31K senior citizens, 4K have comorbidities||In the last two days, 400 teams of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have surveyed 31,872 senior citizens as a part of its efforts to tackle the spread of coronavirus among the senior citizens. Out the 31,872 citizens surveyed, over 4,000 senior citizens have comorbidities and around 104 senior citizens have low oxygen level in their blood. The civic body has also started oxygen therapy for the 104 identified senior citizens by taking the help of civic-run hospitals which are currently not treating coronavirus.A BMC official said, “We have already issued advisory for senior citizens, but during our survey, we reiterated that they should limit their movement outside their house completely or the very minimal, considering they are more vulnerable to the virus.”The BMC had last week announced door to door survey for identifying senior citizens, who may be at high risk from Covid-19 due to the higher mortality rate in the age group. The survey was mainly carried out in densely populated slum areas where social distancing is challenging. According to BMC, around 12% of the total senior citizens surveyed reported issues like thyroid, high blood pressure, diabetes asthma etc. The senior citizens have also been advised to get in touch with BMC, in case of any health-related complications. As per the data of the state health department, the mortality rate among senior citizens is the highest even though the number of maximum patients having the virus is the age group of 21-30. The mortality rate for the age group 21-30 years is 0.6%. As of Tuesday, the mortality rate of those in the age of 61-70 years was 13%. It was 12.75% for those between the ages of 71-80 years.The BMC had issued an advisory for senior citizens on Aril 15 after the central government had issued a similar advisory stating that senior citizens are at high risk. The BMC had listed serval do’s and don’t’s for the senior citizens during the lockdown.This included staying indoors, not to venture out of their homes even to buy essentials, and take help for neighbours for buying the same, continuing to take regular medicines for comorbidities, doing light exercise at home etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bmc-surveys-31k-senior-citizens-4k-have-comorbidities/story-9ES0WjbBqDsHykagt47IjO.html
28-04-2020||City||Probe ordered after woman delivers stillborn baby in Baramulla||The health authorities in Kashmir on Tuesday ordered a probe after the family of a woman who delivered a stillborn baby at a hospital in Baramulla accused the doctors of negligence and demanded action against them.Nazira, a resident of Sheeri Baramulla was admitted to the Associated Hospital of Government Medical College Baramulla on Sunday after she developed labour pain and delivered a stillborn baby on Monday.“A five-member committee has been constituted to investigate the matter threadbare,” said Abdul Hameed, principal of Baramulla medical college.The family of the woman alleged that the neonate died due to the negligence of doctors and they refused to carry out her cesarean to deliver the baby.“The woman was asked to wait for two hours inside the labour room and when the doctors attended her, the baby had died and had suffered an injury on head and nose,’ said a relative of the woman.The principal, however, said that their initial reports indicated that there was no indication of ‘fetal distress’ and the death was ‘unexplained’.“That is why we are holding an inquiry to explain the reasons. We will very minutely probe the matter,” Hameed said.On Sunday, authorities in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district ordered an inquiry into the death of a pregnant woman along with her twins, who later turned out to be Covid-19 positive. There were allegations by the family of the woman that the doctors at the Maternity and Childcare Hospital were negligent as they delayed her treatment on Saturday as she had come from a red zone which prompted the authorities to order a probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/probe-ordered-after-woman-delivers-stillborn-baby-in-baramulla/story-jrePDdWds6F6l0Ltrjg1tI.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Child rights’ body gear up to deal with situation post lockdown||Anticipating increase in number of child abuse and violence cases post lockdown, the directors and coordinators of various district and railway childlines from 12 states and Union territories participated in a video-conference on Tuesday to discuss how to deal and come up with solutions to manage the expected rise in cases.The conference was led by Harleen Walia and Heenu Singh, deputy directors of Childline India Foundation, New Delhi, an NGO running under the Union ministry of women and child development.In-charge of the Childline Punjab and Chandigarh Shesh Dev Boi along with other directors and coordinators from Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh participated in the conference.Due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19, the economic condition in our country has been adversely affected. People who were already hand to mouth and those belonging lower middle class families are suffering the most, in-charge of the Childline Punjab and Chandigarh Shesh Dev said.“There are chances of increase in the cases of child labour, marriages, trafficking, beggary and other children related issues. So, this conference was to mentally prepare all the childline workers on how to gear up to deal with it,” he said.Director of Childline Ludhiana Kuldeep Singh Mann said that some states have already started witnessing such cases, but as of now there are no such cases in Punjab. “However, we are expecting a spike in cases after the lockdown gets over. So, we are telling all the team members that post lockdown, they will have to be very active and keep tab on the children roaming on roads. They have been also asked to keep a tab on those people who may have group of children along with them,” he said.“We are also approaching some counselors to make them prepare for this situation and will take their help when required,” he said, adding that the childline is also planning to start an online platform to counsel the children.Kulwinder Singh, coordinator, Childline of Ludhiana Railway Station, said that as anticipated movement of children will mainly increase at railway stations, therefore, they have been asked to take help of Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Force to deal with the situation. “Further, a special training will be conducted soon in which an action plan will be given to our workers and volunteers to manage the cases,” he said, while adding that more volunteers are also being enrolled to strengthen the manpower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/child-rights-body-gear-up-to-deal-with-situation-post-lockdown/story-T58Iv0wt3JbnBS9T05eorK.html
28-04-2020||City||CCTV captures Ludhiana police volunteer stealing scooter of school principal||Three weeks after two Ludhiana police volunteers had thrashed a curfew violator with sticks, another volunteer allegedly stole the scooter of a school principal, the cops said on Tuesday. A CCTV footage showed a person, with his face covered and wearing a cap along with the uniform of a police volunteer, stealing the scooter of Harshal Handa, principal of Nav Bharti Public School, Satsang Road, on Monday.Handa, in his complaint, stated that on Monday morning, he had parked his scooter outside the school and when he arrived on the spot in afternoon, the vehicle was missing. While scanning CCTV footages, the police found that a man wearing a white shirt and brown trousers drove away the vehicle. Division number 8 SHO inspector Jarnail Singh said a case was registered against the unidentified accused under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, atttempts are on to ascertain the identity of the accused. 2,000 VOLUNTEERS WORKING WITH LUDHIANA CITY POLICEAmid the coronavirus outbreak, around 2,000 volunteers are working with the Ludhiana police commissionerate on curfew duties. After April 8 incident when two police volunteers had beaten up a curfew violator with sticks, commissioner Rakesh Agrawal took to social media and posted an apology video on behalf of the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cctv-captures-ludhiana-police-volunteer-stealing-scooter-of-school-principal/story-R2c9d9d626h3X5urDvS5JK.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||Another policeman tests positive, his 15 colleagues told to self-isolate||A Delhi Police constable who had visited the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, earlier this month, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Senior officers said while the man was sent for treatment, another 15 policemen who had been working have been asked to quarantine themselves at home. According to the police, the constable was attached with the crime branch and had visited the building in connection with the probe the gathering there in violation of lockdown norms. “He was feeling unwell and he got himself tested. On Tuesday, his reports came positive for Covid-19. He was immediately sent into isolation for treatment and 15 personnel from the crime branch were asked to quarantine themselves at home,” an officer, who did not wish to be named, said. With this case, the total number of Delhi Police personnel infected with the virus is now 32. Two of them have recovered, so far. The rest are either in medical observation at different hospitals or in isolation at various quarantine facilities in the city. Among the 32, at least 14 are from central district’s Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim, and Jama Masjid police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/another-policeman-tests-positive-his-15-colleagues-told-to-self-isolate/story-Rb1HfXxoGmc4maIpPi9vIP.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||Two held for robbing people on their way to Ghazipur mandi||The Delhi Police Tuesday said they busted a gang of robbers that robbed at least four people in the past one week in Shahdara, taking advantage of the deserted roads due to the lockdown. Senior officers said the robbers used to target those who were either going to or returning from Ghazipur Mandi after buying essentials. Four cases have been solved so far, police said.The two men who were arrested are Balbeer Sharma, previously involved in 23 cases of robbery, and his associate Monu, who had five robbery cases registered against him.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahadra) Dinesh Kumar Gupta said on Sunday, a resident of Jwala Nagar reported that when he was going to Ghazipur Mandi to buying vegetables, early morning, when two men approached him on a white scooter on the pretext of having a conversation with him. They overpowered him and robbed him of ₹2,000. “A case was registered in Vivek Vihar police station to probe the incident. On Monday, another resident of Jhilmil reported a similar crime. He said he was on his way to the mandi, when two men on a white scooter robbed him of ₹7,000 at knifepoint. Our inquiry revealed that two other similar robberies were reported in the past one week, all in the vicinity of Ghazipur Mandi,” Gupta said.The DCP said several pickets were raised on the stretches around the mandi and policemen were deployed in plainclothes to collect information about suspects. The CCTV footage was also checked to identify them and trace the scooter.“While our staff were on duty, around 2.30am Tuesday, we got information that three men, who have robbed a person in Krishna Nagar and also stabbed him, have fled on a white scooter towards Cross River Mall. Our team rushed to the crime scene while another went after the suspects,” the DCP said.Gupta said his team managed to spot the suspects near Yamuna sports complex and they were about to stop for checking. “However, seeing the police team, the trio sped away. Our team gave chase and managed to catch two of them, while one escaped. We recovered from them three stolen mobile phones, ₹2,000 cash and a knife they had used to stab a victim. During interrogation, they said they used to target people early morning to avoid being seen by anyone. They said because roads are empty, it was easy for them to escape after committing the crime,” he said.Efforts are on to arrest their third associate, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-held-for-robbing-people-on-their-way-to-ghazipur-mandi/story-fw22CKPWsTOJ9FLS8G1DjP.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||Teachers’ of Delhi govt fully funded colleges in DU observe hunger strike from home over “delay” in release of funds||Teachers from the 12 Delhi government colleges under the Delhi University (DU) on Tuesday observed a day-long hunger strike from their homes alleging that the government had not released funds for their salaries. The government has denied this charge.Extending solidarity with the faculty members, teachers from other colleges too joined the hunger strike.Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) president Rajib Ray said that nine out of these 12 colleges used students’ funds and other savings to pay salaries to their staffs’ salaries for the last month. “Some of these colleges broke their Fixed Deposits (FDs) to pay the salaries. But at least three colleges -- BR Ambedkar College, Keshav Mahavidyalaya and Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences -- have not been able to pay for March because they don’t have enough funds,” he said. DUTA had written to the Delhi government last week over the issue. “The colleges who have managed to pay last month’s salary won’t be able to pay for April if the government doesn’t release the funds immediately,” he added.Officials in Maharaja Agarsain College said, “Our requirement is ₹13 crore (for the quarter January-March). But the government had issued only ₹6 crore.”When contacted, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said, “No salary funds are pending for March. All were paid. For April, the payments would be made on time.”Ray said that the amount released by the government was insufficient to pay the salaries for March.An official at the Keshav Mahavidyalaya College said, “Our file for the sanction of funds was referred back to us seeking details of joining dates of teaching and non-teaching staff.”Subodh Kumar, president of Maharaja Agarsain College Teachers’ association, said, “Because of the lockdown, we decided to protest from our homes. The hunger strike began at 9am. All the teachers shared videos and photos on social networking sites and WhatsApp groups,” he said.At around 4pm, the protesting teachers connected through a video conferencing and sung songs of protest. “Many of our colleagues have loans to pay. Some have major health issues. The teachers are constantly working amid the lockdown. We are taking online classes, preparing e-notes and assignments. Despite the lockdown, it’s like normal working days for us,” Kumar said.The Delhi government had been at the loggerheads with the DU adminstration over the issue of governing bodies (GB), which are yet to be formed in its partially and fully-funded colleges. The government had earlier said that it will not release funds to colleges without governing bodies. Rajesh Jha, member of the DU’s Executive Council, said that the Council had approved the names of GB members sent by the Delhi government. “It’s been more than one and half months but the University administration has not yet sent these names to the colleges yet for the formation of governing bodies. That’s why there is a delay in the formation,” he said.A senior University official, requesting anonymity, said, “Due to the lockdown the University could not complete the procedure of GB formation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/teachers-of-delhi-govt-fully-funded-colleges-in-du-observe-hunger-strike-from-home-over-delay-in-release-of-funds/story-xTVjAuhAwb4iqva2KBCIRM.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Three held for serving langar without permission in Chandigarh||The UT police on Tuesday held three persons for allegedly serving langar without seeking prior permission from the administration in Chandigarh’s Hallomajra village.The arrested accused have been identified as Rishipal, Raman and Gogi, all are residents of Phase-2, Ram Darbar, here. Police said a case against them was registered under Sections 188(punishment for disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sector 31 police station.A police official, on the condition of anonymity, said that the accused had been serving langar in the area without any permission and also without practicing social distancing norms while adding that their activity led to gathering of people in large crowds on a daily basis.Police said that on Tuesday, a team of patrolling officials rounded up the accused after they found nearly 1km-long queue in the area wherein langar was being served to the locals. On investigation, the three accused were booked and the arrested, said police.In their official statement, police also mentioned that a person living in a house in close proximity of the langar site had been quarantined by the authorities after he reported prolonged fever and added that his Covid-19 report was still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-held-for-serving-langar-without-permission-in-chandigarh/story-d3OWvHoPBrIn4rltBijRUL.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t treat Chandigarh as single unit for Covid-19 restrictions, says Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal||Former Union minister and Congress leader Pawan Kumar Bansal on Tuesday in a statement demanded that Chandigarh should no longer be treated as a single district for Covid-19 restrictions. Instead, he said, the existing subdivisions under SDMs should be considered for the purpose.Areas reporting any case should be placed in the red zone and dealt with as per the Centre’s guidelines, including sealing like that of Kachi Colony in Dhanas, Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 30, etc. On the other hand, areas with no case should be opened up, he said.Bansal said the fact that 20% of those who tested positive in Chandigarh were healthcare workers highlighted the issue of the lack of quality PPEs available with hospitals. He demanded that the healthcare workers be provided quality certified PPEs first, lauded and honoured later.He also hit out at the UT administration saying the present system of universal screening in the city was casual and needed to be done more effectively with all-out testing in affected areas.In the case of factories, Bansal said those with upto seven workers should be permitted to run with three workers; and others with not more than half of the total strength of staff. All commercial establishments should be exempted from payment of water and the minimum electricity charges for the period of lockdown and a month thereafter, he said, adding that the liability to pay excise license fee by restaurants et cetera should begin from the date of reopening after the lockdown.Bansal said an important aspect being overlooked while distributing ration ration to the needy was that those who are not registered under the National Food Security Act did not even have the right to stand in the queues. They should be catered to under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana or on an ad hoc basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/don-t-treat-chandigarh-as-single-unit-for-covid-19-restrictions-says-congress-leader-pawan-kumar-bansal/story-9eUyCXeJPt3LUArqetqW9O.html
28-04-2020||City||Badlapur cop’s timely help saves snakebite victim||The timely action of a police constable saved the life of a seven-year-old boy, who was bitten by a snake, in Badlapur on Monday.Constable Girish Sahil was on bandobast duty when he saw a man running holding his son’s hand.Senior inspector of Badlapur police station D Deshmukh said, “Sahil saw the man looking around for a transport. When the constable rushed to them, the man said his son, Shivam Jadhav, was bitten by a snake at a cattle shed near his home in Mankavli.”Sahil immediately took permission for the senior cop and took both of them to a nearby hospital in the police van. Deshmukh said, “I gave the man money for medical expenses after Sahil reached them to hospital. He was treated and he is recovering.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/badlapur-cop-s-timely-help-saves-snakebite-victim/story-hqzdDHwEo5FfQst12V5EAP.html
28-04-2020||Ranchi||One more tests Covid-19 positive in Ranchi, count hits 104||One more person tested positive for coronavirus in Hindpiri, taking the total number of cases to 104 in Ranchi on Tuesday, Health Secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said.“One more patient has tested positive for COVID-19 today in Hindpiri in Ranchi. Total positive cases in Jharkhand has touched 104,” Kulkarni said.Meanwhile, the number of containment zones in Ranchi has reached 15 including the Hindpiri area. According to Ranchi District Administration, “15 containment zones have been made in Ranchi including previous Hindpiri area, the hotspot. Hindpiri has been put under large containment zone category while remaining 14 are in microzone category. One or two positive cases reported from microzones.”According to the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry, the total number of confirmed cases in the country is 29,974 including 7027 cured and migrated and 937 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/one-more-tests-covid-19-positive-in-ranchi-count-hits-104/story-rkJuNRBgJQ2NW6LHmXBbtI.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||Kota mission a success, says Yogi after Nitish objections||A day after Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar purportedly objected to the UP government’s move to bring back about 11,000 students from Kota in Rajasthan, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the decision was taken in coordination with the centre and the Rajasthan government.He also said his government was holding consultations on lifting restrictions in a phased manner after May 3.“There was opposition to the UP government’s move from many quarters. But we coordinated with the union and Rajasthan governments and brought you (students) back to Uttar Pradesh,” Yogi said while interacting with some of the students who have returned from Kota.Although Yogi did not name any individual or government for objecting to the move, he was purportedly referring to observations made by Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar about Uttar Pradesh’s move at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers on Monday.Kumar had said that it would not be possible to bring back anybody, including students, from places such as Kota, and migrant workers stranded elsewhere, till the central government amended or issued fresh directives in this regard.Replying to questions from the students, Yogi said his government was holding consultations with the council of ministers and the centre about lifting restrictions in a phased manner after May 3 in areas that have no cases of Covid-19. He admitted to the students, too, that there were objections to his government’s move to bring them back.“There were objections from some quarters. But the state government decided to bring the students back,” he said while replying to a question from one student named Nidhi of Varanasi.The chief minister said his government was sensitive to problems of people and the decision to bring back students was a success story for the administration and families of the students.He said the government would complete the process of sending students stuck in Prayagraj back to their homes by Wednesday. He asked the students to adhere to social distancing norms during home quarantine.“We are working on a programme to ensure that UP’s students are able to prepare for competitive examinations,” said Yogi.He also briefed the students about how UP was better than other states in checking the spread of crornavirus. “UP has the largest population in the country. But we have been able to check the spread of coronavirus vis-a-vis some states where the virus is spreading at a faster pace,” he said.Meanwhile, Yashvir Tyagi, former economics professor of Lucknow University, said: “The Bihar chief minister has no reason to object to the state government’s decision to bring back its students when the Rajasthan government was ready to send them back. Moreover, this was in coordination with the centre and the step has been taken with a specific purpose. Youngsters are future of the country and the government, too, cares for them.”“Besides working on options of taking help of retired teachers, the state government should get in touch with leading online coaching institutes and also subsidise the fees. Attention should be paid to bringing about an improvement in internet connectivity for those living in rural areas,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/kota-mission-a-success-says-yogi-after-nitish-objections/story-tg0S5JklCaiGXNH5cUcqZM.html
28-04-2020||City||Five TMC teams to survey residents after Wagale Estate sees spike in cases||The number of Covid positive cases at Wagale Estate in Thane has increased from 10 to 31 in only eight days.Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has formed five special teams to survey residents of the area for symptoms of coronavirus or those who might have come in contact with an infected person. It has also allowed random testing in the ward to isolate those who test positive.A central government team which visited Thane last week has also emphasised on surveying the slums to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Most areas of Wagale Estate are slums.Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner of TMC, said, “Last week, the father of a social worker from CP Taloa in Wagale Estate area tested positive. The social worker used to distribute food grains and lives in a congested slum in the area. We quarantined 50 people who had come in contact with the social worker and seven to eight of them have already tested positive, including the social worker’s family.”He said the chain needs to be contained.Malvi said, “The civic commissioner has asked to intensify survey in this ward. The five teams will focus on CP Talao, Bhatwadi Kisannagar and Padwalnagar areas. If any person with symptom is found, he will undergo a test.”The increasing number of cases in Kopri too is alarming. Kopri was declared a green zone and did not have a single case till last week. It has 10 Covid positive cases after a police constable tested positive last week.TMC has sealed Kopri till May 3.Malvi said, “All shops except medical stores in Kopri will be closed from mid-night of April 28 to May 3. This includes markets, vegetable vendors, grocery shops, dairy shops and meat shops. We have written to the police asking them to ensure no resident goes out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/five-tmc-teams-to-survey-residents-after-wagale-estate-sees-spike-in-cases/story-94tSP5DUYFZ3tS3fdHyXYO.html
28-04-2020||City||As courier firms close, supply of life saving drugs from Zirakpur warehouses to northern region hit||With courier companies shut since the March 22 curfew was imposed to stop transmission of Covid-19, owners of carrying and forwarding (C&F) companies providing warehousing facilities to pharma units in Zirakpur are struggling to ensure supply of medicines to the region.The Phabat godown area has about 400 big and small warehouses for nearly 90 companies, especially for pharma units, from where medicines, including life saving drugs are supplied to Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir. “Regular local couriers with branches in all parts of the region have been closed due to which the supply chain has been hit badly,” said Amit Jain, president of the C&F Association of Zirakpur.“With restrictions on movement the courier companies do not want to commit to on-time delivery as the most critical part is ensuring delivery within the stipulated time,” adds a courier company manager in Zirakpur not willing to be named.For the last one month medicines are being dumped in Zirakpur’s godowns and there is no supply outside the district.On the need for refrigeration, Sanjeev Bansal, who provides C&F services to three pharma companies, says “The maintenance of cold chain is essential in the supply of drugs. The courier companies given vaccines after removing these from storage at a regulated temperature move them to the ice box. These vaccines have to be delivered within the stipulated period not beyond 48 hours.” He says he is getting enquiries about the supply of medicines, “but we cannot assure them delivery. There is a need to allow operation of courier services to facilitate transportation of life saving drugs.”MOVEMENT OF EMPLOYEES ANOTHER PROBLEMC&F owners also complain that their employees are facing problems moving around the city despite having curfew passes. “They are being stopped despite having passes for various reasons. Chandigarh police is not allowing staff to come to Zirakpur so we are writing to the authorities in Chandigarh to ensure that at least those with passes are not stopped,” says Jain.The employees are not only needed to maintain the supply chain but also to ensure optimum temperature for storage of vaccines. “We are working with skeletal staff but they are facing a lot of problems reporting for work,” he adds. The association has also written to the Punjab government to provide insurance cover to the pharma C&F owners and staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-courier-firms-close-supply-of-life-saving-drugs-from-zirakpur-warehouses-to-northern-region-hit/story-53NLKoEnABdWsZ7rXdgODO.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||WR manufactures sample collection kiosks for Covid-19 testing||In order to facilitate Covid-19 testing, Western Railway on Tuesday placed two swab sample collection kiosks at the railway-operated Jagjivan Ram Hospital in Mumbai Central. The hospital serves as a special Covid-19 treatment facilityThe kiosks manufactured at the railways’ Lower Parel workshop will help healthcare workers to collect swab samples without exposing themselves to suspected patients.The kiosks are sealed from three sides to ensure that the health workers are completely isolated from the patient. “In the front side, a transparent acrylic sheet has been provided with two holes on which rubber hand gloves have been permanently fitted. The structure of the kiosks consists of the strong fabricated structure covered externally with plywood on all sides with a rear door.” said a Western Railway official.Both the Central and the Western Railway have been manufacturing personal protective equipment (PPE) for their staff deployed in hospitals and crucial locations. Isolation coaches along with intubation boxes for coronavirus patients have also been manufactured by the railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wr-manufactures-sample-collection-kiosks-for-covid-19-testing/story-jryxPrNnjwI9gy33O44a6K.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||New chief justice of Bombay HC sworn in||Justice Dipankar Datta took oath as the new Chief Justice of the Bombay High court on Tuesday.Maharashtra GovernorBhagat Singh Koshyari administered the oath of office to him at Raj Bhavan, an official release said.In view of the coronavirus pandemic, a limited number of guests including Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and a few judges of the high court attended the ceremony, it said.Datta succeeds justice Bhushan Dhamadhikari who retired as chief justice on Monday.Born on February 9, 1965, Justice Datta was enrolled as an Advocate on November 16, 1989, said the Raj Bhavan release.He was appointed as a permanent judge of the Calcutta High Court on June 22, 2006.Before that he practised at the Calcutta High Court, Gauhati High Court, Jharkhand High Court and also in Supreme Court for about 16 years and specialised in constitutional, labour and service matters.He also acted as a Central Government Counsel and held the office of Lawyer-in-charge of the University of West Bengal and the West Bengal School Service Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/new-chief-justice-of-bombay-hc-sworn-in/story-tItgZnEwzek5QRgvVcdWkK.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Yes Bank fraud: Special PMLA court rejects pre-arrest bail plea of Wadhawans in ED case||A special court under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, on Tuesday rejected the anticipatory bail plea of Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan in connection with money laundering in the Yes Bank fraud case, which is being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).The Wadhawans, along with 23 others, had flouted lockdown norms and travelled to Mahabaleshwar from Khandala on April 8, following which all of them were placed under quarantine till April 22. The family had managed to leave the city based on a permission letter issued by a senior official, which is currently under investigation. The ED, while probing money laundering allegations against Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, was scheduled to arrest the brothers after their quarantine period. However, fearing arrest the duo had moved an anticipatory bail plea before the special PMLA court on April 22.The two had raised several grounds, including the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown situation in the city along with the merits of the case, pleading that their custodial interrogation is not required. The plea was objected by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh and Arvind Aghav who represented the ED.After the rejection of their plea, the defence lawyers representing the Wadhawans sought protection from arrest for the Wadhawan brothers till they approach the higher court. The said plea, too, was rejected by the special PMLA court.Meanwhile, the brothers have already been arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday evening and are currently under CBI custody, which ends on Wednesday.According to the CBI FIR, between April and June, 2018, Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crore in short-term debentures of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). In return, Wadhawans allegedly “paid kickback of ₹600 crore” to Kapoor and his family members in the form of loan to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd.Meanwhile, ED is probing the allegations of money laundering against Rana Kapoor, co-founder of Yes Bank who had allegedly sanctioned loans worth ₹30,000 crore, of which ₹20,000 crore turned NPA. It is also claimed that Yes Bank, during Rana’s tenure, had sanctioned loan to RKW Developers, where Dheeraj is a director, and the whole amount was siphoned off by Kapil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/yes-bank-fraud-special-pmla-court-rejects-pre-arrest-bail-plea-of-wadhawans-in-ed-case/story-TZSn3NSM5oCdjS23S52lXL.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||J&K govt starts tele-classes for Valley students||To make up for the lost time due to the Covid-19 outbreak, directorate of information and public relations (DIPR), Kashmir, in collaboration with directorate of school education have started special tele-classes for the valley students.“We don’t want the students to suffer and for that we have started special tele-classes on Doordarshan (DD) Kashir TV,” DIPR director Dr Syed Sehrish Asgar said.She said tele-classes are being held for Class 7 to Class 10 to cover the syllabus for first semester.“The half-an-hour class on a specific subject is aired daily at 5:30 pm and repeated the next day at 4pm. Each day a new subject is covered and sometimes two, depending on length of the topic,” she said.Asgar said that the classes are conducted by expert faculty of the government schools. “The lectures are recorded in the studios of the DIPR,” she said, adding they are working on to start tele-classes for the students of other classes as well.The information department also handles the post recording job to fine tune the presentation. Director school education, Kashmir, Mohammad Younis Malik, said the lectures also include tips about the preventive measures against the spread of coronavirus. “The initiative has received an overwhelming response from the students and parents,” he said.Many schools in the valley are also sending the lectures to the students on WhatsApp and Youtube these days. “But it takes hours to download a five minutes video due to 2G internet speed,” a doctor in Srinagar said.The students have been complaining that they could not attend online classes due to poor internet speed in the Valley. “Though the government has introduced ‘Zoom’ app for online classes, but it is of no use until high speed internet is restored in the Valley,” said Gazi Muzzamil, Jammu & Kashmir Students Movement president.Earlier this month, scores of female teachers of a reputed private schools in Srinagar have reportedly refused to conduct online classes using ‘Zoom’ video conference citing privacy concerns associated with the application. With the security concerns with Zoom app, it has left the school education department in catch-22 situation. The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has also warned against the use video-conferencing application stating that the platform is not at all fit and safe for use by government officers/officials for official purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-govt-starts-tele-classes-for-valley-students/story-TPEti3YV33R44IlhArCWuO.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents’ welfare body writes to UT adviser over domestic help issue||The Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) has written to UT adviser Manoj Parida on Tuesday regarding the movement of domestic help including maids and gardeners in various sectors of the city.At a time when the number of Covid-19 positive cases have crossed 50 and the authorities are trying to ensure there is no movement between sectors, domestic help including cooks, gardeners and maids have been seen moving within sectors of the city.The issue was highlighted by general secretary of the Sector 33-B residents’ welfare association (RWA) Kuljinder Singh Sra. “Sector 33B mostly has retired army men who live alone or with their spouses, and are dependent on servants. Most help is hired from Burail village in Sector 45, but they had stopped coming due to the curfew. However, around 20 gardeners, cooks and other servants can be seen in the streets daily now. I have spoken to the beat police officers and asked them to set up a naka between Sector 33 and 45 to stop their movement.”Other sectors around Sector 45 have reported the same issue. President of the Sector 44-B RWA Swadesh Talwar said that he had received calls from various residents about the movement of servants in their sector and he had them to inform the police.Chief patron of CRAWFED Major (retd) DP Singh said a similar situation was seen in Sector 38 as well. “In my lane itself I see that around four maids have started coming to work again. They come from Sector 25 or Dadumajra village and I have asked residents to be more responsible and ask their maids not to come till the situation comes under control,” he said.Chairman of CRAWFED Hitesh Puri said, “Many positive cases have come up in the colonies of the city where most of the domestic help comes from. The matter is serious which is why we have written to the authorities and asked them to book these domestic helpers for violating curfew orders in order to discourage them from coming. The residents also need to understand the importance of curfew, and should report their neighbours if their servants continue to come during the curfew.”Police officers deployed in these sectors said they were aware of the matter and had set up a vigil around the villages to ensure that those moving without permission are booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-welfare-body-writes-to-ut-adviser-over-domestic-help-issue/story-5GTXeJsniuuYoge82n7SwM.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Kashmiri students stranded in and around Chandigarh await evacuation amid lockdown||After being treated for ruptured appendix for eight days in Government Multispecialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh, 22-year-old Sahil Rashid, who hails from Pattan in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, desperately waiting to return home amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Rashid is not the only one. Hundreds of Kashmiri students who are stuck in tricity are awaiting help from the Jammu and Kashmir administration two days after more than 300 students of Jammu and Kashmir were taken home from Kota. Rashid, a BTech student at a private college in Mohali, said, “I was discharged from hospital, but still I cannot walk. We have tried to arrange for a pass from the administration but to no avail. The Jammu and Kashmir administration is also not giving us any assurance about our return. We have been left in the lurch.”While around 6,000 Kashmiri students study in three universities and 26 educational institutes of Mohali district, about 300 are enrolled in Panjab University and its affiliated colleges in Chandigarh.Aitzaz Ehsaaan, a research scholar at Panjab University, who hails from Srinagar, said, “We do not know when the lockdown will be lifted. Some students are also facing financial crunch.”Nadeem Chaudhary, who is a member of National Students Union of India (NSUI), Punjab Unit, said, “We have prepared a list of more than 300 students in Mohali, who are from Jammu and Kashmir. The number will increase as we are preparing another list of stranded students.”Nasir Khuehami of Jammu and Kashmir Students Association (JKSA), said, “Students are helplessly waiting for the being deported to their homes. I have spoken to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and he is ready to facilitate the travel after Jammu and Kashmir administration takes a step.”Mohali additional district commissioner (ADC), Ashika Jain, said, “We are helping out the Kashmiri students in Mohali. We can facilitate their travel back to the valley once the J&K administration takes a step.”Inderjot Singh, manager of J&K House in Chandigarh and liaison officer for J&K students in the region, said, “We are evacuating the J&K residents in a phased manner. We have been evacuating labourers first as they are in dire situation. In coming days, students will also be evacuated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kashmiri-students-stranded-in-and-around-chandigarh-await-evacuation-amid-lockdown/story-DZClRMWn43I1DpcafCNfjP.html
28-04-2020||Pune||Nine Pune policemen test positive, over 100 quarantined||As many as nine policemen attached to the city police in central parts of Pune tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this week while 100 others have been quarantined, senior officials confirmed on Tuesday. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham said that nine policemen had tested positive for the coronavirus disease after which some other officials have been put under quarantine. “We have guided our men to be very careful while they are at home and want them to guide the families regarding interaction with other persons while they step out of their homes for groceries or other work. As of today, there are nine policemen, who have tested positive and they are undergoing treatment. Those who came in contact with them have been quarantined and are under observation,” said Venkatesham. Police commissioner Venkatesham further said that the police were in the process of starting a dedicated and separate quarantine facility for the policemen and a few beds in covid hospitals will be reserved for treatment of policemen. The commissionerate has given pulse oximeters, medical devices which monitor the level of oxygen in patient’s blood, and alert the health worker if oxygen levels drop, to all the police station to check the police personnel as a precautionary move. Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 positive case was detected in Pune on March 9 and Pune became the first city to be entirely a containment zone on April 19 by the district administration. The city remains sealed till May 3 as per the order of the divisional commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/nine-pune-policemen-test-positive-over-100-quarantined/story-tVRK1abpG95xe3sRjlEhsN.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Mantralaya to remain shut on Apr 29, 30 for disinfection process after 4 staffers test +ve for Covid-19||The Maharashtra government has decided to disinfect the state headquarters, Mantralaya, as well as the new administrative building, located opposite to it at Nariman Point, on April 29 and 30, after four members of the cleaning team were tested positive for coronavirus. Consequently, both the buildings and all the government offices located inside the premises will remain closed for both the days.“Following the directives issued by the central government, it has become necessary to disinfect both Mantralaya and the new administrative building, and as a result they will remain closed on April 29 and 30,” stated the order issued by Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary, general administration department (GAD).Kunte also confirmed that the decision to disinfect the buildings was taken after the cleaning staff was tested positive. “We decided to disinfect the buildings as a precautionary measure. We cannot take any risk,” he said.According to the officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), one member of the cleaning team was tested positive on Sunday, while the other three were found infected on Monday. The cleaning staff are employees of a private firm that has been appointed for housekeeping activities.Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, public works department (PWD) said they are taking all preventive measures after the cases came to light. “We had also traced 17-18 people who had come in contact with the cleaning staff. Fortunately, none of them have been tested positive for Covid-19,” Saunik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mantralaya-to-remain-shut-on-apr-29-30-for-disinfection-process-after-4-staffers-test-ve-for-covid-19/story-TFhKq04tPov7G712rIs76O.html
28-04-2020||City||Mohali doctor is back at the Covid-19 battlefront 6 days after wedding||For any bride, getting back to work six days after a wedding, is quite extreme, but doing so at a Covid-19 care centre requires great courage, something which Dr Harleen Kaur is not short of by any means.This emergency medical officer at the Phase-6 civil hospital, a designated Covid-19 centre, rejoined duty on April 11 after her simple wedding on April 5.Just eight family members, including the parents and siblings of the couple attended the event.And since then, Kaur has been working without any leave. “I had applied for leave for 15 days, but duty comes first. I am doing night duty now, but this is the best one can do in a crisis.” Yes, women do want a little time to themselves after marriage, she admits, “but my little contribution to work can help.”Being at the forefront of the battle against the virus is service to the nation, “which we are doing with an indomitable spirit,” says the medical officer.Tackling the virus is a new experience for her, so she has to be careful as it is highly contagious, “but yes, we are taking extra precautions as medical staff is more exposed and at a higher risk to more viral particles than the general public,” she says.Admitting that her family is “a little scared as the civil hospital is the main hospital in the district to treat Covid-19 patients, and doctors can be a little vulnerable than normal because of a combination of stress and long hours,” Kaur feels devotion to duty makes things easier.Dr Manjeet Singh, civil surgeon, Mohali, who is monitoring the entire healthcare system in the district says, health professionals are the ones, who shoulder most of the weight during a crisis such as pandemics. “These people are working non-stop to manage hospitals and are surrounded by patients in pain constantly,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-young-bride-and-medical-officer-is-back-at-the-covid-19-battlefront-5-days-after-wedding/story-hShyl6EQXRjeWaLIHBS2EI.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||CR’s special parcel trains help cancer, heart patients||Central Railway (CR) came to the rescue of two patients requiring critical medical supplies from Mumbai. A cancer patient and another heart ailment patient received their medicines through special parcel trains.The zonal railway also assisted in the transport of camel milk from Falna in Rajasthan to Secunderabad in Telangana.Amruta Chaurasia, a cancer patient who had gone to attend a wedding in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, was left with a limited supply of medicine after the lockdown was announced. Chaurasia’s son, Sandeep, a resident of Thane, tried to find a way to courier the medicines to her. When he contacted India Post on Twitter, he was directed to get in touch with the railways.After Sandeep contacted the CR, a railway officer from Mulund collected the medicines and they were taken to Kalyan railway station on April 18. As the railway does not operate a direct parcel train from Mumbai to Gorakhpur, a connecting train from Nagpur was used to transport the medicines.“The medicines were packed at Kalyan railway station and transported to Nagpur by a parcel train and then on to Gorakhpur,” said a Central Railway official. The medicines reached Chaurasia on April 21.Similarly, the CR on Monday made an unscheduled halt of a parcel train at Chiplun railway station to deliver medicines to a heart patient who was staying in the area during the lockdown. Railway personnel collected the medicines from the patient’s residence at Vikhroli and transported them from Panvel railway station to Chiplun.“Central Railway continues to deliver medicines, masks, hospital items, and other medical commodities through its time-tabled parcel services to strengthen the government efforts in managing the challenges and adverse impact of the coronavirus in the country,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.Railway authorities also assisted in providing a transport link for camel milk from Rajasthan, for a two-year-old in Secunderabad. With no direct train between Falna in Rajasthan and Secunderabad in Telangana, the Central Railway on Sunday transported the camel milk from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT) to Secunderabad within 28 hours.The railway had earlier also launched a helpline portal SETU to assist people in booking supply of essential commodities through parcel trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cr-helps-deliver-medical-supplies-to-cancer-heart-patients/story-lXajEYHPjhOlgym9Z3NLCI.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Startup uses genomics to trace Covid-19 transmission||A healthcare startup incubated at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B), is using genomics (the study of genomes) to trace the transmission of Covid-19 in the country. A platform launched by HaystackAnalytics demonstrates contactless contact-tracing and epidemiology of the Sars-Cov-2 virus (coronavirus).In simple terms, a genome is the genetic data of any organism. By sequencing the genome, one can get around 30,000 data points per sample about the organism’s genome. Therefore, a genome sequencing of the virus helps better understand the virus transmission. The opensource platform available on the website (https://haystackanalytics.in) helps understand the epidemiology of the virus in different places within the country. This will help map the contacts of those affected by the virus without having to physically canvas a large number of households. “Contact tracing has emerged as the backbone of all efforts to prevent the transmission of Covid-19 in India. But, current Covid-19 epidemiology, using community healthcare workers for undertaking extended interrogation of Covid-19 patients and extensive on-foot contact, significantly increases the risk of disease for health workers, and can also make them as carriers of the disease,” said Anirvan Chatterjee, founder of HaystackAnalytics. The startup incubated by the Society of Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE) has proposed prevention of Covid-19 transmission, based on genomics and geospatial mapping.They have used the Covid-19 global genomics data (https://nextstrain.org/ncov/global) to build analytics for performing contactless contact racing. “We are using the DNA fingerprinting most recent common ancestor analysis. Theoretically, we can draw the entire trace of the virus back to Wuhan. This means that the transmission chain can be drawn out,” said Chatterjee.For instance, a global analysis of the data shows that the transmission patterns in say Washington state (in the United States) is different from that in Italy. While Washington State witnessed a clonal outbreak — every patient can be traced back to a single patient in the state, Italy reported multiple transmission events where a high number of cases were found in particular areas. “Now that the virus is in India, we need to understand how it spreads between states. This will help us strategise our actions against Covid-19. For example, if there is a cluster transmission in a place, a complete lockdown may not be necessary and containing the virus in the cluster will do,” said Chatterjee. “We were able to clearly differentiate four distinct Covid-19 transmission patterns in the data, which enable four different containment strategies. These four are — community transmission, local transmission, cluster transmission and travel transmission.Chatterjee said that they are in talks with government bodies to use the platform in their fight against Covid-19. “We have kept the platform open source. We are encouraging more people to use the platform and populate it with more data,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/startup-uses-genomics-to-trace-covid-19-transmission/story-3bJzVaLolrD5GNXHxeEWJN.html
28-04-2020||City||Two arrested for stealing electronic items from Bhiwandi godown||Two people were arrested for breaking into a godown and stealing electronic gadgets worth Rs40.50 lakh.The theft took place on April 21 in a company’s godown at Wadpa area of Bhiwandi and the police registered a case against unknown persons under sections 454, 457 and 380 of Indian Penal Code. The Bhiwandi rural police scanned the CCTV footage which had captured the two in the godown. Senior police inspector, crime branch, Vyankat Andhale said, “Through our sources, we have received information about two residents of Dabhad village who were heard hatching a plan to loot the godown. We picked up Yash Dongare, 39, and Yogesh Patil, 35. During interrogation, they confessed to the crime. We have recovered a TV set and mobile phones worth Rs30,69 lakh from them. They will be produced in court tomorrow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-arrested-for-stealing-electronic-items-from-bhiwandi-godown/story-ZutQPvQ0UxXZXpe6fW495O.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath directs officials to encourage use of plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed officials to encourage use of plasma therapy for the treatment of coronavirus infected people and to increase testing capacity. Holding a review meeting with senior officials of the state, the chief minister asked them to make pool testing arrangements in all the labs with proper training as per protocol for those taking samples, an official release said. He also asked them to deliberate on opting for a world- class technology for increasing the testing capacity, the release said. Adityanath asked for geo-tagging shelter homes and making oxygen available in all hospitals while increasing the number of beds for patients. He directed officials to prepare a work plan suggesting ways and means to restart industrial units after May 3 and also a workplan for giving employment to migrant labourers. Stressing on strict implemention of the lockdown, the chief minister said emphasis should be on social distancing and continued patrolling by the police. He said that it needs to be ensured that only those linked to medical, sanitation and home delivery are allowed in the the hotspot areas and all the houses there are sanitized, the release said. Directing for proper medical examination of the students returning to their homes from Allahabad, the chief minister also issued directions for deploying senior officers from administration, police and health department in Varanasi, Hapur , Rampur , Muzaffarnagar and Aligarh districts. He said that arrangements should be made in every district for quarantine centres and shelter homes with a capacity of 15,000 to 25,000 and all those completing 14 days institutional quarantine in shelter homes should be medically examined and sent for home quarantine. He called for pool testing and random testing and asked the district magistrate, chief medical officers to personally inspect L1, L2, L3 COVID hospitals, shelter homes and quarantine centres besides keeping an eye on the food and lodging facilities there. Referring to the problem of feeding stray cattle, the chief minister asked for establishing a ‘bhusa bank’ (fodder) for them, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-directs-officials-to-encourage-use-of-plasma-therapy-for-covid-19-patients/story-NWsaWR8yTVjpWVQE8Lnm2J.html
28-04-2020||City||Hotel found open in Ludhiana’s Model Town despite curfew, five arrested held||Five persons, including the manager, were arrested after a hotel was found open in Model Town area despite the curfew.Police had raided the hotel following a tip-off and arrested the manager, identified as Santosh, along with four customers. Police have also booked the hotel owner, Gauravpreet Singh, but he is yet to be arrested.The arrested customers have been identified as Pankaj Kumar of Rajesh Nagar of Haibowal, Seenu Bhadwaj of Sunil Park, Pinki and Poonam.Model Town station house officer, inspector Pawan Kumar said, “A police team was on curfew duty near the Chatar Singh Park on Monday, when they received information that Hotel Paradise is operational despite the curfew. So, a raid was conducted and the hotel was found open.”The customers told the police that they had booked rooms in the hotel online. They also claimed that their relatives were admitted to a hospital near the hotel, but police suspect the veracity of their claims.The SHO added a case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused. The accused were later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hotel-found-open-in-model-town-despite-curfew-five-arrested-held/story-Ngkg8qD34xuXthkStzaIuL.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Senior citizen gets birthday surprise from Haryana Police, video goes viral||There is no reason that birthdays during the lockdown can’t be special. The Panchkula police went the extra mile to ensure that an elderly gentleman’s birthday was a memorable one.On Tuesday, a team from the Sector-5 women police station (WPS), accompanied by station house officer inspector Neha Chauhan turned up at the doorstep of Karan Puri, who is in his 70s, around 10.30am.Puri, who lives by himself in Sector 7 of the district, initially thought the police personnel were there to conduct a survey but was taken by surprise when they burst into song and whipped out a birthday cake and hat for him. Puri was so overwhelmed by the cops’ gesture that he broke down and took a moment to compose himself.The video shows Puri introducing himself and later looking on in amazement as the team of cops’ sing ‘happy birthday’ for him. The cops told him that they too were his family after Puri broke down.He was later seen donning a birthday hat and cutting the cake as the cops sang the birthday song.A message with the video, was posted on the official twitter and Facebook handle of the Panchkula commissioner of police. The video has gone viral on various social media platforms and the Panchkula police received many compliments for it.  A great example of living upto #HaryanaPolice motto of सेवा सुरक्षा सहयोगWell done @CP_PANCHKULA https://t.co/QOV6sHWmnbDespite repeated attempts, Puri, who is the proprietor of Panjab University’s Aatma Ram and Sons could not be contacted.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Noopur Bishnoi, WPS, Panchkula, said, “We decided to reach out to Puri after reading a tweet made by an acquaintance on April 26, in which the Panchkula comissioner of police (CP) was tagged. His reaction was heartwarming.” She said that this was the first time that the police had done something like this. On April 26, one Vishal Nijhawan, had tweeted to CP Panchkula, Haryana Police and additional director general of police (ADGP) law and order Navdeep Singh Virk, saying his uncle, an elderly man, lived alone with his dog in Panchkula. He mentioned that all his family members were away and could not join him on his birthday. Nijhawan requested the police to help Puri celebrate his birthday by sending him a birthday cake. Respected @CP_PANCHKULA @nsvirk @police_haryana My uncle, an elderly man, stays all alone with his dog and dependent upon his servant, in Panchkula. He has his Birthday on 28th April when none of his family members, who are all away, could be with him on his day. (1/2)Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also came across the video and tweeted that his eyes had become moist upon witnessing the scene. He wished Puri on his birthday and appreciated the Panchkula Police for their sensitivity. यह नजारा देखकर आंखें नम हो गईं।मेरी तरफ से भी आपको जन्मदिन की ढेर सारी शुभकामनाएं श्री करन पुरी जी। 🙏पंचकूला पुलिस ने जिस भावनात्मक तरीके से अकेले रह रहे बुजुर्ग का जन्मदिन मनाया वो अद्भुत व प्रशंसनीय है।@police_haryana@CP_PANCHKULA pic.twitter.com/uuR12nErhcPuri’s wife has passed away and his sons live in Australia and Delhi. Nijhawan, who had sought the Haryana Police’s help had befriended Puri while he was pursing his masters at Panjab University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/senior-citizen-gets-birthday-surprise-from-haryana-police-video-goes-viral/story-FKHItUSa6GLBmWYLyYTpPK.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||From 30 years, demand for construction of tunnel at J&K’s Sadhna Pass falls on deaf ears||The residents of Karnah town in north Kashmir have been protesting for the last 30 years to press for their demand for construction of a tunnel at the Sadhna Pass on the Kupwara-Tangdhar highway, which has emerged as a ‘death trap’ over the years.More than 200 persons have died in the last six years due to massive avalanches at Sadhna top.The construction of the Sadhna Pass tunnel will provide Karnah, a far-flung area near the Line of Control (LOC) in Kupwara district, all-weather connectivity with the rest of the state.“Due to the lockdown enforced to contain coronavirus, we could not hold a protest, but once it is over, we will again protest until our demands are met,” said Raja Abdul Hamid, sarpanch of Dildar village in Karnah tehsil.He said that every year the residents hold a protest in Srinagar and Karnah to press for their demand. “We have been doing it for the last 30 years and will continue to do so,” he said. A former professor from Karnah Jahangir Danish said that every winter season it snows heavily at Sadhna and the Kupwara-Karnah stretch becomes highly vulnerable to avalanches and landslides. It gets disconnected from the rest of Kashmir for around six months creating shortages of essential and medical supplies.”He said that they have taken up the matter with the administration, but to no avail. “For the last four years, we are only being told that a detailed project report (DPR) of the tunnel is being prepared but no one knows the reality,” he said.Mohammad Kazafi, a member of the Karnah Residents Welfare Association, said, “When it snows, we have to carry patients on our shoulders and trek to reach the hospitals in Kupwara or Srinagar as we don’t have any medium of transport.”Former MLA of Karnah Raja Manzoor Ahmad said “In 2018, I met Union minister Jitendra Singh in Delhi who assured us that he will look into the matter. Then the government invited tenders from consultancies for providing feasibility and technicality for the tunnel and approach roads. Later, due to a political spat between the PDP-BJP government, the project didn’t see the light of day.”Speaking on the matter, Karnah SDM Bilal Mohiuddin Bhat said, “As per the communiqué between the Centre and Border Road Organisation(BRO), the work couldn’t commence due to the shortage of funds.”Last week Karnah sub-divisional magistrate along with his security guard and driver were rescued by the army after the vehicle they were travelling in came under an avalanche at Sadhna Pass.Karnah remains cut off from the rest of the Valley from December to April every year, as the Kupwara-Karnah road gets blocked due to the accumulation of 20 feet snow at Sadhna Pass, which is over 11, 000 feet above the sea level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/from-30-years-demand-for-construction-of-tunnel-at-j-k-s-sadhna-pass-falls-on-deaf-ears/story-HdoE1wzRy3LQ27aGssoalJ.html
28-04-2020||City||34 Nanded pilgrims return to Mohali, will be quarantined||As many as 34 Sikh pilgrims stranded at Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, have reached back home in Mohali Monday night. Besides, two students have also returned from Kota, Rajasthan.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said in view of the five asymptomatic persons returning from Shri Hazur Sahib who have tested positive for coronavirus in Tarn Taran district, the pilgrims, including the bus driver and conductor will be put in quarantine facilities identified by the district administration. The district health department on Tuesday collected the samples of 88 persons, including the pilgrims and the students, at a quarantine centre in Sector 70. “Instead of the basic screening, these persons will be tested through polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and, if found positive, will be placed under isolation in state quarantine, and, if found negative, under home quarantine for 14 days,” Dayalan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/34-nanded-pilgrims-return-to-mohali-will-be-quarantined/story-dfmw9udp9LpKbrZ5N0BvWN.html
28-04-2020||City||Man beats wife after losing to her in online ludo, injures spine: Police||Persuading her husband to play Ludo with her so as to keep him indoors during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, left a resident of Vadodara in Gujarat with a spinal injury, as she was allegedly thrashed by him each time he lost, an official said on Tuesday.The incident came to light last weekend when the woman, a resident of Vemali locality, called up Abhyam helpline for victims of domestic violence stating that she was severely assaulted by her husband, the official said.The victim had asked her husband to play Ludo with her on a mobile phone in a bid to keep him indoors, he said.However, the plan backfired when the man started thrashing his wife every time he lost a game to her, forcing her to consult a doctor for spine injuries, the official said.“The woman sustained injuries to her spine and had to go to a doctor. Once she got back, she immediately called up the Abhyam helpline number 181. Our staff counselled the couple and asked the woman if she needed any protection, which she refused,” said Chandrakant Makwana, Project Coordinator, Abhyam.The woman instead decided to go to her mother’s place in the city, he said.No police complaint was lodged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-beats-wife-after-losing-to-her-in-online-ludo-injures-spine-police/story-LZukfrhCuiyoiK4bSppePK.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||BKC ground to be turned into quarantine facility||To tackle the rising number of cases in the city, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) is setting-up a facility to accommodate 1000 beds in the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) exhibition ground. The work on the facility started on Monday and is expected to be completed in 15-20 days, officials from MMRDA said. MMRDA can also ramp up facilities for 5000 beds in the future, officials said. An official said, “Jupiter hospital in Thane will be providing medical facilities as part of CSR activity towards this non-critical quarantine facility at BKC.” On Tuesday, the guardian minister for Mumbai suburbs, Aaditya Thackeray, tweeted that the chief minister’s office had asked the authority to assist in modular quarantine and isolation facility in order to ramp up beds as part of corona preparedness. “MMRDA has started doing its bit. If we don’t want to go here, we must stay home and stay safe,” Thackeray tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bkc-ground-to-be-turned-into-quarantine-facility/story-T5yzPQwTu15LTklkWP8ORL.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||College managements ensure salary, staff pools in money for contract employees||The staff and management of Mumbai colleges are doing their bit to support daily wage workers and contractual employees at the colleges during the lockdown.At some colleges, both teaching and non-teaching staff pooled in money to ensure salaries of contractual employees, while at others the management ensured them timely payments. “Around ten of our peons and other contractual staff wouldn’t have got salaries for the entire lockdown period, hence, some of our teaching and non-teaching staff pooled in resources and ensured they are paid,” said Anju Kapoor, principal, UPG College, Vile Parle.Temporary staff usually work on an eleven-month contract, which is renewed every year by the college. In some cases, this renewal has been left in the lurch due to the ongoing situation, leaving employees worried. Thus, some college managements have decided to keep payments going, even for those on contracts. “There would be a handful of people who fall into this category but even if their contract hasn’t been renewed on paper, the college is making sure their salaries are not withheld,” said Parag Thakkar, principal, HR College, Churchgate.“Everyone, including the security and housekeeping staff, has received their salaries and our management has clarified that the lockdown will not affect their monthly payment,” said Parag Ajgaonkar, principal, NM College, Vile Parle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/college-managements-ensure-salary-staff-pools-in-money-for-contact-employees/story-ZjdMmQU5aHcN4fxFWkPeBL.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Teachers ask education department to come up with backup plan||With uncertainty over schools reopening in June, teachers have urged the state education department to look come up with a contingency plan and consider the idea of using television for teaching in case schools cannot open in June. A teachers group has sent a letter to education minister Varsha Gaikwad on the same. “Even as the government has announced a lockdown up to May 3, in areas such as Mumbai, Pune and other red zones, which still have new cases coming up, this will most likely be pushed further. In such a case, it might not be possible to reopen schools as per the usual schedule in June. Anticipating this, the government needs to have a plan in place for learning after the vacation period is over,” said Anil Bornare, president, BJP teacher’s wing, which has written to the government on Tuesday. An official from the education department said talks are on with different stakeholders to ensure some slots are made available on UGC’s TV channel for remote learning. “This content will be made available soon,” said the official.“We have to anticipate the issues that might arise in future or else a lot of time will be lost. Even in places where there is poor internet connectivity, TV is available,” said a teacher from a suburban school.While the state education department has started circulating online learning material from the beginning of this month, it is yet to begin with online teaching. As vacations were announced for schools after April 15, teaching has not begun yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teachers-ask-education-department-to-come-up-with-backup-plan/story-tAFckPHeEQFhPy4qIGf7jN.html
28-04-2020||City||Palghar issues Rs 200 fine for flouting social distancing rules||Spitting in public in Palghar district of Maharashtra will now attract a fine of Rs 500 while a person not adhering to social distancing norms will have to pay Rs 200 and shopkeeper concerned Rs 2,000 if he fails to ensure that rules are followed.Issuing an order on Tuesday in a bid to ensure strict enforcement of the coronavirus lockdown, district collector Kailas Shinde said those roaming in public places without masks or face covers will have to pay a fine of Rs 200.“If a customer fails to follow social distancing norms, he will be fined Rs 200 while shopkeeper will have to pay Rs 2,000 for not ensuring the same,” he stated.Shopkeeper is also liable to pay Rs 2,000 if he fails to display the rate board of grocery items, it stated.In the case of repeat offence, criminal action will be initiated against violators, Shinde said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/palghar-issues-rs-200-fine-for-flouting-social-distancing-rules/story-TVwVeLrIyyCcC1KrhJsH7K.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Two dead, one injured in Govandi over setting up a sabeel||Shivaji Nagar police have booked sic persons and arrested two for a clash over setting up a sabeel in Govandi area. The dispute led to killing of two persons and severely injuring one in the densely populated Shivaji Nagar slums on Monday evening.According to police, the deceased are identified Rajjab Shamsherali Khan, 23, Premsingh Virendra Singh, 25. One Mohamedali Khan, 20, has been severely injured. Investigations revealed that the groups clashed over setting up sabeel, stalls which are especially set up to provide water in the holy month of Ramadan. Both the groups intended to set up stalls in the area which led to the dispute, police said. “The injured were attacked using swords, sharp weapons, choppers and axe on their face and neck,” said a police officer. Investigations revealed that the groups have been at loggerheads since 2019 and there have been frequent skirmishes between them. The profusely bleeding trio was taken to Rajawadi hospital in Ghatkopar where two persons were declared dead on arrival. The police have booked six persons from the group which attacked Rajjab, Premsingh and Mohamedali and have arrested two. “We are looking out for four more persons,” said the officer. The police have registered a case under several sections for murder, attempt to murder, rioting, unlawful assembly and defying the lockdown rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-dead-one-injured-in-govandi-over-setting-up-a-sabeel/story-xAUoWlAXd4a42o2jim2atM.html
28-04-2020||City||Working in the Times of Pandemic: People digging into their savings to meet expenses amid lockdown, says Ludhiana-based banker||The coronavirus lockdown has brought a lot of financial distress with people digging into their savings, closing recurring deposits (RDs) and fixed deposits (FDs), says Savleen Kaur, who works as a single window operator with Punjab National Bank’s Haibowal branch. “Around 20% of the requests we receive on daily basis are ones wherein people want to withdraw money from the deposits they had been adding money into for years,” says the 29-year-old banker.Kaur, who is mother of a two-year-old girl, says that performing duties while taking all the precautionary measures remains a challenge for the bank employees as many visitors have an unheeding approach towards social distancing. “These days, we only allow four-five people to come inside the bank at once, but asking the elderly, who largely come to withdraw their pensions, to wait and follow the social distancing is quite a difficult task for us,” Kaur said.‘CUSTOMERS DEMANDING NON-ESSENTIAL SERVICES’While the banks are largely providing basic services, the bankers are still receiving requests for non-essential services from the visitors, including entries in passbooks. “People are used to get entries in their passbooks whenever they visit banks. Even these days, every second visitor asks for the passbook entries, but we politely turn them away as a safety measure and inform them about several digital features that are made available by the bank for their convenience,” banker Kaur said.On the Union finance ministry’s proposal to deposit Rs 500 in the bank accounts of women who are beneficiaries of ‘Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana’, the city banker said that many account holders are yet to receive the amount. “The relief of Rs 500 that the government had announced last month is leading to a major confusion and chaos among the beneficiaries as many have yet not received the amount in their accounts. The beneficiaries are visiting the banks seeking information about the credits everyday,” she said.‘LIFE HASN’T SLOWED DOWN FOR ME’ Though life has slowed down for many amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Kaur says she remains occupied throughout the day. “I am working on a tight schedule these days and it has not been easy. As no helpers are coming to work these days, I do all the household chores on my own after coming back from work. Besides, I help my daughter, who had joined a preschool last month, with her homework,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/working-in-the-times-of-pandemic-people-digging-into-their-savings-to-meet-expenses-amid-lockdown-says-ludhiana-based-banker/story-ZK2e9jTJRFtmjryqJE61tN.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||HC upholds man’s right to see children in lockdown, asks wife to arrange for video conferencing||The Bombay high court has directed a woman to make video conferencing arrangements for her two children aged 15 and 9 years, so that they may meet their father through video calls during the lockdown. The court held that the lockdown should not be a hindrance for the father to meet his children. While hearing a plea in a matrimonial dispute filed by a woman, justice S J Kathawalla was informed that family court had granted custody of the children to her and had directed timely access to the father too. However, the order was stayed after the woman filed a contempt petition citing breach of order. The man then approached the HC and got a stay on the family court order and asked the couple to resolve the issue and appointed a mediator in December. The mediator was to also help the couple decide on the issue of custody and access of the children.On April 24, the estranged husband told the court that due to the lockdown he was unable to meet the children in person and hence some alternate arrangement should be made for him. While directing the woman to make arrangements for her estranged husband to see their two minor children thrice a week on Monday, Thursday and Sunday through video conference between 5 and 6 pm and this arrangement would continue till the lockdown was lifted in Mumbai.The court further said, “If the children have any difficulty to come on-line at the time specified, the parties may mutually fix the time when the father can have access to the children,” implying that the father had a right to see the children and could not be denied the same regardless of the circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hc-upholds-man-s-right-to-see-children-in-lockdown-asks-wife-to-arrange-for-video-conferencing/story-xoyVA2NQgL0S9LenU0QAAI.html
28-04-2020||Kolkata||Bus operators’ body in Bengal writes to PM for financial aid||A bus operators’ association in West Bengal on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking a financial package for the passenger transport sector, which has taken a severe hit amid the coronavirus- triggered lockdown.In its letter, the ‘Bus Minibus Samannoy Samity’ (coordination committee) requested the prime minister to consider the passenger transport industry a part of the Medium and Small Scale Enterprises (MSME) sector.Rahul Chatterjee, the general secretary of the committee, said a similar request has been forwarded to Union Minister of Transport and Highways and MSME Nitin Gadkari.“We have also written to the Union minister for inclusion of passenger buses in the MSME sector so that the owners can avail of the various subsidies and grants provided under it,” Chatterjee said.Apart from repayment of bank loans for the buses, several taxes and fees are borne by the bus owners, he said, stressing that revival of the industry would be difficult without government aid.“After agriculture, transport is the second largest sector in the country and we have to pay direct and indirect taxes, registration fees and insurance premium. Under the present circumstances, the bus owners will find it difficult to sustain the business,” he wrote in the letter.The association has also sought financial help from Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and state Transport Minister Suvendu Adhikary, Chaterjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bus-operators-body-in-bengal-writes-to-pm-for-financial-aid/story-phOHqIjSsUOqQ5wYb5hdlL.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||2 BEST employees test positive for Covid-19||Two employees of Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) traffic department tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. Total 15 employees have been tested positive for the virus so far and one employee has died. Employees who have tested positive of the virus include four BEST bus drivers, seven BEST bus conductors, two employees from the electricity department and two employees from the organisation’s traffic department. Further, the BEST had quarantined 236 of its employees after they had come in contact with the employees that tested positive of the virus. “100 out of the 236 employees that had been quarantined have resumed to work. The employees had no symptoms of the virus and resumed work.” said a BEST spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-best-employees-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-9uEeur8TakP44BWwzoN2JL.html
28-04-2020||City||Nanded Sahib pilgrims: After 11 test positive in three Punjab districts, 42 quarantined in Amritsar||After 11 Nanded Sahib pilgrims tested positive for Covid-19 in Kapurthala (3), Tarn Taran (7) and Hoshiarpur (1) districts, the Amritsar administration on Tuesday brought 42 shrine-returnees, who were sent home on Sunday, to institutional quarantine centres here.As per information, these pilgrims had returned to Amritsar from Nanded, Maharashtra, on Sunday and were screened by health department personnel at a dispensary here. As none of them showed any symptoms of Covid-19, they were sent home with the directions of 14-day quarantine.For the last two days, they had been staying with their family members who did not accompany them on the pilgrimage.As positive cases were detected among the pilgrims in neighbouring districts of Tarn Taran and Kapurthala, the state health and family welfare department issued directions to directly send the pilgrims returning from Nanded to quarantine centres and conduct their Covid-19 tests.Complying with the instructions, Amritsar deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon ordered to bring 42 pilgrims to government-run isolation centres. The 179 pilgrims who had returned on Monday have already been quarantined in these centres.Dhillon said special teams were sent to the homes of these people to bring them to quarantine centres, so that the virus could not spread further if any of them had the infection.He said the step has been taken keeping in view the detection of positive cases among pilgrims in other districts of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nanded-sahib-pilgrims-after-11-test-positive-in-three-punjab-districts-42-quarantined-in-amritsar/story-da6IpbX3lZMxzanzRXz27H.html
28-04-2020||Patna||Patient of medical staff treating Lalu Yadav tests positive for Covid-19||A patient, who was under the same unit treating RJD leader Lalu Yadav, has tested positive for Covid-19 at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) here.“Today, a patient who had been admitted in the medicine department for the past three weeks was found Covid-19 positive. He was under the unit of Dr Umesh Prasad. Significantly, Lalu Yadav is also being treated by the same unit and Dr Umesh Prasad is his treating physician. Though, Lalu is admitted in the paying ward,” RIMS administration stated.“Since, the new Covid-19 patient was in the medicine department for three weeks, all doctors and other staff are giving their samples. Dr Umesh Prasad and his unit will be sent to quarantine,” it said.According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, there are 28,380 Covid-19 cases in India, including 6,362 cured/discharged/migrated and 886 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/patient-of-medical-staff-treating-lalu-yadav-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-lLsBVwTqpBK4QRaidziOOO.html
28-04-2020||Gurugram||Strict vigil at Delhi-Faridabad border, inter-state passes must for travel||Police kept a strict vigil at Delhi-Faridabad border on Tuesday as no one without a valid inter state pass was allowed to cross the border from either side. Even as many people cited one or the other reasons to cross the border, the cops stood firm on their ground and did not allow them to cross border.“The border has been sealed. I am thankful to our government for implementing the decision to close all the borders as it would help in managing the number of coronavirus cases,” SI Hukaam Singh told ANI.“We have also told people that they should stay where they are working. We will not allow anyone to cross the border. If someone wants to go, then he must have an interstate pass. We have received orders from the government to follow this protocol and we are only doing our job,” he added. Similarly, at the Delhi-Gurugram border, a long queue of vehicles was seen as police personnel check passes of people commuting through the route amid the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/strict-vigil-at-delhi-faridabad-border-inter-state-passes-must-for-travel/story-vxfFUL1EQFfZbmiiftFLFK.html
28-04-2020||City||Punjab Police constable’s first Covid-19 report since infection tests negative||Ten days after a 27-year-old Punjab Police constable contracted the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19), his first test report since the infection has turned out negative.However, in compliance with the medical protocol, his samples were taken again for testing on Tuesday. The cop will be declared cured if the result of the second test is negative, officials said.Ferozepur sub-divisional magistrate Amit Gupta said, “The report of the second test is likely to be received by late night today.”The constable, a resident of Wara Bhai Ka village here, had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 17, following which he was shifted to the isolation ward of the civil hospital.Meanwhile, the reports of all of his 34 primary contacts, including his 58-year-old father, 52-year-old mother, 25-year-old wife and one-year-old son, came out negative a week ago.The constable was the driver of Ludhiana assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Anil Kohli, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 13 and passed away a few days later.The constable had returned to his native village on April 14. This is the first and only case to be reported in the border district till today.After samples of the ACP’s three gunmen and driver were taken for testing, they were sent to their respective residences in Khanna, Moga, Ferozepur and Sangrur as their neighbours in Ludhiana objected to their presence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-police-constable-s-first-covid-19-report-since-infection-tests-negative/story-H7AqGx3DAgegYRkBNNnItL.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Prospects dim for HP growers as cherry harvesting begins amid Covid-19 lockdown||Cherry harvesting has begun in Himachal Pradesh amid the lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19 with growers not hopeful of getting good profits as most markets remain closed.It has been a double whammy of sorts for growers as untimely rain and snow in the higher reaches in the first two weeks of April first impacted fruit development due to a sharp drop in temperature. Just 50% yield is expected this time as against last year’s bumper cherry crop, which was almost 60% higher than that of the previous year, at 225 metric tonnes, which led to a drop in market prices.Another factor that growers are worried about is that Delhi’s Azadpur Market, from where many of them market the produce, is now a major Covid-19 hotspot. Jahangirpuri, another hotspot, is also facing a labour shortage, because of which traders in the Capital have informed growers in HP about their inability to buy the fruits.“We are engaged in cherry cultivation and harvesting has already begun. We have been holding discussions with Azadpur traders with whom we have a longstanding agreement for fruit procurement,” said Deepak Singha the general secretary of the Kotgarh Horticultural and Environment Society. Desperate for help, the growers have now approached buyers like Reliance and Big Basket for purchasing the highly perishable fruit.The society has also suggested that the government allow major companies to send their air conditioned trucks up to Theogh for transporting the produce out of the state. Much of the produce is sold in Punjab and Shimla. “Since Punjab is under lockdown and tourism season has gone for a toss, it’s going to be very difficult to sell the produce,” said Anup Bhailak, a grower in Kotgarh. More than seven varieties of cherries are grown in the mid- and high-altitude regions of Shimla, Kullu, Mandi, Chamba, Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti districts. At least 10,000 small farmers grow cherries in nearly 550 hectares of the total fruit growing area with 75 % cherry cultivation done in Shimla district.Cherry is now considered by some farmers as a better alternative to apples. Apple trees take 10 years to grow whereas cherry trees grow in three years.Red , Black Heart, Durane Nero, Stella, Celcier, Bing, Merchant and Sunburst are some of the commercial cherry varieties grown in Shimla district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/prospects-dim-for-hp-growers-as-cherry-harvesting-begins-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-LPTlPApFa4R29ugwIAtN8J.html
28-04-2020||Pune||350 civic teams to measure oxygen levels of vulnerable groups in Pune containment zones||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has formed 350 teams to measure the oxygen level in the blood of senior citizens and people with comorbid conditions, as this group is more vulnerable to Sars-cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 (coronavirus) infection, according to officials.“The teams have been provided with pulse oximeters and thermometers and have started checking residents in the peth areas from Monday,” said PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad.A pulse oximeter is a small device which when put on a finger within a few seconds gives the exact oxygen level in the blood and also gives the heart rate.Gaikwad said, “This step has been undertaken as per the guidelines of state government and such teams will conduct the test mainly in hotspots. This will help us to contain the spread of Covid-19 cases.”Divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said, “It is a welcome move by PMC. In most of the Covi-19 deaths, it was found that the oxygen level in the blood was very low. Mainly senior citizens and people will comorbid conditions like diabetics, blood pressure, heart and kidney-related ailments are vulnerable and such preventive steps will help save lives and stop the spread of the Sars-cov-2 virus.”Mhaisekar said, “Senior citizens and people with comorbid conditions should cooperate with the civic official teams.”All the 350 teams formed by PMC are well equipped with pulse oximeters and thermometers, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/350-civic-teams-to-measure-oxygen-levels-of-vulnerable-groups-in-pune-containment-zones/story-xYmVduQz0EFDaYVtAONW1H.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||College principals can serve beyond 5-year term as HC quashes clause in UGC regulations||College principals can now continue to hold their posts till retirement, as the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday quashed a clause in the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations, 2010, that converted their permanent posts into term posts of five years. A bench of justices ZA Haq and Manish Pitale struck down clause 5.1.6(d) of the UGC regulations, stating it was “manifestly arbitrary.”UGC amended the regulations in 2016 and introduced the clause which capped the term of college principals to five years. It is extendable to another five years, provided the incumbent successfully undergoes the selection process and an external peer review.Twelve college principals, from Vidarbha region, had moved HC challenging the clause’s validity. They argued that the amendment arbitrarily curtailed the age of superannuation of college principals and because of it they will be unemployed once their 5-year tenure ends. UGC responded to the petitions, contending that the concept of term appointments and external peer review was well-founded and was based on an internationally accepted practice. It stated that the clause’s introduction had become necessary to keep principals on their toes so that they excel both in academics and administration.The bench, however, refused to accept the justification.“It is difficult to accept the contentions of the UGC that only by introducing such curtailed tenure of appointment...the incumbents would be kept on their toes and that only by such method they would excel in academic and administrative fields,” stated the bench.“If the management finds a person appointed to the post of principal not performing...steps can certainly be taken against such a principal. But by introducing the aforesaid clause and virtually converting a permanent post into a tenure post, the action is rendered arbitrary and unsustainable.”It added that when a person joins a particular service, the age of retirement is known and based on experience and addition of qualifications, such a person expects his/her career graph to move in a particular direction.Upon the introduction of the clause, the span of service of principal stood curtailed and the incumbent was to be discontinued from service much before the age of retirement, the bench stated. “This is an assault on the legitimate expectation of petitioners and other similarly situated persons. Therefore, it can certainly be held to be an unreasonable restriction on such persons and their expectation of career progression,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/college-principals-can-serve-beyond-5-year-term-as-hc-quashes-clause-in-ugc-regulations/story-t1rNk4IOzpRJFjYcVZY8KI.html
28-04-2020||Pune||1,504 special police officers help Pune police manage micro-clusters||The Pune police have appointed 1,504 special police officers (SPO) to help manage the daily needs of over 120 micro-clusters identified by the police, according to Ashok Morale, additional commissioner of police (crime).“There are 1,400 SPOs working with the police in these micro-clusters. We have given them identity cards, masks, sanitisers and face-shields. Within the next few days, we are aiming for 5,000 SPOs. We ensure that these are people without any political connection or criminal record,” said additional CP Morale.The micro-clusters are places with high population density and over five positive cases. These were identified after scanning of addresses and whereabouts of positive cases in the city.Among the 120 micro-clusters, where the SPOs are helping out, are Tadiwala road, Patil estate, Lakshminagar, Parvati Paytha, Lumbininagar and Bhagyodaynagar.Sujit Yadav, 48, an SPO working in Tadiwala road, said, “We work is done in three shifts of four hours each. We wear a forearm band which has a Maharashtra police logo on it. The police have provided us with a sanitiser, face mask and face shield is provided. We deliver everything from groceries, chicken, eggs, vegetables among others. People pay through cash or transfer money online.”“There is a fixed time table for everything from use of public toilet to delivering groceries. This has helped in isolating people inside their homes to contain the spread of Sar-Co-2 virus,” he said.“These SOPs are from the same areas. We have made a pyramid structure and WhatsApp groups to keep a track. They send pictures with time and location every day,” said senior PI Shrikant Shinde of Bundgarden police station.Other SPOs in the city include secretaries of housing societies, social workers, and young volunteers. While some help with managing micro clusters, some others help with manning check-posts as well.SPOs appointed zone-wiseZone 1: 151Zone 2: 149Zone 3: 152Zone 4: 425Zone 5: 627Total: 1,504||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/1-504-special-police-officers-help-pune-police-manage-micro-clusters/story-R0XnlgQysRKB14eSaJkmWO.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||After GP’s death, Mumbai’s pvt doctors seek life insurance||Although it has been days since a 36-year-old general physician (GP) succumbed to Covid-19, which he may have contracted from the Covid-positive patients he had been treating, the state health department is yet to declare any compensation amount for the GP. The GP was a private practitioner. Private practitioners have demanded that the life insurance scheme announced by the Union health ministry should be extended to doctors with private practices who are treating Covid-19 patients.The doctor, who passed away on April 22, used to run a clinic in Shivaji Nagar, which is a hotspot for Covid-19. He was among those who kept their clinics open as per the protocols of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The deceased doctor’s brother said, “I haven’t received any call from the state health department or the corporation [BMC] about any insurance or compensation.”Private medical practitioners have alleged a bias against private doctors on part of the government. In early April, the Union health ministry had announced a Rs 50 lakh insurance cover for doctors, nurses and other frontline medical workers. It remains unclear whether the insurance cover will be offered to private practitioners who are treating Covid-19 patients.Former president of the Mahim-Dharavi Medical Practitioner Association Dr Sanjeev Khosla said, “In a pandemic situation, where doctors are being asked to open up their clinics without proper source of protective gear, the government needs to bring private practitioners under the insurance schemes.” He further added that private practitioners were among “the most vulnerable group” as many infected patients approach these doctors first and are then referred a hospital dedicated to treating Covid-19.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) instructed private clinics to remain open, as per the conditions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, since there is a shortage of medical professionals. On Monday, the civic body requested the Mahim-Dharavi Medical Practitioner Association to open 350 clinics to screen and identify possible patients in Dharavi, where almost 300 Covid-positive cases have been diagnosed.So far, five more medical professionals have tested positive for the virus in Shivaji Nagar and around 500 clinics have been forced to shut down in the ward because the doctors don’t have protective gear.“In the state, 80% of patients are asymptomatic, so we don’t even know if the patient is infected. This is a pandemic situation and even private non-Covid doctors are indirectly standing at the frontline, getting exposed to the virus,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, state president (Maharashtra) of the Indian Medical Association.Despite repeated calls, Rajesh Tope, the state health minister, could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/after-gp-s-death-city-s-pvt-doctors-seek-life-insurance/story-vtLU8ryk39eHhk8tPXXEbK.html
28-04-2020||Patna||82 arrested in Bihar for trying to spread communal disharmony through social media||Around 82 people have been arrested in Bihar for spreading communal disharmony through rumours, malicious and defamatory messages on social media relating the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials said on Tuesday.Most were arrested when they tried to defame people of a certain community by exchanging baseless and inflammatory messages through social media, including WhatsApp and Facebook, said sources.Police have also lodged 153 cases in the last one month since the first Covid-19 case was reported on March 22 in the state, officials added.“All the 153 cases have been lodged under different sections, including the information technology (IT) act, the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the disaster management act,” said Jitendra Kumar, Bihar’s additional director general of police (headquarters).The number of cases had gone up from 104 on April 20 to 153 on Tuesday, he said.“The Muzaffarpur and Shahabad range of deputy inspectors general of police account for 17 such cases each, followed by Saran, which reported 13 cases till April 20,” said Kumar.The police also arrested some who tried to spread misconceptions about the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were initially imposed for 21 days on March 25 and extended on April 15 for another 19 days till May 3, to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.For instance, in Katihar, the police had arrested an individual running a portal for propagating a fake video about a Covid-19 patient moving around unattended in a government facility, said sources.In Bhojpur, police had lodged cases against those who shared inflammatory WhatsApp photographs, including some who commented branding members of a particular community as carriers of the virus, the source added.Those fanning baseless messages about the Tablighi Jamaat through social media had also been punished, the source said.Police had also acted firmly against those trying to portray women in poor light.“It’s our fervent appeal to the people to be wary of messages circulating on social media. They should not forward them without proper verification. We take them very seriously,” Kumar said sounding a note of caution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/82-arrested-in-bihar-for-trying-to-spread-communal-disharmony-through-social-media/story-Xj7SRxtW4JrLbOYZIgaJvO.html
28-04-2020||Pune||Families in Pune struggle to mourn death of loved ones in the time of Covid-19||The month of April usually brings more business for Javed Kazi, an electrician by profession. This time though it was a double whammy for Kazi as Covid-19 (coronavirus) killed his 50-year-old mother on April 14.“The virus did not just take away my mother, but everything from me. Post her death, we (the family members) were tested and found positive for Sars-Cov-2 virus,” said Kazi implying that he didn’t even get time to console for the loss of his mother.The story is no different for the 26-year-old resident of Hadapsar who works at a multinational company in the city. The youth, who requested anonymity, lost his 73-year-old father at Nobel hospital on April 8, six days after he was hospitalised for respiratory illness and tested positive for Covid-19.Though none of the other three members from the family of deceased tested positive, they had to be quarantined as they were in contact with 73-year-old.“It was tragic as we could not be on the side of our father when he passed away. Moreover, due to government guidelines, we could not attend the final rites of our father,” said the eldest son of the deceased.For most who lost their loved ones, their lives have now turned upside down. “The tragedy took away everything from us. I am the sole breadwinner of my family and the lockdown has prevented me from stepping out, leaving me in a difficult position at home to manage finances,” said Kazi, who also could attend final rites of his mother.In most cases of Covid-19 related deaths in Pune, which has seen 75 deaths till Monday afternoon, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) along with a couple of NGOs have been helping cremate bodies.Razi Khan, a member of the Popular Front of India whose volunteers are closely working with the civic administration to perform last rites of Covid-19 victims from the Muslim community, said till now they have buried 20 bodies in the city.“We are burying the bodies which are not claimed by their family members as they are either quarantined or are kept in hospitals. In some of the cases, we managed to make the bereaved family members part of the last rites rituals through video calls,” said Khan.In another case from Baramati, when 30-year-old Sameer Bagwan lost his father, a vegetable vendor who died at Sassoon hospital in the city, the shock was so that he did not share the news with mother for next few days. “Most of our family members were tested positive after my father’s death and we were put under quarantine. We were unable to perform the last rites of my father. However, we decided to be strong to overcome the crisis,” said Bagwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/families-in-pune-struggle-to-mourn-death-of-loved-ones-in-the-time-of-covid-19/story-7dwsIXhi22CoRnvF2hGJTO.html
28-04-2020||City||ASI on Covid-19 duty dies of cardiac arrest in Jalandhar||An assistant sub-inspector of police (ASI) died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday while he was on duty at Talwandi Bhilla village in Kartarpur sub-division of the district.The deceased, 50-year-old Harjeet Singh, was a resident of Butta village.He had been posted at a Sewa Kendra, but was deployed at a check-post outside Bhilla village by the rural police 10 days ago after local authorities detected a Covid-19 case there.Superintendent of police (headquarters) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu said that Harjeet had joined the duty in the morning and a few hours later, he complained of chest pain.His colleagues took him to a hospital where he died during treatment, the SP said.The ASI’s body has been handed over to the family after conducting post-mortem examination, the police official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/asi-on-covid-19-duty-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-in-jalandhar/story-dAN62B15cxrAkrC1y2KLeO.html
28-04-2020||Pune||Pune district admin to fund treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals using govt schemes||The Covid-19 (coronavirus) patients will be treated free at private hospitals, according to a decision taken during a meeting held on Monday of representatives of private hospitals and the Pune district administration.Patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in the dedicated Covid-19 heath centres and dedicated Covid-19 hospitals can avail these benefits.The district administration on Monday announced that the payment of patients will be covered by the civic body and district administration or under government schemes.The cost of the treatment, according to officials, which goes into lakhs into private hospitals had become a point of conflict between patients and private hospitals.Shekhar Gaikwad, PMC commissioner, said, “The expenses of treatment of Covid-19 patients who are being treated for Covid-19 at private hospitals will we borne by us. We will sign a memorandum of understanding soon. The treatment cost will be charged under the scheme and the charges will be defined in the MOU too, the remaining charges will be borne by the PMC.”“We are trying to take over more private hospitals to include more patients, the city hospitals must keep us updated as to how many beds are available with them on a daily basis for isolation purpose and for ICU if need be,” he added.The civic body had earlier requested the state government to chalk out a referral policy for private hospitals as far as critical COVID-19 patients are concerned.Dr Sunil Rao, group medical director at Sahyadri Specialty hospital, said, “At the meeting it was decided that there should be no inconvenience to the patient whatsoever. Those who have medical insurance, the insurance companies have agreed to bear the cost of treating Covid-19 positive cases although the real questions is about the patients who do not have insurance cover and cannot afford to pay lakhs.”“We have been asked to charge no bill to the patient and the money should be retrieved through the various government schemes like Mahatma Jyotiba Pule Scheme, Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana or PMC’s urban poor health insurance scheme,” said Dr Rao.While these government schemes pay only about Rs 35,000 to one lakh, for the remaining amount there is not clear answer yet, said private doctors. “We have been asked to not focus on the money and instead ensure that the there is no convenience to the patient. Also regarding shifting patients, only those who are stable have to be transferred but not the critical patients,” said Rao.According to divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar private hospitals are prepared to treat Covid-19 patients looking at the current condition of the city which may worsen in future“With regards to the remuneration of the bill of Covid-19 positive cases, it will be done as per the rules and treatment of the patient, the administration will support private hospitals,” said Mhaisekar.“The administration has also decided to pool in the money from the district planning committee, for those seeking treatment in urban, rural and the three cantonment areas and Rs five crore has already been reserved for the same,” said district collector Naval Kishore Ram.Dedicated Covid-19 health centresDr Naidu HospitalRuby HospitalJehangir HospitalInlaks BudhraniColumbia Asia HospitalKEM HospitalSahyadri Hospital, KarvenagarSahyadri Hospital ,KothrudSahyadri Hospital, BibvewadiNoble Hospital, HadapsarDeenanath Mangeshkar HospitalSassoon General HospitalAundh Civil HospitalBharati HospitalSymbiosis Hospital, LavaleDedicated Covid-19 hospitalsSassoon General HospitalSymbiosis HospitalBharati Hospital||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-admin-to-fund-treatment-of-covid-19-patients-in-private-hospitals-using-govt-schemes/story-hiIUaXk7VfVPD49uW3mKWN.html
28-04-2020||Jaipur||Jaipur surgeons question non-sterile PPE kits; administration points to cost factor, supple delay||Surgeons in Rajasthan’s Jaipur have raised an alarm over the supply of non-sterile personal protective equipment (PPE) kits that are being used in operation theatres (OTs). The administration of the SMS Hospital, the premier institution in the state, has said on its part that procuring sterile kits will add to the cost and lead to a delay in supply so they were getting non-sterile kits that can be sterilised in OT sterilisation units before use.“I noticed today that the PPE kits given to us are non-sterile. I checked with the supplier and he confirmed that he was giving non-sterile kits to the government. This is grave because use of non-sterile kits will expose patients in OT to infections,” a surgeon at SMS Hospital in Jaipur said requesting anonymity.Another surgeon, who also didn’t want to be identified, said he also noticed that the PPE kits were non-sterile.“When I reached out to the hospital administration, they said the OTs were being supplied both sterilised and non-sterilised kits. But I am yet to verify this,” he said.PPE kits in Rajasthan are procured by the Rajasthan Medical Services Corporation for use in government hospitals. According to a corporation official, it was getting the kits from four suppliers.Sunil Ramchandani, one of the suppliers based out of Jaipur, said sterilisation will disturb delivery schedules.“Sterilisation takes around 10-12 hours and in our plant and we can put about 100 kits in one lot. So for the supply of 50,000 kits, we need 5,000 hours. The government wanted us to stick to delivery schedules and we wouldn’t have been able to do that if we sterilised the kits,” he said.SMS Hospital’s superintendent Dr DS Meena said every operation theatre has a sterilisation unit and that the kits should be put through them before use.“There are ETO machines in OTs that should be used to sterile the PPE kits. Some OTs have plasma machines. All these are used to sterile equipment. The kits should also be put through them,” Dr Meena said.He said he was unaware about surgeons’ concerns but said they should be aware that a non-sterile item should be sterilised before use.When asked why hospitals don’t procure sterile kits, he said the sterilisation process will add to the cost and delay delivery. “We use around 1,500 kits a day and only 50-60 of them are used in the OTs. So our focus is on cost and timely delivery,” Dr Meena added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/jaipur-surgeons-question-non-sterile-ppe-kits-administration-points-to-cost-factor-supple-delay/story-jxBHLVRMHpcB9E8wDuBfEM.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Two dead in group clashes in Mumbai’s Govandi during Covid-19 lockdown||Two people were killed when two groups, defying the nationwide lockdown, clashed with each other in the Shivaji Nagar slums of Govandi area in Mumbai on Monday evening. One person was severely injured in the incident which occurred at around 6:30 pm near plot number 8, close to the municipal school at Baiganwadi area in Shivaji Nagar. According to the Shivaji Nagar police, the deceased were 23-year-old Rajjab Shamsherali Khan and his friend, 25-year-old Premsingh Virendra Singh. Investigations revealed that the groups clashed over the setting up of sabeel or drinking stalls which are set up to provide water in the holy month of Ramzan. Police said both groups wanted to set up stalls in the densely-populated area which led to the dispute. It was also revealed during the probe that the groups have been at loggerheads since 2019 and there have been frequent skirmishes between them. “The injured were attacked on their face and neck with swords, sharp weapons, choppers and axe,” said a police officer. The profusely bleeding trio was taken to Rajawadi hospital in Ghatkopar where two persons were declared dead on arrival. The police have identified six people from the group which attacked Rajjab, Premsingh and Mohamedali and have arrested two of them. “We are looking out for four more persons,” said the officer. The police have registered a case under several sections for murder, attempt to murder, rioting, unlawful assembly and defying the lockdown rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-dead-in-group-clashes-in-mumbai-s-govandi-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-lZ5G8jfRs9wUsk9RqYWDLK.html
28-04-2020||Bangalore||Mercedes-Benz research wing to provide 25,000 PCR testing kits to NIMHANS||Mercedes-Benz Research and Development India (MBRDI), the largest R&D unit of Daimler outside Germany, on Tuesday announced it will supply in batches up to 25,000 real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing kits to National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) here. These kits will also be provided to other Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-approved testing centres across Karnataka through NIMHANS, MBDRI said in a statement. NIMHANS, the premier medical institution, has been conducting free-testing for suspected COVID-19 patients in the city. To assist them in this endeavour, MBRDI has sourced the real-time PCR testing kits, it said. The testing kits are sourced from the ICMR-approved suppliers and will be delivered to NIMHANS in a phased manner, it said. MBRDI CEO and Managing Director Manu Saale said: “We have procured these kits to support in testing a larger number of suspected cases and assist the healthcare fraternity/professionals in flattening the curve.” In addition to this, the research and development (R&D) centre has initiated a monetary donation drive to encourage employees to contribute towards the PM CARES Fund and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to support the underprivileged and people with disabilities in need of assistance. MBRDI was founded in 1996 as a captive unit to support Daimler’s research, IT and product development activities. It focuses on topics ranging from computer-aided design and simulations for powertrain, chassis and exteriors to embedded systems, telematics and developing various IT applications and tools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/mercedes-benz-research-wing-to-provide-25-000-pcr-testing-kits-to-nimhans/story-NTI69IlpGrPLzBtrbMff5J.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||No hike in school fees this year, says UP deputy chief minister||In a major relief to parents, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Monday directed all private schools across Uttar Pradesh not to hike fees in this academic session in view of the lockdown. The decision was taken in a meeting with secondary education department officials.“All schools in the state affiliated to CBSE, ICSE or UP Board will not be allowed to increase fees for the academic session 2020-21. The schools will only be allowed to charge fees which were applicable in the year 2019-20,” said Sharma.He said, “If schools have collected increased fees from parents in this session, the surplus amount should be adjusted in the next month fees.”Principal secretary, secondary education, Aradhana Shukla has communicated the decision taken by deputy chief minister to all district magistrates and director, secondary education, deputy chief minister said.The decision has been taken in the interest of parents facing monetary problems amid lockdown, said Sharma.Sharma said lockdown has adversely impacted life of several parents. “From pay cuts to less income, lockdown has impacted life in a big way. Under these circumstances parents are finding it difficult to pay fees. Considering all of this it was decided that schools in Uttar Pradesh should not hike fees,” said the deputy chief minister.In Lucknow, a number of schools have announced not to increase fees this year.Study Hall has already sent message to parents that the school was not increasing fee.GD Goenka Public school has also taken similar decision, said chairman Sarvesh Goel.The management of St Teresa’s Day School announced that it will charge old fees from parents, said principal Peter Fanthome Junior. He said parents were informed via WhatsApp message. Christ Church College principal Rakesh Chattree said their teachers have agreed to work on old scale so students will not be taxed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/no-hike-in-school-fees-this-year-says-up-deputy-chief-minister/story-DdeizNW6f7e57SS0M1RjxK.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||Allahabad University forms panel to look into arrested prof’s issue||Allahabad University (AU) authorities have constituted a high-level committee to probe the circumstances and events leading to the arrest of a political science department professor. The professor along with 29 others, including 16 Jamaatis from Indonesia and Thailand, was arrested on April 20 night for hiding his travel history and also making arrangements for the stay of nine Jamaatis at a mosque in Sangam city. The university suspended him soon after the incident. The fact-finding committee, constituted by officiating vice chancellor prof Rajiv Ranjan Tiwari, would be headed by prof RK Upadhayay of the department of defence studies. Upadhayay is also the proctor of the central university. The other members of the committee include prof Anuradha Agarwal, prof KP Singh and prof Shabnam Hamid while AU registrar prof N K Shukla would be assisting the committee as secretary.“We would soon be meeting on the campus, keeping in mind the social distancing norms, and scrutinise all relevant papers and information regarding the issue and then submit our report,”said prof Upadhayay. The findings of the committee would be tabled at the meeting of the Executive Council of AU which will then decide on further action against the professor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/allahabad-university-forms-panel-to-look-into-arrested-prof-s-issue/story-reuEK9iMbq4aTxJLwSL7iM.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||Survey crop damage, compensate farmers: minister tells insurance firms||Agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi directed crop insurance companies to conduct a crop damage survey caused by the rain and storms in some districts, on Monday.Holding a meeting on Kharif preparations on Monday, he said proper compensation must be paid to farmers who had lost crops to rains on Sunday.“We have reports of crop damage mainly from Kannauj, Etah and Pilinhit and we have asked insurance companies to survey and pay compensation to affected farmers according to government guidelines and at the earliest,” he said.Reviewing Kharif preparations, the minister fixed a production target of 169 lakh paddy to be cultivated on 60 lakh hectare area this year. Sahi claimed the state had sufficient stocks of seeds and fertilisers to meet the requirement for the Kharif season. He said the harvesting of Rabi crops was by 94% complete while 92% of wheat, the main Rabi crop, was harvested till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/survey-crop-damage-compensate-farmers-minister-tells-insurance-firms/story-b0NU4KiXG6ySthUxAq5QSM.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Three Nanded pilgrims test positive for Covid-19 in Punjab||Two more Nanded returnees, including an 11-year-old child, tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Tarn Taran, while one pilgrim tested positive in Hoshiarpur on Tuesday.In Tarn Taran, a 60-year-old man and his grandchild tested positive for Covid-19. They are residents of Khemkaran, said Taran Tarn civil surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar. Now, there are eight Covid-19 cases in the district.The two patients were part of a group of 11 persons who returned from Nanded in a tempo-traveller on Sunday. All 11, belong to Khemkaran—a gram panchayat that falls under the Bhikhiwind sub-division—and its two adjoining hamlets, were tested on Monday after their driver was tested positive in Maharashtra.Five men from Sursingh village of the district had also tested positive. The five had returned from Nanded a week ago. The eighth patient in the district is a woman who recently delivered a child in Sursingh village’s government hospital.Deputy commissioner (DC) Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said, “Two of the 11 people who had returned to the state from Hazur Sahib have tested positive. With this the total number of positive patients has reached 11. Three returnees from Kapurthala had also tested positive on Monday.”Around 3,000-odd pilgrims had got stranded in Hazur Sahib, one of the five temporal seats of Sikhs, in Nanded district of Maharashtra after imposition of a nationwide lockdown. These pilgrims, that belong to different villages and cities of Punjab, have been returning in parts.16 SAMPLES SENT FOR TESTING IN HOSHIARPUR A Nanded-returned pilgrim from Moranwali village in Hoshiarpur district also tested positive. He was admitted to the civil hospital in Hoshiarpur. Civil surgeon Dr Jasbir Singh said samples of 16 other pilgrims have been sent for testing and results are awaited.In the past three weeks, Hoshiarpur district had not seen any new corona case. An elderly man from the village had died from Covid-19 before that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-nanded-pilgrims-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab/story-X9IqjMxr627r2TaHcEnXBK.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||Day after storm and, rain, state begins review of losses||A day after thunderstorms and rain were reported to strike 23 districts of Uttar Pradesh, the state disaster management department has started assessing the damage caused due to the inclement weather conditions.Chief minister Yogi Adityanth directed officials on Sunday evening to assess the crop damage caused and compensate farmers. He also ordered compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the family members of a person killed as a result of the weather conditions.As many as 23 districts of the state, including the state capital, experienced thunder and dust storms, lightning, rain and hail storms on Sunday night.The disaster management department on Monday asked all district magistrates to submit details about the damages within a week’s time.The district magistrates, who are nodal officers of disaster management at the district level, have been asked to submit details about losses incurred by farmers, area of crop damaged, loss of cattle and deaths, if any.Sonbhadra district magistrate S Rajalingam said, “The district disaster relief committee has been tasked to assess the damage. The said information will be submitted in due time.” The officer added that no deaths were reported in his district and that the losses to farm crops were also limited. “The harvest season is over and most of the fields are empty. So, the damage caused to the crop by the rain will be very limited,” said the DM.Sonbhadra is one of the 23 districts that received hail storms and untimely rains in the last 48 hours.Meanwhile the state meteorological department has issued a warning of similar weather conditions till Tuesday evening. “Some parts of East and Central UP will experience thunderstorms and strong winds accompanied by brief bouts of rain. The disaster management department has been alerted about the forecast,” said UP meteorological department director JP Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/day-after-storm-and-rain-state-begins-review-of-losses/story-1VzWOYFqOUSIwaNWf6pyGL.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||Mosque vandalised, muezzin among 3 attacked in Gorakhpur village||A group of six men allegedly vandalised a mosque and attacked a muezzin (a man whose duty is to call Muslims for prayer from a mosque) there when he did not stop giving prayer calls (azan) on a loudspeaker during the lockdown as demanded by them and showed them police permission for the same instead at Bankata village under Sikriganj police station limit of the district on Sunday noon, police said on Monday. Muezzin Abdul Rahman, 35, who suffered minor injuries in the incident, said there were only three persons in the mosque as permitted by police during the lockdown. The holy month of Ramzan began on April 25. “The trouble began when some people objected to ‘azan’ through loudspeaker and attacked the muezzin. But people from both the sides are ready for a compromise and have assured us that such incident will not reoccur and that they will maintain harmony. I have called both the sides for talks and if the talks fail, required action will be taken after lodging an FIR,” said Jatashankar, station house officer, Sikriganj police station.After being informed, senior police officials rushed to site and pacified people.The attackers also allegedly broke the sound box of the loudspeaker, threw copies of the holy Quran on the floor and thrashed two other locals leading to communal tension in the area, they added. Hearing the commotion, one Sonu Ali, 25, locked the attackers by closing the door of the mosque from outside and informed police of it. In the meantime, the attackers came out of the mosque by climbing its walls and thrashed Sonu. As the youth raised an alarm, his father Azmat Ali, 50, rushed to his help but he was also beaten and suffered severe head injuries and fracture in the leg. The attackers then escaped the scene. Azmat Ali was admitted to primary health centre, Dhebra, under under Sikriganj police station.“The attackers barged into the mosque and created ruckus. I locked them inside and called police but they came out by climbing the boundary wall and beat me up and hurled abuses. They left but returned with more men and all began thrashing me. My father, who rushed to help me, was also thrashed,” alleged Sonu Ali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/mosque-vandalised-muezzin-among-3-attacked-in-gorakhpur-village/story-nwqNetL5PJAKp7gxm43QWN.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||UP govt nod to corona test labs in Bareilly, Budaun||The state government has given its nod to a proposal to set up biosafety laboratories for Covid-19 test at the district hospital in Bareilly and government medical college in Budaun.At present, testing of human samples for Covid-19 collected from Bareilly and neighbouring districts is done at Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) only.“The state government has given us the nod for setting up of a bio-safety laboratory level 2 for testing of samples for Covid-19. We intend to set up the lab at the old operation theatre building here,” said Dr TS Arya, chief medical superintendent, district hospital, Bareilly.Once they start functioning, these two laboratories will decrease the waiting time of the Covid-19 test reports. For instance, patients in Budaun will also be able to get report the same day. Besides, the number of people being tested daily for Covid-19 will also go up.“After approving a bio-safety laboratory level-3 here, the state government also sanctioned a budget of Rs 4.5 crore on Friday. We will now invite tenders to select a firm that will set up the laboratory. It will take over a month for the laboratory to become functional,” said Dr RP Singh, principal, Budaun government medical college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-govt-nod-to-corona-test-labs-in-bareilly-budaun/story-FhFw91fqhFYDubCQXj4eBN.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||Muslim woman donates blood to Hindu patient after first ‘roza’||Twenty nine-year-old Alisha Khan displayed a rare show of humanity and brotherhood, when soon after her first ‘roza’ (fast during Ramzan) she decided to donate blood to Vijay Rastogi, one she hardly knew.On Saturday, Jaspal Singh Pali who runs an NGO, under the aegis of Shahid Bhagat Singh Nishwarth Seva Samiti, to help those in urgent need for blood approached her.She was well-aware that her ‘O-negative’ blood group was rare to find, so without paying even a little attention towards the identity of the person, she told Jaspal to just wait till she is done fasting. And just as promised, immediately after completing her fast she reached the district hospital herself. Tripti Awasthi, a social activist said, “Vijay Rastogi, an inverter-battery shop owner was suffering from serious liver infection since long. A few days back his condition deteriorated with a sharp decline in hemoglobin level. The doctor advised his family members to arrange for blood at the earliest but despite several efforts at various blood banks in Kheri, they couldn’t get ‘O negative’ blood.”They then approached Jaspal, and also posted on social media, requesting people with the same blood group to help. Jaspal said when he came to know about the requirement he looked at the list of blood donors with him and found Alisha with the desired blood group.“When I talked to her and told her about the situation she readily agreed. She was rather happy that her blood was going to help a person in the holy ramzan month.” Rastogi’s family members were all praise for Alisha Khan and expressed immense gratitude. DEO KANT PANDEY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/muslim-woman-donates-blood-to-hindu-patient-after-first-roza/story-rUbteBDWxw8C66J8lEd8mM.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||Gorakhpur reports first covid-19 patient who arrived from Delhi||Gorakhpur, which had so far managed to retain its green zone tag, reported its first Covid-19 patient on Sunday. The patient had traveled to Gorakhpur in an ambulance from Delhi with two co-workers and was admitted to BRD medical college where he tested positive.The man employed with a private company lived with two colleagues in Delhi. On April 19 he complained of chest pain after which he was rushed to Delhi’s Sarvodaya Hospital located in Sector 8. From there he was referred to Safdarjung Hospital the same day. However, for some reason, his two colleagues hired a private ambulance to take him to Gorakhpur instead. By the time the trio reached Gorakhpur on April 26, the man’s condition further deteriorated following which they called 108 ambulance and rushed him to BRD medical college where he tested positive. After this, the two men who traveled with him from Delhi to Gorakhpur, went missing. The police are trying to locate them.“The 50-year-old man who came from Delhi has been tested positive at BRD Medical College. He was already suffering from cardiac disease and high blood pressure. The 108 ambulance first took the trio to the district hospital from where he was referred to BRD Medical College. The two colleagues who accompanied the man from Delhi were being traced while the two Delhi hospitals where he was initially admitted have also been alerted,” Commissioner Jayant Narlikar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/gorakhpur-reports-first-covid-19-patient-who-arrived-from-delhi/story-1BBma5bKkosn0C1uYbde7N.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||Police station in Sambhal ‘relocated’ after area declared hotspot||An entire police station in Sambhal district has been temporarily shifted to another location after the area was declared a corona hotspot by the district administration, said a senior police official.This happened after a 35-year-old man in the area tested positive for Covid-19 last week. The police station is located just opposite the house of this man.“We have shifted computers, wireless set and other equipment from Rajpura police station to the Ganvan outpost on Sunday where we have set up a temporary police station. We have also leased a room at the Rajpura sugar mill nearby as living quarters of the cops,” said superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad.The SP said the man had taken his mother for treatment to Delhi and then to a hospital in Moradabad. “After we got to know about his travel history, we put them in quarantine and sent their samples for testing. Once the man’s report came positive the administration declared the area hotspot on Saturday and then we decided to relocate the police station. Today, (Monday) even his mother has also tested positive,” said the SP.However, the SP said two policemen with safety gear have been posted at the abandoned police station for security purposes. Sambhal, at present has 15 Covid-19 positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/police-station-in-sambhal-relocated-after-area-declared-hotspot/story-doFCbAavYT0buncst8eEYJ.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 lockdown: 4 areas in Delhi may come out of red zone by May 3, three more by May 10||At least four areas in Delhi are likely to come out of the containment zone categorisation by May 3, when the nationwide lockdown to control the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 is scheduled to end.These zones are Mayurdhwaj Apartment in IP Extension, Vardhman Apartment in Mayur Vihar, the sealed portion of lane number 4 in Krishnakunj Extension and four blocks of Dilshad Garden. While the first three come under the East Delhi revenue district, the fourth comes under the Shahdara revenue district.Also read: Here’s list of 16 districts in India with no new Covid-19 case in last 28 daysAccording to the guidelines of Union health ministry, containment measures in the red zones can be “scaled down if no secondary laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 case is reported in the geographic quarantine zone for at least four weeks after the last confirmed test has been isolated and all his contacts have been followed up for 28 days”.Health department officials said that the situation in all four zones is under control and the probability of further local transmission of the virus is close to none. The last case of Covid-19 was recorded here between April 1 and April 5.Three more containment zones - Shahjahanabad society in Sector 11 of Dwarka, Deenpur and Ashok Nagar - are likely to become eligible for relaxations by May 10.Also read: Most of Mehrauli to become a containment zone after two food distribution volunteers test positiveDelhi currently has 99 containment zones after the government on Monday added two more to the tally of 97 - Pillanji village in New Delhi district and affected areas - Nirankari Gali, Nakshtra Gali, Nala Boring Gali, Ravan Wali Gali, Jameela Masjid Baoli, dargah gurudwara wali Gali, Thane wali gali and Terminal Gali - in South district, near Mehrauli.Meanwhile, the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Monday crossed the 3,000-mark, with 190 fresh cases being reported in a day, according to the Delhi government authorities.No fresh death was reported for second successive day on Monday.The total number of cases have risen to 3,108, officials said, adding that 877 patients have recovered and active cases stand at 2,177.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/4-areas-in-delhi-may-come-out-of-red-zone-by-may-3-three-more-by-may-10/story-jOUSKLeZTDxqMyeQhhAutL.html
28-04-2020||City||Two fresh cases in hotspot village take Mohali district’s count to 65||Two fresh Covid-19 cases in Jawaharpur village of Mohali’s Dera Bassi subdivision took the district’s tally to 65 on Tuesday. Meanwhile, three people, including the panch who was the first to be tested positive in Jawaharpur and his daughter, were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total number of recovered patients in the district to 30. With two fatalities, the number of active cases stand at 33. Jawaharpur village, which was declared a hotspot and containment zone, now has 40 confirmed Covid-19 cases, of which 17 have recovered so far. The others are reported to be in stable condition. On Tuesday, fresh cases were reported from the village after a gap of 14 days while Mohali’s lull was broken after five days. Most of the cases are related to the 43-year-old panch and his extended family, which includes the village’s woman sarpanch.The 47-year-old man who tested positive on Tuesday is the sarpanch’s brother, while the other 60-year-old man is also related to her.Dera Bassi subdivisional magistrate Kuldeep Bawa said: “The 47-year-old was recently admitted to the Dera Bassi civil hospital. His earlier samples had tested negative. As we were doubtful, he was tested again and was found to be positive. He has been moved to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. We have sanitised the civil hospital and have advised people to visit it only in case of an emergency.” Meanwhile, the 43-year-old Jawaharpur panch was discharged from the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and has been moved to the quarantine centre in Sector 70, said Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. His 17-year-old daughter was also discharged from the Covid Care Centre set up at Gian Sagar Hospital and will be kept at the same quarantine facility for 14 days. The third person to be discharged is a 28-year-old man from Sector 68, who has been sent home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/new-covid-19-case-in-punjab-s-mohali-takes-district-corona-count-to-64/story-lDgbEmItwAXy0AczKhHBFL.html
28-04-2020||Kolkata||Museums, zoos and science centres take virtual route during Covid-19 lockdown||With no visitors during the lockdown period, science centres, zoos and museums across India are opening up their galleries and enclosures on the internet for people to see them while staying at home.While some are hosting live streaming of animals 24x7, others are allowing citizens to take a virtual walkthrough of the museum galleries. Some are organising sky observation programs where visitors can log in to observe celestial events like the Super Pink Moon, which appeared on April 8.The Alipore Zoo in Kolkata, the oldest in India, launched a mobile application to help people take a virtual tour last week. Citizens can see a panoramic view of the zoo, check photos and videos in their enclosures with a voice-over option to know more about a particular animal they are interested in.The Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Chennai was the first in India to start live streaming of animals in their enclosures, almost two years back. Its webpage is now getting almost 60,000-80,000 views every day during the lockdown period.“The page views have increased several times because of the lockdown. We now have live streaming of 14 species including tiger, lion, and hippos. There are 180 cameras installed in the zoo and animal enclosures,” Sudha Ramen, deputy director of Anna Arignar zoo, said.“For the lockdown, we have added an extra special feature in which we are focusing one animal at a time to show some particular activity of the animal. Say for example an elephant enjoying a shower,” Ramen said.Even though the pan-India lockdown had started on March 25, almost every zoo and museum had closed down much before that.The Indian Museum, the oldest and largest multi-purpose museum in India, is going to launch a virtual walkthrough very soon, said its director-in-charge Arijit Dutta Choudhury. Among its exhibits is a 4000-year-old mummy.“For now, people can see some of the most important collections, some of which are a few thousand years old, including statutes and coins. We have also started a program titled cultures of the world. We will soon start a virtual walk-through of the museum,” he said.And it’s not just the galleries and enclosures. Science museums and centres are also holding live shows and competitions too.“The lockdown came as a new challenge for the National Council of Science Museums (NCSM) which has a network of 25 science museums and centres spread across the country. We decided not only to make people aware of coronavirus but also started organising various online programs and activities to connect with the visitors,” SN Singh, NCSM’s spokesperson, said. Since the lockdown began various science museums and science centres such as the National Science Centre in Delhi, Regional Science Centre in Guwahati, Visvesvaraya Industrial and Technological Museum in Bengaluru, Nehru Science Centre in Mumbai and the Science City in Kolkata all have opened up their galleries in the virtual world.There are panel discussions on Covid-19, DIY activities, celebrations of commemorative days like the World Earth Day and sky observation programs.“The program organised on April 8 to observe the Super Pink Moon by Birla Industrial and Technological Museum in Kolkata, Nehru Science Centre in Mumbai and National Science Centre in Delhi had more than 80,000 views of the live session through the Facebook Page,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/museums-zoos-and-science-centres-take-virtual-route-during-covid-19-lockdown/story-Vi6xtSHtLvTzKDDCFVu11L.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Post-Covid, India set to emerge as world food factory, says Harsimrat Kaur Badal||Amid the coronavirus-enforced lockdown since March 25, Union minister of food processing industries Harsimrat Kaur Badal has been pulling out all the stops to deal with the most critical challenge on her plate: keeping the food supply chain up and running. Responding to a set of questions from Executive Editor Ramesh Vinayak, Shiromani Akali Dal MP from Bathinda on Monday outlined her priorities, sounded optimistic on India’s post-Covid-19 potential in global food exports and sharply criticised the Capt Amarinder Singh government’s handling of the crisis in Punjab. Edited excerpts:When you look at the nationwide essential supplies people need to sustain themselves under lockdown, what share does the food processing industry have in that big piece?The priority of the government was to ensure food security in the face of all challenges and disruptions. In this regard, the role of the ministry of food processing industries (MoFPI) is the most critical. Any disruption in the availability of food will lead to what are called ‘food riots’. Nutritious food helps the immune system to fight infections. This crisis has come in the middle of the harvesting season for crops such as wheat and perishable crops like tomatoes and mangoes. The processing of crops extends their shelf life and ensures food security. We are experiencing a realignment of the global supply chains in the wake of the Covid crisis. The Indian food processing industry is gearing up to be the food factory of the world as new opportunities are emerging for export of Indian products.Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who has been practising social distancing in the past also, has failed to lead from the front by assessing problems and providing solutions.What are the challenges for the food processing industry at different levels of manufacturing, storing in cold chains, transportation and distribution?One of the major challenges faced by the industry has been varied interpretation of directions of the central government by the local authorities at the ground level. This has led to the disruption of raw material supplies, consignments being held up and industries not being able to operate.To resolve these issues, my ministry has set up a Covid helpline to address industry problems. Nodal officers have been assigned to coordinate with the state authorities to resolve the issues faced by the industry. I speak to state food processing ministers every week to get feedback on the ground situation.What steps are you taking to keep prices under check?We are working with the industry to ensure full capacity utilisation by resolving problems faced by them at the local level. We have aligned the infrastructure of cold storage and warehousing created by 800 plus projects supported by the MoFPI with the food processing industry and the ministry of agriculture to provide adequate storage of perishables in the medium term.Would you say that it is boom time for the food processing industry, given that consumption has continued, if not increased, and anxious buyers are lapping up the goods?This is a time of conservative optimism for the industry. It is a fact that the food industry is better placed than other sectors of the economy as far as demand is concerned. New avenues are opening up in the export sector as well. The challenge is to ensure that the fruit and vegetable crop of the farmers is purchased and that there is adequate supply to the units processing these products. In addition, uninterrupted supply of ancillary inputs like packaging material has to be ensured and the logistics for retail has to be made completely operational. In the words of the Prime Minister, this is a time to “reform and transform” to cater to the new normal.The Punjab government is creating a smokescreen by harping on a central package to divert attention from its failures. Lies are being spread about the central aid to the state.Since flights, both domestic and international, have been suspended, what impact is it having on the export of these food items, or import of ingredients used in manufacturing?In my interactions with food product exporters, concerns have been raised about factors delaying export consignments. These are being caused due to restrictions the world over. I have already taken up the issues with commerce minister Piyush Goyal. The government has ensured a seamless supply chain for perishable goods such as milk, meat, fish, vegetables and fruits. Indian Railways has been running freight trains for perishable goods from the producer to the market. The civil aviation ministry has operated special flights on both domestic and international routes.Is anxiety about the transmission of Covid-19 through food items throwing up any challenges in terms of the acceptability of Indian products in the international market? After all, India exports a lot of meat products.The handling of the Covid-19 threat by the Indian government has been appreciated by global agencies such as World Health Organisation. As a result of the proactive steps by the government, today we are in a much better position than even developed countries. Post-Covid, India is emerging as an alternate destination for the world to fulfil its food needs. Some exporters are already looking at opportunities beyond traditional markets. We will emerge stronger as a result of our efficient handling of the crisis.What kind of horizon are you envisioning for the food processing industry in the next 30, 60 and 90 days?Within the next 30 days, our aim is to work towards full capacity utilisation of the food processing industry within the norms of social distancing. We are making all efforts to ensure that perishables from the ongoing harvesting season are preserved by leveraging the infrastructure. In two months, I’ll be working towards policy interventions to make the industry ready for challenges and opportunities in the post-Covid scenario. Our long-term vision is to take up opportunities that have become available as a result of the realignment of the global food supply chains.How will the global crisis impact foreign direct investment in the food processing sector in India?In the short term, there may be certain changes in the pattern of fund flows across the globe. In the long run, the Indian food industry will become a favoured destination for global capital as we are the largest producers of food in the world and are capable of fulfilling global food needs.What is your assessment of the handling of the corona crisis in Punjab?Well, the Punjab government has failed on all parameters. The average Covid-19 mortality rate in the state, which is nearly 7%, is among the highest in the country. The state has failed to instil confidence in health workers by failing to provide them adequate PPE kits. Testing is still lacking. Patients have been complaining about hygiene and treatment in government hospitals. Farm labourers and daily wagers have not received any benefit. Health workers have not been encouraged with double salary, something like what Haryana has done. There is no relief from power bills for the common man or the industry. The poor are suffering due to the politicisation in the distribution of central food relief. If not for gurdwaras and NGOs, there would have been food riots. Even now farmers are undergoing extreme hardship in mandis.First, the e-pass system collapsed. Now lifting is not taking place. This is clogging grain markets. Political will is needed in this time of crisis. Sadly, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who has been practising social distancing in the past also, has failed to lead from the front by assessing problems and providing solutions. The Punjab government should have come out with a post-Covid plan to instil confidence in people and the industry to revive the state’s economy.What is your view on the Amarinder government’s demand for a special central package to tide over the crisis?The Punjab government is creating a smokescreen by harping on a central package to divert attention from its failures. Lies are being spread that the Centre has given only Rs 71 crore on account of Covid. The Centre has given Rs 112 crore under the National Health Mission, including Rs 71 crore for emergency measures for Covid. The government has been able to spend only 37% of the Rs 71 crore sent to it for emergency purposes. Besides this, the state has received Rs 247 crore under the state disaster management fund. Why has this money not been used till now? Also, the state has an accumulated amount of Rs 6,000 crore under the disaster management fund with it.The Centre has sanctioned use of this money to combat COVID-19. Why isn’t the state using this amount? This is not all. Punjab has also received close to Rs 4,000 crore under GST compensation. The government should use this money to counter Covid immediately. The Centre has given direct relief to the people by allocating 5kg wheat and one kg pulses per month for 1.4 crore people which is half the population of the state.How will the Corona crisis change the contours of politics that has always centred on mobilisation and grassroots rapport with people?There will be a huge overall change in how politics is done in the next two years. I think future elections will be fought on credibility and performance. Governments and parties will be measured by how they reached out to people during the present times and whether they succeeded in mitigating their problems or not. Since rallies and mass programmes will be out, leaders will have to reach out to people through social media. Social distancing will continue for a long time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/post-covid-india-set-to-emerge-as-world-food-factory-says-harsimrat-kaur-badal/story-HLnOA8NdeqkVZs9bNLPmRN.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s JJ Hospital to soon test 2.2K samples for Covid-19, highest in India||The laboratory at Mumbai’s Sir JJ Hospital will soon be able to test 2,200 samples every day, making it the largest testing facility in India. The upgrade will take the daily testing capacity to over 12,000 in the state, the highest in the country.Currently, JJ Hospital is testing 100 samples every day and the capacity will be upgraded by the end of the month. The testing capacity of the elite National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune is 800 samples daily. The other two government-run hospitals – GT and St George – have already been turned into Covid hospitals.“We are setting up a mega RT-PCR laboratory at JJ hospital to conduct more tests. In the first phase, within 2-3 days, the lab will be upgraded to test 1,000 samples,” said an official of Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD).The MEDD held a meeting on Monday evening. An official who was part of the meeting said, “The kits required to push the capacity to 2,200 are not available in India. We have sent a request to the ICMR who will procure it for us. So, it will take 15 days to upgrade the lab to mega lab.”Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is highly infectious and since it a new virus, there is no cure, vaccine, or widespread immunity to it. Finding the infected and isolating them until they can no longer spread the disease is the only way to contain the spread.Maharashtra has already increased its testing capacity to over 10,000 per day. So far, the state has 48 laboratories, including 29 in government set-ups and the 19 laboratories run by private companies. After Monday’s meeting, the lab strength went up to 50, as two more government labs have been added.Maharashtra has become the first state in India to get permission from ICMR to run 50 labs, followed by Tamil Nadu with 30 testing labs. “South Korea was widely praised for running 10,000 tests every day. [At present, the country is conducting 20,000 tests]. Now, with the addition of the new upgrade, we will be able to touch the mark, but we are in the process to add more labs,” he said. “We are the only state in India which has tested over 1 lakh people since the outbreak,” he added.The state is focusing on PCR tests which directly detect the presence of an antigen, rather than antibodies. The process detects the virus RNA which develops in the body before the formation of antibodies or development of symptoms of the disease. It helps in early detection of the presence of virus in the body.The waiting period for permission, too, has become shorter as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur is now an approving agency. All scrutiny for validation is being carried out either by NIV or AIIMS, Nagpur. “Since reporting the first positive case in the state (March 7), we have added one lab almost every day in the state to do as many tests as possible,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-jj-hospital-to-soon-test-2-2k-samples-for-covid-19-highest-in-india/story-hPNWKz4Eor4ktnVRDmewBN.html
28-04-2020||Ranchi||With 20 new Covid-19 cases in Ranchi, Jharkhand records highest single-day spike; state tally at 103||With 20 people testing positive for coronavirus in Ranchi district on Monday, Jharkhand saw the highest single-day spike in the Covid-19 cases in the state so far, taking the total count to 103. State health department’s principal secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “Twenty new Covid-19 cases were found in Ranchi district, including three from Itki and four from Hindpiri.” While three cases were reported from Itki block, two cases were found in Bero blocks on Monday. The rest nine were reported from Kadru, Doranda, Kanke and Hindpiri.Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences director Dr D K Singh said 20, out of the total 370 samples tested during the day, were found positive, according to news agency PTI. He said the new patients include an assistant sub-inspector of police, who was on duty at Ranchi’s Hindpiri locality, a Covid-19 hotspot, and an ambulance driver.Jharkhand has 83 active coronavirus cases while three people have died till now due to the pandemic. Seventeen have recovered from the disease. Ranchi district has so far recorded the maximum number of cases which reached 75 on Monday.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/ranchi/with-20-new-covid-19-cases-in-ranchi-jharkhand-records-highest-single-day-spike-state-tally-at-103/story-5GC5bkShHWY9mqlmdO98PM.html
28-04-2020||Pune||This Pune medical officer stays by the deceased in their final journey||What is it like to oversee and ensure the burial and cremation of those dead from Covid-19? Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Assistant medical officer, Dr. Kalpana Baliwant, knows. It is what she has been doing in these unprecedented times in a city besieged by the pandemic.As of April 24, 68 patients have died of Covid-19 in Pune district. “It was very difficult for me in the initial stages when the relatives would not come forward to take charge of the dead body. Even the civic staff was fearful and had refused to perform the final rites,” she said. “In the case of Muslim families, there were challenges with regards to the burial of the dead patients as the families were either unwilling to come forward or were themselves under quarantine.”An MD by qualification, Dr Baliwant earned her MBBS degree from Mumbai and her post-graduate degree from Pune’s BJ Medical College. She has been working with the PMC for the past 27 years and heads the Births and Deaths registration department.In the case of Muslim patients, the PMC successfully tied up with two Muslim organisations, whose volunteers came forward and helped the municipal corporation in performing the final rites.Used to regular office hours in the municipal corporation, once the Covid-19 deaths started, Baliwant was on duty round the clock.After office hours, her bedroom became her control room. “I had to personally coordinate with the ambulance, the staff at the crematorium, and the doctors and ensure that the burial or cremation happened properly. Even the civic staff at the crematorium was reluctant to handle the dead bodies, but eventually they overcame their fears,” said Dr Baliwant.Pune has 33 crematoriums. Of these, 17 fall in the areas which are designated hot spots of the disease. It was therefore decided to do the final rites in the periphery areas and six crematoriums were identified for this.The crematoriums were linked to specific hospitals for better coordination. However, in some cases, relatives had their own preferences and the civic staff had to deal with them firmly, if necessary.“We increased the staff at the crematoriums, which helped us to streamline the process and ensure that the protocol was followed,” she said.As the head of the Births and Deaths registration department in the civic body, Dr. Baliwant has also been responsible for supervising the final rites of orphans and those of unclaimed or unidentified dead bodies. To assist citizens who needed the death certificate urgently, she introduced an online facility so that visits to the PMC were not required and the certificates could be emailed.Dr. Baliwant’s husband is also a doctor and is employed with the Pune Cantonment Board where he has been treating Covid -19 positive cases. “In fact, he has direct contact with positive patients and has to take far greater precaution than me,” she said.While their elder son is in the US, the younger one is at home and both Dr Baliwant and her husband are deeply concerned about his safety.“We take adequate precautions while on duty by wearing masks, hand gloves and using sanitiser. Since my husband is treating Covid-19 patients, he is required to use personal protective equipment (PPE),” she said.Positive and optimistic about the future, she said, “It’s a challenging situation for all of us and we will definitely overcome it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/this-pune-medical-officer-stays-by-the-deceased-in-their-final-journey/story-9iT9suLJZr7tE4rS1QnuVO.html
28-04-2020||City||Distancing a luxury for underprivileged kids in Ludhiana as they queue up for food||With household fast supplies drying up and parents out of work amid the lockdown, it is the children of the underprivileged who are the worst-hit in these times. Barely managing two square meals a day, social distancing is a luxury they cannot afford as they are forced to stand in long queues for hours on everyday for a pack of roti and dal. And that for them is no less than a daily dose of chocolate, ice-cream or noodles that their more privileged counterparts seem to enjoy.At ward 76, where councillor and Punjab Small Industries and Exports Corporation (PSIEC) chairman Gurpreet Gogi has established a ‘Roti Bank’, several children, as young as five, can be seen waiting for food in the long queues. Gogi too says that he has noticed a sizable presence of children in food distribution queues.A six-year-old girl who was seen waiting in a queue at Ghumar Mandi said, “My mother asked me to come here and fetch food as there nothing to eat at home. I like noodles and chocolates but I am really hungry and have no choice.”Another nine-year-old girl who was standing in the queue said, “My mother, who was working as a domestic help, has lost her job and is sitting at home. My father, a construction labourer, has also been thrown out of his job. There is no money and the owner of the room is pressing us to pay the rent. I was hungry since morning. I saw many children of our locality standing in the queue to grab a meal. So I have also decided to come here too. I hope that I also get food to eat.”That the kids are left to fend for themselves is also evident from the fact that of the 200 distress calls the childline has received in the last one month, at least 90% is regarding shortage of food. Though the childline fears that complaints of abuse and violence will start surfacing once the lockdown is lifted, at the moment they are doing their best to mitigate the food crisis. Arshdeep Singh, coordinator, Ludhiana district, said all calls related to help for food were from the migrant labourers residing in different areas of the district. “When our team visits the house of the caller to provide them food, we first check the quantity of ration being stored by them, number of children in the house and provide them food accordingly. We also check the availability of food in the nearby houses also where migrant workers are residing and provide them ration. During the visit to these houses we also counsel the children,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/distancing-a-luxury-for-underprivileged-kids-in-ludhiana-as-they-queue-up-for-food/story-B7bYxOpOxeIpssrcqEYPWO.html
28-04-2020||City||Besides improved air quality, Ludhiana sees record drop in temperature||The lockdown has not only improved air quality in the city, but it has also led to dip in the usual temperature during April. While the air quality index (AQI) of the city was recorded at 64 points, the overnight 3.4mm rainfall smashed the 34-year temperature record of April 27.While the maximum temperature was recorded at 29.4 degrees Celsius (C), the minimum was 20.6 degrees C. The plunge in the maximum temperature on April 27 was last recorded in 1986 when the maximum temperature was recorded at 27.3 degrees C.On April 26, the temperature was recorded at 31 degrees C, while on this day in 1982, the temperature was recorded at 28.5 degrees C.From April 14 to April 20 (barring two occasions), the average maximum temperature should be 35.2 degrees C, whereas it was recorded at 34.3 degrees C.On the other hand, it was only in 1982 that the city had witnessed a drop in temperature and the average temperature of 32.1 degrees C was reported during this period.Similarly, from April 21 to 27, while the average maximum temperature should ideally be around 37 degrees C, the city recorded 32.2 degrees of average maximum temperature during this period.This phenomenon was last witnessed in 1982, when the city had recorded an average maximum temperature of 32.8 degrees C during the same period, said Dr Prabhjyot Kaur, head of the department of school of climate change and agricultural meteorology at PAU.As per the weather expert, it is for the first time in a decade that the temperature in April will not touch 40 degree Celsius.So far, only on two days, the mercury had touched 38 degrees C on April 14 and 15. While on April 24, 2019, the city had recorded 41 degree Celsius temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/besides-improved-air-quality-ludhiana-sees-record-drop-in-temperature/story-ldP0Yc3UiViXD1NaHk5cpL.html
28-04-2020||India||Celebrations amid lockdown: Cops make birthdays and anniversaries unforgettable||Those born in the month of April and May must be feeling a little odd this year considering the Covid-19 lockdown would have spoiled their plans of celebrating their special day. Neither can these people — who have their birthday or anniversary or any other occasion — can go out and party nor can they meet their friends. But, in times like these, it’s the cops who are helping the families of birthday girls and boys or couples, to celebrate their special day. And in GK, @DelhiPolice wishing people Happy Birthday 🥳 ... pic.twitter.com/hjalNbeZifApparently, the trend started from USA, where a bunch of police vehicles halted on the street in front of a house and cops sang happy birthday for a youngster. Soon cops in India followed suit. Bollywood actor Riteish Deshmukh shared a video on his Facebook, and wrote, “What a good gesture. In USA, a father called police and told it was his son’s birthday and no one came due to Covid-19. See the amazing response for police.”  What a good gesture.In USA, a father called Police and told it was his son's Birthday and no one came due to Covid-19. See the amazing response from Police! pic.twitter.com/CFmsD9TNVJThe kindness act was soon followed by Punjab Police, too. Punjab Police cops drove their bikes, and paused to sing the birthday song while handing a gift pack to the mother of the birthday boy. Their coordinated act was quite well performed, and drew much applause from social media users the world over.  Kindness, home-delivered! #IndiaFightsCorona Policemen in Mansa, #Punjab surprised baby Maira and her family by delivering a birthday cake. Share stories of champions near you, using #CoronaWarriorsIndia. 📽️- @PunjabPoliceInd pic.twitter.com/py66wagVogWhen a number of forces, worldwide, have been doing their bit to make people feel happy on their special days, how can Delhi Police be left behind. The men in khakhi not only celebrated the birthday and cut a cake for a couple, but also wished them a very happy marriage anniversary in a unique way — they offered the couple a plant and wished them a happy life ahead. Well, it certainly takes some strength to maintain the law and order in a city while practising kindness and mindfulness in the fight against coronavirus pandemic. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow @htlifeandstyle for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/celebrations-amid-lockdown-cops-make-birthdays-and-anniversaries-unforgettable/story-BVxrlJXxdDIsJudmFWB5qM.html
28-04-2020||City||Ludhiana childline received 200 distress calls in first month of lockdown||The Ludhiana childline (1098) has received and responded to around 200 distress calls in the last one month since the curfew was imposed. This is a five-fold increase for the childline, which receives 40 to 60 calls a month in normal times.Of the total, 90% of the calls were related to shortage of food. The childline officials are, however, anticipating more cases of child abuse and violence to surface once the lockdown is over. “Earlier, almost all the calls were related to missing or abused children. But, this time, around 90% of the callers were those who were facing a shortage of food while 5% of callers demanded education-related services,” said Kuldeep Singh Mann, director, Childline Ludhiana.He added that the childline had also received some panic calls during the initial stage of lockdown. “Some were silent calls and 1% of the calls related to violence on children.”Arshdeep Singh, coordinator, Childline Ludhiana district, said, “The calls about help for food were from the migrant labourers residing in different areas of the district.”About help for food, he said, “When a team visits the house of the caller to provide food, we first check the quantity of ration being stored by them, the number of children in the house and provide them food accordingly. We also check the availability of food in nearby houses before providing ration. During the visit to these houses, we also counsel the children.”The Childline of Ludhiana Railway Station is also extending help to the district Childline during the lockdown.Kulwinder Singh, coordinator, Childline Ludhiana Railway Station, said, “During initial days of lockdown, there were some distress calls from children of well-off families and these children were counselled. The children were anxious and annoyed as they were forced to stay home.” “The children from poor families, who knew about the Childline and had taken help earlier also, demanded stationery items for school projects,” he added.‘CHILD ABUSE CALLS MAY INCREASE AFTER LOCKDOWN’Childline director Kuldeep Singh Mann said, “Many children must be facing violence nowadays but, as they cannot move out of houses and are staying 24 hours with parents and guardians, they may be not able to call for help. If domestic violence, as reported, has increased by over 20% during the lockdown period, it means that the mental health of those children, witnessing violence at home, is also being affected. So, when lockdown is over, it is likely that there will be a sudden increase in the number of complaints regarding child abuse or missing children.”“A special workshop is going to be conducted soon to guide the coordinators about the steps to be taken to counsel the children and the family members,” Mann added.He added, “At present, there are 20 employees of then Childline in the district (including Childline of Ludhiana Railway Station) and, apart from them, there are around 65 volunteers. So, there is enough strength to deal with cases if these complaints will increase in coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-childline-received-200-distress-calls-in-first-month-of-lockdown/story-hFkGxKGPfDGe0nrhWY0wsM.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Mayor dons nurse’s uniform again, visits Nair Hospital to encourage medical staff||Kishori Pednekar, the mayor of Mumabi, put on a nurse’s uniform and visited the Brihanmubmbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run BYL Nair Hospital on Monday morning in a bid to encourage and enthuse the staff, who are at the frontline to combat the coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak.Pednekar, who herself is a former nurse, mingled with the hospital’s nursing staff and enquired about their work and the difficulties they are facing while dealing with the outbreak.A BMC official said Pednekar ensured that social distancing norms were adhered to during her visit to the hospital. “I’ve worked as a nurse and I’m acutely aware of the professional challenges. I put on my uniform to convey a message to the nursing fraternity that I’m one of their own. I interacted with the nursing staff to encourage them in their valiant fight against the pandemic. These are hard times. We need to stand by each other to fight this pandemic together,” she told HT.“She went to the hospital today and offered to work but she is 57 and thus cannot serve as a nurse. Nevertheless, she has signed up saying she would like to join if needed,”said a senior Shiv Sena leader.On Tuesday, Pednekar plans to make a similar visit to the BMC-run Sion Hospital. Pednekar had quarantined herself at her official residence in Byculla for a week after 53 journalists were recently tested positive for Covid-19 at a health camp organised by the BMC, which Pednekar also had attended. She had announced that she would quarantine herself at home for two weeks, but cut short the isolation after her test came negative for the second consecutive time.“I stepped out after both my swab samples tested negative. I’m Mumbai’s first citizen and I need to work for the Mumbaiites,” she added.Pednekar, who was born to a mill worker father, started her career as a nurse before she took to politics and joined Shiv Sena’s women’s wing in 1992. Initially, she worked for the Sena in Raigad and Sindhudurg districts. She was elected a BMC councillor in 2002 was re-elected in 2012 and 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-dons-nurse-s-uniform-again-visits-nair-hospital-to-encourage-medical-staff/story-RwWvthpOUdNEOXY8B7hifM.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Cabinet to ask governor to nominate CM Uddhav Thackeray as MLC at the earliest||The Maharashtra cabinet, in a meeting presided over by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday, decided to write to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari reiterating its earlier recommendation to process the nomination of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to the legislative Council at the earliest. The CM was not present for the meeting. “A decision was taken to reiterate the recommendation to nominate Uddhav ji to the legislative Council. A reference to the recommendation of the cabinet will be made in the new letter. Keeping politics aside, the Governor should nominate the CM to the upper house,” a cabinet minister said.Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers said that Pawar will write to the Governor to speed up the procedure as there should be no political or constitutional uncertainty in the state at a time when it is fighting coronavirus. “The state is fighting Covid-19 and the government and administration are working round-the-clock. The situation is aggravating day-by-day. At this stage, the uncertainty should be eliminated and the honourable Governor should take a decision at the earliest on our recommendation,” Pawar said in a statement after the cabinet meet.Meanwhile, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, Thackeray and Ajit Pawar reportedly had a meeting at the mayor’s bungalow late on Monday evening. State NCP chief Jayant Patil, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and transport minister Anil Parab were also present at the meeting.The meeting assumes significance in the wake of the current political situation. The leaders are said to have discussed the issue of the CM’s nomination. Thackeray, who is not a member of either house of the state legislature, took oath as the CM on November 28 and as per Article 164 (4) of the Constitution states, could lose the post if he is not elected with six months (May 27). As the polls for the legislative Council, scheduled for April 24, were postponed due to the outbreak, the cabinet had on April 9 recommended the Governor to appoint Thackeray as a member of the legislative Council (MLC) to avoid a constitutional crisis. However, the Governor has not taken a decision so far, leaving the three-party MVA alliance of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress government on tenterhooks.The Shiv Sena has been building pressure on the Governor. Sena leader Sanjay Raut in his weekly column on party mouthpiece Saamana had on Sunday said, “If the Governor decides to sign the nomination file, he can do so instantly. But he would have to ask the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leaders in Delhi.” Thackeray also had said that politics should be kept aside during the ongoing war against Covid-19. (with inputs from Faisal Malik)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-to-ask-governor-to-nominate-cm-uddhav-thackeray-as-mlc-at-the-earliest/story-JSljY1PsTp8hh7htv1MBJM.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Every day comes with a new challenge, says DCP enforcing lockdown at Asia’s largest slum||Dharavi has many claims to fame — Asia’s largest slum; once a hub of gangsters; the setting of the Oscar-winning film Slumdog Millionaire; home to an underground hip-hop movement. It’s also one of the Covid-19 hotspots in the city and since April 9, the neighbourhood has been sealed to contain the outbreak. Ensuring the lockdown is observed in this densely-packed slum settlement are officers of Mumbai Police, led by 37-year-old deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Niyati Thaker Dave.The 2.1 square kilometres of Dharavi are home to approximately 8 lakh people from all over the country. An estimated 1.5 lakh are in containment zones, which means they cannot leave their homes and essentials must be delivered to their doorstep. Mumbai Police has 230 men and women at Dharavi police station and another 180 at Shahunagar police station. State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) personnel have stepped in to help as have 100 others from Mumbai Police’s headquarters. “What we’ve learnt is that every day is different with a new task in place,” said Dave. Originally an electronics engineer, Dave gave up her job with Tata Consultancy Services in 2008 and joined the Indian Police Service (IPS) in 2010. Dharavi has been in her jurisdiction since July 2019.When the Covid-19 outbreak reached the slum, Dave knew it would be a massive challenge. “It was very difficult asking people to stay inside in a place like Dharavi where people cannot walk without getting touched. We tried to enforce the law, but people were not ready to listen,” said Dave.She realised her strategies had to be adapted to the ground reality of the slum, which is organised like a labyrinth. “The number of by lanes within the area is huge and it was not possible to track each one,” said Dave. She turned to community leaders and started making announcements in Hindi and Marathi. “We contacted [local] associations, like those [for communities from] Tamil, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Christian and Muslim associations and leaders, as well as social workers,” she said. Dave organised teams of volunteers in each chawl and building in Dharavi. These volunteers accompanied police personnel, informed locals of the do’s and don’ts, and requested people to stay home.The police also had to ensure access to food, oversee sanitisation and set up schedules for when locals doctors could visit people in need of medical assistance. “For the first time we were doing a job that was very different from our mandate,” said Dave.Dave arranged for 20 t0 25 community kitchens to be set up inside Dharavi. “We had to ensure people are not hungry and get at least two meals a day. We roped in NGOs and started distributing food,” she said. “Instead of 1,000 people gathering to collect food packets, we asked volunteers in each area to deliver food to people’s doorsteps,” said Dave, adding that most of those queuing for food were unemployed migrant workers.With additional commissioner of police (central region) Veeresh Prabhu, Dave talked to civic officials to ensure toilets in Dharavi were sanitised properly. “Dharavi has 180 public toilets and 4,000 makeshift toilet booths. This was a major challenge and the need of the hour was for these toilets to be sanitised and disinfected on a daily basis. With the help of civic authorities, we managed to get it done,” said Prabhu.Dave’s working hours have become longer during the outbreak. There are times when she returns home at 1am only to head out for work at 7am. It’s hard for Dave’s family, particularly her seven-year-old daughter. “There are times when she tries to stop me from going to work,” said Dave. “It’s a tough task to convince her how my job is different from those of other parents.”Mumbai Police believes Dave’s strategies are working in Dharavi. Last Monday, Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh carried out a flag march in the area. “The march was to encourage policemen on duty who are doing a brilliant job serving the masses. I was happy to see the people supported the police by staying home,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/every-day-comes-with-a-new-challenge-says-dcp-enforcing-lockdown-at-asia-s-largest-slum/story-lcPnxuhetRkeVzA7KXnlAI.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||In 40 days, Covid cases in Haryana cross 300 mark||It took just about 40 days for Haryana to cross the 300 mark as the state registered five new Covid-19 cases on Monday.It was on March 16 that state’s first positive case was reported from Gurugram. With the state government launching a search for Tablighi Jamaat attendees and their contacts from March 31, a spurt in new cases was seen, which reached 96 by April 6. The next day, the count swelled to 119 and by April 10, it was 162. By April 16, the tally had crossed the 200 mark. The next 100 cases surfaced within next 11 days only. Among the five new cases reported on Monday, one is from Jhajjar, the district which had so far managed to keep itself virus-free, but now lost its ‘green zone’ tag. The remaining infections were reported from Sonepat (2), Ambala (1) and Faridabad (1). Notably, though state health bulletin mentioned only one case from Jhajjar, the local administration confirmed five cases.Jhajjar civil surgeon Dr Randeep Punia said among those infected are a pharmacist from Bahadurgarh, a vegetable seller and three family members of an infected Delhi constable, who hails from Saloda village in the district. Jhajjar DC Jitender Kumar said all of them have a Delhi connection.In Sonepat, whose tally is now 22, civil surgeon Dr BK Rajoura said, one of the patients is a man from Khubdu village who had come in contact with an infected Haryana policeman of the same village, while the other is a Haryana cop, a resident of Nuh, who was posted at Kakroi checkpost. Ambala CMO Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “A 63-year-old woman from Ratangarh area has been tested positive for the disease. She is diabetic and has been suffering from some kidney-related ailment for last three years for which she undergoes dialysis twice a week. She is admitted to GMCH-32 in Chandigarh.” Ambala has so far recorded 14 Covid patients, of whom three are undergoing treatment at Chandigarh, while one died earlier this month. VIJ FOR SEALING BORDERS WITH DELHIHealth minister Anil Vij said the state government, which had sealed its Sonepat district borders with Delhi, was seriously contemplating to seal the Jhajjar, Gurugram and Faridabad borders with the national capital as well. “It is clear from the Covid-19 cases reported from Sonepat and now Jhajjar that all these patients have a Delhi connection. They were either themselves working or frequenting Delhi or were in contact with Delhi residents,” Vij said. Referring to virus spread in Haryana, he said, “The Delhi administration should itself have immediately quarantined the Tablighis and stopped them from going to other states.”RECOVERY RATE OVER 70%Though there have been 301 positive cases in Haryana, the number of active patients is 85 and the recovery rate is 71%. Till date, as many as 213 patients have been cured. On Monday, 14 persons walked out of hospitals, including eight from Faridabad, five from Nuh and one from Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-40-days-covid-cases-in-haryana-cross-300-mark/story-jbyfu8bpa0nFneKYFWuTcO.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Nursing homes to face action for remaining shut||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will issue license suspension notices to 428 nursing homes that remained shut despite repeated warnings and advisories from authorities to keep clinics open to treat non-Covid-19 patients. In a statement issued on Monday, BMC said it will issue notices to around 25% of the total 1,496 nursing homes in the city asking them why the nursing homes should not lose their licenses. Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi had last week directed the public health department to issue advisories and guidelines to reopen nursing homes and private clinics. BMC said nursing homes, polyclinics and dispensaries, which are reported to be shut despite the warning, will face action.Last week, BMC had also warned housing societies to not object to reopening of private clinics in their premises and had also requested private clinics to practise tele-medicine facility, if possible. Thousands of citizens are not getting medical aid and treatment for non-Covid-19 ailments as many private clinics, nursing homes have shut shop. With 369 more people testing positive cases on Monday, the total count of cases in the city is now at 5,776. The death toll has also increased to 219 with 15 more people dying of Covid-19 on Monday, according to the state health department.To tackle the rising number of cases, BMC has decided to set up additional 500 beds for quarantine and isolation facilities in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) at MMRDA grounds. Pardeshi confirmed the development. The civic body has also set up a 1,200-bedded quarantine facility at Nesco exhibition centre, Goregaon (East). Of the 1,200 beds, around 1,000 beds will have oxygen support attached to the beds.The civic body also appealed to those recovering to opt for plasma donation for curing those who have tested positive of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/nursing-homes-to-face-action-for-remaining-shut/story-FqhzyR0UIeqt9ceDtnlDWL.html
28-04-2020||City||Open industry, agriculture in first go, freeze DA: Punjab panel on lockdown exit||Recommending that industry and agriculture be allowed to resume functioning (outside of containment zones) in the first go of the lockdown exit from May 3, the state’s 20-member expert panel on exiting the lockdown submitted its report to the state government on Monday. The panel has not given specific dates, but adds that schools must be the last to open. The committee that former state chief secretary KR Lakhanpal headed has also recommended that the state government has to bite the bullet to cut expenditure by considering the freezing of Dearness Allowance (DA) and wages for the current year. While recommending this, the panel said that this will bring pay parity with Haryana and the Centre as Punjab employees drew 25% more pay. The report also recommends that liquor vends should start immediately to check loss of revenue, adding that it was even being sold illegally during curfew. The Centre, however, has disallowed all states from doing so; even a specific request from Punjab was turned down. “The state will have to redraw its budget in view of covid-19 and give more relaxation to industry to kick-start the economy, while ensuring more testing and upgrade of health infrastructure,” the report notes, adding that the lockdown exit strategy be divided into health and non-health related objectives. Expressing fear that Punjab’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) may contract for the first time in 40 years, the panel recommends that the arrears of GST, VAT may be cleared and also allay the fear of FIRs being registered against industrialists. Another recommendation is that Public Distribution System (PDS) may be made universal and extended to non-ration card holders, initially for a period of six months. Migrants must be included as beneficiaries, the panel adds. The panel adds that the state must conduct, on priority, current semester/year exams for final year (graduation/post-graduation) students to help them explore educational/ job opportunities in July/August, 2020. It adds that the results of Classes 5, 8 may be declared based on examinations already conducted and students be promoted in next class. The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) may allow schools to declare the results of Class 10 based on the pre-board exams.OTHER MAJOR RECOMMENDATIONS•To facilitate construction activity, entire supply line such as stores/shops supplying hardware, paint, cement, electrical goods, wood, glass, iron & steel, cement etc. should be allowed to operate.•Ensure social net benefits, including old age pension are delivered to eligible persons at doorstep. •Public Distribution System (PDS) may be made universal and extended to non-ration card holders, initially for a period of six months. Migrants must be included as beneficiaries•The PSEB may consider holding examination of remaining subjects by creating additional centres to ensure social distancing•To ensure delivery of books, printing presses need to be allowed to be opened as a special case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/open-industry-agriculture-in-first-go-freeze-da-punjab-panel-on-lockdown-exit/story-X1kCP6evSNBIwAFUUmKCmI.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||High mortality rate of 5.7% continues to hound Punjab||With seven deaths over the past 15 days taking the number of casualties due to covid-19 to 19 in Punjab on Monday, the high mortality (death) rate continues to hound the state. Of 330 patients, the death of 19 means a mortality rate of 5.7%. The national mortality date is 3.1% (886 deaths of 28,380 cases).These figures put Punjab among the category of states having the highest mortality rate in the country. The number of tests the state has conducted to date is 15,516. On April 15, HT had highlighted that the mortality rate (then nearly 7%) was double the national average at the time. The figures change daily. Even as the state is blaming testing hurdles during the initial days of the pandemic for the higher rate, neighbouring Haryana, where the testing has followed a similar trajectory, has a much lower mortality rate of 1%, with three deaths of 301 cases. It has conducted 22,993 tests to date.If states test aggressively, chances are high that the infection could be controlled as a large proportion of the cases are found in asymptomatic persons,experts say, adding that the isolation of such patients could stop the ‘silent spreading’ of the disease.Last week, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had ordered a detailed audit of each covid death by experts to understand and check the high mortality rate. The UT of Jammu and Kashmir, which has 546 cases, has recorded seven deaths to give a mortality rate of 1.2%. The state has done 14,988 tests.“The high death rate is a cause of concern. Delhi, with a lower population than Punjab, has more number of deaths, but its mortality rate is lower, as their testing is far higher. In Punjab, our testing, because of few impediments at the start, has got a major push only two or three days ago. Our mortality rate has decreased since,” said Dr KK Talwar, former director PGIMR Chandigarh, who is heading Punjab’s group of experts tackling the covid-19 crisis. The group comprises Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot; Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head, school of public health, PGI, and experts from PGI and John Hopkins University, US.Dr Talwar also listed the large number of foreign visitors including NRIs, visiting Punjab just ahead of the lockdown as another factor contributing to the high mortality rate. “I am not saying anything against the arrival of such persons, as they are part of us. Nobody, however, knows what sort of viral load these travellers were carrying when they visited Punjab. There is no data available to map the viral load of this virus,” Dr Talwar said, adding that the presence of co-morbid diseases among those who died and their late detection was also relevant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/high-mortality-rate-of-5-7-continues-to-hound-punjab/story-HZo59BodamDjz97QZW59IP.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||4 Mantralaya housekeeping staff test positive for Covid-19||A day after one housekeeping staff working at the Mantralaya tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, three of his colleagues also tested positive, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation ( BMC) officials said on Monday.According to civic officials, all the four employees who have tested positive are from the cleaning team. the official added that all the contacts of these four staffers are being screened for the virus.Chanda Jadhav, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s A ward which covers Mantralaya, said, “One staffer tested positive earlier on Sunday while three others tested positive on Monday.”Meanwhile, BMC officials said all the areas where the concerned cleaning staffers worked were disinfected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-mantralaya-housekeeping-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-twgWqNGMfe1aRLDhMlSfaN.html
28-04-2020||City||Tarn Taran loses green tag with 6 cases as Punjab tally up by 9||One of the three districts in Punjab with zero Covid-19 cases, Tarn Taran lost the green tag with six positive patients, five of them pilgrims who had returned from Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra’s Nanded. Now, out of 22 districts in Punjab, Bathinda and Failka are the only ones with zero coronavirus case.With nine new cases and one death, Punjab’s tally of positive cases on Monday reached 331. Eight of nine cases belong to Sikh pilgrims who were stranded in Nanded of Hazoor Sahib in Maharashtra after the lockdown. Three cases were reproted from Kapurthala.The state recorded 19th death linked to the virus in a 63-year-old woman who died at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Patiala on Monday. The woman, a resident of Rajpura, had tested positive on April 16, following which she was admitted to the intensive care unit of GMCH. She was the first Covid-19 case reported from Rajpura, which is now a hotspot with 42 positive cases.The five pilgrims are from Sursingh village that falls under the Bhikhiwind sub-division. They had returned from Hazur Sahib about a week ago. The sixth patient is a woman, nearly 30, of Basarke village who recently delivered a baby at the village’s government hospital. “The tests were done on Saturday and the report came on Monday,” said deputy commissioner (DC) Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal. The patients from Sursingh village are in the age group of 45 to 65. The DC said the woman had gone to her maternal home in Lohka village soon after delivering the baby. “Lohka village is also being sealed and the woman and her newborn are being shifted to Tarn Taran civil hospital’s isolation ward.”According to the people of Sursingh village, the five are among 80 people who had returned from Hazur Sahib in parts in the last ten days. “A group of 80 people from our village had gone on the pilgrimage in the first week of March in a truck. First, they had attended a Hola Mohalla (a Sikh religious fair in Anandpur Sahib). After this, the group went to Patna Sahib in Bihar before visiting to Hazur Sahib,” said Lakhwinder Singh, former sarpanch, of the village. The five men who tested positive had returned in a private car around a week ago, he said.However, the district administration has said it was a matter of investigation to know that when the five men had returned. The DC said they have home-quarantined the immediate contacts of those tested positive. Those who had gone to Hazur Sahib have also been home-quarantined in Sursingh village. (With inputs from Chandigarh, Jalandhar and Patiala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tarn-taran-loses-green-tag-with-6-cases-as-punjab-tally-up-by-9/story-5AA9LsqVH9GKWt6ClqPT3M.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||How Dharavi started to report cases||At a time when even medical staff faces stigma, how has the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) managed to report cases from Dharavi, one of the country’s biggest slums where fear was a major factor, showing that it was one of the hotspots in the city?The team of private doctors and BMC officials, who are doing the rounds of ground zero daily, say getting slum residents to share information or symptoms with the authorities has not been easy. Dharavi residents started to report symptoms only after the first lot of quarantined patients were discharged. In the past 10 days, the slum sprawl, which is home to around an estimated six lakh citizens, has recorded more than 150 positive cases. A senior BMC official, who is part of the team of 24 private doctors, and around 10 to 15 civic officials told HT that getting accurate information was among the most challenging task in managing the outbreak, as residents didn’t want to divulge the truth fearing stigma. Since April 9, the BMC has screened nearly 50,000 citizens so far; 275 people have tested positive, 14 have died and 10 patients from the slum have been discharged so far after their cure. Tejaswi Kakade, 27, a medical officer with the BMC’s G/North Ward under which Dharavi falls, said, “We have been tracing high-risk contacts of those testing positive. We met with a lot of reluctance initially, but later trust was built between us and the residents. There was lack of awareness among citizens, but with the issue being highlighted everywhere, citizens now call us and inform us that they have developed symptoms.”Kakade the joined BMC on March 9, just as the first case of coronavirus was reported in the state. Barely a week after she joined, the outbreak was evident in the city and she was assigned on the team. “It is difficult for us to go out in the heat wearing the personal protective equipment (PPE), ensuring we take enough precautions. It was also difficult to convince my mother. She is worried all the time, but my father is supporting me to screen more and more people. We are also planning to shift out of our house, and stay in separate accommodation provided by the BMC, considering we cannot risk the lives of our family members, even if there is a minimal chance of transmission.”Another medical officer Nazish Shaikh, 33, who is involved in screening of residents in Dharavi, said, “It is not easy to screen those residing in narrow lanes, while maintaining social distance. We had to seek help of locals as Dharavi is a maze, and there are chances of us getting lost. There are certain pockets where residents can speak only their mother tongue. We had to rope in someone who could translate for us.”The BMC is now relying on around 350 private clinics opened in the area for the people to report the symptoms themselves. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, BMC, said, “We are going to keep around 350 private clinics open, where citizens will definitely come with their illness, and from there, we have developed a mechanism to trace positive patients.”Dr Anil Pachnekar of Dharavi-Mahim Medical Practitioners said, “It is very difficult to go door to door in this heat wearing PPE, and hence all private clinics now will be opened up. If we come across any suspects, they will be referred to the BMC for testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/how-dharavi-started-to-report-cases/story-P5iBer33VR6G0J96kubbKO.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 case tally likely to touch 10,000 by Apr 30||Maharashtra on Monday reported 522 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 8,590. With the state seeing an average of 500 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases daily since April 19, the bleak 10,000 mark is likely to breached by Thursday (April 30).According to official figures, the state has recorded 4,946 cases in the past nine days. Maharashtra took 30 days to cross 1,000 cases, after the first patient was reported on March 9. Since then, it has been a steady increase in numbers, said officials. The trends also showed that Monday was the 24th consecutive day the number of new cases has been in three digits, which is why 8,292 cases have been registered in April alone.On Monday, the state has also completed 35 days of lockdown that began from the midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was partially lifted on April 20 in areas where there were no cases or were minimal in number. In Mumbai, the case count has gone up to 5,776 as 369 new cases were reported.However, officials said that the situation is still under control as most of the new cases are from traced contacts. “We can say that the situation is under control as we are aggressively doing contact tracing and most of the new cases are those who have been traced, following detection of Covid 19 cases,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). ”It is true that we were expecting a decline in cases from April 21, which is not happening, but the rise is also not exponential and now we will have to wait for another incubation cycle of 14 days, which is ending on May 3, before reaching to any conclusion, Dr Lahane said. Two 14-day incubation cycles were completed on April 20, after March 22, when international traffic was stopped. Meanwhile, the health department has conducted 1,21,562 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 1,12,552 people tested negative. The death toll of the state also went up to 369 cases as 27 fatalities were registered on Monday. Of them, 15 are in Mumbai, six in Amravati, four in Pune and one each in Jalgaon and Aurangabad. With this, Mumbai’s toll also increased to 219.Of the 27 deaths, 22 patients had co-morbidities. Of them, one was affected with HIV and another was suffering with cancer, said health officials.The mortality rate of the state has significantly dropped to 4.24% (342 deaths till Sunday) from 7.41% (148 cases) on April 13. However, it continued to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.13% till Sunday, stated the data of the state medical education department.As the cases are rising, the number of cases recovered so far also jumped to 1,282 as 94 patients recovered on Monday.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state is prepared for any situation. “We have set up 1,677 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals, where 1,76,357 isolation beds and 7248 ICU beds are available. These hospitals are divided into three categories — between asymptomatic, mild and serious cases. We also have around 3,000 ventilators, around 80,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 2.82 lakh N95 mask,” he said.The state currently has 572 active containment zones. Around 7,861 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 32.28 lakh people. It has also kept 9,399 suspected patients at government quarantine facilities, while 1,45,677 are home quarantined, stated health officials.Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday appointed four IAS officers — Anil Kawade, cooperation commissioner; Saurabh Rao, sugar commissioner; Sachindra Pratap Singh, animal husbandry commissioner and Kaustubh Diwegaonkar, director, Ground Water Survey and Development Agency (GSDA), who will help in planning preventive measures and their implementation to arrest the spread of coronavirus cases in Pune, where 1,027 cases has been registered so far.The state government has also allocated Rs1,275.25 crore to distribute among poor, weak, deprived, widow and handicapped sections of society, who are beneficiaries under many government welfare schemes. The beneficiaries will get an advance pay of three months, considering lockdown restrictions, which led to loss of income. Of them, Rs130 crore has been received from the Centre while the rest of the amount will be paid from the state exchequer, said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maha-case-tally-likely-to-touch-10-000-by-apr-30/story-BiWTWoXifPQX5x8KtGWfAK.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||BJP MLA wants back money he donated from his MLA fund||Days after the Uttar Pradesh unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party served notice to its lawmaker for mocking Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to people to clap for corona warriors, another BJP lawmaker embarrassed his party by asking that the money he donated from his MLA fund to assist in fight corona be returned. Shyam Prakash, MLA from Hardoi’s Gopamau (reserved) assembly segment, had sanctioned ₹25 lakh from his local area development fund to buy equipments and other things to aid the fight against novel coronavirus that has forced the country into an unprecedented lockdown. He has now sought a refund alleging corruption in purchases made by health department in Hardoi. This is the first time any MLA has forwarded such a request. The Yogi Adityanath government in UP has decided to freeze the local area development fund of MLAs for a year. In his missive to chief development officer (CDO), Hardoi, the BJP lawmaker said officials haven’t cared to tell him about how his MLA fund amount had been used. Additionally, he said, he had come to know through media reports that there had been corruption in purchase of health equipment in Hardoi and claimed he had come to know that commission and corruption were taking place even in use of MLA fund. “Yes, . Since I haven’t got a response to how my fund was being used, I havI have written a letter to the CDO. As a public representative it’s my duty to ensure that the money I have cleared for use in the fight against coronavirus is used for the purpose intendede asked that the amount be diverted back to the fund so it can be put to better use,” the lawmaker said. Calls made to the health department authorities in Hardoi and Lucknow didn’t evoke any response. The development came days after the ruling BJP served a show-cause notice on its lawmaker from Sitapur (sadar) Rakesh Rathore over a viral audio in which the MLA in a telephonic conversation with another party leader was heard making fun of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal to clap for frontline corona warriors. “Now, it’s the BJP lawmakers themselves who are increasingly speaking out on one issue or the other. What could be more embarrassing for a government,” asked Samajwadi Party leader IP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/bjp-mla-wants-back-money-he-donated-from-his-mla-fund/story-rsLfAI6ecrFpCW9nFYLKAJ.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||PM Modi enquires about well-being of old associate’s family in Chandigarh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called upon Raj Kishore, son of his associate during the 90s, Hanuman Prasad, and asked him about the well-being of his family, friends in Chandigarh.Kishore, who is currently the treasurer of Chandigarh’s BJP unit, said the PM called and spoke to him for almost half an hour on Monday night.He said apart from enquiring about his 75-year-old mother, Chunni Devi, Modi asked about the well being of his former associates including Yashpal Mahajan, Desraj Tandon, Yudhvir Sharda.Modi was the BJP in-charge of Chandigarh, Haryana and HP when he lived with Kishore’s father in Sector 7, Panchkula.Kishore said he told the PM about all relief initiatives being carried out by the BJP in Chandigarh. He said the PM also cautioned him of the red zones in Chandigarh and its satellite towns.BJP President Arun Sood said the PM’s love and concern for City Beautiful has no end and the citizens have to follow the lockdown strictly and live up to his expectations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pm-modi-enquires-about-well-being-of-old-associate-s-family-in-chandigarh/story-rFSXN6u7K4mkLVo8Qc043J.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||Work out plan to restart industrial activity in UP after May 3: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed senior officers to formulate an elaborate programme to restart industrial activity in UP after May 3.The chief minister gave the directive at a lockdown review meet of his Team-11.Yogi also directed the officers to ensure that appropriate arrangements for food and drinking water etc were made at all quarantine centres in Uttar Pradesh.Earlier on Monday, Yogi attended Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with other chief ministers over the lockdown situation.When asked about the demand Yogi made at the PM’s video conference, chief secretary RK Tiwari said: “The chief minister did not make any demand at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers.”Additional chief secretary, home, Awnish Awasthi said: “UP did not have its turn at the video conference on Monday. The state government did not send any demands to the centre.”Yogi’s directive about availability of food and drinking water assumes significance in view of reports of lack facilities at some quarantine centres in the state.The chief minister said quarantine centres and shelter homes should have a capacity of 15,000 to 25,000 in every district. He said the capacity of L-1, L-2 and L-3 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals should be expanded in all districts. He also said all labourers/workers returning to UP from other states must be mandatorily put at the quarantine centres.Yogi said the lockdown should be strictly enforced and those living in hotspots should not be going to their work place. He said only the teams of medical and health, sanitation and home delivery should be permitted in the hotspots. He said testing capacity should be increased in the state.He said emergency health services for non-Covid-19 patients should be restored immediately. He also said the patients reaching hospitals must be screened. He said most of the state’s private hospitals have been covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme and a protocol for Covid-19 and non-Covid hospitals should be worked out.The chief minister said a Covid-19 hospital should be set up in all the 52 medical colleges. He said districts not having a medical college should convert the district level hospital as a Covid-19 hospital.He said an additional chief medical officer-rank officer should be responsible for training medical officers and para-medical staff and a programme for effective training and a mobile app should be prepared for the purpose. He said training should also be imparted to principals and teachers of high education and intermediate colleges. Yogi said distribution of food grains to the needy should be restarted from May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/work-out-plan-to-restart-industrial-activity-in-up-after-may-3-yogi/story-3da1a8oM6TWY4IV2j4DAxL.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai Police interrogate Arnab Goswami for 12 hours||Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami was interrogated by NM Joshi Marg police for 12 hours over his comments on Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Goswami had raised questions over Gandhi’s silence on the Palghar sadhu lynching incident. Several cases were filed across the country by Congress functionaries.The NM Joshi police had sent two notices to Goswami regarding the interrogation by the Mumbai Police in connection with the multiple cases registered against him. Goswami accompanied by his lawyer Sujay Kantawala reached the police station at 9am on Monday. He was interrogated for 12 hours, said a police officer. Deputy commissioner of police Abhinash Kumar (zone 3) confirmed that Goswami was interrogated, but refused to share details about the questioning. 2 accused of attacking Arnab Goswami granted bailTwo accused arrested by NM Joshi Marg police for allegedly attacking Goswami and his wife were produced in the court and granted bail on cash ₹15000 each. The accused Pratik Kumar Shamsunder Mishra and Arun Dilip Borade, both residents of Sion in Mumbai had attacked Goswami and his wife at midnight on April 22 in Lower Parel area while they were driving home from their studio. Goswami and his wife escaped unhurt in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-interrogate-arnab-goswami-for-12-hours/story-rns8nymuikljDZXAXHNliO.html
28-04-2020||Lucknow||10K students studying in Prayagraj to be sent back home in other dists||The UP government on Monday decided to send home 10,000 students of other Uttar Pradesh districts who are studying or preparing for competitive examinations in Prayagraj.Earlier, the government had brought back 10,500 students from Kota in Rajasthan and 12,200 migrant workers from Haryana.Addressing a press conference, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said that aware of the problems being faced by the students, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officers to make arrangement of buses to send the students in Prayagraj home.Yogi said the officers should ensure that students face no problem.In the first phase, students of Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Chandauli, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi, Fatehpur and Chaitrakoot districts will be transported home on Tuesday morning by 300 UPSRTC buses.After these students are reached home, the buses will transport the students of the remaining districts, Awasthi said.The state government will also make arrangements to send home students of other states who are studying in Prayagraj, he said.Terming this as gift of the chief minister to the students, Awasthi said the Prayagraj administration, educational institutions, district police and UPSRTC has been directed to prepare a detailed list of students who wish to go home, he said.Police personnel will escort the buses to their destination. There will be separate buses to transport male and female students, he said.UP GOVERNMENT HAS PLANS TO BRING BACK AROUND 10 LAKH MIGRANT WORKERSThe government brought back 12,200 migrant workers from Haryana in two days. Medical test of the migrants was done before transporting bringing them to UP.Awasthi said the UP chief minister had spoken to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to finalize the work plan to transport the migrant workers from Haryana to UP.The state government has plans to bring back around 10 lakh migrant workers from various states. The DMs of all the 75 districts have been directed to establish quarantine facilities that can house 15,000- 25,000 migrants each. The migrants will be lodged in the quarantine facilities for 14 days before being sent back home, Awasthi said.The government will also conduct medical test of the migrants to ensure that they are free from infection. After discharge from the government quarantine facilities, the workers will stay in home quarantine for another 14 days. The state government will collect information about the well-being of the migrants during their home quarantine as well, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/10k-students-studying-in-prayagraj-to-be-sent-back-home-in-other-dists/story-HJCOz5xoLqRYHK6Gm1NteO.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Three police personnel on duty in Dharavi test positive for Covid-19||A police inspector and two constables posted at Dharavi police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), with the help of local police, has begun contact tracing of the three policemen.According to Dharavi police, all three had shown Covid-19 symptoms like fever and body pain and were subjected to medical tests. Niyati Thaker Dave, deputy commissioner of police, zone 5, confirmed that the policemen are undergoing treatment and all safety measures are being taken to cure them.“Besides providing protective gear like masks, sanitizers, gloves, and PPE kits to policemen, sensitization workshops were organised at stations to take out their fears and to reinforce their confidence,” said Dave.EOW officers test positiveTwo police officers from the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Mumbai police, including the head of the unit that was probing the Rs 25,000 crore Maharashtra State Co-operative (MSC) bank scam, have tested positive for Covid-19. A senior EOW officer confirmed the development and said two inspectors from Banking-1 and General cheating-1 units have been tested positive. Cops suspect that the officers might have contracted the disease from the people they have called at the head office in connection with the investigations. Elderly cops may be sent home With three deaths of policemen, all aged above 50, the Mumbai Police is contemplating exempting the elderly from duty. “We are contemplating if policemen aged 55 and above can be sent home. We will take a call in a day or two,” said a senior police officer. In another case, a 46-year-old constable from Mankhurd police station was tested positive on Monday. He has been admitted at a hospital in Panvel.FIRs dip to just 71 on Sunday Around 71 cases for lockdown violation were lodged on Sunday. A maximum of 35 cases were for not wearing masks and 29 for gathering in one place. Cop helps colleague, gets infectedTwo weeks ago Satish Pawar, a police inspector with the Protection Branch of Mumbai Police in the absence of an ambulance and any protective gear lifted his subordinate, who was showing Covid-19 symptoms like fever and coughing, from his home in Worli and rushed him to the Kasturba Hospital in a car. The subordinate tested positive for Covid-19 and Pawar who helped him also tested positive for the disease. Pawar was however rewarded Rs 10,000 by the department.Liquor worth Rs 30,000 seized at sea link The Bandra police intercepted a car at the Bandra-Worli sea link toll plaza and seized liquor worth Rs 30,920. Around 7 pm constable Nitin Bhoi stopped a car coming from Andheri for a quick check and found the liquor bottles hidden in the car. The driver, Kunal shah, 40, a resident of Nepean sea road area, was booked under section 188 of IPC and section 65 (E) of Maharashtra Prohibition Act. (with inputs from Jayprakash S Naidu, Suraj Ojha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/three-police-personnel-on-duty-in-dharavi-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-jLZOQULBRIaCcjI66VAXeL.html
28-04-2020||Gurugram||Several ₹50, ₹100 & ₹500 notes found on Pataudi road||A resident found several ₹50, ₹100 and ₹500 notes on a road in Balewa village, Pataudi, on Sunday night. A crowd gathered around the money but no one touched the notes due to the fear of contracting coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The notes were collected only when the police arrived after the village sarpanch approached them. Darshan Kumar, the village sarpanch, said, “Around 9pm, a resident called and informed me about the notes. A security guard and I immediately reached the spot and I instructed him to stay there to keep an eye on the money. I then went around interrogating whether someone had lost their money but could not find anyone. When I returned to the spot, there was a crowd of around 25 to 30 people gathered around the money.” He added that none of them touched the notes as they feared contracting Covid-19. According to the police, they received the information regarding the incident around 10.30pm and a team of officials went to the spot and dispersed the crowd. Suresh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Pataudi police station, said, “When we did not find anyone to claim the cash, we decided to collect the notes and take them away. The village residents did not touch them as they feared getting Covid-19.”The village sarpanch had clicked a picture of the abandoned notes and uploaded it on his instant messaging application. “On Monday morning, the relative of a village resident contacted me and told me that the cash belonged to him,” he added.Vishnu, a resident of Bhagwanpur village, said that he had come to Balewa village to check on the sick mother of his relative. “My relative had asked me to visit as his mother was very ill. While I was returning home on my scooter after the visit, I accidentally dropped the cash (around ₹4,500). It was only when I reached home that I realised that the pocket of my pants was empty. I did try to find the money but could not,” he added. Vishnu said that he approached the sarpanch when he saw the image of the money that he had uploaded earlier.“On Monday, we went to the police station together and asked the officials to return the money. However, they said that I will get it through the court after the lockdown,” Vishnu said. Researchers and doctors have indicated that Covid-19 could be transmitted through contact with dry surfaces. However, no study has shown that the virus can spread through currency notes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/several-50-100-500-notes-found-on-pataudi-road/story-Bov2s9PzskRnhB9iZLqmJL.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||10 speed challans issued every minute during lockdown, essential service providers fined multiple times||Around 10 vehicles, on an average, were fined every minute for speeding in the national capital during the nationwide lockdown that was put in place by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to contain the spread of Covid-19. The prime offenders — essential service providers, some of who were fined multiple times in a day. According to Delhi Police data, many of these challans were issued to repeat offenders — some getting prosecuted multiple times in a period of days with a few even getting fined multiple times in one day. A doctor, for example, was caught speeding seven times between March 14 and 30 and has to pay a penalty of Rs 14,000. The fine for speeding is Rs 2,000.The data collected is for the period between March 23 and April 26.A large number of motorists who were fined are essential service providers, many of whom had not taken well to their unforgiven challans. “Obviously, I broke the speed limit in my rush to attend to my workplace...can I get some relief from these fine,” one such healthcare provider asked the Delhi Traffic Police on Twitter.Unsatisfied with the police’s response, which asked him to visit the traffic headquarters after the lockdown, the man vowed not to attend duty anymore till the lockdown was lifted. “Can’t risk another challan as it is a sizeable amount of my salary,” he wrote back.The man, like many other violators, is, however, unlikely to get any relief, HT has learnt. Taj Hassan, special commissioner of police (Delhi Traffic Police), said that the law doesn’t allow any exemptions. “No one will be exempted. The speed trap cameras do not distinguish. The speeding challan is a habit reforming fine and motorists should follow the rules,” said Hassan.On Twitter, a lot of essential service providers expressed anguish over being challaned multiple times, some within a short span of time. One man posted a medical slip to say that he was obliging a police team by rushing an unwell person to a hospital. He was caught speeding twice within a period of 24 minutes in north Delhi .Yet another doctor took to Twitter to tell the police that while he was risking his life by reporting to work and the police was thanking him in the form of challans. A woman healthcare professional travelling from Delhi to Gurgaon invoked her work to protest against the multiple challans. “...my only commitment is to reach the hospital as soon as possible,” she wrote.But Piyush Tewari, founder of NGO SaveLife Foundation which works towards preventing road accidents, said that “providers serving Covid-19 issues can’t claim allegiance towards one health issue while ignoring another grave one”.“More than 115 lives have been lost due to road accidents across India even during the lockdown. Around 10% of these accident cases were reported from Delhi . This goes to show how dangerous our roads are even when there is minimal traffic...Traffic rules have to be followed, no matter what, to keep each other safe. Only emergency medical response vehicles, rushing to immediate life-threatening situations, can be given some relaxations,” said Tewari. Taj Hassan, meanwhile, maintained that getting captured for speeding by multiple cameras in a day will mean multiple challans. “Some people drive fast as a matter of habit. They’ll get captured several times along their route and they’ll have to pay fines for each of those offences,” he said. Special commissioner Hassan said that In 35 days of the lockdown, these cameras have noticed a total of 5,07,563 speed violations. That roughly translates to 14,500 violations every day. In the 10 days before the lockdown, there were 5,11,577 such speed violations, translating to about 51,157 such offences every day, at a rate of 35 fines a minute, on an average. “There are no jams on the roads. Some motorists are using the empty roads to speed,” said Hassan.Most of these speed detection cameras were installed only last year because of which there is a massive difference in the number of cases of speeding when compared to earlier years, said Hassan. In 2019, for example, there were just about 386 challans for speeding daily, on an average. All those violators were caught by cameras installed in interceptor vehicles, which are manually manned by traffic police personnel. The speed cameras, on the other hand, are automatic and can detect violations even in the dark. There are 236 speed-cameras that have been installed in various parts of the city.The officer added that despite roads being empty, fatal accidents continue to occur in the city. “There have been 13 fatal accidents during the lockdown. Speeding is a major reason for that,” said Hassan.The 13 dead people include an MCD hospital doctor, who run over by a car in Malviya Nagar while he was cycling back home from work earlier this month. Last year, there were about four fatal accidents every day on an average.The speed violations were caught by cameras installed at 100 points and 34 junctions. “Each junction has a total of four cameras, there are a total of 236 speed-detection cameras doing our job,” said Hassan.Since many motorists choose to slow down when nearing a camera and speed up immediately after, the traffic police have also decided to deploy manual cameras at certain places. But these manual cameras are able to detect only a limited number of violations and data on offenders prosecuted with their help was not immediately available with the traffic police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/10-speed-challans-issued-every-minute-during-lockdown-essential-service-providers-fined-multiple-times/story-rB0XGhNngkn3Dydo5VytzO.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||AIIMS begins plasma therapy, 200 Tablighi members begin donation||After Lok Nayak hospital, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is set to begin plasma therapy for those with severe Covid-19 infections. The collection of plasma from over 350 eligible members of the Tablighi Jamaat started on Monday at the Covid Care Centres in Sultanpuri and Narela. Twenty-five donations have already been received. Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma—which contains virus-fighting antibodies—from people who have recovered from the infection to treat those who are severely ill with Covid-19.“We have collected plasma from a couple of donors already and now we are looking for a suitable recipient for the therapy—someone who is admitted to the intensive care unit, yet can tolerate the therapy,” Dr DK Sharma, medical superintendent of AIIMS, said.The therapy is usually administered to those with a respiratory rate higher than 30 (normal is 20), with an oxygen saturation of less than 90% (normal is 95% to 100%), or to those who have pus in their lungs.Patients suspected to have Covid-19 are being admitted to the new private ward in the hospital, those with mild symptoms are being moved to AIIMS Jhajjar and those with severe symptoms to the AIIMS trauma centre. “The plasma can be collected at any of the three places, but will be administered only at the trauma centre where the really ill patients are admitted,” Sharma said.In the absence of a vaccine or drug, hospitals are looking at plasma therapy for the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients. So far, at least six people have received the therapy via these trials at Lok Nayak hospital. The government currently has limited approval to conduct a randomised control trial of the therapy upon 20 critical patients, half of whom will receive antibody-rich plasma and the other half a placebo (which is devoid of any therapeutic value). This will help test whether the plasma actually helps heal those with Covid-19.“Delhi needs to have a bank of around 200 Covid-19 plasma donations; we cannot wait for a donation when a sick person comes to the hospital. Anybody who has recovered from the infection—meaning two consecutive samples have tested negative—and has completed two more weeks of quarantine can donate plasma. People who have recovered can donate plasma every seven to ten days,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, ILBS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aiims-begins-plasma-therapy-200-tablighi-members-begin-donation/story-3ldChF41g557rvNUkFbcpM.html
28-04-2020||Gurugram||Disrupted supply chain, labour shortage major challenges for industries||Even a week after the state government granted permission to resume work, industries across Gurugram continue to face a number of challenges, including a disrupted supply chain, shortage of manpower and strict Covid-19 guidelines. The permission to resume operations was granted following a notification issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA), relaxing lockdown regulations for industries. More than 300 industries in the district that received permission to resume operations last week haven’t been able to start production yet. Suman Chawla, an industry owner, said, “We are allowed to work with 25% workers. Some of our senior employees reside in Delhi, Faridabad and Noida. They are unable to reach office. We are into leather business and mainly export to foreign countries. Although we got permission to resume work on April 22, our company has not been able to start production as there are no raw materials, few available workers and senior staff members, and disruptions in the supply chain. Our last production day was March 21. Our losses are in crores. I believe that it may take several months for our production to get normal,” said Chawla.Due to continued labour problems, a looming fear of Covid-19 transmission and MHA’s strict guidelines, some of the industry owners are mulling to shut their plants again indefinitely.Kusum Danglay, another industry owner in packaging production at Manesar, said, “We are unable to run the plant in such a difficult condition. Workers are eager to leave the city for their respective states and we cannot retain them in the current scenario. With only a handful of workers available, we are just cleaning our tools and machines, disinfecting the plant, carrying out thermal screening etc. And we believe that such a critical situation will last for many months. We may have to shut our plant after May 3 if the situation does not improve.”An industry owner in Sector 37 said that nuts and bolts and other parts to repair machines are also not available because hardware shops and auto markets are shut.“I am in the packaging business and have a small plant. We have been allowed to resume operations with 10 workers, of which three are engaged in implementing the standard operating procedure (SOP), like disinfecting the plant, manning entry gates etc. I have not been able to carry out any production at all since April 22,” said Rakesh Vohra, an industry owner, adding that he is unable to pay wages to his workers.Maruti Suzuki India Limited had also said last week that they would only carry out maintenance in their Manesar plant while the production was still on hold. “Maruti Suzuki India Limited got permission a week ago but production has not yet started,” said a senior executive of the company.Many industries, which are still shut, are unwilling to even apply for permission.Sanjiv Bansal, a Basai-based industry owner, said, “I will start operations only when the situation becomes normal, workers are willing to rejoin work, markets are open and the supply chain is restored. I cannot take risk when Gurugram has still Covid-19 cases coming up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/disrupted-supply-chain-labour-shortage-major-challenges-for-industries/story-vLYjCoRE92pLgtr9zpHtUM.html
28-04-2020||Gurugram||Hunger hotspots not targeted, ration tokens immediate need: Gurugram civil society group||The Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch (GNEM), a civil society group involved in food distribution across the city, has released a report stating that the administration has not addressed the hunger crisis in the district adequately and relief measures were yet to reach most people, especially in industrial pockets.The report, ‘Taking Stock: Assessing Distribution and Distress in Gurugram during the COVID-19 Lockdown’, released on Sunday, stated that while coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots had been meticulously mapped by the administration, hunger hotspots were not specifically and systematically targeted by the administration for food relief. “The administration’s focus on mapping and intervening in coronavirus hotspots through the establishment of containment zones and enhanced screening is duly announced and reported on a regular basis. However, hunger hotspots that emerged clearly in our data, especially in clusters around industrial pockets like Dundahera, Sarhaul, Manesar, Dharuhera, Khandsa, and Naharpur, do not find mention in any official announcement,” stated the report.The report said that hunger had not abated despite the collaborative efforts of multiple civil society organisations since the government’s response was slow. Based on data analysis of the group’s operations, the report said that there was a substantial gap between demand and supply. The group had served close to 4 lakh cooked meals since the first week of April but had only managed to meet 74% of the demand. “Even with nearly 10,100 ration kits delivered until April 21, which provided food security for 40,400 people, the GNEM has only been able to cater to 68% of those in need,” stated the report.It also mentioned that food-related distress had peaked in the second phase of the lockdown. The number of daily calls received by the group multiplied exponentially from eight calls a day to 60 in the second phase of the lockdown, the report stated. The extension created panic among people with no income, negligible savings, and rising debt, as per the group’s assessment. The report also said that while distress ration coupons had been announced, the process of coupon distribution remained “unclear and entirely opaque”. The report has recommended that ration coupon distribution be made public to increase transparency, cash relief of ₹1,000 be reopened for daily wagers, and a single helpline and grievance portal be put in place.VS Kundu, additional chief secretary, said that the number of people requiring food was gradually expanding since many families who were able to sustain themselves in the first phase were running out of resources. “We are aware that hunger distress is escalating since the lockdown has been extended. The number of people requiring food is increasing since people who earlier had resources are gradually running out of resources and savings,” Kundu said. He added that the report prepared by the group had been shared with him and he had passed it to the officers in charge.He also said that the administration was carrying out household surveys to assess the requirements of those in need following which people without ration cards would be provided with food tokens which would allow them to receive ration for three months, including April. “It has taken a couple of extra days for the survey but we are aiming to provide ration by this week,” Kundu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hunger-hotspots-not-targeted-ration-tokens-immediate-need-gnem/story-xo2NzQexiGzH6n14OIhweO.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi converts OTs to ICUs, plans to get 500 ventilators as Covid-19 cases rise||To increase the capacity to treat critical Covid-19 patients in intensive care units (ICU), the Delhi government is looking to buy around 500 ventilators for its hospitals. Currently, the city has 1,106 ventilators—306 in government hospitals and 800 in private ones—according to a report by the five-member committee advising chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Covid-19.“We are looking at different ventilator manufacturers—including Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL)—to procure around 500 ventilators,” a senior official from Delhi’s health department said. Currently, the specifications and the make of the ventilators offered by various manufacturers are being examined by Lok Nayak Hospital before an order is placed. It is the biggest Covid-19 hospital in the city, managing 165 patients with severe symptoms. A ventilator augments the breathing function of a person whose lungs are compromised, a condition common to Covid-19 patients as the disease moves into a serious stage. Delhi has already reached the first of three scenarios that the five-member panel had advised to prepare for—100 cases being reported a day. The number of cases spiked on Sunday, with 293 people testing positive.Now, in preparation for the second scenario—500 cases being reported in a day—the two dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in Delhi are looking at converting their operation theatres into intensive care units (ICUs) and adding oxygen support to all the beds. This is one of the measures suggested by the five-member panel.“We have to operationalise 125 intensive care unit beds. And—as the committee rightly recommended—the operation theatres that already have gas pipelines in place are the easiest to convert into ICUs. Each of our OTs will have two beds. The post-op area of the surgical block will also be used,” a doctor from Lok Nayak Hospital said on condition of anonymity. The hospital has 18 operation theatres, some of which are likely to be reserved for surgeries on Covid-19 patients. The hospital currently has 64 ICU beds.The other 1,500 beds in the hospital will all have the facility to provide oxygen support to patients. “The casualty wards, new medical block, some parts of the gynaecology block and paediatric block, as well as the OT block already have gas pipelines, so oxygen therapy will not be a problem. For areas such as the orthopaedic block that do not have a gas pipeline, oxygen cylinders will be used,” the doctor said.Of the 1,987 active cases—those who still have the infection—42 are admitted to the ICUs of the nine Covid-19 hospitals and 11 are on ventilator support.“According to the data, there is just a handful of people on ventilators right now. The proportion of people who need ventilation is very little and as the private sector is involved, Delhi currently has enough facilities to handle all its cases. However, just to be prepared, the government is looking at purchasing more ventilators,” another senior official involved in Covid-19 preparations said.Delhi is preparing for the worst-case scenario of having to deal with 30,000 active cases at one time.“Assuming that for every 1,000 cases, 50 need ventilators—and that is a very high estimate—we still have enough ventilators in the city as of now. The infection is here, nobody can stop its spread, but we have to reduce the number of deaths from the infection,” said Dr SK Sarin, chair of the five-member panel and the director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which is the first in the city to start plasma therapy trials for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-converts-ots-to-icus-plans-to-get-500-ventilators-as-cases-rise/story-NS0LC674KBu3EPYUxBkLAM.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||HC directs Delhi govt to file detailed report on supply of rations through PDS||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Delhi government to file a detailed status report on the supply of rations through the public distribution system and other mechanisms, such as e-coupons, in response to a plea filed in this regard.The plea sought effective and time-bound redressal of complaints pertaining to non-supply of rations and the urgent need for transparency in the distribution of foodgrains through the PDS and other mechanisms.Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh sought the report on a plea filed by Rozi Roti Abhiyan Adhikaar, stating that people are not being able to get ration from fair price shops, which have shut due to non-availability of stock.The plea also contended that due to the absence of any information in the public domain on the distribution of rations — in terms of who all have availed of the stipulated quantity — there is no way to determine whether stocks of ration have been provided to the targeted persons or if there has been any diversion.Appearing for the Delhi government, additional standing counsel, Anuj Aggarwal, told the court that the Delhi government has been providing rations to 700,0000 cardholders and 300,0000 others, who do not have a card. He said that the fair price shops are open all days, during the designated time.He also said that 100,0000 people are being given cooked food twice a day at the hunger centres. He submitted that volunteers are also deployed at fair price shops along with a representative of the local MLA.The court asked the Delhi government to ensure that these steps are continued, and sought a detailed status report in this regard.Justice Mridul observed that the distress caused to the residents of the city, by the ongoing lockdown imposed in order to contain the spread of the Covid-19, has been further aggravated by the stated denial of access to food grain to the poor, underprivileged and marginalised sections of the populace, even though the Delhi government is undertaking steps to alleviate their suffering.The court also said that the government shall ensure that all ration shops remain operational and disburse food grains, in accordance with the policy formulated by the Centre and state government. It called for disbursal of the requisite food grains from PDS from 9am to 1pm and 3pm to 7pm on all days of the week.“The Delhi government shall also ensure that food grains are distributed to the poor, needy and marginalised non-PDS residents from the PDS, as well as, other distribution centres stated to be set up by them, for the said purpose. It shall further ensure that the subdivisional magistrates of each district carry out strict and regular monitoring and oversight of the distribution of food grains, as afore directed and upload the details of the shop-wise distribution of ration to both the PDS and non-PDS residents on their official website, at the end of every day,” the order stated.The plea also contended that the state government has failed to put in place a statutory grievance redressal framework, despite repeated orders of the Delhi High Court. The petition also sought the resumption of the midday meal scheme, which is a lifeline for children even under normal circumstance.The court directed the government to immediately post grievance helpline numbers on their official website as well as publicise them through the print and electronic media, to enable members of the public, who may be aggrieved due to a lack of distribution of the food grains, to seek redressal of their grievances, by contacting the nodal officers concerned.The court said that the nodal officers shall address the grievances and mention the steps taken to resolve problems on the website.The next hearing in this matter is scheduled for May 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-directs-delhi-govt-to-file-detailed-report-on-supply-of-rations-through-pds/story-3t3FL86iH0H2g4NcdL8DtM.html
28-04-2020||Gurugram||University announces additional seats for children of Covid-19 warriors||To recognise the efforts of people at the forefront of the battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the NorthCap University in Gurugram has decided to earmark five seats in each of its programmes for the children of India’s Covid-19 warriors.HB Raghavendra, the vice-chancellor of the university, said that five additional seats have been introduced in each course for the children of people who were on the frontline battling the pandemic.“Doctors, nurses, health workers, and all others fighting the pandemic are coronavirus disease warriors and by the introduction of these additional seats for their children, we wish to recognise and appreciate their efforts,” Raghavendra said.He added that millions of doctors, nurses, police personnel, military and paramilitary forces, journalists, and media persons had stepped in to provide their services and keep the country safe and informed. “People are risking their lives to keep Indians safe everywhere. We owe these families not just our gratitude but support in every possible way,” Raghavendra said.The additional seats will be introduced in all disciplines, including engineering, management, law and applied sciences for the academic year commencing 2020-2021. Applicants to the multi-disciplinary university will also be eligible to apply for merit-based fee concessions/scholarships. The university’s faculty and staff had earlier donated their one day’s salary amounting to a total of ₹4.33 lakh to the PM National Relief Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/university-announces-additional-seats-for-children-of-covid-19-warriors/story-HHYf2UwboWDiOdMMzzo25L.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||One in every 15 Covid-19 cases in Delhi is a healthcare worker||Over the last two weeks, clusters of Covid-19 cases have been reported from hospitals across the city, with the Delhi government-run 100-bed Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial hospital in Jahangirpuri reporting the highest number of cases. So far, at least 65 healthcare workers—including doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, and hospital security staff—have tested positive for the infection in the hospital. So far, at least 226 healthcare workers from 21 hospitals and several clinics across the city have tested positive for the infection. Almost all of these healthcare workers were not posted to the Covid-19 wings of the hospitals or the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. This accounts for approximately one in 15 of the total number of cases—3,108—reported in Delhi till Monday. Why are so many doctors testing positive? It is because they are the ones still going out and meeting people—some infected—during the lockdown. “During the lockdown, people are not stepping out and meeting others. Healthcare workers, on the other hand, are going out and treating several patients a day, which puts them at risk of getting the infection. Globally, it has been seen that healthcare workers are at the highest risk of getting the infection,” Giridhar R Babu, professor and head of life-course epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), said.HT had earlier reported that hospitals are now becoming hotspots for new infections in Delhi. Thirty-three healthcare workers tested positive for the infection over the last two weeks when the hospitals started actively testing its staff. “Max Healthcare has instituted mandatory Covid-19 testing for over 24,000 members of its staff and all the patients admitted in its hospitals. This will lead to a greater number of Covid-19 patients being identified, isolated and treated. We believe this is the best way to fight the pandemic,” the hospital said in a statement.At least 60 healthcare workers have tested positive for the infection across nine Max healthcare hospitals in Delhi-NCR, Punjab and Uttarakhand. Refusing to give out a break-up of the cases, the hospital said in the statement that 2% of the 3,000 people across these nine hospitals had tested positive. At Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital in Rohini, at least 29 healthcare workers have tested positive. At least 57 people were quarantined after they came in contact with a 40-year-old woman from Jahangirpuri suspected to have the infection. A week ago, 14 people working in the non-Covid-19 paediatric ICU of Lady Hardinge Medical College had tested positive for the infection. Before that, in the first couple of weeks in April, a cluster of 26 healthcare workers with the infection was found at Delhi State Cancer Institute. Four cancer patients and one of their family members also contracted the infection, with two of the patients succumbing to it. The government’s denial of community transmission is also responsible for the explosion of the cases among non-Covid-19 healthcare workers, according to experts. “This is a fallout of the government’s denial of community transmission. If they had warned healthcare workers that community transmission was happening, they would have treated all their patients as potentially infected and would have been more cautious about infection control measures,” Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology department at Christian Medical College, Vellore, said.He added that the government should have admitted to community transmission and broadcast messages accordingly as soon as cases where the source of infection could not be traced started being reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/one-in-every-15-cases-in-delhi-is-a-healthcare-worker/story-7XNAutTfAz56l6jBPrI3JN.html
28-04-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram to restrict entry of people with flu-like symptoms from Delhi||Haryana police decided on Monday to step up surveillance on borders with Delhi, after the state’s home and health minister Anil Vij called for the sealing of all entry and exit points it shares with the national capital, where 3,108 cases of Covid-19 have been reported so far. The move comes after Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts of Uttar Pradesh sealed their shared borders with the capital last week.Vij said that at least 15 people who tested positive for the coronavirus disease in the state recently had contracted it in Delhi. He said the Haryana government had asked its Delhi counterpart to provide accommodation to Haryana residents who work in the capital so they don’t have to commute, posing the risk of spreading the infection in the state, but is yet to receive a response.Gurugram police said the movement of essential workers into the city will not be stopped for now. The police will check the temperature of every commuter coming from the capital and will not allow their entry if they are found to have flu-like symptoms.The police said they will wait until Wednesday to check if there will be a total suspension of movement across the state borders, which depends on the status of positive cases in the state. The district administration is yet to receive any directive from the government on a ban on the entry of people coming from Delhi.Faridabad police also said that they would allow the movement of only workers engaged in essential services and that requests for movement to Delhi for medical reasons will not be entertained.“At least 15-16 coronavirus cases recently reported in Haryana have links to Delhi. Our chief secretary has interacted with the Delhi government on the issue, asking it to restrict the movement of commuters from Delhi to Haryana’s adjoining districts,” Vij, who is also the health minister, told HT.“We have asked them to limit the passes and arrange staying facility for the essential service providers and employees who are doing daily up-and-down (commutes) from districts adjoining Delhi,” he said. The cases linked to Delhi are in addition to the 120 cases traced to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation inDelhi’s Nizamuddin Basti last month.Haryana has reported 301 cases till now. Gurugram accounts for 51 cases and Faridabad 46 cases.“We have not yet received any response from the Delhi government on the issue till now. But the police deployment has increased at the border and checking will be increased,” Vij said.Mohammad Akil, the commissioner of Gurugram Police, said that the department had deployed 630 personnel at the 11 border points with Delhi. “The personnel have been directed to check each and every vehicle and to ensure no one enters the city casually. If anyone is found to have a fever, they will not be allowed to cross the border, despite having permission,” he said.Around 5,200 police personnel are deployed on Covid-19 duty across the city, in three shifts.Faridabad has sealed the borders with Delhi, after two cases, including that of a 50-year-old chief executive officer of a health institute in Delhi, a resident of Sector 28, were traced to Delhi. Four members of his family have been quarantined and isolated. He reported running a fever last week and has been admitted to the ESI Hospital in Faridabad since, the police said.KK Rao, the commissioner of Faridabad Police, said, “The new cases are of those who had visited Delhi. So, we are taking precautionary measures to ensure that the infection does not spread,” he said.The police said that people will not be allowed to cross the border for medical emergencies. “Those going to Delhi every day can shift there temporarily. They will not be allowed to move in and out of the city every day. Essential service vehicles will be allowed, but only those who have valid permission. All drivers have to necessarily undergo Covid-19 test to ensure they are safe. Their test reports will be checked before allowing them to enter the city,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/ggm-to-restrict-entry-of-people-with-flu-like-symptoms-from-delhi/story-LpyIWtFqBIqNsHtWBhQf4L.html
28-04-2020||Noida||One arrested, two booked for smuggling liquor in Covid-19 hotspots||A man in his thirties was arrested and two others booked by the Phase 2 police in two separate incidents of smuggling imported alcohol. Two cars were also recovered and have been seized.According to police, a Maruti Ertiga was stopped and checked near sector 93A during routine checking in hotspot zones of the district on Sunday evening. The driver was carrying three bottles of imported scotch, above the permissible limit for The sale of liquor is banned in the state during the ongoing lockdown. As per rules, the permissible liquor limit for people in Uttar Pradesh is 1.5 litres IMFL, 1.5 litres country-made liquor and four bottles of beer.“When questioned, he confessed that he was taking the liquor for a resident of Eldeco Utopia in Sector 93A, which is a hot spot in red zone and is sealed. After a while he got spooked and ran away, leaving the car and the liquor. The house of the man who had ordered the liquor was also searched but the suspect was nowhere to be found,” said Farmood Ali Pundir, station house offier, Phase 2 police station.Police also nabbed another person, Subhash, and seized his vehicle for carrying alcohol. All suspects were booked under Section 188 and a search is on to nab the two absconding suspects. Police from Sector 49 and Beta 2 also arrested smugglers of locally manufactured liquor.On Monday, the district police registered six cases of section 188 and arrested 14 people for violations. A total of 471 vehicles were checked of which 156 were challaned and three were seized. Three vehicles of essential services were permitted in the district.SHOP OWNER BOOKEDIn another incident, a cycle shop owner was booked by Phase 2 police for allegedly selling cycles to four migrant workers who wanted to go back to their home towns amid the lockdown.According to police, the migrants, on their way to Bihar, were intercepted by the Expressway police and questioned. They found that the cycles had been purchased on April 22 from a dealer in Bhangel.sub-inpsector Pradeep Kumar Dwiwedi, who is the complainant in this case, said, “I received this information and was on patrolling to confirm the case. On insection, it was clear that the owner of the cycle shop had sold these to the migrants despite the lockdown, which is a violation.”Based on this complaint, the Bhangel-based cycle shop owner was booked at the Phase 2 police station under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code.The migrant workers were later sent to a shelter home and a search is on for the shop owner. “He is absconding but we have some details and will nab him soon,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/one-arrested-two-booked-for-smuggling-liquor-in-hot-spots/story-VOENE7W09zMiBGaT6FjA5O.html
28-04-2020||Noida||Covid-19 lockdown: Man in debt ends life||A 45-year-old man in debt allegedly took his own life on Monday morning by hanging himself from a fan at his house. Even though the police did not recover a note from the spot, they suspected (based on the family’s testimony) that the man’s financial troubles could be the reason as to why he killed himself. The man was from the Badaun district and was employed with a private company in the Phase 2 area. Due to the nationwide lockdown, the company had shut its operations.“According to a family member, he had borrowed money from a few people last year to get his daughter married and was in debt. He had been depressed for a while because of the loan,” Dharmendra Kumar Sharma, station house officer (SHO), Sector 49 police station, said.The police were unclear about the amount of debt. The said he was further troubled because he was unable to pay off the debt due to the lack of work during the lockdown.“The family was at home at the time of the incident on Sunday night. They were asleep. The man was in a different room. When everyone woke up on Monday morning, they found him hanging from a fan, after which they called the police helpline. A team was rushed to the spot. The body was brought down, taken in custody and sent for an autopsy,” the SHO said.The body was handed over to the family after the autopsy. No complaints have been filed in this case so far.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (in Hyderabad) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (in Delhi).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-in-debt-ends-life/story-jnxhfU3YdUHHu7YkgJ7wIP.html
28-04-2020||City||8 health workers among 14 new Covid-19 cases in GB Nagar, suspected patient allowed to leave with infant’s body||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday reported 14 new Covid-19 cases, including eight health workers, taking the total number of positive cases to 129 in the district.The new patients included a 23-year-old man from Jaunchana village in Jewar who, despite being a suspect, was allowed to perform last rites of his 4-month-old son who allegedly died of pneumonia. The alleged lapse by the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) led to the sealing of the whole village, while over 1,500 persons were home quarantined on Monday, officials said.Of the eight health workers who tested positive – six are from Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute in Sector 30, and one from the district hospital in Sector 39 who lives in the Nithari area and one from the ESIC Model Hospital in Sector 24. The medical staff include a doctor, a nurse, a plumber and five ward boys.The remaining five patients are -- 30-year-old pregnant woman from Kulsera village, 9-year-old boy from Aichhar village in Greater Noida, 45-year-old man from Pi 1 in Greater Noida, 36-year-old woman from Chotpur area of Sector 63 and a man from Chauda village.“We have shut the emergency and OPD services of the hospital after six of our medical staff have been found positive for Covid-19. Around 26 others have been quarantined. Only the patients who are undergoing treatment are present in the hospital, and the Covid-19 ward will continue functioning,” said Dr DK Gupta, director of the paediatric hospital.The Jaunchana patient had gone to the GIMS on the morning of April 25 after his son allegedly showed pneumonia symptoms. Authorities at GIMS had collected the samples of the child, the man and his wife as the baby was a Covid-19 suspect, the officials said, adding that the baby was ‘brought dead’ at the time of admission. The sample reports of the couple were pending, but they were allowed to leave on ‘humanitarian grounds’ to perform the last rites of the baby on April 26, the officials said. On April 27, the man was informed that he was found positive for Covid-19, while his wife is negative. The officials also said that the baby’s test reports was negative for Covid-19 and the cause of death is unknown as no postmortem took place as per the wishes of the parents. Over 50 persons attended the funeral of the baby, they said, adding that samples of many people who had come in contact with the couple were collected for testing.However, the child’s father, who has tested positive, said that on April 26, he was told that he and his wife were negative and allowed to leave with the body. “We were told that the baby was dead. Officials took samples of three of us and we stayed there for a day. On April 26 around 8am, I was given test reports which showed us negative. The doctors told us that three of us were negative for the infection, so we could leave,” said the 23-year-old Covid-19 patient from Jaunchana village.However, the GIMS officials have denied the man’s claim about the test reports. “He, along with his baby and wife, came to us on April 25 around 10am. Their samples were collected. The baby’s test was done on a priority basis as he was brought dead. He was found negative and the reports of the couple were pending. We allowed the couple to leave with the body on humanitarian grounds. He was found positive on Monday morning, and has now been admitted in the hospital,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS.The Jaunchana patient said that if he knew that he was positive, then he wouldn’t have even touched the body to avoid spread of the virus among the villagers who attended the funeral.“They have not collected my sample again, which means I was positive when I was allowed to leave. I have put lives of others in danger unknowingly. Why were we allowed to leave? Now the whole village is upset with us,” said the patient.When asked, Suhas LY, district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “I will look into the matter to find out the exact sequence of events. I will speak with the officials concerned at GIMS.”The incident has created panic among the people living in Jaunchana and the nearby villages.“I have been getting frantic calls from the people living in other villages as the Jauchana patient’s family members had gone there for some work. An inquiry should be ordered in the matter if the man was allowed to leave after his samples were collected. I am collecting facts on the incident and will inform the state government about the same,” said Dhirendra Singh, MLA, Jewar.By Monday night, the health department collected a total of 3,530 samples. A total of 129 cases have come out positive, while 75 patients have been discharged. Currently, there are 54 active Covid-19 cases in the district. There are 46 hot spots in the district, out of which 15 have completed their quarantine period as per the protocol to be eligible for the green zone as no new cases have been identified from these areas in the past 28 days. A total of 13 hot spots have entered the orange zone, as no new cases have been identified in these areas in the past 14 days, while 17 hot spots are still under the red zone. The newly added hot spots are Nithari in Sector 31, Chotpur village in Sector 63, Kulsera village in Greater Noida, Chauda Village in Noida, Pi-I in Greater Noida and Jauchana village in Jewar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/8-health-workers-among-14-new-covid-19-cases-in-gb-nagar-suspected-patient-allowed-to-leave-with-infant-s-body/story-HjkisgvEDCnEhBT2RkkIZM.html
28-04-2020||City||Gzb admin requests UP govt to advance summer vacations, says online classes putting stress||The Ghaziabad district magistrate on Monday said he has written to the state government recommending advancing of summer vacations of schools after he got to know of issues related to online classes. He said he spoke to about a dozen students to know the issues the students have been facing while taking classes online.“I have written to the state government recommending advancing of summer vacations. I have also spoken to some students over the phone about the issues they are facing while continuing with online studies. The recommendation will be sent to the government for all schools, including CBSE, ICSE and government schools, in Uttar Pradesh,” Ghaziabad DM Ajay Shankar Pandey said.According to officials, they have been receiving complaints from parents, students and parents’ associations about the effect on children from taking classes online for long, which are currently on during the lockdown period.“First, the children have to keep sitting in front of computers for several hours and many are even glued to their mobile phones. The parents also have to sit along with the children and their office work is also getting hampered. There are many areas where internet speed is slow. With long periods of exposure to computers and mobile phones, children are also facing issues of irritation in the eyes and headaches,” said Vivek Tyagi, spokesperson of the Ghaziabad parents’ association.“Generally, summer vacations are in May-June and there have been requests from all quarters to get the vacations preponed this year,” he added.A majority of private schools are imparting online classes to students while the state government has directed for online studies in UP government schools during the ongoing lockdown period, imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.DISTRICT LIKELY TO BE MOVED TO ORANGE ZONE FROM RED IN A WEEKMeanwhile, state officials said that the coronavirus situation in Ghaziabad is likely to improve in another week and the district is likely to be moved from the red zone at present to the orange zone if lockdown norms are strictly followed.Sudhir Garg, UP’s principal secretary (forests), said that more strictness in terms of lockdown enforcement is required in some areas. Garg has been sent as a special officer to Ghaziabad for supervising various aspects of lockdown, isolation and quarantine centres, as well as enforcement activities taken up.“We now have a unique trend in Ghaziabad where the number of active cases has fallen below the number of patients who got discharged from various hospitals. This trend is encouraging. It is our assessment that more reports are expected soon and the city may move from red zone to orange zone within a week. This has happened as a result of enforcement, lockdown of borders in order to avoid any medical infection and also due to support of residents,” Garg said.Garg, along with other officers from the UP and Ghaziabad administration, inspected different areas in the district.“There were instances where we saw people moving about in parks, defying lockdown norms. They will be dealt with strictly and surveillance in these areas will also be taken up with the help of drones. The parks need to be shut and no public should be allowed. We have also observed in some areas, including hotspots and containment zones that people are moving about in lanes and bylanes. If need be, we will get their houses sealed with wooden planks. Such people must understand that the lockdown will benefit them,” he added.In Ghaziabad, there are 17 hotspot areas which include Vaishali, Masuri, Pasonda, Loni, Nandgram, Muradnagar, Indirapuram, Islam Nagar and Khoda under the red zone; Raj Nagar Extension, Duhai, Vasundhra, Bhopra, Skardi Greens (near NH-9) under the orange zone; and Kaushambi, Sahibabad and Mohan Nagar which have been moved to the green zone.The red zones are areas where positive cases have been found in past 14 days while the orange zones are the ones where no new positive cases have emerged in the past 14 days. The green zones are the areas where no new cases have been found in the last 28 days.ALL PARKS SEALEDOn the directions of the principal secretary (forests), the Ghaziabad administration and the police on Monday afternoon directed for closure and sealing of all parks.“We have directed the Ghaziabad development authority, the municipal-corporation and the UP Avas Vikas to lockdown parks in their jurisdiction areas. If anyone is found roaming around, legal action under IPC Section 188 will be initiated. The resident welfare associations (RWA) should also ensure that there is no movement of the public in parks inside their societies. If anyone is found violating orders, the concerned RWA will be held responsible,” district magistrate added.“The SHOs of concerned areas have also been directed to ensure that all parks in their areas are closed and there is no movement of locals. The RWAs of highrises should also ensure lockdown directions,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad.Till Sunday evening, the number of Covid-19 positive patients stood at 57 in Ghaziabad and 17 of these were already discharged from different hospitals. The health department on Monday said that 14 more patients will be discharged from the district hospitals in Muradnagar and Sahibabad.“A total of 14 persons turned negative for Covid-19 on Monday and they will be discharged after police verification. All of them have received two successive negative reports. Several of these include people who have attended religious congregations and we need the police to verify if they have any cases or not. So, our active cases will be about 26 once the 14 patients move out after formalities. It is for the first time in the district that the number of active cases has gone down as compared to the number of patients getting discharged,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ghaziabad-amid-lockdown-summer-vacations-may-be-advanced/story-3ZxjxQOC8sYAu2Sc9wajLK.html
28-04-2020||Noida||To motivate staff, Greater Noida authority to hand out ‘corona warrior’ tags||The Greater Noida authority has decided to honour their staff with the ‘corona warrior tag’ in order to motivate them to carry out their duties diligently in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The authority will also select an ‘employee of the month’ to honour those who are working tirelessly to contain the Covid-19 spread.“This initiative is to express our gratitude towards those staff members who are working day and night without caring for their own safety. They are the real corona warriors because they are on the ground and working for the safety of all,” Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority, said.There are at least 500 staff members who have been working with different departments daily. They are engaged in food distribution to the needy and providing civic services across the city. The authority has expressed their gratitude to all permanent and contractual employees that include drivers, security guards, sanitation workers, gardeners and sweepers, among others.“We cannot honour our staff members with prize money owing to a fund crisis. We took a decision to express our thanks towards them and expect that society should also respect them as corona warriors, same as how we respect our health workers fighting against Covid -19. We believe that the government staff who are looking after civic services and food distribution are also corona warriors,” another Greater Noida authority official, requesting anonymity, said.The authority said its staff is disinfecting around 40 sectors and an equal number of villages daily to contain the spread of Covid-19. So far, it has distributed around 9 lakh food packets since March 25, 2020, officials said.“We have been successful in arranging and distributing food to the needy only because of the support of our staff and voluntary help from society,” the second official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/to-motivate-staff-greater-noida-authority-to-hand-out-corona-warrior-tags/story-BB4ZZVrrnt3WKLkuuM6k8N.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||Delhi slams Haryana’s ‘attitude in difficult times’||The Delhi government slammed its Haryana counterpart, saying that its statement was against the guidelines of the Central government. The Aam Aadmi Party government said that Covid-19 patients in Delhi belong to different states of the country and that the national Capital “took care” of them and provided “state-of-the-art quarantine facility” to each one “without discriminating” on the basis of their home state. “We are shocked by their response. They should understand that we are one country and Delhi and Haryana both belong to India. The high number of corona cases in Delhi is not their own doing. It is because large number of Indians living abroad were brought back to India in February and March,” stated a statement issued by the chief minister’s office to HT. “Today, Delhi is suffering much more than other states because most of the international arrivals at that time landed in Delhi because we are the national Capital. We did not complain,” it stated.Calling the attitude of the Haryana government as being “against the spirit of India”, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said, “It is against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s endeavour to take the whole country along. Life of every person in Haryana is as precious for us as that of a Delhiite. We hope the Haryana government will change its attitude in these difficult times and not cause harassment to these employees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-slams-haryana-s-attitude-in-difficult-times/story-R4tVZzBgIFcfU7Yo8wcsqM.html
28-04-2020||Mumbai||Mahim Kabrastan buries those who die of Covid-19 in coffins||The Mahim Kabrastan trust announced on Sunday that they are burying bodies of Covid-19 patients in coffins, contrary to the Muslim practice of burying the dead by wrapping them just in shrouds. The Mahim Kabrastan is one of the 15 cemeteries in the city which are taking bodies of coronavirus patients.This is in accordance with the World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines which insist burial of affected patients in coffins. The development comes almost three weeks after Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) allowed burial within the city, provided the ground is large enough to ensure no threat of transmission to the area’s residents.According to the data provided by the BMC, there are 20 Muslim cemeteries in the city, of which 15 have space available for fresh burials.At Mahim Kabrastan, the authorities said that they can accommodate 50 bodies, of which they have already received seven and two were expected on Monday.Suhail Khandwani, chairperson of Mahim Sunni Muslim Kabrastan trust, said they held a meeting with Dr Mudassir Lambe, chairperson of Maharashtra State Board Of Wakf (MSWB), which covers Muslim properties in the state, and BMC officials to decide on treatment for Covid bodies. Following which the decision was taken to bury these bodies in coffins.“Special coffins are provided because we need to consider the safety of those burying the body, as as result of which there is zero manual intervention. Sanitation is also done before and after the burial,” said Khandwani.Earlier, a dead body used to be lowered in the grave wrapped in a cloth and would be a wooden framework around the grave.The authorities also decided to conduct burial free of cost for Covid patients.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, said that the BMC had not issued any guidelines to bury the bodies in a coffin.“There is a World Health Organisation (WHO) guideline which insists on burial in coffins. However, we haven’t asked any cemetery to do that. This might be one of the first Muslim cemeteries to carry out coffin burials,” said Dighavkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mahim-kabrastaan-buries-those-who-die-of-covid-19-in-coffins/story-TvhrqYRQ5hoMQPJIDustRL.html
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panic among doctors as 75% health staffers tested positive in Chandigarh were on non-Covid emergency duty||There’s reason to worry. Twelve healthcare workers from two prominent hospitals — Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH-32) — have tested positive for Covid-19 from April 1 to April 27. Nine (75%) were working in ‘emergency’ areas dealing with non-Covid-19 patients.Four fresh cases were reported on Monday, all from GMCH-32. Three doctors from the anaesthesia department worked at the emergency OT and a 28-year-old staffer was in the housekeeping department. A 26-year-old PGIMER nurse who tested positive on Sunday was working at the emergency OPD.This has pushed GMCH-32 to relax strict adherence to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines to provide PPE kits and testing only for high-risk zones. “From today, every health worker in the emergency will get PPE kits,” BS Chavan, director principal, GMCH-32, told the Hindustan Times.UT adviser Manoj Parida has also tweeted that the UT administrator will hold a meeting on Tuesday with the heads of PGIMER, GMCH-32, Government Multi Specialty Hospital-16, and the health secretary to discuss safety protocols within the medical campuses. Staffers want PPE kits, mass testingMany staffers are now starting to panic and demanding personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and mass testing of all health workers.The first health worker to contract the infection (April 1) was a 31-year-old nursing officer from PGIMER working in the emergency section.Two others, however, who worked in close proximity to Covid-19 patients and tested positive were attendants in the hospital’s communicable disease ward. The next day, a cook at the institute’s advanced paediatric centre was found to have contracted the infection.However, even as the PGIMER cases seemed to be plateauing, health workers at GMCH-32 started getting infected.Then, on April 24, as a 30-year-old attendant at the hospital’s emergency OT was tested positive, Bapu Dham Colony, where he lived, was declared an “affected area.” Two others from the same OT, a 35-year-old ward boy living in from Mauli Jagran and a staff nurse from Sector 32, tested positive on April 25 and 26, respectively.“So many of us have tested positive and we have treated patients, interacted with staff members. We could have spread the infection to others, so test us,” says a health worker. Most of them are wary of disciplinary action so don’t want their names disclosed.“Patients undergoing surgery should also be first tested for the virus,” he adds.Even sanitisers are in short supply, staffers complain.“There is only one hand sanitiser bottle for the entire OT with a staff of 40. Everyone uses one bottle and by the evening we have no sanitiser left. We are asked to use soap but while treating patients in emergency one cannot keep rushing to the washbasins to use soap,” says another health worker, also wishing to remain anonymous.“We also need PPE kits and hazmat suits as we work in the emergency section and don’t know if a person is Covid-19 positive. Today I saw a person collecting samples and he was not wearing a hazmat suit,” he adds.Doctors’ concerns being addressedMeanwhile, with so many workers testing positive, BS Chavan said boosting the morale of doctors was the biggest challenge. They had their valid concerns, which were addressed, he said. Health workers will be screened if there is a slight chance of their getting infected even if they are asymptomatic. “So more testing will be done,” Chavan added.All precautions will be taken in surgery presuming patients could be Covid-19 positive and those going in for elective surgery will be tested first.Chavan also denied any shortage of sanitisers or PPE in the OT.‘How can you prove chain started from me?’The 30-year-old OT attendant who was the first in GMCH-32 to be tested positive, in the meantime, says there is nothing to prove that the chain started from him. “GMCH-32 authorities are bluntly saying that I am the first to get infected and chain of transmission started from me. But so many staff members tested positive in such a short time. The real source of infection should be investigated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/75-health-staffers-found-covid-infected-in-chandigarh-worked-in-low-risk-areas-source-a-mystery/story-FUFAhs4oPS9w4eZZUvm4ZN.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||Most of Mehrauli to become a containment zone after two food distribution volunteers test positive||Large parts of the Mehrauli neighbourhood in south Delhi are set to become containment zones after two volunteers who were involved in distributing free food and ration to the poor in the area tested Covid-19 positive on Monday.Also, on Monday, two more containment zones were notified in the Capital, taking the total to 99.“A containment plan has been worked out for Mehrauli. Areas where surveillance will be scaled up include Motilal Nehru Camp, Kishangarh car market, Church Road in Vasant Kunj, and Pehelwan Dhaba in Mehrauli,” district magistrate (south) BM Mishra said, adding, “Food distribution centres in the district are functional. But there are several volunteers involved too.”He confirmed that the two volunteers were engaged by an MLA in the area but refrained from naming any party.Mehrauli MLA Naresh Yadav, a leader of the Aam Aadmi Party, did not respond to calls and messages for comment.Health officials, however, said that the individuals have been quarantined but contact tracing can be a massive task as the two used to volunteer in several food distribution sites, which were frequented by hundreds of homeless people and migrant workers left jobless by the lockdown.On Monday evening, the order to notify one such containment zone in Mehrauli was issued by the government, citing cases found in Ward number 1 of Mehrauli, but it was yet to be included in the official list of containment zones updated every 24 hours.“These areas comprise densely populated clusters and the risk of transmission is high,” Sonalika Jiwani, sub-divisional magistrate of Mehrauli, said.Other parts of south Delhi, closer to Hauz Rani, Malviya Nagar and one belt in the Mehrauli neighbourhood, were sealed on Monday after being notified as red zones. They include Nirankari lane, Naala Boring gully, Ravan-Wali gully, Jameela Basjid Baoli, Gurudwara gully, Thane-Wali gully and Terminal lane.The other containment zone was Pillanji village under New Delhi revenue district, government officials said. It was declared a containment zone after five Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the area between April 17 and April 25.Containment zones comprise apartment blocks, gated communities, slums and streets. They may even cover entire neighbourhoods. It is a complete quarantine zone and no one is allowed to step out even to buy essential goods such as milk, vegetables, fruits etc. All entry and exit points, even internal lanes, are barricaded in containment zones. South Delhi’s Mehrauli has been on high alert and district officials are in a contact tracing frenzy after a vegetable vendor and a nurse residing in different parts of the neighbourhood tested Covid-19 positive last week. Both cases related to essential services and the individuals continued to work until the flu-like symptoms manifested and got themselves tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/most-of-mehrauli-to-become-a-containment-zone-after-two-food-distribution-volunteers-test-positive/story-bfb3dbvO0ZlInVcJreBzMM.html
28-04-2020||City||Two coronavirus patients test positive again in Ludhiana||Samples of a Tablighi Jamaat follower, and the son of Ludhiana’s first Covid-19 casualty were found positive in the revised test on Monday.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said duo are asymptomatic but their is being monitored and their samples will be sent again. During the day, the health department team also collected samples of the primary contacts of block development and panchayat officer, who was recently found positive for the virus, days after her mother, the district mandi official, had tested positive. Meanwhile, a couple was also found Covid-19 positive in Central Town. MUSIC THERAPY TO BOOST SUSPECTED PATIENTS’ MORALEIn a bid to boost the morale of suspected patients lodged in the isolation ward of the Ludhiana civil hospital, health authorities introduced music therapy. In a video released by the health department, hospital staff wearing PPE suits and seen tapping their foot to the latest Punjabi numbers. THEFT ACCUSED SHIFTED TO ISOLATIONOn the other hand, no one came to take Saurav Sehgal, a theft accused who was found positive for the virus and has now recovered from the ailment. The health department and police contacted his family again and urged them to take Saurav from the hospital, but their efforts bore no fruit as his kin even refused to visit the hospital stating that they have snapped all ties with him. Saurav was caught on the charges of theft on April 6 and later found to be Covid-19 positive.Besides, the municipal corporation (MC) carried out screening of around 1,000 sweepers in Zones A and C. MC health officer Dr Jasvir Kaur said that during the screening, none of the sweepers showed any symptoms of the virus. The screening drive will continue on Tuesday, she said.1,800 TESTED SO FARDeputy commissioner Pradeep Agrawal said that till Sunday, 1,839 samples had been collected in the district out of which reports of 1,505 have been received and 1,484 samples have tested negative. “Of the total samples, 21 were found positive, including 18 from Ludhiana and three from other districts,” he said, adding that five people have lost their lives, while seven patients (six from Ludhiana and one from Jalandhar) have fully recovered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-coronavirus-patients-test-positive-again-in-ludhiana/story-NhjcPBUCTUOys4hoHcmbdN.html
28-04-2020||City||26 Ludhiana students stuck in Kota reach home amid lockdown||As many as 26 students from Ludhiana, who were stranded at the coaching hub, Kota in Rajasthan, amid the nationwide lockdown reached their hometown on Monday afternoon. Soon after their arrival, they were screened at the civil hospital and sent home on 14-day home quarantine recommendation.According to district administration officials, the students did not have exhibit any symptom of Covid-19.The students were dropped home in the transportation facilities arranged by the district administration.A 20-year-old student preparing for engineering entrance exams at Kota, Ashish Rana, said, “When the number of positive cases gradually increased to 160 in Kota, I got very upset and was eager to come home. I am thankful to the state government for arranging a bus for the stranded students.”Another medical student, Parkash Kumar, from Haria village, Ludhiana, said, “I was residing in a paying guest accommodation and before lockdown, I was getting three meals a day. But gradually I started getting only two meals a day. Due to lockdown, we had to face difficulties in getting sufficient food. When I got to know that the state government will send buses for stranded students, I felt relaxed. During the entire journey from Kota to Ludhiana, I was thanking God and the government officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/26-ludhiana-students-stuck-in-kota-reach-hometown-amid-lockdown/story-v8kAUMWMigef2FwoJbmShL.html
28-04-2020||City||Ludhiana bizman converts Innova into spray machine to disinfect public places||In a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19, Ludhiana-based industrialist, Kanwaljit Singh Dhillon, 54, of Karnail Singh Nagar, modified his Toyota Innova (a compact multi-purpose vehicle) and transformed it into a spray machine to disinfect public places. “The spray machine, which I have developed myself, can be operated while driving the vehicle. I can cover up to 25km after filling the machine,” says Kanwalji.He fills the vehicle with 40-litre sanitiser at a time and sprays it in public places. “I get sanitisers from local area councillors and sometimes from non-governmental organisations (NGOs)). I have sprayed sanitisers in colonies, religious places and parks across the city,” said Kanwaljit.Owner of a sewing machine parts factory, Dhillon said his father, Pooran Singh Dhillon, was his inspiration. He said Pooran had established a free canteen for soldiers in 1971 during the India-Pakistan war.He adds that when he did not find any vehicle to spray sanitisers, he modified his Toyota Innova vehicle and converted it into spray machine.Kanwaljit was an active member of All India Student Federation during his college days. Kanwaljit said they had initiated the struggle for free passes for students and for employment in 1982. Kanwaljit was arrested and sent to Burail Jail, where he had spent one-and-a-half months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-bizman-converts-innova-vehicle-into-spray-machine-to-disinfect-public-places/story-PO1SxU5IHN0j6GA4olxZkK.html
28-04-2020||City||5-year-old’s cancer recovery brings cheer amid Covid gloom||Amid the gloom of the Covid-19 outbreak, five-year-old Karan Bansal’s cancer recovery has brought a cheer to his family and his village, Budhlada. Karan, who won the battle against cancer on April 24, finally went back to his village with his parents after undergoing chemotherapy sessions for six months at the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) here.Karan was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, a cancer that starts in the lymphatic system and occurs when the body produces too many abnormal lymphocytes, a type of white blood cells. While his condition was detected in September last year, his chemotherapy sessions started on November 26.His father, Suresh Kumar Bansal, who runs a small cosmetic shop in his village, said he, along with his wife Raj Rani, was always with Karan in Ludhiana while his two daughters Khushi and Dwanshi stayed back with their grandmother Urmila in the village.“These six months were the toughest phase of over lives. Only a parent can understand how it feels when you learn that your four-year-old son is in the fourth stage cancer. But I’m glad that all that is over now and my son is healthy, laughing and playing with his sisters,” said Bansal. After completing his session on April 18 and follow-up on April 22, he was given clearance by the team of doctors, who had been treating him, last week.The curfew, imposed by the government to contain the spread of coronavirus, has also affected Bansal family and their small business, but the joy of having their son back has overshadowed every distress for now.“Due to my son’s treatment, I have kept my shop closed for the past eight months. We have already exhausted all our savings and are surviving on the money that we borrowed from our relatives. We are in a tough spot, but the joy of having our son back after winning a battle against cancer has overshadowed even the distress caused by the pandemic. We thank God every day for healing our son and also the hospital staff and NGO, CanKids, that helped us financially and emotionally throughout the whole process,” said Suresh.Karan also celebrated his 5th birthday by cutting a homemade cake made by his mother.“On his birthday, Karan wanted a bicycle, but due to lockdown and our current financial condition, I can’t afford it, but he is a really sweet kid. He was happy with cake and balloons and being back with his family,” Suresh added.For people suffering from coronavirus, Suresh said recovery from all deadly diseases depended on willpower.“Faith in God and strong willpower are the strengths in such times. Even though my son was fighting cancer, his smile and our faith in God were our strengths. I want to advise the Covid-19 positive patients not to lose hope and keep fighting with faith in God,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/recovery-of-5-year-old-karan-from-cancer-gives-mansa-family-a-reason-to-cheer/story-7OCMGv3io8Hboa5LjMgWEJ.html
28-04-2020||City||Deadline extended: Apply online for admission to Punjab’s meritorious schools by May 3||The Society for Promotion of Quality Education for Poor and Meritorious Students of Punjab extended the online registration deadline for Class 11 admissions from April 15 to May 3 amid the Covid-19 lockdown. So far, 14,000 students have registered against 4,600 seats in the 10 meritorious schools of Punjab. These schools are located in Amritsar, Bathinda, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mohali, Patiala, Hakumat Singh Wala village in Ferozepur district, Ghabdhan village in Gurdaspur, Sangrur, and Talwara in Hoshiarpur. This is the third time that the society has extended the date for online registration. Earlier, the entrance exam was scheduled to be held on May 3. Punjab meritorious schools’ assistant project director Inderpal Singh Malhotra said, “We have a total of 4,600 seats in the meritorious schools of Punjab and a total 14,000 students have applied online and showed interest in appearing for the entrance exam. The date of the entrance exam will be announced shortly.”ELIGIBILITY CRITERIAClass 10 students of Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) affiliated government-aided and private schools who belong to below poverty line (BPL) families with smart cards are eligible to register.To be able to register, a general category student should secure 70% and SC/ST students should obtain 65% in Class 10.THE EXAM PATTERNThe duration of the entrance exam is two hours. The 100-mark paper will comprise three sections, including English, science and math, carrying 30, 35 and 35 marks. The sectional pass marks is 33% and 50% should be the aggregate score. The Class 9 entrance exam will be of 150 marks. For Class 9 students, there is only one meritorious school at Talwara in Hoshiarpur.Where to apply: www.ssapunjab.org Deadline for applying online: May 3, till 5 pm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/now-apply-online-by-may-3-for-class-11-admissions-in-meritorious-schools/story-dbSXpm03IO4f0aXFwwxrZJ.html
28-04-2020||City||‘Hope in the time of pandemic’: Punjab education department launches online competition for school students||In a bid to help school students beat their lockdown blues, Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Monday announced an online competition ‘#AmbassadorsOfHope’ for school students across the state. The minister took to Twitter and wrote, “Dear Kids! There is no lockdown on your creativity! So, we bring you a fun contest called #AmbassadorsOfHope. Share your idea of hope through a video & win cool new gifts! Make sure you fulfil all terms & conditions! Looking forward to your amazing entries!” He also posted a seven-minute video encouraging Class 1-12 students of all government and private schools of Punjab to participate in the campaign based on the theme ‘Hope in the time of pandemic.’In the video, Singla has asked the students to share a 1-3 minute video highlighting a message of hope amid the ongoing tough times of the lockdown. The messages can be in the form of poem, skit or dance. Students can share the videos on any social media platform or send it to #AmbassadorsOfHopepunjab@gmail.com.While recording the video, a participant should first share his/her name, school and district name and then give the message of hope. AWARDS TO TOP 3 RANKERS IN EACH DISTRICTStudent bagging the first position in each district will be awarded an iPad, the second position holder will get a laptop and the participant securing the third rank will receive an android tablet. Besides, all the students will be awarded a certificate of participation. The minister also said that he would interact with the first position holders from every district through video conferencing. He also lauded the students for staying inside their houses and taking all precautionary measures to avoid contracting the virus.The minister also asked the school principals, teachers and parents to make students participate in the competition so they can utilise their energy and showcase their talent by sharing innovative and creative videos on various social media platforms. “Amid the lockdown, this is the best move by the state government to engage students and bring out their hidden talent,” said a retired school principal, Anoop Kumar Passi.District education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur said, “We have told all the school principals to encourage students for participating in this online competition. It will not only engage them in creating interesting videos on hope, but will also boost their confidence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/hope-in-the-time-of-pandemic-punjab-education-department-launches-online-competition-for-school-students/story-t34T8wQU6O2I6Z8g8wDFmJ.html
28-04-2020||Pune||Next six months challenging for kabaddi, players should stay mentally fit, says Rajendra Andekar, joint secretary, PDKA||Sports like kabaddi, wrestling and boxing are body-contact games and we cannot anticipate when the tournaments for such sports will resume even after the lockdown ends,” says Rajendra Andekar, joint secretary, Pune District Kabaddi Association (PDKA).“At least 15 kabaddi tournaments were scheduled across the state in April and May, but all have been cancelled. All these tournaments are important for players as it gives them an opportunity to get selected for state teams,” said Andekar.“Even one-day tournaments were scheduled during Gudi Padwa, Ram Navami and Hanuman Jayanti. These local tournaments help players to prepare for bigger tournaments,” said Andekar, who also coaches at Shahu College campus in Parvati.The association has advised its players to maintain a fitness regime and perform drills at homes to maintain their fitness level.“Right now we are not conducting any sessions on social media, but there is a one-on-one consultation with players via voice or video calls. We clear whatever queries and doubts they have related to the game and fitness regime,” added Andekar.Many summer camps have also been affected due to the pandemic and the lockdown. Andekar himself was gearing up to conduct a camp at Shahu College campus.“The plan was to conduct a camp for the age group of 12 to 17 years and all the players would have been selected from Pune Municipal Corporation schools and slum areas. I had prepared four arenas at my coaching academy and work was almost completed and the lockdown was implemented,” said Andekar.“Even national coaches had agreed to come for the camp but now, I will have to postpone this plan for next year. I don’t think there will be any sports activity in the coming six months,” said Andekar.Doubt over Zilla Parishad tournamentsSchools usually re-open in June and Zilla Parishad tournaments are held in August and September every year, but this year the tournaments are doubtful.“It looks difficult this year due to the current situation of the pandemic. Even international sports events have been cancelled. I think university-level sports tournaments will also be affected,” said Andekar.Mental fitness should be a priority“I feel along with giving fitness tips to players, it is important to keep the players motivated. As a coach, I know the situation is tough especially for young players as they may feel burdened during this situation,” he said.“We make sure to give inspiring talks to help them keep motivated,” said Andekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/next-six-months-challenging-for-kabaddi-players-should-stay-mentally-fit-says-rajendra-andekar-joint-secretary-pdka/story-XtbLD4VCl1Bb35fcBUKTbN.html
28-04-2020||City||Railways begins to dismantle 100-year-old foot overbridge in Ludhiana||Railway authorities pumped in around 180 workers to dismantle the 154 metre long, over 100-year-old foot overbridge at city railway station on Monday. It was a long pending project that was hanging the balance for past few years for want of approval from higher authorities.As during nationwide lockdown, there is no movement of passenger trains and entry of passengers at railway station is prohibited, the authorities found it a right time to start the work of dismantling the bridge. Senior section engineer Sunil Kumar said that the planning had started around five days ago and on Monday, the actual task began. “The work will continue till May 4 and we will dismantle it phase by phase. In the first phase, the portion of bridge between platform 1 and 2 will be disassembled,” he said.First, the power cable was removed and the then portion of bridge was lifted with the help of a crane. The disassembled bridge was placed on a container train to move it to the shed.Station director Tarun Kumar said that during normal days, it was risky to disassemble the bridge due to rush of passengers at the platform and it was optimum utilisation of the time to complete this pending project. Officials from all departments, including Railway Protection Force, Government Railway Police, Mechanical Department, Electrical Department and Engineering Department were on duty.Social distancing went for tossAlthough, masks were being distributed to all workers and a separate desk for sanitising hands of workers was also set up, it became a tough task for authorities to maintain social distancing between the workers.The workers were seen standing together and no distance was being maintained while pulling rope and lifting different equipment and some of them were also working without wearing gloves. Tarun Kumar said that the work was carried out while taking all precautions. “Regular announcements were being made to make sure workers were observing proper distancing while working. But as there were a number of workers, it is possible that at a point of time, some of them may have gathered at one place. Most of the work was performed with the help of machine because of which we were able to take maximum precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/railway-begins-to-dismantle-over-100-year-old-foot-overbridge-in-ludhiana/story-9TeJwWf9R2PpgHAaamWiWM.html
28-04-2020||Pune||Pune NGO appeals for donations amid lockdown scarcity||The Society of friends of Sassoon hospitals (Sofosh) a Pune-based NGO which runs two child care institutions that take care of destitute , abandoned or relinquished children and also disabled children, has appealed for donations.Sofosh officials said that resources are drying up due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The organisation that houses 88 children and full-time care takers need essentials and medicines. “Presently, there are 88 children in both establishments. Sofosh usually gets their essentials from donors, individuals and companies, but now, the lockdown has adversely affected the inflow of donations, be it in kind like food grains, vegetables, fruits, infant food, medicines and other provisions or cash donations,” said Shubhangi Abhyangkar, administration corordinator, Sofosh. “On the other hand, the caretaker staff had to be housed in the institution itself 24/7 due to severe movement restrictions for avoiding spread of Covid-19 to the children as well as the staff. This has increased the expenses considerably. Therefore Sofosh has appealed to people to donate cash or kind donations,” she added. How to donateSofosh calls for donations through online transfers directly to the NGO bank account .Bank details: AC name: Sofosh (Society of Friends of Sassoon Hospitals); AC no: 98260100000122; AC type: Savings account; IFSC code: BARB0DRCBJM; Bank name: Bank of BarodaUPI payment accepted: sofosh@barodampayAfter donating a person can send an email to admin@ sofosh.org giving full details. This will help in generating a donation receipt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sofosh-appeals-for-donations-amid-lockdown-scarcity/story-3oEczMdJhXzTwxAtd6sQYO.html
28-04-2020||Pune||Pune Police extend time window to buy essentials till 2pm||The Pune police on Monday announced that there will be a relaxation in the timings for shops to remain open beyond 12 noon in the city. The entire city has been declared a containment zone and shops selling groceries and essential items had been allowed to run their business between 10am and 12 noon during the lockdown, but on Monday, after Pune police’s fresh orders, the timing has been extended till 2pm.The time has been extended taking into account the inconvenience caused to residents, who have been seen breaking social distancing norms in view of the small window to buy essential items.Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police in his order stated, “Shops selling essential items will now be able to function from 10 am to 2 pm instead of the earlier deadline of 12 noon. However, strictures related to social distancing and observing hygiene standards like compulsory wearing of masks, use of hand gloves, face shield and use of sanitisers will remain in force.”While many housing societies and citizens had demanded that shops be open for half a day, Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol in his request to the police had stated that many people were stepping outside the house to buy essentials and social distancing was not being observed as the timings to buy items was short. According to residents, the time window to buy essential commodities is limited leading to shops being crowded and social distancing norms being violated with impunity.“Residents should not take the relaxation in timings lightly and roam outside their homes. We have information that citizens go to shops multiple times to buy essentials, which must stop. If you go outside time and again you are more likely to get infected if you come in contact with a Covid-19 positive person,” said Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham.In many areas such as Kondhwa, NIBM road, Padmawati, Katraj, Aundh and Baner, social distancing was absent when people stepped out to purchase vegetables and groceries. “The two-hour window is too limited for everyone to come out of their home and purchase essentials. As supply of vegetables and milk is also limited, people do not have any option, but to come out within that two-hour window, which leads to chaos,” said Amrita Mali, a resident of Sahakarnagar.Sanjay Gaikwad, a resident of Salunke Vihar, said, “I had to wait for 45 minutes in the scorching sun to buy chicken, which earlier was an easy task. The two-hour window is putting severe pressure on the shopkeepers and buyers. We request the police authorities to increase the timings by two hours.”Meanwhile, a senior citizen, Francis D Mello, who had stepped out to buy groceries in Wanowrie, said, “The queues are long and it is difficult to get things on time. There is lot of pressure on the shopkeepers as they have very less time on their hand. Relaxation in curfew timings will see less crowds on the roads as people will not panic.”Rajeshkumar Chaudhary, who owns a grocery shop in Kondhwa, said, “The time is short and police take very strict action if we flout the rules. We are able to cater to only around 30 per cent of the customers in queue. Extension in timing will bring things back to normalcy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-hour-window-to-buy-essentials-leads-to-crowding-pune-police-considers-relaxation-of-2-hours/story-NB57Pwjf9WysqEsOcCGwjI.html
28-04-2020||Delhi||200 Tablighi Jamaat members, who have recovered, pledge to donate plasma||Over 200 members of the Tablighi Jamaat who have recovered from the Covid-19 infection have pledged to donate plasma to help those admitted to city hospitals with severe infections. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged everyone who has recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma without thinking on religious lines.“The people have been tested; the collection will begin now,” a senior official from Delhi’s health department said.Of the over 2,300 people evacuated from the Nizamuddin Markaz in March-end, 1,080 had tested positive for the infection; many have now recovered.So far, 869 people have recovered from the infection in the city.“I was wondering, what if any patient, who is a Hindu, and is in a serious situation, is saved by the plasma extracted from the blood collected from the body of a Muslim person (who has been cured of Covid-19)? What if we come across cases in which plasma extracted from the blood of a Hindu person is found to have saved the life of a Muslim person?” Kejriwal said in a video media briefing.He further said, “God did not differentiate between individuals. It is us who have started to differentiate between humans based on faith. Coronavirus disease can happen to anyone irrespective of one’s faith… A Hindu person’s blood plasma can save a Muslim person’s life and a Muslim person’s blood plasma can save a Hindu person’s life. But, why have we created walls? At least, the virus has taught us that if we stand united, nothing can defeat us. And if we are divided among ourselves, we shall lose the battle. While donating plasma, one should not think on such (religious) lines.”So far, the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), which handles plasma collection, has received about nine donations, with a few more scheduled to take place on Monday.“Delhi needs a bank of around 200 Covid-19 plasma donations; we cannot wait for donation when a sick person comes to the hospital. Anybody who has recovered from the infection—two consecutive samples have tested negative—and has completed two more weeks of quarantine can donate plasma. People who have recovered can donate plasma every seven to ten days,” Dr SK Sarin, director, ILBS, said.The person has to be healthy to donate plasma—normal weight, haemoglobin of over 12, with no history of diabetes or hypertension. The doctors have found good levels of antibodies around three weeks after the infection.The government currently has limited approval to conduct a randomised control trial of the therapy for 20 critical patients, half of whom will receive the antibody-rich plasma and the other half a placebo (which is devoid of any therapeutic value). This will help test whether the plasma actually helps heal those with Covid-19.The therapy will be administered to those with a respiratory rate higher than 30 (normal is 20), have an oxygen saturation of less than 90% (normal is 95 to 100%), or those who have pus in their lungs.The plasma will be able to save critical Covid-19 patients, Kejriwal highlighted, citing an example of a Covid-19 patient in serious condition, who was administered the therapy and has improved in the last 24 hours.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma—which contains virus-fighting antibodies—from people who have recovered from the infection to treat those who are severely ill with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/200-tablighi-jamaat-members-who-have-recovered-pledge-to-donate-plasma/story-uCGTmL5MvH5uNXRkDnCDOL.html
28-04-2020||World||Trump defends Covid-19 predictions after report surfaces that US ignored warnings||President Donald Trump defended his early, dismissive response to the coronavirus outbreak, saying Tuesday that he was told late in February that it wouldn’t be a problem.“Even professionals like Anthony were saying this is no problem,” Trump told reporters in a White House meeting with Florida Governor Ron DeSantis on Tuesday, referring to the government’s top infectious disease specialist, Anthony Fauci.“This is late in February. This is no problem,” he said. “This is going to blow over.”The Washington Post reported Monday that Trump was repeatedly warned in his daily intelligence briefing in January and February -- a document the paper said he seldom reads -- that the virus posed a threat to the US“I would have to check,” Trump said of the report. “I want to look as to the exact dates of warnings.”Fauci said on NBC’s Today show on Feb. 29 that Americans didn’t need to change to change their daily routines yet to avoid infection, but warned that could change. The Trump administration endorsed social-distancing practices that have crippled the economy on March 16, after they had already been adopted by many businesses, state governments and ordinary Americans.A top CDC official, Nancy Messonnier, warned Feb. 25 that the agency expected “community spread” of the virus and that “disruption to everyday life might be severe.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2020 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-defends-covid-19-predictions-after-report-surfaces-that-us-ignored-warnings/story-PCDADCsGBJwzyVpvsDQnvM.html
28-04-2020||World||Nirav Modi remanded to custody, extradition trial from May 11||Fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi was on Tuesday again remanded to prison as British authorities confirmed that his extradition trial will begin as scheduled on May 11, unlike that of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, whose hearing has reportedly been postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.Modi, 49, who is wanted in India to face charges of major financial offences, including fraud, faces India’s second extradition request made recently on the basis of two new charges relating to ‘causing disappearance of evidence’ and intimidating witnesses.Assange is facing extradition to the United States to face charges of leading classified information.The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) confirmed that Modi’s five-day trial would begin on May 11. Modi, who is lodged in the Wandsworth jail since his arrest in March last year, has been refused bail four times in the Westminster Magistrates Court and the high court.The second extradition request was certified by home secretary Priti Patel on February 20, the CPS said, adding that the two new charges are part of the case brought by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the multi-crore fraud case,Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, the first brought by CBI, and the second by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The CBI case relates to the fraud upon PNB, through the fraudulent obtaining of Letters of Understanding; the ED case relates to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud.On the two new charges, CPS said: “The Government of India has issued this further extradition request…Put shortly, those offences relate to allegations that NDM (Nirav Deepak Modi) has interfered with the CBI investigation by ‘causing disappearance of evidence’ and intimidating witnesses (‘criminal intimidation to cause death’)”.It added that the hearing scheduled from May 11 will go ahead, but the two additional offences part of the CBI case will be dealt with at a separate later hearing, probably in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nirav-modi-remanded-to-custody-extradition-trial-from-may-11/story-hzBFFrrrojRjuz97MZgzdP.html
28-04-2020||World||US body recommends India be designated for religious freedom violations||A US commission mandated to monitor religious freedoms around the world on Tuesday recommended the Trump administration should add India to a list of countries seen by the US as systematic and egregious violators and sanction Indian government agencies and officials responsible for it.The US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) cited the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which fast-tracks Indian citizenship for non-Muslim refugees fleeing persecution, and “nationwide campaigns of harassment and violence against religious minorities” as its reasons.In its 2020 annual report released Tuesday, the commission recommended that the US government (technically, the state government) should designate India a “Country of Particular Concern” (CPC), for “engaging in and tolerating systematic, ongoing, and egregious religious freedom violations”. India was on the commission’s for Tier 2 list of countries to be watched in 2019.This is the first time since 2004 that USCIRF recommends #India as a Country of Particular Concern #USCIRFAnnualReport2020The commission also recommended that the US government should impose targeted sanctions against Indian government agencies and officials responsible for religious freedom violations, freeze their assets in the United States and ban them from entering the country.It separately recommended to US congress to continue to hold hearings on the state of religious freedoms in India.It could not be immediately ascertained if the recommendation were binding and whether the Trump administration would indeed accept those meant for the the US government. It had ignored a previous recommendation by the commission in December to sanction Union home minister Amit Shah if the CAA was enacted.The Citizenship (Amendment) Act in #India "potentially exposes millions of Muslims to detention, deportation, and statelessness when the government completes its planned nationwide National Register of Citizens" USCIRF Vice Chair @nadinemaenza #USCIRFAnnualReport2020India had dismissed the USCIRF’s December recommendations as “guided only by its prejudices and biases” and has in the past denied its officials entry into the country.The commission held a hearing on India’s citizenship laws and changes and the state of religious freedom in March at which the CAA and a proposed National Register of Citizens had been criticized by expert witnesses as aimed as India’s Muslim minorities.USCIRF Chair @tperkins discusses #India saying "We are seeing impunity for violence by non-state actors committed against religious minorities." #USCIRFAnnualReport2020The commission recommended re-designating Burma, China, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan as CPC and adding to it along with India, Nigeria, Russia, Syria, and Vietnam. It also sought for Cuba, Nicaragua, Sudan, and Uzbekistan to be kept on the next tier of special watch list and add 11 more: Afghanistan, Algeria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Central African Republic (CAR), Egypt, Indonesia, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, and Turkey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-body-recommends-india-be-designated-for-religious-freedom-violations/story-3WZbbYfa22vBulTcPlXsaN.html
28-04-2020||World||German doctors pose naked online to protest lack of PPE||German doctors have posed naked online to protest a shortage of protective masks and gowns, which they say puts them at greater risk of catching the coronavirus.The health workers’ nude pictures, with carefully positioned props like books and flowers to conceal their private parts, appear on a website urging politicians to ensure doctors and clinics have enough protective gear.Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemic“I learned how to stitch wounds, why do I now have to learn how to stitch masks?” reads a placard held by a female doctor with a stethoscope and a red mask in one photo.With just over 156,000 confirmed cases and an official death toll of 5,900, Germany has withstood the pandemic much better than the United States, Italy, Spain and France.But just like those countries, it has suffered from a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE).The naked doctors said that outpatient and general practice care for COVID-19 patients was as important as hospital care, putting them on the frontline in the fight to contain the coronavirus pandemic.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThey said their protest was inspired by Alain Colombie, a French doctor who last month posted nude pictures of himself to protest the lack of protective equipment. Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government wants to provide financial assistance to producers of protective equipment and has ramped up its orders for PPE abroad. A German military plane brought 10 million medical masks from China on Monday.The Finance Ministry has made available an additional 8 billion euros ($8.7 billion) for medical protection gear to help hospitals and doctors contain the spread of the coronavirus.German states have made wearing a mask compulsory on public transport and in shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/german-doctors-pose-naked-online-to-protest-lack-of-ppe/story-LcjrKLtEmh0SKjBhUYS0CO.html
28-04-2020||World||Brics states to create $15 billion fund to aid, rebuild Covid-battered economies||The members of the Brics (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) grouping on Tuesday decided to create a special fund of $15 billion to rebuild their economies and to overcome the impact of the global Covid-19 pandemic.The decision was made during a video conference of foreign ministers of Brics states convened by the current chair, Russia. The meeting also discussed a host of measures, ranging from healthcare to trade and financial sustainability, which could be part of a common approach to fight the pandemic.The New Development Bank (NDB), established by Brics to mobilise resources for infrastructure and sustainable development projects, will allocate up to $15 billion for loans to help the member states boost their economies amid the pandemic, Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said.“We decided to set up a special loan instrument to finance projects for the economic rebuilding of Brics countries. In total, we decided to allocate up to $15 billion to this, and we believe this can be a very good foundation at the stage our economies leave the crisis behind to restore economic activities,” he told a news briefing after the video conference.The meeting, Lavrov said, discussed a “huge set of measures”, including cooperation in healthcare, trade, financial sustainability and employment, as part of a coordinated approach to the Covid-19 crisis. Further discussions on these issues will be held during upcoming sectoral meetings of the five countries, he added.A virtual meeting of economic experts of Brics states is expected to be held on Wednesday, and healthcare experts are expected to hold a similar meeting on May 7.Russia’s finance minister Anton Siluanov and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman were elected chairperson and vice-chairperson of the NDB’s board of governors during a virtual meeting on April 22. That meeting also the discussed the creation of an “emergency assistance facility” of $15 billion to meet emergency needs of Brics states. The NDB said it plans to earmark $10 billion for crisis-related assistance, including support for the economic recovery of Brics states.Addressing Tuesday’s meeting, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said the challenge posed by Covid-19 “underlines all the more the need for reform of multilateral systems and that reformed multilateralism was the way forward”, according to a statement from the external affairs ministry.Brics, which accounts for almost 42% of the global population and has a substantial share of investment and trade, has an “important role to play in shaping the global economic and political architecture”, he said.Jaishankar said the pandemic had severely impacted the global economy and output by disrupting trade and supply chains, and this had led to loss of jobs and livelihoods. “We need to provide support to businesses, especially MSMEs, to tide over the crisis and ensure livelihoods are not lost,” he said.He spoke of India’s efforts to coordinate the response to Covid-19 in South Asia, including the creation of the Saarc Emergency Fund. India is also providing pharmaceutical aid to nearly 85 countries, including many in Africa, as grants.Lavrov also said there was no alternative to a multilateral approach to combating challenges such as Covid-19 and that multilateral institutions were facing a test. The Brics states, he said, will deepen cooperation at global platforms such as the UN, G20, WHO, WTO and IMF.The world community should unite to “ensure the most positive outcome of our efforts for our countries and our citizens”, Lavrov said. These efforts were being undermined by unilateral sanctions imposed on some countries, he added.“We support the plea of the UN Secretary General and the UN High Commissioner on Human Rights to at least suspend, and at best lift, these unilateral sanctions, imposed by bypassing the UN Charter,” he said.Asked about the US administration’s decision to cut funding for the WHO, Lavrov said the “common opinion” of Brics states is that UN’s health body is an “important instrument and a unique platform” that has the best professionals from around the world.Besides Jaishankar and Lavrov, Brazil’s foreign minister Ernesto Araújo, Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi, and South Africa’s foreign minister Grace Naledi Pandor joined the video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brics-states-to-create-15-billion-fund-to-aid-rebuild-covid-battered-economies/story-Vs8ojOLpIQuQcnpRIxY0gP.html
28-04-2020||World||Fuel truck bomb kills more than 20 in northern Syria: Report||A fuel truck bomb killed more than 20 people including at least six Turkey-backed rebel fighters on Tuesday in a northern Syrian city controlled by Ankara’s local proxies, a war monitor said.“At least 22 people including civilians were killed and 27 others wounded when an explosive device inside a fuel truck exploded in a market” in the Afrin region, said Rami Abdul Rahman, the head of the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fuel-truck-bomb-kills-more-than-20-in-northern-syria-report/story-Z697aVx2aTRcjfBtDJUDQM.html
28-04-2020||World||Multiple US intelligence alerts on Covid-19 went unheeded: Report||US intelligence agencies raised alarm about coronavirus in classified briefing material prepared for President Donald Trump with increasing frequency over January and February, a period that is seen as a squandered opportunity to aggressively prepare the country for the epidemic.The warnings came in more than a dozen of briefing papers called the President Daily Brief, the Washington Post reported Monday, adding to a growing body of news accounts and reports of the botched and delayed response of the Trump administration to the epidemic.The first mention of the virus in the PBD came in early January.According to the report, by Tuesday morning, four months after, it had killed 52,256 — 1,378 in just the past 24 hours — and infected 988,490, up by 22,412 over the previous day.These intelligence alerts, the newspaper reported, failed to register on the President who tends to skip the daily briefings and does not pay much attention to the oral summaries he prefers two or three times a week.The first major action taken by the Trump administration to fight the outbreak came in late-January with a ban on travelers from China, except US citizens. But the administration did do much for all of February, a period of squandered opportunity to beef up essential medical supplies, protective equipment and begin social-distancing and other mitigation efforts.The president continued to play down the gravity of the crisis. “It’s like a miracle, it will disappear,” he said February 26. “Just stay calm. It will go away,” he said on March 10, the day before the WHO declared the outbreak a pandemic, as the Post report noted as an instance of the president’s failure to grasp the seriousness of the situation.The president has insisted, however, that there was no delay in his response to the crisis and has cited the January travel ban as the highlight of his administration’s response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/multiple-us-intelligence-alerts-on-covid-19-went-unheeded-report/story-vkOjgQkNl5XRYHqDUyVaiJ.html
28-04-2020||World||North Korean defectors unable to shed light on Kim Jong Un’s health||Defectors from North Korea say many of their relatives and contacts were unaware of the international speculation over leader Kim Jong Un’s health or were unwilling to discuss the issue in clandestine calls made from the South.Two defectors told Reuters their relatives in North Korea did not know that Kim has been missing from public view for almost two weeks, said they didn’t want to discuss the issue, or abruptly hung up when the supreme leader was mentioned.Kim’s health is a state secret in insular North Korea and speculation about him or his family can invite swift retribution.Another defector said some people in the North have nevertheless been privately talking of Kim’s whereabouts after he failed to appear at a key state holiday on April 15, but only in very closed circles.Kim’s absence from public ceremonies on the birth anniversary of his grandfather and founder of the country, Kim Il Sung, was unprecedented. That has led to days of speculation in the international community over his health and whether the nuclear-capable state was headed toward instability.“I talked to my sister and my niece this morning and they had no clue about these reports and rumours about Kim Jong Un’s health,” Lee Soon-hee, 59, told Reuters on Monday. “When I told them, they were so cautious about discussing it. North Koreans have a very limited knowledge of these things.”Also Read: South Korea’s ministers say they know North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s locationLee defected to the South in 2009.South Korean officials say they have not detected any “unusual movements” in North Korea, and one foreign resident living in Pyongyang told Reuters that life appeared to be going on as usual.The South Korean minister in charge of North Korean affairs said on Tuesday fear of catching the coronavirus could have kept Kim away from the April 15 state ceremonies. Kim Heung-kwang, who defected to South Korea in 2004 and now runs an academic group that researches North Korea, said he spoke to two contacts in North Korea about the speculation.Also Read: Where is North Korea’s Kim Jong Un? Here’s what is possibleOne, a government official, said that he had been wondering about Kim Jong Un’s lack of public appearances and had noticed an increase in calls from security officials to stay focused on internal policies, Kim Heung-kwang told Reuters.Another person was not aware of the reports and warned him “not to be fooled by such lies,” Kim said. Lim Hee-joo, a defector who runs a restaurant in Seoul, said almost no one in North Korea had any idea about Kim Jong Un’s health or whereabouts.“Not even the people in the central party,” she said. “They are so scared that they don’t even think of looking into it or think about it, to begin with, as they fear they might get arrested.” North Koreans are keenly aware they could face punishment for discussing the Kim family in any way except to shower them with glowing praise, said Sokeel Park, of Liberty in North Korea, a group that works with defectors.“That doesn’t mean people don’t take that risk, some people do,” Park said. “But it’s still a super sensitive issue.”“It’s a little like the pope not showing up for Christmas.” he said of Kim’s absence from the April 15 celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korean-defectors-unable-to-shed-light-on-kim-jong-un-s-health/story-DKqS29zrRvvjPsSH2f3U2N.html
28-04-2020||World||Sharma, Arora, Rathod, Riyat: UK mourns Covid-19 deaths||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Tuesday led the United Kingdom for a minute’s silence to remember the hundreds of doctors, nurses, carers and other key workers who died of Covid-19, many of them of Indian origin and other non-white individuals.As mass circulation tabloids and mainstream news media highlight the disproportionate number of deaths of non-white people, mostly immigrants and their descendants, there are indications that their contribution to British society is being more widely recognised.A sombre looking Johnson – who had a brush with death after being hospitalised with virus infection – stood in silence at the cabinet table in Downing Street, flanked by chancellor Rishi Sunak and cabinet secretary Mark Sedwill.It is a reflection of tens of thousands of Indian doctors and health care professionals arriving in the UK over recent decades and taking up key jobs in the National Health Service that the dead include several professionals from the 1.5 million strong Indian community.Medical staff of Indian heritage who passed away include Jitendra Kumar Rathod, Manjeet Singh Riyat, Krishan Arora, Rajesh Kalraiya, Pooja Sharma, Jayesh Patel, Vivek Sharma, Kamlesh Kumar Masson, Amarante Dias, Sophie Fagan, Hamza Pacheeri and Amrik Bamotra.Health secretary Matt Hancock on Monday announced a 60,000-pound compensation scheme for the family of health workers who pass away after being infected by the virus. The Home Office has announced a free year-long extension of visa of Indian and other non-EU such workersHancock said: “Nothing can make up for the tragic loss of a loved one during this pandemic. We owe a huge debt to those who die in service to our nation and are doing everything we can to protect them”.“Financial worries should be the last thing on the minds of their families so in recognition of these unprecedented circumstances we are expanding financial protection to NHS and social care workers delivering publicly funded care on the frontline”.Home secretary Priti Patel said the controversial immigration health surcharge, which is also applicable to doctors and other health professionals coming to the UK and is payable at the time of applying for the visa, is under review, following demands that it be scrapped.The surcharge, which is due to be increased from £400 to £624 per year per person in an immigrant’s family, has come in for much criticism from stake-holders, including organisations such as the British Association of Physicians of Indian Origin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sharma-arora-rathod-riyat-uk-mourns-covid-19-deaths/story-tAeFQdnfOFTdYYS1WyeWyN.html
28-04-2020||World||Bernie Sanders assails New York’s decision to cancel its primary||New York canceled its June 23 presidential primary in response to the coronavirus pandemic, citing a state law that permits the vote to be called off if the races are uncontested.Bernie Sanders’s campaign said the decision was an “outrage,” and called upon the Democratic National Committee to reverse it.Sixteen states and one territory have postponed votes or moved to mail-only ballots, but New York is the first state to cancel its primary altogether. It was initially slated to hold the vote on April 28 but that was postponed until June by Governor Andrew Cuomo in late March. State election officials said they decided to call off the election to protect public health and because Joe Biden was unopposed for the Democratic nomination after Sanders’s withdrawal from the race earlier this month.Sanders has endorsed Biden, but wants to stay on the ballot in the remaining primaries to rack up delegates for influence at the convention.“Today’s decision by the state of New York Board of Elections is an outrage, a blow to American democracy, and must be overturned by the DNC,” Sanders campaign adviser Jeff Weaver said in a statement. “Just last week, Vice President Biden warned the American people that President Trump could use the current crisis as an excuse to postpone the November election. Well, he now has a precedent thanks to New York state.”Weaver added that the decision was not requested by either campaign or the DNC and demanded that New York switch to vote by mail instead.“New York has clearly violated its approved delegate selection plan. If this is not remedied, New York should lose all its delegates to the 2020 Democratic National Convention and there should be a broader review by the Democratic Party of New York’s checkered pattern of voter disenfranchisement,” Weaver said.New York state sends 320 delegates to the Democratic nominating convention.David Bergstein, a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, said New York’s allocation of delegates would need to be approved by the party.“Any substantive change to a state’s first determining step in allocating delegates like this one will need to be reviewed by the DNC’s Rules and By-Laws Committee,” Bergstein said. “Once the state party submits an updated selection plan on how they plan on allocating delegates, the committee will look at that plan and make a determination.”New York Board of Elections Commissioner Andrew Spano, a Democrat, said he had concluded there was no point in moving forward with the primary “just for the purposes of issues at a convention.”Board of Elections Co-Chair Douglas Kellner, also a Democrat, said that Sanders’s withdrawal from the race and his endorsement “effectively ended the real contest” for the nomination. “What the Sanders supporters want is essentially a beauty contest that, given the situation with the public health emergency that exists now, seems to be unnecessary and indeed frivolous,” Kellner said.New York has been the state hardest hit in the US by Covid-19 with 288,045 confirmed cases as of Monday and 22,376 deaths -- triple that of New Jersey, the state which has had the second biggest number of fatalities and cases.At least 10 people in Wisconsin contracted the virus after voting in the state’s primary election earlier this month that was held despite attempts to postpone it by the governor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bernie-sanders-assails-new-york-s-decision-to-cancel-its-primary/story-3GBTdz6XxavtQClw7QQ8NN.html
28-04-2020||World||Over 200,000 H-1B workers could lose legal status by June||Manasi Vasavada has less than three weeks left before she loses her legal right to be in the country. The dental practice in Passaic County, New Jersey, where Vasavada, 31, has worked for almost two years closed its doors in mid-March due to Covid-19. She has been on an unpaid leave of absence ever since.  Vasavada is in the country on an H-1B visa, a temporary visa program designed for people with specialized skills. H-1B recipients can only remain in the country legally for 60 days without being paid. Her husband Nandan Buch, also a dentist, is in the country on an H-1B visa that expires in June. They have been watching the days tick by with growing fear.There may soon come a point when the couple can’t stay and can’t go: India, their home country, has closed its borders indefinitely. They also have a combined $520,000 in student loans from the advanced dental degrees they completed at US universities, which would be nearly impossible to pay back on the salaries they would earn in India. The stress has caused Buch, also 31, to start losing his hair. Neither of them is sleeping well. “Everything is really confusing and dark right now,” said Vasavada. “We don’t know where we will end up.”Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicAs many as 250,000 guest workers seeking a green card in the US—about 200,000 of them on H-1B visas—could lose their legal status by the end of June, according to Jeremy Neufeld, an immigration policy analyst with the Washington D.C.-based think tank Niskanen Center. Thousands more who are not seeking resident status may also be forced to return home, he said. About three-quarters of H-1B visas go to people working in the technology industry, though the exact levels vary year by year. Tens of millions of Americans have lost their jobs in the last two months, but workers on visas are vulnerable in ways native-born workers aren’t. H-1B visas, for instance, are tied to a specific location and employer who commits to paying the recipient a minimum salary. Furloughing recipients, reducing their wages, and in some cases allowing them to work from home violates visa requirements. H-1B workers who are terminated have 60-days to find another job, transfer to a different visa or leave the country. Even if they don’t lose their jobs, workers can find themselves in a dilemma if they can’t get their visas renewed during this period of disruption.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakThe visa crisis is causing “a catastrophe at a human level and an economic level,” said Doug Rand, who worked on technology and immigration policy in the Obama administration before co-founding Boundless Immigration Inc., a company that helps people navigate the immigration system. H-1B workers often have families who also rely on their jobs for authorization to stay in the country, including children who may have spent their entire lives in the US “It’s just a mess,” Rand said. In a letter sent to the State and Homeland Security departments on April 17, TechNet, a lobbying group whose members include Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google and Microsoft, joined a coalition of trade groups calling for relief for foreign-born workers. The letter requested a delay in work authorization expiration dates until at least Sept. 10. “Without action, these issues will lead to hundreds of thousands of unfilled jobs and have profound negative economic effects,” the letter read.The tech industry is crucial to supporting offices working remotely, helping doctors provide telehealth services and keeping students learning at home, said Alex Burgos, senior vice president of federal policy and government relations at TechNet. ‘We’ve seen the administration extend tax filing deadlines,” he said, and similar flexibility in visa programs makes sense “because no one here is at fault in any way.”The Trump administration has not responded to the letter. A US Citizenship and Immigration Services spokesperson declined to say if the agency would extend visa deadlines but said it may provide special support for people affected by circumstances beyond their control when requested. The administration has taken a consistently hard-line stance on immigration and foreign-born workers. The number of non-immigrant visas issued in 2019 declined for the fourth consecutive year, to 8.7 million from 10.9 million in 2015, according to the State Department. Last month, the department closed embassies and consulate operations with little guidance to those who risk falling into illegal status. In-person services at US Citizenship and Immigration Services, a unit of the Department of Homeland Security, have been suspended since March 18 and won’t resume until June 4 at the earliest, a 78-day gap in service. On April 20, President Donald Trump tweeted that he planned a temporary ban on all immigration to protect American jobs; the following day he announced an executive order blocking most people coming from outside the US from receiving green cards for 60 days. This raised the threat of further disruptions for companies who employ many foreign-born workers. On the day the president announced his executive order, Luis von Ahn, co-founder and chief executive of the language-learning startup Duolingo Inc., posted a message on Twitter saying a green card ban would force the company to move jobs abroad. Von Ahn is an immigrant from Guatemala, and one-fifth of Duolingo’s 250-person staff are on H-1Bs or other visas. The company plans to boost staff by 50% to keep up with a spike in usage that corresponds with the pandemic. “We have definitely felt the practical impact of processing delays,” said Duolingo spokesman Sam Dalsimer. ‘There’s also a psychological impact on employees whose futures and abilities to remain here are even more uncertain than ever.’ In one case, Duolingo has been trying to hire an engineer who was recently let go from another tech company. The worker is in the US on an O-1 visa, which is designated for individuals with extraordinary ability. Now with added pandemic delays, Duolingo estimates he’ll have to wait 6 to 9 months for his visa and work authorization. In the meantime, he can’t work for the company or leave the USThe companies facing the hardest decisions, though, are those reducing staff in response to the pandemic. Some are choosing to furlough US-born workers and fire foreign employees whose visas require them to be paid. Others are choosing to keep H-1B workers on staff to maintain their legal status, while firing US workers. There’s risk in either approach, because employers who treat workers differently based on their immigration status expose themselves to potential discrimination lawsuits, according to immigration and employment lawyer Rebecca Bernhard, partner at Dorsey & Whitney LLP. For some workers, a stable future in the US suddenly seems distant. Shawn Noronha, a 23-year-old Australian living in San Francisco, was let go from his job at a fintech startup, in January. He found a new position with an enterprise software startup willing to sponsor his visa. But before he could get to an Australian consulate to update his paperwork Covid-19 hit. Noronha changed his status from a working visa to a tourist visa, which gives him until the end of June to stay in the US He is spending his free time baking, taking walks and learning Python, a programming language. But without a regular paycheck he’s eating into his savings. The recent tweets from President Trump about tightening restrictions on immigration have him questioning his choice to migrate to the US ‘It’s made me think, have I made the right choice?” said Noronha. “Should I just go back home and maybe chase the American dream later on in life?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-200-000-h-1b-workers-could-lose-legal-status-by-june/story-Xmfoatk8Y2n1LKlVqF8i1N.html
28-04-2020||World||New Zealand tames virus; France, Spain reveal lockdown exits||France and Spain, two of the worst-hit countries in the coronavirus pandemic, were laying out separate roadmaps Tuesday for lifting their lockdowns, while signs emerged that the virus has been all but vanquished in New Zealand and Australia.But on the other side of the globe, Brazil was emerging as a new hotspot for infections. And new doubts were raised over whether Japan would be able to host the already postponed Summer Olympics next year without the development of a vaccine.The key question of when to reopen schools loomed around the world as nations seek to restart their battered economies.Although the coronavirus seems to affect children far less seriously than adults, many officials, teachers and parents are concerned about the health risks that school openings could pose. Some point to the difficulties of ensuring that children stick to social distancing and frequent hand washing, and to the health risks for teachers.But many parents would struggle to return to work without schools being open, hampering efforts to counter the world’s deep economic tailspin.In France, President Emmanuel Macron wants schools to start reopening May 11, but teachers, parents and some mayors are raising alarms. The government says parents can decide whether to send their children back to class and is releasing more details later Tuesday.Joel Wilmotte is among a growing number of French mayors refusing to re-open their schools, at least for now.“I am not against the reopening of schools,” he said on the Facebook page of his northern town of Hautmont.But he listed seven reasons why he’s not ready to do so, including ill-equipped teachers and cleaning staff and a poll that suggests that most French parents oppose school reopenings. So he’s keeping his town’s six schools closed “until further notice.”Greece, which has managed to keep its coronavirus death toll low at 136 people, was also releasing more details Tuesday about easing its lockdown but schools remained a tricky topic.Schools will be reopened “gradually, with conditions” and subject to constant review, said the Health Ministry’s coronavirus spokesman, infectious diseases specialist Sotiris Tsiodras. No opening date has yet been set.Scientists agree children are less at risk from the virus and appear to transmit it less than adults, said Tsiodras.Hard-hit Italy, however, is keeping schools closed until September. That is putting parents in the difficult position of returning to work without access to their typical fallback babysitters: grandparents, who are now considered off-limits because they are the most vulnerable to the virus.Emer McCarthy, who works in the Vatican’s child protection office, tweeted that Italian Premier Giuseppe Conte had addressed a lockdown exit “for everyone except Italy’s children. Incredible. No mention of schools, childcare options, nothing. But football yes. #ChildrenNotSeenNotHeard.”In China, where the pandemic began, schools began opening on Monday, but only to seniors at middle and high school levels preparing for exams. Class sizes were cut to no more than 30.China’s daily number of new cases has fallen into the single digits, but authorities remain vigilant over the possibility of a second wave of infections.In the United States, which has the world’s highest death toll at more than 56,000, President Donald Trump said states should “seriously consider” reopening their public schools before the end of the academic year, even though dozens already have said it would be unsafe for students to return until the summer or the fall.“Some of you might start thinking about school openings, because a lot of people are wanting to have the school openings,” Trump said. “ Young children have done very well in this disaster.”Trump also admitted the number of virus deaths could reach 70,000 in the U.S., after citing 60,000 several times this month.The number of confirmed infections worldwide has risen to over 3 million and the confirmed death toll has topped 211,000, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The true toll of the pandemic is likely much higher because of limited testing, mild cases that are missed, flaws in counting the dead and governments that may be trying to conceal the extent of their outbreaks.Italy, Spain, France and Britain accounted for more than 21,000 virus-related deaths each.In Brazil, President Jair Bolsonaro has insisted COVID-19 is just a “little flu” and claimed there is no need for the type of restrictions that have slowed the infection’s spread elsewhere.Brazil, Latin America’s most populous country with 211 million people, has reported 4,600 deaths and 67,000 confirmed infections. But the true numbers are believed to be vastly higher given the lack of testing and the many people who haven’t sought hospital care.Medical officials in Rio de Janeiro and at least four other major Brazilian cities have warned t hat their hospital systems are on the verge of collapse or are too overwhelmed to take any more patients. There are also signs that a growing number of Brazilian victims are dying at home.“We have all the conditions here for the pandemic to become much more serious,” said Paulo Brandão, a virologist at the University of Sao Paulo.Bolsonaro says Brazilians need to resume their lives to prevent an economic meltdown but most state governors have adopted restrictions to keep people home and slow the virus’s spread.New Zealand, on the other hand, reported just three new infections Tuesday. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said people had done an incredible job of breaking the chain of virus transmission but cautioned they needed to remain vigilant.“There may still be some smoldering ashes out there, and they have the potential to become a wildfire again, if we give them the chance,” she said, quoting a microbiologist.Her government loosened its lockdown, which had shuttered schools and most businesses. Surfers hit the waves at dawn Tuesday, builders returned to construction sites and baristas fired up espresso machines.In Australia, hundreds returned to the water after Sydney’s iconic Bondi Beach reopened to swimmers and surfers. Still, people can only use the beach during daylight, cannot linger and are limited to ensure social distancing. Australia has reported only 83 virus deaths, less than the tolls reported by over 25 U.S. states.But the virus is still a long-term foe. The president of the Japan Medical Association, Yoshitake Yokokura, said he thinks it will be difficult to hold the rescheduled Tokyo Summer Olympics even in 2021 without an effective coronavirus vaccine.Japan and the International Olympic Committee agreed to postpone the Tokyo 2020 Games until July 2021 due to the pandemic. Japan is under a monthlong state of emergency amid a rapid increase of infections and medical workers say hospitals are overburdened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-tames-virus-france-spain-reveal-lockdown-exits/story-Bjf8fI2mDra5QODEiRJdKP.html
28-04-2020||World||The coronavirus pandemic is accelerating coal’s demise||You can add coal to the list of global commodities struggling during the pandemic. Prices haven’t yet turned negative (like oil), but coronavirus is accelerating the demise of the dirtiest fossil fuel.Social distancing measures mean energy demand has fallen across the board. Some of the smallest declines, however, are in the electricity sector. That should have been good news for coal. But it hasn’t turned out that way.In much of the world coal power is currently more expensive than gas and renewables, which explains why its share in the electricity mix has fallen in Europe, India, China, and parts of the U.S. The power markets in these four regions are large and varied. That makes the uniformity of coal’s decline even more surprising.But perhaps it shouldn’t be. Policymakers and activists have spent years trying to reveal the true costs of coal’s environmental impacts, with the aim of making the fuel economically less attractive. Nearly half the world’s coal power plants are now running at a loss, according to the think tank Carbon Tracker. Europe is a prime example of how to manage coal’s exit systematically. In the past two weeks, Austria and Sweden announced that they have shut their last coal-fired power plants. They’ve now joined Albania, Belgium, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Norway as countries without coal in their electricity mix. Today, the U.K.’s grid operator posted a new record—nearly 19 continuous days—of not using coal for electricity.Kathrin Gutmann, campaign director for Europe Beyond Coal, walked me through the lessons Europe can teach the world. At a federal level, three policies have proven to be most effective: pollution regulation on power plants to lower emissions of sulfur, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter (coal produces more of all these than gas); a tax or price on carbon dioxide emissions (coal emits double the carbon per unit of energy compared to gas); and mandates to increase the share of renewables in the electricity mix.But that’s not enough. Difficulties at the local level also need to be addressed. Unlike solar and wind, coal power can be turned on and off when needed. That means grid operators need to figure out alternatives for when the use of coal ends—be it converting the power plants to using gas, installing batteries, or finding ways of importing clean electricity from other regions whenever needed.The local challenges are bigger for countries and regions that mine coal and provide well-paying jobs for thousands of people. The end has to come with a plan to transition coal-dependent livelihoods. For instance, Germany is looking at a package worth $55 billion as compensation for regions and companies that rely on coal. Similarly, the European Union is working on a “just transition fund” that could invest as much as $111 billion in even more coal-reliant countries like Poland.Two further policies are needed to ensure that coal’s demise doesn’t just happen but comes fast enough. First, deadlines to phase out coal need to based on climate science. France, Sweden, Slovakia, Portugal, U.K., Ireland and Italy plan on exiting coal by 2025, which is in line with the science.Not everyone is getting it right. Germany plans to exit coal by 2038, which is too late for meeting Paris climate agreement goals, said Gutmann. Even 2030, the phase-out date of choice for the Netherlands, is likely the latest possible date for a European country if global warming is to be kept under 1.5 degrees Celsius.Second, setting those deadlines in stone through some form of legislation goes a long way to ensure that short-term political thinking doesn’t get in the way. The U.K. and France have been praised for setting regulation goals tied to emissions efficiency, which leaves coal power with few loopholes.If nothing else works, be prepared to get sued. Environmental group Urgenda won a case against the Dutch government, forcing the country to cut its 2020 emissions by 25% compared to 1990 levels. On Friday, the government announced it will curtail coal power plants to meet those goals.After years of tinkering, there are now many strategies to end the dominance of coal for good. The job has become easier because technological forces have made alternatives cheaper. Coal’s end is inevitable, and it may happen sooner than many think.Akshat Rathi writes the Net Zero newsletter on the intersection of climate science and emission-free tech. You can email him with feedback.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-coronavirus-pandemic-is-accelerating-coal-s-demise/story-H1bjFMKGz9jlg4fTe9BnjP.html
28-04-2020||World||Arthritis drug shows ‘significant’ promise in severe Covid-19 cases: Study||The arthritis drug tocilizumab has shown early promise in preventing extreme inflammation in gravely ill COVID-19 patients, according to a French clinical study.The treatment, which suppresses the body’s natural immune response, was found to reduce “significantly” the number of deaths or life support interventions compared with a control group of patients.The study, carried out by the Paris university hospital trust (AP-HP), looked at 129 people hospitalised with moderate or severe viral pneumonia, which occurs in 5-10 percent of Covid-19 patients.Half received two injections of tocilizumab as well as standard treatment with antibiotics, while the control group received only standard treatment.While the results are yet to be published, those involved in the research said it showed clear “clinical benefit” of tocilizumab treatment.AP-HP said it had decided to publicise the study before publishing official results “for public health reasons”.They stressed however that further research was needed on the effectiveness of the drug and the potential for side effects.Tocilizumab, sold under the brand names Actemra and RoAcemtra, is commonly used to treat rheumatoid arthritis. It is a lab-synthesised antibody that inhibits against a specific protein receptor involved in the body’s natural immune response. Researchers believe the drug might be able to stave off a state of heightened immune response known as cytokine storms -- where the body’s reaction to a foreign body such as a disease or chemical creates acute inflammation. Cytokine storms can be deadly and occur in severely ill Covid-19 patients.Tocilizumab currently costs around 800 euros ($870) per injection.Several existing drugs, including anti-viral medicines, are currently being trialled worldwide for Covid-19 treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/arthritis-drug-shows-significant-promise-in-severe-covid-19-cases-study/story-JKjGFXhqL2aIWKU0SSlK5K.html
28-04-2020||World||Iraq officials say IS targets intelligence bureau; 3 wounded||A militant wearing a suicide vest struck an intelligence bureau in northern Iraq on Tuesday, wounding at least three members of the security personnel, Iraqi officials said, blaming the attack on the Islamic State group.Iraqi security forces had spotted two men, one wearing an explosive vest and a driver, approaching the gate of the Intelligence and Counter-Terrorism Directorate in the Qadisiyah neighborhood in the northern city of Kirkuk, a security official said.The man hurled a grenade and then detonated his explosives vest before entering the premises, the official said. The other man, apparently the driver, sped away from the the scene.There was no claim of responsibility by the Islamic State group, which was largely defeated in Iraq in 2017 but still maintains sleeper cells to target Iraqi forces. Suicide bombings were a hallmark of the militant group, which at the height of its power in 2014 controlled nearly a third of both Iraq and Syria.A senior Iraqi intelligence official told The Associated Press that the department “had knowledge that Daesh would carry out a suicide operation against the Intelligence Directorate, but we did not know on which day.”Daesh is an Arabic acronym for the Islamic State group. Both the security official and the senior intelligence official spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk to the media.The attack was the first attempted suicide bombing in recent months, coming amid minor IS attacks in the provinces of Kirkuk, Diyala and Salahaddin. The provinces’ rugged terrain is difficult to police and a territorial dispute between the federal government in Baghdad and Iraq’s semi-autonomous northern Kurdish region has led to security gaps in the area.The US-led coalition recently withdrew troops from its bases in the region, including in Kirkuk, in line with a planned drawdown of forces that would reduce the coalition’s presence to bases in Baghdad and the western Anbar province.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iraq-officials-say-is-targets-intelligence-bureau-3-wounded/story-VfapZikVJU68Yduo5X7QgM.html
28-04-2020||World||South Korea says Kim Jong Un may be trying to avoid coronavirus||Fear of catching the coronavirus could have kept North Korean leader Kim Jong Un away from state ceremonies for a key holiday in mid-April, a South Korean minister said on Tuesday as speculation swirled over Kim’s whereabouts and health.The speculation erupted following Kim’s unprecedented absence from public ceremonies on the April 15 birth anniversary of his grandfather and founder of the country, Kim Il Sung.Kim has not been seen in public since.The last time official media in the secretive North Korean state reported on Kim’s whereabouts was when he presided over a meeting on April 11, but there have been near-daily reports of him sending letters and diplomatic messages. Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSouth Korean officials emphasise they have detected no unusual movements in North Korea and have cautioned against reports that Kim may be ill.North Korea has said it has no confirmed cases of the coronavirus, but given the fact that the country has taken stringent steps to head off an outbreak, Kim’s absence from the ceremonies is not particularly unusual, Unification Minister Kim Yeon-chul, who oversees North Korea engagement, told lawmakers.“It is true that he had never missed the anniversary for Kim Il Sung’s birthday since he took power, but many anniversary events including celebrations and a banquet had been cancelled because of coronavirus concerns,” the minister said at a parliamentary hearing.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakHe said there were at least two instances since mid-January where Kim Jong Un was out of sight for nearly 20 days. “I don’t think that’s particularly unusual given the current (coronavirus) situation.”The unification minister described reports that Kim had undergone a heart procedure, and that a Chinese medical team had travelled to North Korea, as “fake news.”Also Read: Not just Kim Jong Un: A look at past disappearances of North Korean leaders, officialsCiting three people familiar with the situation, Reuters reported on Saturday that China had dispatched a team to North Korea including medical experts to advise on Kim Jong Un, though it was unclear what the trip signalled in terms of Kim’s health.U.S. President Donald Trump said on Monday he has a good idea how Kim Jong Un is doing and hopes he is fine, but would not elaborate.Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said he was aware of reports on Kim’s health and he was paying close attention to developments.Also Read: South Korea’s ministers say they know North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s locationNorth Korea had cancelled some large events, and imposed a border lockdown and quarantine measures in an effort to prevent an outbreak of the coronavirus.But if Kim Jong Un is hiding out due to fears surrounding COVID-19, it would “puncture a hole in the state media narrative of how this crisis has been perfectly managed”, said Chad O’Carroll, CEO of Korea Risk Group, which monitors North Korea.“If he is merely trying to avoid infection, it should theoretically be very easy to release photos or videos of a healthy-looking Kim,” he said.SIGNS OF LIFEAn authoritative source familiar with U.S. intelligence reporting said on Monday it was entirely possible Kim had disappeared from public view to avoid exposure to COVID-19 and the sighting of his presidential train in the coastal resort area of Wonsan did suggest he may be there or have been there recently.But the source said that since there was no authoritative backing for such a conclusion, U.S. agencies were also still considering the possibility Kim might be ill, even seriously.38 North, a Washington-based North Korea monitoring project, said on Saturday that satellite images from last week showed a special train that was probably Kim’s at Wonsan, lending weight to reports he had been spending time in the resort area.Thae Yong-ho, a former North Korean diplomat who defected to South Korea in 2016, said that the train could be a deception tactic used by North Korea to mask Kim’s movements.“North Korea always perceives that U.S. spy satellites are monitoring the North and is prepared for it,” he said in a post on Facebook.North Korean media reports suggest that Kim is still carrying out his duties, Unification minister Kim said, although some experts say they are not necessarily conclusive.“I agree with the South Korean government’s assessment that there is no reason to think Kim Jong Un is not performing his duties,” said Rachel Minyoung Lee, a former North Korea open source intelligence analyst for the U.S. government. “That said, I would not read too much into letters signed by Kim Jong Un. I would guess that most of them are not written by him anyway.” (Reporting by Hyonhee Shin and Josh Smith; Additional reporting by Sangmi Cha in Seoul, and Mark Hosenball in Washington; Editing by Raju Gopalakrishnan & Simon Cameron-Moore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-says-kim-jong-un-may-be-trying-to-avoid-coronavirus/story-Jtg1EgIbPoVEAYeqfHYvkK.html
28-04-2020||World||Extensive contact tracing, isolation key to control Covid-19 spread: Report||Extensive contract tracing, isolating cases, and testing may reduce the spread of the novel coronavirus, and favour control of the Covid-19 outbreak, suggests a study carried out in China. However, the researchers from the Harbin Institute of Technology at Shenzhen, China, caution that the impact of contact tracing to rapidly isolate people who could be infected with coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19) depends on identifying asymptomatic cases. Published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases journal, the study of 391 cases and 1,286 of their close contacts found that contact tracing reduced the length of time people were infectious in the community over 4 weeks in Shenzhen, China. According to results from In Shenzhen, authorities identified whom to isolate based on their contact with confirmed cases, as well as isolating people who already had symptoms, the researchers said. The new study found that contact tracing increased the speed at which new cases were confirmed by 2 days -- an average of 5.5 days initially, reduced to 3.2 with contact tracing. It also reduced the amount of time it took to isolate infected people by 2 days -- from an average of 4.6 days down to 2.7. There were only three deaths in the study group during the study period, the researchers said. “The experience of Covid-19 in the city of Shenzhen may demonstrate the huge scale of testing and contact tracing that’s needed to reduce the virus spreading,” said Ting Ma from the Harbin Institute of Technology at Shenzhe “Some of the strict control measures enforced here, such as isolating people outside their homes, might be unlikely to be replicated elsewhere, but we urge governments to consider our findings in the global response to Covid-19,” said Ma. To achieve similar results, the researchers noted that other countries might be able to combine near-universal testing and intensive contact tracing with social distancing and partial lockdowns. “Although no lockdown measures were introduced in Shenzhen until the end of our study period, Wuhan’s lockdown could have significantly restricted the spread of coronavirus to Shenzhen,” Ma said. For the current study, the researchers analysed data from 391 people diagnosed with Covid-19 after they showed symptoms, and 1,286 of their close contacts. The contacts were tested irrespective of whether they had symptoms in order to identify infected people who were asymptomatic. The data gave insights into the type of contact most likely to lead to transmission. Close contacts were defined as people who shared a household with infected patients up to 2 days before they started showing symptoms, or interacted with them socially by travelling or eating together. For people who were isolated because they showed symptoms of Covid-19, it took an average of 4.6 days for them to be isolated following the first signs of infection. Contact tracing reduced this to an average of 2.7 days, the researchers found. For people diagnosed with Covid-19 after being contact traced and tested (87 people), a fifth (17 out of 87 people) had not yet developed any symptoms, and 30 per cent (25 out of 87) did not have a fever, they said. The length of time for which a person remains infectious is not yet known, but reducing the amount of time that infected people interacted with others appears to have helped reduce the virus spreading, the researchers said. The researchers highlight several limitations to their study, including that it is impossible to trace every potential contact an individual has. Contact tracing therefore focuses on close contacts who are most likely to be infected. They note that some infected travellers to Shenzhen could have been missed if they were only tested due to symptoms such as a fever. Their contacts might also have been missed if they were asymptomatic, because the PCR test is not sensitive enough to pick up every case, according to the researchers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/extensive-contact-tracing-isolation-key-to-control-covid-19-spread-report/story-VWp2QQt10k3wZMc3NOqULP.html
28-04-2020||World||USD 90 billion could protect 700 million poor in Covid-19 pandemic: UN||The UN humanitarian chief said Monday that USD 90 billion could provide income support, food and a health response to the coronavirus pandemic for 700 million of the world’s most vulnerable people — a price tag just 1 per cent of the USD 8 trillion stimulus package the 20 richest countries put in place to safeguard the global economy.Mark Lowcock told a video briefing most experts agree that the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic hasn’t reached the poorest parts of the world, but may peak in the next three to six months.He said about 700 million people — 10 per cent of the world’s population — are most vulnerable and concentrated in about 30 to 40 countries which already receive humanitarian assistance and will see a big drop in incomes as the virus spreads and governments impose restrictive measures and lock downs.“If you wanted to protect them against that drop in income, then probably for about USD 60 billion you could do that,” Lowcock said.And for something like USD 30 billion, he said, people facing the threat of starvation can get food, and the health response to Covid-19 can be financed.Lowcock said probably two-thirds of the USD 90 billion could come from international financial institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.“They would need to change the terms on which they provide assistance to some people,” he said.“So, for example, they would need to reduce interest rates and provide some debt relief. But they have the firepower if they were given a bit more subsidy to probably meet about two-thirds of the costs.” Lowcock said the remaining one-third could be financed by a one-time increase in government development assistance.He said the argument he’s making is that a one-off 20 per cent increase “will save you having to deal with a 10-year problem.” “USD 90 billion is a lot of money but it is an affordable sum of money,” he said.The UN is not going to appeal for USD 90 billion, Lowcock said, but “what I am suggesting is a lot of the suffering and loss of life can be contained within sums of money which are imaginable.” UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres did launch a USD 2 billion appeal on March 25 to help vulnerable and conflict-torn countries in the Middle East, Asia, Africa and South America tackle the coronavirus pandemic.Lowcock said he is encouraged the appeal has received a little over USD 1 billion in one month, including 300 million euros from Germany announced Monday evening.On May 7, he said, a revised appeal will be launched seeking additional resources because the pandemic is growing and new countries need help.Lowcock stressed that many things about Covid-19 aren’t known including how it spreads in countries that are warmer and more humid, how it interacts with other illnesses like malaria and HIV/AIDS, how it acts in situations where there is a lot of malnutrition and hunger, its impact in low income countries where people on average are younger, and whether people who recover have some protection against a future infection.Lowcock, who is the UN undersecretary-general for humanitarian affairs, expressed hope that scientists will find the answers to these and other questions in the coming months.In the poorest parts of the world, he said, “the growth in case numbers is not yet as exponential as we’ve seen in, for example, in North America and Europe.” He said the curve is accelerating in African and cited some recent modeling by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine “suggesting that many African countries will have a thousand new cases a week by May 1, and a few weeks after that could be getting 10,000 cases a week.” Restrictive measures imposed by governments to tackle the pandemic are likely to have a bigger impact in poorer countries than wealthier ones because of the number of day laborers and hungry people who can’t survive on their own resources, he said.“But the biggest impacts, we expect ... will arise from the economic consequences of the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/usd-90-billion-could-protect-700-million-poor-in-covid-19-pandemic-un/story-lcOLbvaC2qhk8ZYrgLi5CO.html
28-04-2020||World||Not just Kim Jong Un: A look at past disappearances of North Korean leaders, officials||While Kim Jong Un’s two-week absence has inspired speculation and rumors that he is gravely ill, he is not the first member of North Korean’s ruling elite to disappear from public view.Some absences were caused by real trouble, including deaths, illness or purges. But frequently the so-called disappearances have simply shown the disconnect between insatiable curiosity about what’s happening inside the isolated, nuclear-armed nation and the thick cloak of secrecy surrounding its leadership.A look at past cases of missing North Korean officials and when reports about the demise of leaders were premature:KIM IL SUNGBefore his death in 1994, there was arguably no person South Koreans hated and feared more than North Korea’s state founder Kim Il Sung. His forces launched a surprise attack on the South in June 1950, triggering a devastating war that drew massive intervention by the United States and China and killed and injured millions of people before an armistice halted fighting three years later.He also dispatched commandos in a failed attempt to assassinate the South Korean president in 1968 and sent agents to plant bombs that killed 21 people, including several South Korean cabinet ministers, during a presidential visit to Myanmar in 1983.When South Korean newspapers reported him as dead in November 1986, the public, at least for a few hours, was overwhelmed with euphoria but also panic about instability on the border.The reports began circulating on Nov. 16 when the Chosun Ilbo published a short story by its Tokyo correspondent who reported rumors in Japan that Kim Il Sung had died. Things took a strange turn the next day when South Korea’s military spokesman announced that the North Koreans used loudspeakers on the mine-strewn border to announce that he was shot to death.Chosun released an extra edition to report the story on Nov. 17 — a Monday when newspapers hadn’t usually published — before using seven pages to describe Kim Il Sung’s assassination on Nov. 18, under the now infamous front-page headline “Kim Il Sung shot dead.”Other newspapers wrote similar stories, adding to a frenzy that abruptly ended hours later when Kim Il Sung appeared alive and well at an airport in Pyongyang, North Korea’s capital, to greet a visiting Mongolian delegation.Chosun, South Korea’s biggest newspaper by circulation, never published a correction. But it formally apologized over the story last month while marking the 100th anniversary of its founding.The newspaper also apologized over a 2013 report that said North Korean singer and senior ruling party member Hyon Song Wol had been executed. Hyon reappeared in public in May 2014 and is now considered as one of the most powerful women in North Korea, accompanying Kim Jong Un to several international summits.KIM JONG ILKim Jong Il, the famously reclusive father of the current ruler, also was the subject of countless reports and rumors about his demise.In 2004, a massive explosion at a North Korean train station on its border with China inspired rumors of an assassination attempt as he had passed through hours earlier on his way back from Beijing. The collision of two fuel-carrying trains reportedly killed and injured thousands of people, but a link to the leader’s travel was never confirmed.Chatter about Kim Jong Il’s death following his 2008 stroke became so frequent that it prompted South Korea’s financial regulator in 2009 to investigate whether the rumors were being deliberately spread to manipulate stock markets.When Kim Jong Il did die in December 2011, following years of deteriorating health and diminishing public appearances, the outside world had no clue until the North’s state media announced it two days later.His once-powerful sister, Kim Kyong Hui, has had her own share of premature reports about her death. CNN on May 2015 cited a North Korean defector to report that Kim Jong Un had her poisoned to death. The 73-year-old made her first public appearance in about six years in January, sitting near her nephew during a concert.KIM JONG UNConflicting reports over the past week have said Kim is either “gravely ill,” “in a vegetative state” or “perfectly fine” following heart surgery that may or may not have happened.In 2014, Kim vanished from the public eye for nearly six weeks before reappearing with a cane. South Korea’s spy agency said he had a cyst removed from his ankle.In 2016, South Korean media quoted intelligence officials as saying Kim had had a former military chief executed for corruption and other charges. But months later, North Korea’s state media showed Ri Yong Gil alive and serving in new senior posts.Kim Jong Un was last seen in public on April 11 when he presided over a ruling party meeting on coronavirus prevention. He even missed the April 15 birthday celebration for his late grandfather Kim Il Sung for the first time since taking power in 2011. State media have since reported his engagement in routine, but non-public activities. They say he’s sent greetings to the leaders of Syria, Cuba and South Africa and expressed gratitude to citizens of merit, including workers building tourist facilities in the coastal town of Wonsan, which is where some speculate he is staying.While it’s possible that Kim could pop up anytime, continuing a family tradition of media resurrections, some experts say that his health will become an increasing factor in years ahead, considering his weight, smoking habits and other supposed health problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-just-kim-jong-un-a-look-at-past-disappearances-of-north-korean-leaders-officials/story-TCg9Ufyxn1H27HkgmFcvlN.html
28-04-2020||World||Covid-19 lockdown: Texas is open, California’s closed and US’ states go their own way||The Trump administration promised Americans that expanded coronavirus testing would give states the information they need to restart their economies, but Texas has already heard enough.Governor Greg Abbott said Monday that malls, restaurants and movie theaters could re-open Friday. “The lives saved are priceless, but the price has been steep,” Abbott said.About an hour earlier, roughly 1,300 miles west, California Governor Gavin Newsom admonished citizens for flocking to the Pacific over the weekend, which led to images of beaches packed with frolickers. He said his stay-home order would stand, and encouraged people to be patient: “The only thing that could set us back is our individual collective behavior.”Click here for the complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicThe difference in approach by the country’s two most-populous states provides a striking picture of a nation eager to get back to business, but still unclear how. Some states are banding together, with the so-called Western States Pact adding Colorado and Nevada to its ranks Monday. That means its safety-first policies will cover a combined 60 million residents. Others, like Texas and Ohio, laid out ambitious reopening plans despite uncertainty that Trump’s promised testing will materialize.The proliferation of plans, with their byzantine phases and conditions varying across regions -- and even within states -- reinforced just how divided the country remains on how and when to reopen the economy. Trump inadvertently summed up the challenge Monday when asked what advice he had for America’s governors.“We recommend that they do it as quickly as possible,” the president said. “But safely.”Grand PlansThe administration plans to rely on drug retailers and lab-testing companies to provide mass testing and said Monday it would partner with Walmart Inc., CVS Health Corp. and Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc. If successful, it could be the biggest expansion yet of testing capacity in the U.S. The goal is to have all 50 states test at least 2% of residents, with an emphasis on the elderly and minority communities that have seen the highest mortality rates.Click here for the latest updates from the coronavirus outbreakTrump has been frustrated by questions about the federal government’s failure to provide help as more than 56,000 Americans have died, and has said states should shoulder more of the burden. Monday’s blueprint makes a point of saying the federal government will play a supporting role.That leaves it to state leaders to decide when they’re ready to resume commerce.Ohio, like Texas, will gradually start to reopen businesses Friday, though at a slower pace. Dental offices and veterinary clinics can open this week, though retail businesses are still two weeks from opening, said Governor Mike DeWine.Getting AlignedNew York Governor Andrew Cuomo, meanwhile, said some parts of the state could re-open in May, while New Jersey’s stay-at-home order will continue indefinitely, said Governor Phil Murphy. Their paths diverged even though both states are yoked in a Northeast coalition that includes Pennsylvania and Massachusetts, among others.In Louisiana, Governor John Bel Edwards extended the state’s stay-at-home order until at least May 15, and Hawaii Governor David Ige over the weekend extended his order until June.“What we’re seeing is different circumstances in different states, and also different attitudes in different states,” said Jim Wilcox, a professor of economic analysis and policy from the University of California’s Haas School of Business. “This is not terribly surprising to see 50 different flowers blooming here.”Trade groups for some of the world’s largest retailers on Monday called for a uniform program among states, including the opening of warehouses and distribution centers in unison. Cuomo on Monday also stressed the need to work with counterparts in the Northeast, where states are close and travel is easy.“We have to coordinate as a region,” Cuomo said. “Everybody in that region has to have the same policy when it comes to schools, when it comes to transportation, when it comes to testing, when it comes to tracing. And that region’s plan has to fit in to our overall multi-state plan.”Green MagnetsBut that aspiration will likely prove difficult. Even opening rural areas, which are less densely populated, could cause issues as people flock to enjoy those newly opened businesses and parks, as they did on California’s beaches.“The minute you open up two to three parks, either a county park or a state park, you’ve got the rest of the counties, if not the rest of the regions, showing up,” said Murphy of New Jersey.The key for many states to reopen has been reliable and widespread testing -- something that Trump promised Monday in a press conference while pointing out that the U.S. has completed more tests than any other country. But the number of tests per day, a key metric, is still hundreds of thousands of tests shorter than the 500,000 experts estimate are needed.In California, for example, Newsom said last week the state needs to conduct from 60,000 to 80,000 tests per day. As of last week, that number was just over 16,000, though he was optimistic Monday that the state would be able to open in “weeks, not months” so long as people continue to practice social distancing.A major risk to restarting businesses is that new infections may take weeks to manifest as confirmed cases or hospital visits. The delay between contracting the virus and showing symptoms, believed to be as long as two weeks, could present a challenge to determining whether a state’s plan is working safely. States that aren’t patient may make decisions based on premature data from other states, Wilcox said.“The longer that gestation period is, the tougher it is to know you’ve gone too far -- or that you haven’t opened as much as you could have safely,” he added. “It seems to me an awful lot of this difficulty is because of this long lag.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-lockdown-texas-is-open-california-s-closed-and-us-states-go-their-own-way/story-xR6k3GFjY8hKU0HfSfWmYJ.html
28-04-2020||World||Coronavirus cases in Pakistan rises to 14,079, death toll 301||Pakistan government is closely monitoring the Covid-19 situation in the country, Prime Minister Imran Khan has said as the number of coronavirus cases crossed the 14,000-mark and claimed the lives of over 300 people. According to the Ministry of National Health Services, 3,233 people have fully recovered from the deadly virus.The ministry said that Pakistan has reported 14,079 patients, as Punjab registered 5,640 patients, Sindh 4,956, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa 1,984, Balochistan 853, Gilgit-Baltistan 320, Islamabad 261 and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir 65.So far 157, 223 tests have been done, including 6,417, during the last 24 hours.Prime Minister Khan on Monday said that the coronavirus intensity in Pakistan is not as severe as it is in other parts of the world, Dawn news reported.He said that the government is closely monitoring the situation and would soon announce the next strategy on the lockdown.He stated this while presiding over a meeting on impact of Covid-19 on the country’s social fabric and economy, the report said.According to an official statement, the meeting was informed that the number of patients and deaths due to coronavirus is less than that in other countries of the world.Pakistan on Tuesday advised all media houses here to ensure full protection of its staff after eight employees of a news channel tested positive for the deadly coronavirus. Prime Minister Khan will chair a meeting of Cabinet on Tuesday and will discuss the coronavirus situation.Deputy Commissioner Islamabad Hamza Shafqat issued advisory to all media houses in the capital for taking steps for protection of their workers after ARY News closed down its channel when around its seven employees were tested positive.“They (media workers) must be provided with appropriate protection gears. We have provided some support to the reporters but more is required,” said Shafqat in a tweet. “As a precautionary measure random testing was done in ARY Islamabad office ,8 reported positive out of 20 tests, 2 have shown symptoms. We have closed our isb office ,all staff will be tested and office to be sanitised.Till all staff is tested employees have been asked to stay at home,” founder and CEO , ARY DIGITAL Network tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-cases-in-pakistan-rises-to-14-079-death-toll-301/story-NgU8sbQREw31TccSzbQZXK.html
28-04-2020||World||Where is North Korea’s Kim Jong Un? Here’s what is possible||The Day of the Sun -- the April 15 holiday celebrating Kim Jong Un’s late grandfather, Kim Il Sung -- has long been the most important date on North Korea’s political calendar. This year, the supreme leader failed to show.Kim Jong Un’s absence from an event he has often used to signal strength at home and abroad sparked a global search for explanations. Two weeks later, the whereabouts of the 36-year-old leader has become one of the world’s great mysteries, fed by internet rumors, satellite photos and anonymously sourced reports.Here’s some possible scenarios being discussed:1. Recovering From SurgeryThe first credible report that something was wrong with Kim was also among the least alarming. The Daily NK, a Seoul-based news outlet that gathers information from people inside North Korea, reported April 21 that Kim underwent a “cardiovascular surgical procedure” the previous week and was now mostly recovered.The report, attributed to a single unidentified person, did offer several specific details, including that Kim was treated at the Hyangsan Medical Center on the outskirts of Pyongyang. While no governments have verified the report, South Korean officials later said that Kim was believed to be conducting “normal activities” in a rural part of the country assisted by close aides, actions that could be consistent with the recovery explanation.Also read: South Korea’s ministers say they know North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s location“Kim Jong Un is alive and well,” Moon Chung-in, a special adviser to South Korea’s president, told Fox News on Sunday. Moon, however, added that Kim had been staying in the coastal resort area of Wonsan since April 13, something that would clash with the Daily NK account.2. In ‘Grave Danger’Hours after the Daily NK article, CNN provided a far more worrying assessment of Kim’s health, reporting that the U.S. was monitoring intelligence that suggested he was in “grave danger” after surgery. Bloomberg News separately reported that U.S. officials were told that Kim was in critical condition, but were unsure of his current status.While U.S. President Donald Trump said Thursday that he believed the CNN report was “incorrect” and based on “old documents,” rumors about Kim’s deteriorating condition only accelerated on social media. On Saturday, Reuters reported that the Chinese Communist Party’s International Department dispatched a team including medical experts to North Korea on Thursday to advise on Kim. The news service, which cited three people familiar with the situation, said it was unclear what the delegation signaled about Kim’s health.Also read: On Kim Jong Un’s health, Donald Trump says ‘have a very good idea, but can’t talk’China’s foreign ministry, which is separate from the International Department, said only that it had sent reagents for coronavirus testing to North Korea. “That is not the same as a medical team,” ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told reporters Monday in Beijing.3. Just Social DistancingThe Chinese medical team could also point to what’s now a more common health concern: Covid-19. Although North Korea has disclosed no infections, the country has quarantined thousands of people and the U.S.’s top general in South Korea has said he was “fairly certain” the country has cases. China has been sending experts around the world to help combat the pandemic that began on its soil.The Seoul-based JoongAng Daily newspaper reported Monday that the North Korean leader was in self-quarantine. The paper, citing an unidentified person in China, said that Kim was monitoring his health after one of his bodyguards was confirmed with the coronavirus infection. That’s why China sent some 50 medical staff to North Korea, the newspaper said.4. Hurt in Military DrillsThe search for Kim has repeatedly led back to eastern tourist enclave of Wonsan, the site of a palatial family compound and frequent missile tests. Satellite photos analyzed by the website 38 North showed that a train resembling the armored one used by North Korea’s leaders was parked at the local railway station last week.The eastern coastal area saw a burst of military activity, including cruise missile tests and fighter jet maneuvers, on April 14 -- the day before Kim failed to show up for Day of the Sun events about 230 kilometers (140 miles) to the west in Pyongyang. Ri Jong Ho, a high-profile North Korean defector who now lives in the U.S., told the Seoul-based DongA Daily newspaper that Kim may have been injured in the exercises.Also read: Not just Kim Jong Un: A look at past disappearances of North Korean leaders, officialsStill, it would be unusual for North Korean military officials to allow their top leader to get close enough to the action to get hurt. Also, the satellite photos don’t confirm the train’s presence in the area until April 21. Images from April 15 show no train.5. Seeking AttentionSome such as Yoon Sang-hyun, a South Korean lawmaker who heads a committee on inter-Korean relations, have wondered whether Kim devised the disappearance as a way to draw attention to the regime. Yoon speculated that the North Korean leader would have to show up in public in the next couple of weeks to avoid a destabilizing debate about his grip on power and potential successors.“If he doesn’t, it’s a real big issue,” Yoon told reporters Monday, according to the DongA Daily. “Kim is apparently not running the country as he would normally do now.”There’s also a good chance the world may never get a satisfying explanation. Kim similarly vanished from state media for six weeks in 2014, prompting speculation that he had been sidelined by gout, an ankle injury or was even overthrown in a coup. He subsequently showed up walking with a cane. No reason for his absence has ever been given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/where-is-north-korea-s-kim-jong-un-here-s-what-is-possible/story-HrBFbP8udKkHcy34mVCZ0K.html
28-04-2020||World||US tightens restrictions on technology exports to China, Russia and Venezuela||The Trump Administration announced new export control actions to prevent efforts by entities in China, Russia, and Venezuela to acquire American technology that could be used for development of weapons, military aircraft, surveillance through civilian supply chains.“It is important to consider the ramifications of doing business with countries that have histories of diverting goods purchased from US companies for military applications,” said Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross.“Certain entities in China, Russia, and Venezuela have sought to circumvent America’s export controls, and undermine American interests in general, and so we will remain vigilant to ensure US technology does not get into the wrong hands,” Ross said.Prominent among the rule changes include expansion of Military End Use/User Controls (MEU), removal of license exception civil end users (CIV) and elimination of license exception additional permissive reexports (APR) provisions.The new rule, expands MEU license requirements controls on China, Russia, and Venezuela to cover military end-users in all three countries, as well as items such as semiconductor equipment, sensors, and other technologies sought for military end use or by military end-users in these countries.It seeks to removes a license exception for exports, reexports, or transfers (in-country) to civilian end-users in countries of national security concern for National Security- (NS) controlled items.The new rule also proposes to eliminate certain provisions of a license exception for partner countries involving the reexport of NS-controlled items to countries of national security concern to ensure consistent reviews of exports and reexports of US items.US Senator Ben Sasse, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and an outspoken China hawk, in a statement said that this was long due.“This rule is grounded in two basic truths: Modern war is high tech and China’s so-called ‘private sector’ is fake. Chairman Xi has erased any daylight between China’s businesses and the communist party’s military,” Sasse said.“We didn’t win the Cold War by selling cruise missiles to the Soviets, and we’re not going to beat China by selling semiconductors to the People’s Liberation Army. These rules are long overdue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-tightens-restrictions-on-technology-exports-to-china-russia-and-venezuela/story-la8Cr0WvQV3r2BdSuU4IuN.html
28-04-2020||World||Italy, UK explore possible Covid-19 link to children’s Kawasaki disease||Italian and British medical experts are investigating a possible link between the coronavirus pandemic and clusters of severe inflammatory disease among infants who are arriving in hospital with high fevers and swollen arteries.Doctors in northern Italy, one of the world’s hardest-hit areas during the pandemic, have reported extraordinarily large numbers of children under age 9 with severe cases of what appears to be Kawasaki disease, more common in parts of Asia.In Britain, doctors have made similar observations, prompting Health Secretary Matt Hancock to tell a coronavirus news briefing on Monday that he was “very worried” and that medical authorities were looking at the issue closely.In the United States, a leading paediatric society says it has yet to see something similar.Kawasaki disease, whose cause is unknown, often afflicts children aged under 5 and is associated with fever, skin rashes, swelling of glands, and in severe cases, inflammation of arteries of the heart. There is some evidence that individuals can inherit a predisposition to the disease, but the pattern is not clear. England’s national medical director, Stephen Powis, told the British briefing he had become aware of reports of severely ill children with Kawasaki-like symptoms in the past few days but stressed it was too early to determine a link with the coronavirus.“I’ve asked the national clinical director for children and young people to look into this as a matter of urgency. ... We’re not sure at the moment,” Powis said.In Italy, paediatricians are also alarmed.A hospital in the northern town of Bergamo has seen more than 20 cases of severe vascular inflammation in the past month, six times as many as it would expect to see in a year, said paediatric heart specialist Matteo Ciuffreda.Ciuffreda, of the Giovanni XXIII hospital, said only a few of the infants with vascular inflammation had tested positive for the new coronavirus, but paediatric cardiologists in Madrid and Lisbon had told him they had seen similar cases.He has called on his colleagues to document every such case to determine if there is a correlation between Kawasaki disease and COVID-19. He aims to publish the results of the Italian research in a scientific journal.‘Multi-organ inflammation’Ciuffreda said his first case of apparent Kawasaki disease was a 9-year-old boy who came to the hospital on March 21, at the peak of the coronavirus outbreak, with high fever and low blood oxygen levels. He tested negative for the coronavirus.A scan showed the child had an enlarged coronary artery, a hallmark of severe cases of Kawasaki disease, he said.“The little boy worried me a lot, with a violent multi-organ inflammation affecting both heart and the lungs,” Ciuffreda said. “I feared he wouldn’t survive, but surprisingly, in the course of a few days, he took a positive turn and he got better.”Kawasaki disease was anecdotally linked 16 years ago to another known coronavirus, though it was never proven. The research was carried out after another, related coronavirus known as NL63 was found in a baby showing symptoms of Kawasaki disease in 2004.Ian Jones, professor of virology at the University of Reading in Britain, said the NL63 virus uses the same receptor as the new coronavirus to infect humans, but he also stressed it was too early to draw conclusions.“We just have to wait and see if this becomes a common observation,” he said.The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) has yet to see something similar in the United States, which has the greatest number of coronavirus infections and deaths.”We are not aware of any reports of this phenomenon in the United States,” Dr. Yvonne Maldonado, who chairs the academy’s committee on infectious disease, said in an email, referring to a potential link between COVID-19 and Kawasaki-type symptoms.Dr. Sean O’Leary, a paediatric infectious diseases expert at Children’s Hospital Colorado who is part of that AAP committee, said his hospital has seen several cases of Kawasaki this year, but none in the more than 30 children admitted for COVID-19.“Even if it is related, is a very rare complication,” he said. “If it were more common, we’d already have a pretty good idea about it in the United States.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-uk-explore-possible-covid-19-link-to-children-s-kawasaki-disease/story-N9RUfdJngJz4y9672pzG0L.html
28-04-2020||World||10 countries with highest number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities||The coronavirus pandemic, the worst that the world is facing in a century, spread across the globe very fast, and affected millions. It started from China in December, and has so far devastated more than 200 countries. The total number of Covid-19 affected patients has crossed three million.The virus has spread from United States to Europe, with Italy leading the European tally in terms of fatalities. In India, meanwhile, the number of coronavirus disease Covid-19 cases crossed the 29,000-mark on Tuesday.Here is a list of 10 countries with most number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities:United StatesThe US has been hardest hit by the spread of Covid-19. It has recorded almost a million cases and the number of dead has surpassed 55,000, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The country’s death toll is inching towards 58,000-mark - the number of US troops killed during the Vietnam War.SpainThe European country has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world, at 2,29,422. The number of deaths in the country is above 23,000.ItalyItaly is not far behind from Spain in number of Covid-19 cases. The country, known for its best medical facilities, has 1,99,414 positive cases and the second-highest number of coronavirus deaths at 26,977. Its Lombardy region has been the hardest hit.FranceWith 1,64,589 cases, France has taken the next spot in the countries worst affected by the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19. The number of people who have died from coronavirus infection in France rose by 437 to 23,293.GermanyOne of the power houses of Europe, Germany has recorded 1,58,758 cases of coronavirus disease Covid-19. However, death tol in the country - at 5,750 - is far lower as compare to other European neighbours. The low death rate in Germany is attributed in part to it having imposed a strict lockdown earlier than other countries relative to when the first case was detected.BritainThe number of Covid-19 cases has reached 1,57,149 in the United Kingdom. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is the first high-profile leader to have contracted the disease. He spent more than a week in hospital - three of them in the intensive care - and returned to work on Monday. The number of fatalities in the country stands at 21,092.TurkeyThe country has recorded 1,12,261 cases of coronavirus disease Covid-19. Ninety five more people have died in the country due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 2,900, health ministry data showed.IranIran is one of the Middle Eastern countries hardest hit by the pandemic. The death toll from Covid-19 in Iran has risen to 5,806, the country’s health ministry said on Monday. The total number of diagnosed cases of new coronavirus in Iran has reached 91,472.RussiaRussia overtook China in the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases, when its tally climbed above 87,000, as pressure rose on the government to consider easing lockdown restrictions for businesses. Almost 800 (794 to be exact) people have died of the disease in the country. The world’s largest country by territory has been on lockdown since President Vladimir Putin announced the closure of most public spaces in late March.ChinaThe country from where the coronavirus infection spread to the world, has 82,836 positive cases, including 648 patients who were still being treated and 77,555 people discharged from hospitals. The death toll in China from the coronavirus disease stands at 4,633.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/10-countries-with-highest-number-of-covid-19-cases-and-fatalities/story-b4rSQi8Kn3jqB5LsGndzVN.html
28-04-2020||World||South Korea’s ministers say they know North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s location||Top South Korean officials said they know Kim Jong Un’s location, in the strongest remarks yet from Seoul since the North Korean leader disappeared from public view more than two weeks ago.“The government is aware of Kim Jong Un’s location” Unification Minister Kim Yeon-chul said when asked directly in a parliamentary session on Tuesday, without elaborating.Asked separately if South Korea informed President Donald Trump of Kim Jong Un’s whereabouts and condition, Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha said the U.S. leader was in constant communication with South Korean officials and “should have been notified.” She later clarified that Trump was aware of Kim Jong Un’s condition but not his location.Also Watch | ‘No unusual signs with Kim Jong Un’s health’: South Korea reiterates In a press briefing hours earlier, Trump said he knows the health status of Kim Jong Un while saying he “can’t talk about it now.” The U.S. president also said that “nobody knows where he is.”Speculation about the 36-year-old North Korean leader’s health accelerated after the Seoul-based news site Daily NK reported April 20 that he was recovering from surgery, citing an unidentified person inside the country. Since then several different theories have emerged, including that he’s merely social distancing due to an outbreak of Covid-19 in the country.South Korea has persistently said there have been no unusual movements, and that Kim has been staying “in the Wonsan area” on North Korea’s eastern coastline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-s-ministers-say-they-know-north-korean-leader-kim-jong-un-s-location/story-FjoN9EGq3PV45mdPwc6uYO.html
28-04-2020||World||Covid-19: UK’s finance minister Sunak unveils loan scheme for small businesses||UK’s finance minister Rishi Sunak has unveiled a 100 per cent state-backed ‘Bounce Back Loan Scheme’ for the country’s small businesses to help them tide through the coronavirus pandemic lockdown. The Indian-origin UK Chancellor of the Exchequer on Monday told the House of Commons that the new fast-track finance scheme, to open from next Monday, would help bolster the existing package of support available to crisis-hit UK businesses. Under the scheme, qualifying small businesses can apply online to borrow between 2,000 pounds and 50,000 pounds as interest-free loans for the first 12 months.“Our smallest businesses are the backbone of our economy and play a vital role in their communities. This new rapid loan scheme will help ensure they get the finance they need quickly to help survive this crisis,” Sunak said. “This is in addition to business grants, tax deferrals, and the job retention scheme, which are already helping to support hundreds of thousands of small businesses,” he said. Sunak said his coronavirus support schemes had already provided over 15 billion pounds for business over the last few weeks, which will be further boosted with this new scheme. The scheme has been designed to ensure that small firms who need vital cash injections to keep operating can get finance in a matter of days. It comes alongside the 6 billion pounds awarded in business grants, supporting 4 million jobs through the job retention scheme and generous tax deferrals supporting hundreds of thousands of firms, the UK’s Treasury Department said. It said it had been consulting extensively with business representatives on the design of the new scheme, which will provide lenders with a 100 per cent guarantee for the loan and pay any fees and interest for the first 12 months. No repayments will be due during the first 12 months. The loans are expected to be easy to apply for through a short, standardised online application, and they should reach businesses within days providing immediate support to those that need it as easily as possible. “Our small businesses are vital in ensuring our communities thrive and will be crucial in creating jobs and securing economic growth as we recover. This rapid loan scheme offers additional protection so small companies across the country can get access to the finance they need immediately, as part of the unprecedented package of support we have put in place,” UK Business Secretary Alok Sharma said.Firms will be able to access these loans through a network of accredited lenders. The government will work with lenders to ensure loans delivered through this scheme are advanced as quickly as possible and agree a low standardised level of interest for the remaining period of the loan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-uk-s-finance-minister-rishi-sunak-unveils-loan-scheme-for-small-businesses/story-P4AdHV0Q8l4dymwVGS0pAL.html
28-04-2020||World||‘Why would I? Nov 3, it’s a good number’: Trump rules out deferring US polls||US President Donald Trump has ruled out making any changes in the date of the November 3 presidential election because of the coronavirus pandemic.“I never even thought of changing the date of the election. Why would I do that? November 3, it’s a good number,” Trump told reporters at his White House news conference.Follow latest update on coronavirus here His likely Democratic opponent Joe Biden last week said Trump was considering changing the date. “Mark my words, I think he is gonna try to kick back the election somehow, come up with some rationale why it can’t be held,” Biden said during an online fundraiser.“No, I look forward to that election and that was just made a propaganda not by him but by some of the many people that are working writing little segments. I see all of the time statements made you say something statement made per Joe Biden, Sleepy Joe,” Trump said.Also read: On Kim Jong Un’s health, Trump says ‘have a very good idea, but can’t talk’“He didn’t make those statements. Somebody did but they said he made it. No, let him know I am not thinking about it at all. Not at all,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-would-i-nov-3-it-s-a-good-number-donald-trump-rules-out-deferring-us-polls/story-nTKlONQHfBtauxJjpjb3fI.html
28-04-2020||World||US coronavirus deaths could reach 70,000: Donald Trump||President Donald Trump is projecting that coronavirus deaths in the United States could reach 70,000, but says original projections were much higher as he explained why voters should consider re-electing him in November.Trump has at times this month cited 60,000 as the estimate of how many people would die from Covid-19.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTrump was asked during a White House news conference on Monday whether an American president deserved to be re-elected after losing more Americans in six weeks than died in the Vietnam War. Approximately 58,000 US troops were killed during the Vietnam War.The number of dead in the US from Covid-19 surpassed 55,000, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.Trump said the nation has lost a lot of people.“But if you look at what original projections were — 2.2 million — we’re probably heading to 60,000-70,000. It’s far too many. One person is too many for this. And I think we’ve made a lot of really good decisions. The big decision was closing the border or doing the ban, people coming in from China.” Trump added: “I think we’ve done a great job. I will say this, one person is too many.” Trump is relying on a pandemic forecast that predicted 1.5 million to 2.2 million deaths in the United States in a worst-case scenario, without efforts to slow the spread of the coronavirus through social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-coronavirus-deaths-could-reach-70-000-donald-trump/story-nvuccv1C48aWKxR64rGzWL.html
28-04-2020||World||Brazilian judge orders probe into accusations by ex-justice minister against Bolsonaro||A Brazilian supreme court judge on Monday ordered an investigation into accusations by ex-justice and security minister Sergio Moro that President Jair Bolsonaro sought to “interfere” with police investigations.In his decision, obtained by AFP, Judge Celso de Mello gave the federal police 60 days to question Moro about his explosive allegations. The findings could result in either a request for political trial against Bolsonaro or an indictment against Moro for false testimony.Moro, a former anti-corruption judge, resigned on Friday after clashing with Bolsonaro over the sacking of the federal police chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazilian-judge-orders-probe-into-accusations-by-ex-justice-minister-against-bolsonaro/story-NQqxtgtqS38vlaOHc3TZAJ.html
28-04-2020||World||Covid-19 update: Next year will be phenomenal, US economy making a fast comeback, says Donald Trump||With several states taking steps to reopen businesses, which were abruptly shut down due to coronavirus, US President Donald Trump exuded confidence that the fourth quarter of this year and the next year would be “phenomenal” in terms of economic growth.He also slammed “one country” for the economic slowdown due to the virus, which originated in China in mid-November and swirled through the world, killing at least 2 lakh people, mostly in the US.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Nobody except one country can be held accountable for what happened. Nobody is letting anybody here. We’re looking at a group of people that should have stopped it at the source,” Trump said.“Now we’re making a comeback... I can tell you the third and fourth quarter, in particular, are going to be I think spectacular. We were talking about with the executives. I think we’re going to have a phenomenal third quarter,” Trump told reporters on Monday.On lifting the travel restrictions, he said it will depend on how long Europe takes “to heal” . “It is tragic but we will be looking at what is happening in Europe and certainly we want to do that and they want to do it too. They want to do it very badly.” US imposed travel restrictions on Europe on March 13 as a preventive measure to stop the spread of coronavirus inside the country.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todayBoth the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank has said that the American economy is in recession. A top White House official told reporters that the US is likely to experience a 20-30 per cent decline in the GDP in the second quarter, the worst since the Great Depression.Trump said the US economy would not do well in the second quarter, but will pick up in the third. “What we are doing is I think you’re going to see a big rise in the third, but you’re going to see an incredible fourth quarter and you’re going to have an incredible next year. I think you’re going to have a recovery,” he said.The president exuded confidence as several states started talking step to open up their economy and there were signs in decline in the death rates and new cases of coronavirus.“We continue to see encouraging signs of progress; cases in New York area, New Orleans, Detroit, Boston, and Houston are declining. Denver, Seattle, Philadelphia, Washington DC, Atlanta, Nashville, Indianapolis, and St. Louis are all stable and declining,” he said.“All parts of the country are either in good shape,….in all cases getting better and we are seeing very little that we are going to look at as a superseding hotspot. Things are moving along. Really a horrible situation that we have been confronted with, but they are moving along,” he said.Also read: Why WHO chief says ‘the world should have listened then, carefully’“As we express our gratitude for these hard-fought gains, however, we continue to mourn with thousands of families across the country is loved ones have been stolen from us by the invisible enemy. We grieve by their side as one family. This great American family and we do grieve,” he said.By Monday, more that 56,000 Americans had died due to the virus and over 10 lakh people have tested positive for COVID-19. The United States tops in the list of deaths and cases in the world.“We also stand in solidarity with the thousands of Americans who are ill and waging a brave fight against the virus. We are doing everything in our power to heal the sick and to gradually reopen our nation and to safely get our people back to work. They want to get back to work, and they want to get back to work soon. There is a hunger for getting our country back, and it is happening, and it is happening faster than people would think,” he said.Responding to questions, Trump said his administration is recommending states to reopen their economies as quickly as possible but safely.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “We want everyone to be safe and I think you are seeing that. You’re seeing a lot of governors get out and they want to open it up. Many are thinking about their school system not a long way to go in the school system right now for this season, for this year but I think you will see a lot of schools open up even if it’s for a very short period of time,” he said.“I think it would be a good thing because as you see in terms of what this vicious virus goes after young people seem to do very well. Young people seem to do very well. So I know that there are some governors that aren’t necessarily ready to open up their states but they may be ready to open up their school systems. We will see but that is their choice. But the word is safety. Rapid but safety,” said the president.“I built the greatest economy in the history of the world. And one day, because of something that should have never been allowed to happen, we had to close our country. We had to close our economy,” Trump said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-update-next-year-will-be-phenomenal-us-economy-making-a-fast-comeback-says-donald-trump/story-35FP0jI2KwdJFzN5LD0TVJ.html
28-04-2020||World||Coronavirus update: Can’t afford a lost generation of youth due to Covid-19 crisis, says UN chief||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has warned that the risk of radicalisation can increase during the Covid-19 pandemic as extremist groups seek to exploit the anger and despair of the young, asserting the world cannot afford a lost generation due to the global crisis.In a video conference Monday, Guterres told the Security Council that even before the current crisis, young people were facing enormous challenges.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Listing “startling” numbers, he said one of every five young people was already not in education, training or employment and one of every four is affected by violence or conflict. Every year, 12 million girls become mothers while they themselves are still children. “These frustrations and, frankly, failures to address them by those in power today, fuel declining confidence in political establishments and institutions. And when such a cycle takes hold, it is all too easy for extremist groups to exploit the anger and despair, and the risk of radicalization climbs,” he said.The UN chief noted that “we can already see such groups taking advantage of the Covid-19 lockdowns, intensifying their efforts on social media to spread hatred and to recruit young people who may be spending more time at home and on line.” He made the remarks during a meeting to review the five years since its adoption of a landmark resolution on youth, peace and security.Also read: Why WHO chief says ‘the world should have listened then, carefully’Issuing a call to action on youth, peace and security, Guterres said the “world cannot afford a lost generation of youth, their lives set back by Covid-19 and their voices stifled by a lack of participation. Let us do far more to tap their talents as we tackle the pandemic and chart a recovery that leads to a more peaceful, sustainable and equitable future for all.” With over 1.54 billion children and youth out-of-school and young people acutely feeling the impact of the COVID19 crisis, Guterres said countries must do more to harness the talents of young people to address the crisis and its aftermath.In presenting his first report on Security Council resolution, the UN chief said youth were already confronting numerous challenges even before the pandemic, including in accessing education, or through being affected by violence and conflict. Those pressing for peace or upholding human rights have been threatened.Despite these obstacles, young people across the world have joined the common fight against the coronavirus disease, supporting both frontline workers and people in need. And they continue to push for change.UN Youth Envoy Jayathma Wickramanayake spoke of the need for more meaningful partnerships between young people and the civil society organizations and government institutions that work on the youth, peace and security (YPS) agenda.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “To date, there are no national action plans on YPS but I’m pleased to note that in some countries, these are in the process of development,” she said.“For a national roadmap to be successful, a participatory, transparent and youth–led process with adequate resources are needed.” Issuing his four-point call to action for the Council, Guterres urged members to do more to address the various challenges facing young people. He also called for investment in youth participation, but also in their organizations and initiatives.Also read: US ‘well-positioned’ to handle Covid-19 pandemic, says WHO’s emergencies chief“We must strengthen human rights protections and protect the civic space on which youth participation depends,” he said. “And fourth, we must emerge from the COVID-19 crisis with a determination to recover better – massively increasing our investment in young people’s capacities as we deliver the Sustainable Development Goals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-can-t-afford-a-lost-generation-of-youth-due-to-covid-19-crisis-says-un-chief/story-rXpQw9j7OgaYNWMw3lE4pK.html
28-04-2020||World||Covid-19: WHO chief says ‘the world should have listened then, carefully’||The director general of the World Health Organization (WHO) has defended its handling of the coronavirus pandemic.Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said countries should have listened to the agency after it declared a “Public Health Emergency of International Concern” on 30 January, when there were 82 cases outside China and no deaths, the BBC reported on Monday.“The world should have listened to WHO then, carefully,” he told reporters.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “We advised the whole world to implement a comprehensive public health approach, and we said: ‘Find, test, isolate, and do contact tracing’. You can check for yourselves: countries who followed that are in a better position than others.”US President Donald Trump ordered the suspension of US funding to the agency after accusing it of “severely mismanaging and covering up the spread of the coronavirus”.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-why-who-chief-says-the-world-should-have-listened-then-carefully/story-vZt8XWjKFPcTS4rWyu7tEL.html
28-04-2020||World||‘Damage to the world’: Trump says ‘very serious investigation’ against China on||The United States is doing a “very serious” investigation against China, President Donald Trump said, indicating his administration is looking at a lot more money as compensation from Beijing than euro 130 billion being sought by Germany.“Germany is looking at things and we’re looking at things and we’re talking about a lot more money than Germany is talking about,” Trump told reporters at his White House news conference Monday.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The deadly virus, which originated in China in mid-November has so far killed more than two lakh people and infected over 30 lakh globally. The largest number of them are in the US: more than 56,000 deaths and over 10 lakh infections.After the US, Europe has been the worst hit by the virus. In India, mainly because of the early and aggressive preventive measures, the fatalities have remained low at 886 and infections at 28,000. Leaders of these countries including the US, the UK and Germany increasingly believe that the unfortunate deaths of so many people and destruction of the global economy could have been avoided, if China had shown transparency and shared the information about the virus in its early phases.Also read: Covid-19: What you need to know todayAs such many countries have started talking about claiming compensation from China.Trump, during the Rose Garden press conference, was asked about Germany planning to send a bill to China for euro 130 billion for the damages. “Would your administration look at doing the same?” “Well, we can do something much easier than that. We have ways of doing things a lot easier than that,” Trump replied. “We haven’t determined the final amount yet,” but “it is very substantial”.“If you look at the world, I mean, this is a worldwide damage. This is a damage to the US but this is a damage to the world,” said the US president.Also read: China ‘concerned’ as India decides to stop use of Chinese Covid-19 test kitsTrump said there are “a lot of ways” one can hold China accountable for the spread of the virus. “We’re doing very serious investigations, as you probably know. We are not happy with China,” he said.“We are not happy with that whole situation because we believe it could’ve been stopped at the source. It could’ve been stopped quickly and it wouldn’t have spread all over the world. And we think that should have happened. So, we’ll let you know at the appropriate time, but we are doing serious investigations,” Trump said.In recent weeks, there has been an increasing support towards the move to hold China accountable.“China has been untruthful and unforthcoming since the beginning of this pandemic. We must hold them accountable for this cover up,” Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith said in a tweet.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage On Monday, Congressman Earl L. “Buddy” Carter signed on to a resolution establishing a bicameral, bipartisan joint select committee to investigate the origins of and China’s handling of the 2019 novel coronavirus.“We know China has lied and covered up important information about Covid-19 since the beginning,” said Carter.“Now, thousands of Americans have died, people have lost their jobs and the world has been turned upside down. Congress has the responsibility to investigate the origins of the virus and the extent of China’s deception. The American people have been devastated by this disease and they deserve answers. We should approve this resolution without delay and get to work as soon as possible,” he said.In a related development, Congressmen Alex X. Mooney and Matt Gaetz, Senator Martha McSally and a bicameral coalition of over 50 other lawmakers sent a letter to House and Senate leadership requesting that no Covid-19 relief funds be given to China’s state-run bio-agent laboratory, the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV).“After the damage the coronavirus has inflicted upon the world, US taxpayer dollars should no longer be sent to labs we know conduct sloppy research and dangerous experiments. I commend President Trump’s response to this invisible enemy and his determination to hold China accountable for its actions,” Mooney said.Reports indicate that for years WIV has received taxpayer dollars from the US National Institutes of Health for secretive and dangerous laboratory research on coronavirus-infected bats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-update-damage-to-the-world-trump-says-very-serious-investigation-against-china-on/story-TrPbSQmoDbUMtpPt975a1H.html
28-04-2020||World||US records 1,303 coronavirus deaths in 24 hours: Johns Hopkins||The United States recorded 1,303 more novel coronavirus deaths in the past 24 hours, according to figures reported late Monday by the Johns Hopkins University, with confirmed US cases nearing one million.The country now has an overall death toll of 56,144, with 987,022 infections, according to a tally by the Baltimore-based institution at 8:30 pm (0030 GMT Tuesday).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAt least 111,109 people have recovered from the virus.The 24-hour toll on Monday was in line with Sunday’s, but a sharp drop on Saturday’s figure of 2,494.More states began lifting coronavirus lockdown orders on Monday but officials said New York -- America’s economic engine and coronavirus epicenter -- was in no hurry with hospitalization rates still high.As Colorado, Minnesota, Mississippi and Tennessee were among the latest states to loosen restrictions, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said he was preparing to lengthen confinement measures for badly-hit areas.New York is America’s worst-hit state, with more than 17,300 Covid-19 deaths out of almost 292,000 confirmed infections.President Donald Trump said he expected to see many US schools reopen before the end of the school year.“Even if it’s for a very short period of time, I think it would be a good thing,” he told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-records-1-303-coronavirus-deaths-in-24-hours-johns-hopkins/story-Bs2yNKG1fhsMKjebeD03cL.html
28-04-2020||World||Jaishankar discusses coronavirus challenge with Afghan counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday held a wide-ranging meeting with his Afghanistan counterpart Mohammed Haneef Atmar and discussed the coronavirus challenge and humanitarian assistance, including food and medical supplies.Jaishankar said the talks covered the latest developments on the Afghanistan peace efforts besides the safety and well-being of the Sikh community in the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “Virtual diplomacy today included a wide-ranging meeting with FM @MHaneefAtmar of #Afghanistan. Reviewed our bilateral cooperation, ensuring that the development partnership continues strongly,” Jaishankar said in a tweet. “Discussed the #coronavirus challenge and humanitarian assistance, including food & medical supplies. Also stressed on the safety and well-being of the Sikh community. Talks covered the latest developments on the Afghanistan peace efforts,” he said in another tweet. Jaishankar also spoke to Estonia Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. “Connected with FM @UrmasReinsalu of #Estonia. Interesting discussion on use of digital tools in #coronavirus response. Also talked about our cooperation in the UN framework,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jaishankar-discusses-coronavirus-challenge-with-afghan-counterpart/story-xqLFAnUErjIooFH3hdrfII.html
28-04-2020||World||Is Brazil the next big hotspot as other nations ease up?||Brazil is emerging as potentially the next big hotspot for the coronavirus amid President Jair Bolsonaro’s insistence that it is just a “little flu” and that there is no need for the sharp restrictions that have slowed the infection’s spread in Europe and the US.As some US states and European countries moved gradually Monday to ease their limits on movement and commerce, the intensifying outbreak in Brazil — Latin America’s biggest country, with 211 million people — pushed some hospitals to the breaking point, with signs that a growing number of victims are now dying at home.“We have all the conditions here for the pandemic to become much more serious,” said Paulo Brandão, a virologist at the University of Sao Paulo.Brazil officially reported about 4,500 deaths and almost 67,000 confirmed infections. But the true numbers there, as in many other countries, are believed to be vastly higher given the lack of testing and the many people without severe symptoms who haven’t sought hospital care.Some scientists said over 1 million in Brazil are probably infected. The country is heading into winter, which can worsen respiratory illnesses.Worldwide, the death toll topped 210,000, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University. The number of dead in the US surpassed 55,000 — close to the 58,000 US troops killed during the Vietnam War. Italy, Britain, Spain and France accounted for more than 20,000 deaths each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/is-brazil-the-next-big-hotspot-as-other-nations-ease-up/story-lSidQjdVdFpXMdrIr9fWNO.html
28-04-2020||World||US ‘well-positioned’ to handle Covid-19 pandemic, says WHO’s emergencies chief||The World Health Organization’s emergencies chief says the US is “well-positioned” to handle the continuing Covid-19 pandemic and said states may have different strategies because they’re at different points in their respective outbreaks.In a news briefing on Monday, Dr Michael Ryan said that although the UN health agency issues epidemic control recommendations to all its member countries, it’s up to countries to decide whether or not to follow such guidance.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“I believe the federal government and the system of governors are working together to move America and its people through this very difficult situation with public health and other scientific leaders,” Ryan said in Geneva, adding that the American plan for exiting lockdowns appears to be based on several parameters, including a downward trajectory in cases and sufficient health care capacity.He added that the US had a “superb” public health infrastructure able to manage the transition once restrictive measures are loosened.WHO’s director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said all countries should have heeded the agency’s warning when it declared Covid-19 to be a global emergency on Jan. 30, when there were only 82 cases of the disease beyond China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-s-emergencies-chief-us-well-positioned-to-handle-covid-19-pandemic/story-PVRJGYkw2H41Zac3SOsptN.html
28-04-2020||World||‘You are a miracle’: Home care of Covid-19 patients is new front in coronavirus fight in US||Ruth Caballero paused outside an unfamiliar apartment door, preparing to meet her new patient.She covered the knob with a plastic bag. Put on a surgical gown, then a heavy-duty N95 mask, a lighter surgical mask on top. Cap, face shield, shoe covers. Hand sanitizer between each step of the process. Finally, the nurse donned two sets of gloves and knocked on the door with her elbow, ready to care for her first coronavirus patient.After about three weeks in a hospital, the man was home in his New York apartment but still so weak that sitting up in bed took some persuading.“You made it out of the hospital, so you are a miracle,” Caballero told him. “Now let’s keep you out of the hospital.”Home health care is becoming a new front in the national fight against COVID-19 as some patients come back from hospitals and others strive to stay out of them.Home care nurses, aides and attendants — who normally help an estimated 12 million Americans with everything from bathing to IV medications — are now taking on the difficult and potentially dangerous task of caring for coronavirus patients.While Americans are being told to keep to themselves, home health providers and their clients still largely have to engage in person, often intimately. Many agencies are ramping up phone or video visits but can’t always get paid for them, and even the smartest phone can’t physically dress a wound or get someone to the bathroom.Like their colleagues in hospitals and nursing homes, home care workers have faced a scarcity of protective equipment, but with a lower public profile. Some agencies have scoured for masks at nail salons, auto body shops and tattoo parlors, said William Dombi, president of the National Association for Home Care and Hospice, an industry group.The crisis is testing the industry, but it’s also a moment of pride for workers who have often felt under-recognized.“It is a challenge to keep the business operational, but it’s an opportunity,” Dombi said. “We’re getting a chance to establish what can be done.”Coronavirus care at home has expanded rapidly in the last few weeks. At least some agencies in most states are now taking COVID-19 patients referred after hospitalization or nursing home care or as an alternative to them, Dombi said.Still, some patients have struggled to get care. After being diagnosed with coronavirus-related pneumonia late last month, Penny Wittbrodt contacted multiple agencies around her home in Winchester, Kentucky. None was then accepting COVID-19 patients, she said, though her doctor was able to arrange home oxygen. Wittbrodt, who has asthma and a history of respiratory hospitalizations, is still not well, though she’s had some relief at times.A retired home health nurse, Wittbrodt feels such care is especially valuable in the pandemic.“Home health would expose far less people to COVID than hospitalization,” she said.New York-based Americare Inc. has taken about 100 COVID-19 patients released from hospitals, and over 200 of the agency’s other patients also have tested positive or shown symptoms, VP Bridget Gallagher said.Every corporate staffer including the CEO is calling protective gear suppliers, but the agency still counts its stock of N95 masks every day.“We’re doing what we can, but I have to be honest: None of it feels like enough,” said Gallagher, who’s also on the board of the Home Care Association of New York State.For many agencies, chronic staff shortages are amplified by absences due to illness or quarantine. And workers are grappling with patients’ fears while reckoning with their own risk.The surgical mask and gloves that Washington home health aide Adassa Clarke now wears rattle her patient, who has Alzheimer’s disease and relies on a wheelchair. The patient doesn’t have COVID-19 but can’t retain what she’s been told about an illness going around.“What’s going on? Do I have a germ? Am I dying?” she asks, according to Clarke. Sometimes, the patient breaks into tears.At 65, Clarke herself is in an age group at higher risk of severe cases of COVID-19, and she’s trying to stay home as much as she can.But patients “come first,” said Clarke, a certified nursing assistant.“I just feel like the more I help, the more I keep going,” she said.A home health nurse with Chicago-area patients with COVID-19, Vanessa Pepino-Adraneda is extra-vigilant about protective gear and other precautions. Pepino-Adraneda also girds herself by focusing on caring for her patients and allowing herself moments of sadness, frustration or exhaustion.“I try my best to protect my sanity amidst all this chaos,” she said.For some people, especially older adults and people with existing health problems, the virus can cause severe illness or be fatal. For most people, it carries mild symptoms or none at all, meaning some patients could have the virus and not know it.The Visiting Nurse Service of New York, one of the nation’s largest home health agencies, currently has nearly 400 COVID-19 patients, and another nearly 300 referrals await, Executive Vice President Dan Savitt said. Separately, about 80 confirmed and presumed coronavirus patients are getting hospice care.As an industry, “I do feel like we’ve risen to the challenge,” he said.When the agency first told Caballero and other nurses in late March that COVID-19 patients were coming, “I won’t say that I wasn’t nervous,” Caballero says.She was relieved, though, to see the protective equipment the agency issued. And her first visit, to the man in the apartment, went well. When she called later that night, he was not only sitting up but had gotten into a chair.The person who would have been her next coronavirus patient died before visits began.Caballero is now caring for several COVID-19 patients. They came home debilitated and fearful, afraid that hospitals “sent them home to die,” she says.She encourages them to take step after small step: to sit on the side of the bed, to walk to the bathroom, to have a meal at the kitchen table.“It is a challenge. This disease has taken so many lives,” she says, but “I’m so blessed and so honored and so grateful that these patients are coming home.”“Think about it -- there but for the grace. It could be I.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/you-are-a-miracle-home-care-of-covid-19-patients-is-new-front-in-coronavirus-fight-in-us/story-b4DGkS0on4InN4xoNDxkYJ.html
28-04-2020||World||UK team begins Covid-19 vaccine trials, aims to get efficacy results by September||A vaccine to halt the coronavirus pandemic could be available as early as this year for vulnerable groups such as health-care workers, even faster than initially thought, according to a key group at the heart of the global development effort.The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, which is funding nine different coronavirus vaccine projects, has previously suggested a shot could be ready within 12 to 18 months, an already ambitious target. That assessment didn’t account for the possibility of companies working closely together to accelerate the process, faster enrollment in human trials and other factors, according to Richard Hatchett, the head of the Oslo-based organization.“These are all things we are looking at now as potential opportunities to perhaps deliver vaccines even faster than the 12 to 18 months we were discussing,” he said on a call Monday.As the number of coronavirus infections globally nears 3 million, the pressure is growing to come up with therapies and vaccines to combat the contagion. Dozens of companies around the world are pursuing a vaccine, among them Sanofi, Johnson & Johnson and Moderna Inc.Also read: Bill Gates’s coronavirus vaccine could be ready in 12 monthsA University of Oxford team led by Sarah Gilbert, a professor of vaccinology, has begun trials of a potential vaccine and aims to get efficacy results as soon as September. Manufacturing is already underway.Caution UrgedSome experts have called for caution, noting that most vaccines go through years of tests before they hit the market, and that 12 to 18 months would be extraordinarily fast. The coronavirus shots moving most rapidly are made with new technologies that have never proven useful in humans.Hatchett said he doesn’t want to overpromise, but several vaccines backed by CEPI may enter a second phase of testing as soon as late spring or this summer. That means the first could become available in 2020 if they prove to be safe and effective, probably on an emergency-use basis. In that scenario, they might be accessible only to certain at-risk populations before being deployed more widely.Developers are mindful of examples in the past where rapid vaccine development “unfortunately led to bad outcomes,” he said. “We take it with the utmost seriousness. We cannot cut corners. It’s absolutely critical that we ensure safety and efficacy.”Click here for complete coronavirus coverage With experimental vaccines progressing, governments and health groups are turning to the challenge of producing enough doses to meet global demand and ensuring that shots are distributed equitably. The coalition wants to set up manufacturing in every region of the world and has been talking with other groups including Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which helps developing countries finance and distribute vaccines.“Given the economic disruption that is caused by the pandemic and the global interconnectedness of the economy, if we don’t address the pandemic everywhere, we will still be at risk,” Hatchett said.Global CoordinationThe head of Sanofi, Paul Hudson, raised questions last week about Europe’s ability to manufacture enough doses and said the US may be in a position to vaccinate first, thanks to the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, a government agency that backs vaccine development.“We should really have a global perspective and make sure we don’t end up limiting the access because it’s produced in certain countries,” Erna Solberg, Norway’s prime minister, said on the call with CEPI’s head.Also read: Indian firm ready to begin producing possible vaccineCEPI has secured commitments for about half of the $2 billion it estimates will be needed to develop the vaccines, and it may invest in 15 or more programs, Hatchett said.The coalition is partnering with companies including Moderna and Inovio Pharmaceuticals Inc., along with institutions such as Oxford and the University of Queensland in Australia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-team-begins-covid-19-vaccine-trials-aims-to-get-efficacy-results-by-september/story-RPPrxhUSZW18pDxahf1DEO.html
28-04-2020||World||Masks, temperature checks, customers’ logs mark ‘new normal’ at US restaurants||With staff wearing masks, checking customers’ temperatures and using disposable paper place mats, some of the nation’s restaurants reopened for dine-in service as states loosened more coronavirus restrictions. But many eateries remained closed amid safety concerns and community backlash.Restaurants in Georgia and Tennessee and Anchorage, Alaska, welcomed diners back, albeit for a different dine-in experience than before the pandemic forced restaurants to close or limit their services to take-out and delivery.In Louisiana, the governor said restaurants will be allowed to seat people outside starting Friday, though without wait service at the tables.In Georgia, dine-in service and movie screenings were allowed to resume a few days after some other businesses, including barbershops, gyms, tattoo shops and nail salons, began seeing customers Friday.“We’re ecstatic to have them back,” said Chris Heithaus, who manages 87 Waffle House restaurants. “A lot of people, I think, want to get back to the new normal, which will be social distancing and all that. But they will be able to eat inside the restaurant.” At the popular chain known for hash brown breakfasts and its ability to stay open in the face of natural disasters, the “new normal” included employees wearing masks, booths closed to keep customers apart and traditional plastic place mat menus replaced by paper menus.Gov. Brian Kemp announced last week that he would relax restrictions despite health experts’ warnings of a potential surge in infections and disapproval from President Donald Trump.Kemp issued 39 requirements that restaurants must follow, including observing a limit of 10 customers per 500 square feet and ensuring that all employees wear face coverings.Anchorage began allowing restaurants, hair salons and other retails locations to open Monday, three days after the rest of Alaska began relaxing restrictions. Seating must be limited to 25 percent of capacity, and only members of the same household can sit at a table.A log with every customer’s first and last name and contact phone number must be maintained by the restaurant and kept for 30 days in case it’s needed for contact tracing. All employees must wear fabric face masks, and customers are encouraged to wear them unless eating.In Tennessee, state officials allowed restaurants to reopen in 89 of Tennessee’s 95 counties starting Monday. At Tony Gore’s Smoky Mountain BBQ & Grill in Sevierville, only a few tables of dine-in guests had come in by Monday afternoon, and each diner — as well as employees — had to have their temperature checked with an infrared thermometer gun.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “Everybody has really been great about that part of it,” restaurant general manager Keith Carter said of the temperature checks. “We figured we would have some people who would be like, ‘That’s kind of weird.’ I think they see that it’s just a precaution.” In Madison, a small antebellum town in Georgia about 96 kilometres from Atlanta, the Madison Chop House Grille took similar cautionary steps.The staff put big blue X marks on certain tables and removed chairs to let patrons know they could not sit there. When employees arrive, they have to take their temperature and record it on a white board that’s visible to customers.The restaurant only had about six tables of people for dine-in lunch service, said general manager, Mary Spoto.“Every customer who’s come in here has thanked us for being open, but unfortunately it was really slow,” Spoto said.Many other restaurants decided it wasn’t yet time to reopen. Dennis McKinley had planned to open two of the three branches of his Atlanta-area restaurant, the Original Hot Dog Factory. But Monday morning he decided not to open after all, citing community opposition.McKinley estimates he got about 40 calls over the weekend from politicians, community leaders and customers urging him not to reopen for dine-in service.“Ultimately, the Original Hot Dog Factory can’t make it without the community’s support, so I felt it was important to hold back and wait,” he said.He plans to wait until state and local officials are on the same page. In the meantime, his staff continues to work on takeout and delivery orders.Collins Quarter, Anthony Debreceny’s café and bar in Savannah’s downtown historic district, remained closed Monday along with three other restaurants he owns. Debreceny said many other restaurateurs he knows were also holding off, particularly those who rely on tourists for much of their business.“Customers aren’t ready,” Debreceny said. “Today’s going to be an interesting test. I think there’s a lot of people waiting to see what the social media backlash is going to be like.” Right now, Debreceny said, he doesn’t anticipate reopening until late June. He doesn’t want to risk having to shut down all over again and having to suffer a second time the cost of losing any perishable food in his restaurants’ refrigerators, if infections rebound.Worst of all, he said, would be opening too soon and having one of his restaurants blamed for infecting a customer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-19-masks-temperature-checks-customers-logs-mark-new-normal-at-us-restaurants/story-9V9mzG4e3jEQtjx8UoT36O.html
28-04-2020||World||Recovered from Covid-19, PM Boris Johnson says risk of second spike||Prime Minister Boris Johnson returned to his desk in Downing Street on Monday after recovering from coronavirus, but resisted demands to ease lockdown curbs due to “maximum risk” of a second spike, as the UK’s death toll was set to cross 21,000.Johnson, who left hospital last week and revealed the precarious nature of his health – “things could have gone either way” – appeared to have made a full recovery as he made a cautiously optimistic statement that asked people to “contain your impatience” with the lockdown.However, his claim that many are “looking now at our apparent success”, referring to the hospital system not being overwhelmed, was questioned by critics who pointed out that the number of deaths and cases made the UK rank among the worst in Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/recovered-from-covid-19-pm-boris-johnson-says-risk-of-second-spike/story-vDLNHECSdiGFj5R1W7rxHN.html
28-04-2020||World||Why has Spain been hit so hard by the coronavirus pandemic?||In Spain, one of the hardest-hit countries in the pandemic, the coronavirus spread quickly and widely without being detected, especially among the elderly, experts told AFP.While they stressed it was too early to carry out a detailed analysis, the experts pointed to the country’s sociable lifestyle and close ties between young and older family members as significant factors in the virus’s spread.Low mortality, high spreadWhile Spain has the world’s highest coronavirus death toll per capita after Belgium, its mortality rate -- the percentage of infected patients who die -- stands at 10.4 percent, below other hard-hit nations like Italy, France and Britain.“The problem here is the size of the epidemic, the great quantity of infections which we had at the epidemic peak,” said Fernando Rodriguez, a public health professor at Madrid’s Autonomous University.Only the United States has more confirmed COVID-19 cases than Spain, although national variations depend greatly on the number of tests that are carried out.A study carried out by the Polytechnic University of Catalonia estimated that more than two million of Spain’s 47 million people are infected.Late detectionThe virus “circulated under the radar a lot” before the government ordered a near total nationwide lockdown on March 14, said the head of epidemiology at Barcelona’s Hospital Clinic, Antoni Trilla.Unusually warm weather helped spread the virus.“The weather was fantastic during the last weeks of February and the first week of March and people were out on the streets, very close to one another,” said Rodriguez.This sped up the spread of the virus and “in very little time there was community transmission,” he added.Kisses and hugsLifestyle could also have played a role in a country where people spend a lot of time outside in groups eating out, having drinks, attending religious processions, protesting or just going for a walk.In Spain, as in Italy, “people hug and touch each other a lot, here people are constantly kissing, even at work,” said Ildefonso Hernandez, a professor of public health at the Miguel Hernandez University in Alicante.In addition, Spain has the most people living in flats of any European Union country, according to EU statistics agency Eurostat.“Our cities are built vertically, there is a lot of density and this can also facilitate the transmission of the epidemic,” Rodriguez said.Close contact with seniorsWhile Spaniards have a long average lifespan and the country has a high number of seniors who are more vulnerable to the virus, its share of the population over 65 is lower than other nations that have suffered fewer COVID-19 deaths, such as Germany.But older people in Spain have more contact with younger family members who can pass on the virus to them, Ildefonso Hernandez said.“Older people in northern Europe are more secluded and there is more family distance,” he said.In Spain, families “are much tighter, the interaction between youths and seniors is very high,” he added.It is common for several generations to live under the same roof in Spain. The average age a young adult moves out of the home in Spain is 29.5, compared to 18.5 in Sweden and 21.1 in Denmark, according to Eurostat.Nursing homesFamilies also frequently visit relatives who live in nursing homes, which became tragic focal points of the pandemic in Spain, Hernandez said.The health ministry does not provide figures for the number of deaths from COVID-19 at nursing homes.But the governments of the two hardest-hit regions, Madrid and Catalonia, reported a combined total of around 8,000 confirmed and suspected deaths from the disease at retirement homes.Residents of nursing homes are “very old, very fragile,” said Trilla.“They are not healthcare establishments and were not prepared for this. That caused a fire of colossal proportions,” he added.Strained health care systemSpain’s public healthcare system is ranked in the top 10 in the world by the World Health Organization (WHO), but it has suffered deep spending cuts since the global financial crisis more than a decade ago.While it has a strong primary care network, hospitals have fewer beds than the European average, which forced them to improvise during the pandemic.Like banks with little solvency “they did not pass the stress test,” said Guillem Lopez-Casasnovas, an economist and expert on healthcare systems at Barcelona’s Pompeu Fabra University who has worked as an advisor to the WHO.“When you live day to day, you get the most out of what you have, but you don’t have enough muscle to respond to a major stressor like now,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/why-has-spain-been-hit-so-hard-by-the-coronavirus-pandemic/story-Tg4mtBt3aklwY1QAPSkcoI.html
28-04-2020||India||Guidelines issued for virtual customs hearings to maintain social distance amidst Covid-19||The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has issued guidelines for its offices to conduct hearings on customs-related matters via video conference with the consent of the appellant or respondent to accelerate the disposal of pending cases and at the same time follow social distancing norms to check the spread of Covid-19.“With an aim to create a virtual Customs working environment, ensuring #SocialDistancing, reduce physical presence & usage of ICT systems, CBIC issues guidelines for conduct of personal hearings in virtual mode under Customs Act, 1962,” CBIC tweeted on Tuesday. ICT is short for information and communications technology.According to the guidelines, the new system would help importers, exporters, international passengers, advocates, tax practitioners and authorised representatives interacting with officials the Customs department to maintain social distancing while performing their work from a place of their choice.Participants in video conferences should be “appropriately dressed and maintain the required decorum,” the guidelines said.These steps reinforce the “turant” (instant) scheme including answers to online queries, eSanchit (paperless processing, uploading of supporting documents), web-based goods registration, electronic processing of licenses, machine -based release of imported goods based on customs compliance verification, and electronic transmission of PDF-based first copy of bill of entry (BoE) to customs brokers and registered importers.“Shift to virtual environment for hearings, etc. by CBIC is a welcome move not only from Cvid-19 response perspective but one more step towards a faceless Customs {department}. Hopefully, this will help expeditious clearances of pending matters with minimal glitches,” said Rahul Shukla, executive director--indirect tax at consulting firm PwC, Chartered accountant Kapil Rana said conducting personal hearings in the virtual mode is in sync with the changed way of doing business. “During the pandemic, the business is not happening or happening at a very slow pace; utilising this time to clear all the pending cases is a fantastic move.”He said the it would speed up the disposal of pending cases and clearance of refunds “which will help business during this crunch time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guidelines-issued-for-virtual-customs-hearings-to-maintain-social-distance-amidst-covid-19/story-teh3kBzq5KeuLer4N6BYyI.html
28-04-2020||India||Coronavirus latest update: Delhi containment zones reach 100||The Delhi government added another containment zone taking the total number of hotspots in the national capital to 100. House no- 152 to 162 in Block D of Shaheen Bagh was added to the list, reported news agency ANI.On Monday, two more localities – one in south Delhi the other in New Delhi were added to the list of containment zones.The containment zones are also known as Red Zones and are sealed completely barring entry and exit from the locality in order to cut off any chance of transmission of the virus. Even essential services are supplied to these zones by the administration.Read full list here of Delhi’s containment zones:1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar2. Entire affected street of Gali No 5, 6 &7, L 1 Sangam Vihar3. The affected area around H. No.A-176, Deoli Extension4. Shop No. J-4/49, Khirki Extension, Khirki Village, New Delhi.5. Jain Moholla, Pandit Mohalla from Epic Centre 715, Chirag Delhi6. Boundary Start from B-4/200 and cover the whole locality till backside of humayupur lane includes, Ashiana complex & B-4/206 Safdarjung Enclave, New Delhi7. H. No. 50, Hauz Rani, New Delhi, from Mother Dairy to back corner of Raja Ram Mohan School, Hauz Rani, New Delhi.8. Entire effected area around H. No. 859/20, L-II, Sangam Vihar, New Delhi9. H.No. 153/B, 4th Floor, Savitri Nagar, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi10. Gali No. 2, 3 & 4 Devli Extension, Delhi11. F-313, Near Shiva Mandir Lado Sari and F-274, 2nd Floor of Lado Sari, New Delhi12. F-258, Campa Cola Gali Lado Sarai, New Delhi13. Entire affected area of Samshi Talab, Mehrauli including A-3, lake of view apartment, Mehrauli, Delhi 14. Entire affected area including-Nirankari Gali, Nakshtra Gali, Nala Boring Gali, Ravan Wali Gali, Jameela Masjid Baoli, Dargah Gurudwara wali Gali, Thane wali Gali and Terminal Wali Gali in South Delhi15. Shahajahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka.16. Dinpur Village17. Gali No. 5 & 5A, H-2 Block, Benagli Colony, Mahavir Enclave, New Delhi18. C-2, Block, Janakpuri, Kothi No. -119 19. Plot No.-1294, Sonu Yadav Ka Makkan, Theke Wali Gali, Opposite DC Office Kapashera, Delhi20. RZF-756/7, Gali no 1 Band, Raj Nagar II Dwarka New Delhi21. South-East Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti22. South-East Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas.23. Area of Street/Gali No. 18 to 22 of Zakir Nagar and nearby area of Abu Bakar Masjid of Zakir Nagar ( Core) rest of Zakir Nagar as Buffer Zone24. H. No. 811 to 829 and 842 to 835 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension , Part-II, Delhi25. H. No. 1144 to 1134 and 618 to 623 - Khadda Colony, Jaitpur, Extension , Part-II, New Delhi26. Gali No. 16, Kachhi Colony, Madanpur Khadar, Extension, Delhi27. MehelaMohalla, MadanpurKhadar, Delhi28. H-Block, Near Umra Masjid, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi29. South-East E-Block, Abu Fazal Enclave, Delhi30. H No. 97 to 107 and H. No. 120-127 Kailash Hills, East of Kailash, Delhi31. E-Block (E-284 to E-294) East of Kailash, Delhi 32. H. No. 53 to 55 & 25, Shera Mohalla, Garhi, East of Kailash, Delhi33. Gali No 1, 2 & 3, Block-D, SangamVihar, House No. 112B, Gali No.2, New Delhi34. Entire Gali starting from H.No. G-54 to F-107 & Entire Gali starting from H.No. CN-854 to H.No. 137, Chhuriya Mohalla, Tughlakabad Village, Delhi35. South-East Gali No. 6, A Block, Abul Fazal Enclave, Shaheen Bagh, Delhi36. Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 & Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 , Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi37. (Whole Gali H. No. 48 to Chaupal), A Block, Khizrabad, New Friends Colony, Delhi38. Gali No. 24 to 28 Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi (Core Area){Added in Gali No. 26 & 26B, H.No. 2056 to 2092 & Gali No. 27 & 27B, H.No. 2063 to 2083 , Tughlakabad Extension, Delhi} 39. H. No. F-138 & F-139, Gali No. 1 (Shiv Mandir Wali Gali), Harsh Vihar, Hari Nagar Extension, Delhi 40. Whole Kumhar Gali (H.No. 1751 to 1815) to Chaupal Chowkm Kotla Mubarakpur Delhi41. B Block Jhangirpuri42. Gali No. 1 to 10 (1 to 1000) C Block Jhangirpuri43. 1100 WaliGali (H. No. 1181-1200), 1200 WaliGali (H. No. 12381268), 1300 WaliGali (H. No. 1306-1331), H-3 Block, Jhangirpuri, Delhi44. G, H and I Block, Police Colony, Model Town, Delhi45. H.No.716 to 785, H. No. 786 to 860, H. No. 861 to 950 K-Block, Jhangir Puri, Delhi46. G-Block, Jahangirpuri , Delhi 47. Flat No.-265 to 500 Sanjay Enclave, Jahangirpuri, Delhi48. Gali No. 3, 4 & 5 Majlis Park, Adarsh Nagar, Delhi49. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali no. 14, Kalyanpuri Delhi50. 3 Galis of Khichirpur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichirpur Delhi51. East Gali No 9, PandavNagar , Delhi 11009252. Vardhaman Apartments , Mayur Vihar, Phase I , Extension, Delhi53. Mayurdhwaj Apartments , I P Extension, Patparganj, Delhi54. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115 (Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108( towards Anarwali Masjid Chowk), KishanKunj Extension, Delhi 55. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension Delhi. 56. Gali No. 5, A Block (From H No. A- 176 to A-189), West Vinod Nagar Delhi 110092. 57. H. No. 34/156 to H. No. 34/189 (Resettlement Colony), Block-34, Tirlok Puri, Delhi 110091. 58. H. No. 300, Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi to H.No. 739/16 Gali No. 3 Krishna Puri, Main Road Mandawali, Delhi59. Shahdara E-Pocket, GTB Enclave, Delhi60. Shahdara J & K , L and H pockets Dilshad Garden, G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri 61. Shahdara F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony62. Shahdara Pratapkhand ,Jhilmil Colony63. Shahdara Gali no 3,4 and 5 East Ram Nagar, Shahdara64. Shahdara H. No. 15 to 101 Dayanand Vihar, Delhi-9265. Shahdara Gali No. 18, H.No. 701/23 to 500/36B, Vijay Park, Maujpur, Delhi66. Shastri Market, including J.J. Cluster of South Moti Bagh 67. Bengali Market/ Babar Road adjoining area of Todarmal Road, Babar Lane and School Lane, New Delhi. 68. Israel Camp, Rangpuri Pahari, New Delhi & its adjoining area of Buffer Zone69. Budh Nagar, Inderpuri, New Delhi & its adjoining area of Buffer Zone70. EA Block, Inderpuri, New Delhi71. H. No. P-65 and H. No. P-184, Pillanji Village, New Delhi72. Sadar Bazaar, Central District73. Chandni Mahal, Central District74. l Nabi Karim, Central District. 75. Balaji Apartment, Sant Nagar, Burari, Delhi76. Bara Hindu Rao Area, Delhi 77. NawabGanj Area, Delhi 78. Oberoi Apartments79. In and around area of G-174, Capital Greens, DLF, Motinagar New Delhi 110015 80. n and around area of B- 1/2, PaschimVihar , New DelhiFor Coronavirus Live Updates81. In and around area of 11/3, 2nd Floor Ashok Nagar , New Delhi 82. In and around area of H. No. A-30, Mansarovar Garden , New Delhi 11.04.2020 83. In and around area of A-1B/75A, Krishna Apartment, PaschimVihar , Delhi84. In and around area of A-280. J.J. Colony, Madipur, Delhi 110063. 85. In and around area of 36/4, East Patel Nagar, Delhi86. In and around area of C-105, Hari Nagar, New Delhi87. West In and around area of B-333, Hari Nagar, New Delhi. 88. In and around area of C-785, Third Floor, Camp No. 2, Nangloi, Delhi89. In and around area of RZ-168, K2 Block, Nihal Vihar, Delhi90. In and around area of G-1, 2nd Floor, Mansarover Garden, Delhi91. Tilak Vihar area in Tilak Nagar, Delhi92. Entire AF Block, Shalimar Bagh, Delhi93. Entire Street No. 9, Shalimar Village, Delhi94. Entire Gali No. 3, Shalimar Village, Delhi95. H.No,-62, Gali No-4, B-Block, Shastri Park, Delhi 96 E-51, Main Road, Shastri Park, Delhi & E-21, Gali No.-8, Shastri Park, Delhi97. T-606, Gali No. 18, Gautampuri, Delhi98. A-97, 98 & 99 Near Buland Masjid, Shastri Park, Delhi99. Block No. X, from H. No. 303/6, Gali N. 1 to H.No. 289 Gali No. 3, Yadav Villa, Delhi 100. House no- 152 to 162 in Block D of Shaheen Bagh The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-latest-update-delhi-containment-zones-reach-100-with-shaheen-bagh-locality-making-the-list/story-PNyajCMaYpYlZfwgHZ7wMI.html
28-04-2020||India||Salaries of Meghalaya ministers, bureaucrats deferred by 50% due Covid-19||The Meghalaya government on Tuesday ordered deferment of salaries of ministers and bureaucrats by 50% in view of the Covid-19 crisis.“The current unprecedented situation due to Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown is likely to slow down the national and state economies,” said an office memorandum issued by Meghalaya chief secretary MS Rao.“It is therefore necessary to put in place expenditure control and cash management systems so that resources are available for effective management of Covid-19 situation,” it added.There shall be a deferment of 50% in the gross salary for the months of April and May for the Chief Minister and all ministers in the state.There will be similar deferment in the salary of All India Service officers like IAS, IPS, IFS and central service officers on deputation to the state government.Deferment in salary of Group A and Group B officers will be 35% and 25% for Group C officers except for officers and staff of the department of health and family welfare and Group C employees of police, civil defence and home guards.There will be no deferment in the salaries payable to Group D employees and in the payment of pensions, the memorandum stated.Meghalaya has reported 12 cases of Covid-19, all from Shillong. The first patient who tested positive for the virus, died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salaries-of-meghalaya-ministers-bureaucrats-deferred-by-50-due-covid-19/story-xOUJAa5fPU4gKtaWl1lY4N.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid patient No 61 may be Odisha’s super-spreader||With Odisha government on Tuesday releasing the infection-history of five Covid cases in Balasore district-- one of the three districts where cases are rising rapidly-- a 58-year-old man who had first tested positive 10 days ago, was being seen as the super-spreader in the state having infected 11 people so far, said health officials.The man, tagged case no. 61 in state health department records since April 18, is a 58-year-old from Neliabag area in coastal Balasore town and runs a private technical school. While six of his contacts including his son-in-law, daughter and grandson tested positive last week, today five others in Neliabag area who came in contact with one of his family members tested positive, said officials. The Neliabag area has been declared a containment zone since April 19 after the man tested positive.“Among the 118 persons who have tested positive so far, case no 61 has infected the most. Many of the persons he infected may not have known about the infection as they did not show any symptoms for more than 14 days,” said a health department official, requesting anonymity.The term super-spreader was first-time used for Patient number 31 in South Korea, a 61-year-old woman who attended church while being infected and triggered a surge in infection.Health department officials are amazed that the man transmitted the virus to only 11 people, considering that he had come in contact with 56 persons, a fortnight before he tested positive. “It’s quite possible that other people had more immunity and some of them may have been cured after mild infection. A detailed study would reveal it,” said the official.Early this month, three brothers living in a housing complex in Bhubaneswar’s Bomikhal area had infected 15 people.Apart from these individual super-spreaders, the migrants who returned from Bengal have proved to be an effective group of super spreaders. Of the 118 positive cases so far, 42 persons had returned from Bengal over last 10 days forcing the government to seal 50-odd routes connecting the neighbouring State.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe task of health officials in Odisha has been made difficult by cases that have remained asymptomatic for a long time, some even more than 14 days.“In 90 per cent of the cases, the patients showed no symptoms. As this is a completely new virus of the coronavirus family and little is known about its physiology, social distancing and avoiding group gatherings effectively is the only way we can reduce the spread of the virus,” said Bijoy Mohapatra, director of health services.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-patient-no-61-may-be-odisha-s-super-spreader/story-75X39vM58PfVwB9SETRNWL.html
28-04-2020||India||Delhi records 206 new Covid-19 cases but no casualty for 4th straight day||Two hundred and six new cases on Tuesday took the count of Covid-19 cases in Delhi to 3,314 but the national capital held the casualties at bay for the fourth straight day at 54, the health department said.A total of 1,078 people have recovered while the number of active cases is 2,182.Delhi had recorded 190 positive cases on Monday and 293 on Sunday. Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Authorities in Delhi conducted 3,459 tests on Tuesday. A total of 43,370have been tested so far out of which 3,314 have tested positive. A total of 36,196 people have tested negative and the results of 3,295 samples are pending. The rate of testing has now gone up to 2,147 per million of the population.India’s total number Covid-19 cases stood at 29,453 on Tuesday. The Delhi government which is fighting to slow down the rate of infection in the city, has designated almost a hundred containment zones to check the spread of coronavirus.The state government had been banking on plasma therapy to treat seriously ill Covid-19 patients but the Union health ministry on Tuesday advised against considering plasma therapy as regular treatment until there is robust scientific evidence to support its efficacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-206-new-covid-19-cases-but-no-casualty-for-four-days-in-a-row/story-BWi0YDj0L4EUpO8bGfqmdI.html
28-04-2020||India||More than 100 labourers stranded in Murshidabad within kilometres of their homes||More than a hundred labourers from different parts of West Bengal got stranded near Farakka barrage in Murshidabad district on Tuesday as police stopped them from moving towards Malda which has been declared a Covid-19 ‘orange zone’ (districts that have not seen any new case in the last 14 days). The barrage connects south Bengal to the north.Many of these labourers had gone to work in Jharkhand and are returning home. While some are moving on foot, many are riding bicycles.The labourers alleged that they were stopped by personnel from Baishnabnagar police station in Malda. They alleged that police did not allow anyone to move towards north Bengal from Murshidabad district since Monday evening. The tired labourers said they did not have food and water and were sitting beside NH 34. On Tuesday afternoon the Murshidabad district administration provided food and water to the stranded people.Kartik Das, one of the stranded workers who hails from Toofanganj in Cooch Behar district, said, “In February, 14 people from our area went to Fulia in Nadia district to work in looms where sarees are made. The loom was shut down after the lockdown was declared.”“A few days ago we sold our mobile phones and bought some second-hand bicycles to return home. The Malda police are not allowing us to cross the barrage,” he said.Another labourer, Gholam Jilani, said, “I used to work for a private firm at Durgapur in West Burdwan district. I am from Purnia in Bihar. I repeatedly requested the police to let me go to Malda so that I can cross over to Bihar. They are not cooperating. I am sitting in the open since Monday evening.”Jayanta Mondal, a resident of Chanchol in Malda, said, “I used to work in a garment factory near Kolkata. The factory is now closed. My home is only 40 km away from Farakka but police are not allowing us to go.”For Coronavirus Live UpdatesHe said, “We told the police that we are ready for a health checkup and to stay in-home quarantine. But they don’t want to listen. More than 100 labourers are stranded at Farakka.”A senior Malda district police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “Common people will not be allowed to move from one district to another during the lockdown. We are following the instruction of senior officers.” Malda superintendent of police Alok Rajoria did not receive calls.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19An administrative officer said a couple of days ago a migrant labourer from the Manikchak police station area of Malda tested positive for Covid-19. The patient had returned to Malda from Barasat in North 24 Parganas district on 23rd April. This prompted the administration to act.Deputy medical officer of health (Farakka) Sajal Pandit said, “More than 100 people are stranded but none are ill. Some police officers have been informed about this.”Sub-divisional police officer (Jangipur) Prasenjit Banerjee said, “We are aware of the problem. The Murshidabad police have not imposed any restriction. The Malda police are not allowing a single person to enter from Murshidabad. We are trying to find a solution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-100-labourers-stranded-in-murshidabad-within-kilometres-of-their-homes/story-zXNfMUzNqpxfztfFs32WsK.html
28-04-2020||India||Foreign secretary meets CII on Covid-19 crisis, spotlights India’s efforts to help global community||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Tuesday that Indian missions across the globe are helping exporters look for opportunities in other countries and facilitating the diversification of imports.During a virtual interactive session organised at the request of the CII, Shringla also highlighted the external affairs ministry’s efforts to facilitate exports of essential medicines and health supplies to friendly countries to enable them to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.The CII had sought the meeting to discuss engagements in the industry and business related aspects of G20 and B20, and how the lobby could actively engage as India assumes the chair of the G20 in 2022.Shringla outlined the government’s initiatives to protect vulnerable sections of the population, provide relief to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and ensure adequate liquidity in the system, according to a statement.Referring to the video conference of Saarc leaders on March 15, which was organised at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s initiative, Shringla said a Covid-19 Emergency Fund was announced, under which India has supplied hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol and other medical assistance to members of the South Asian grouping.Shringla also outlined the G20’s role in addressing the Covid-19 crisis and the outcomes of the extraordinary virtual G20 leaders’ summit on March 26. He said the G20 represents two-thirds of the global population and has agreed on a plan of action for tackling public health, economic and livelihood impact of the pandemic.The session was attended by CII president Vikram Kirloskar, director general Chandrajit Banerjee and past presidents, including Venu Srinivasan, Dhruv M Sawhney, Hari S Bhartia, R Seshasayee and Naushad Forbes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-meets-cii-on-covid-19-crisis-spotlights-india-s-efforts-to-help-global-community/story-TLKh8IKQbFP8nQm6GtolhM.html
28-04-2020||India||PM Modi thanks Canadian PM Trudeau for taking good care of Indians during Covid crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Tuesday that he had an exchange with his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau over coronavirus pandemic. Prime Minister said he thanked Trudeau for looking after Indian citizens in Canada well and stressed on the need for collaboration with Canada for fighting the pandemic.w“Had a warm exchange with PM @JustinTrudeau. Thanked him for looking after Indian citizens in Canada in these difficult times. Collaboration and partnership between India and Canada is vital to fighting the pandemic including through medical research and supply chain management,” PM Modi tweeted.Canada is home to leading global pharmaceutical companies and is also known for advance medical research. It has close to 50,000 cases of Covid-19 infections and nearly 2,800 have died there. Positive cases in India have crossed the 29,000-mark with under 1000 deaths.Modi has been holding discussions with several heads of states as the world grapples with the pandemic that has infected over 3 million people across the globe. Earlier today, he tweeted about discussing the progress of coroanvirus containment efforts with President Joko Widodo of Indonesia, who had thanked Prime Minister Modi for sending essential pharma supplies in the times of crisis.“Discussed COVID-19 pandemic with good friend President @Jokowi. As close maritime neighbours and Compreshensive Strategic Partners, close cooperation between India and Indonesia will be important to deal with the health and economic challenges posed by this crisis,” PM said.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn April 22, he had spoken to Ireland’s PM Leo Varadkar. Discussed COVID-19 pandemic with Ireland’s PM, Mr. @LeoVaradkar. India and Ireland share similar approaches on many global issues. We will work together to further strengthen our partnership in health, science & technology, to jointly address challenges of the post-COVID world,” PM had said.India has helped several friendly countries and its neighbours with medical supplies and other assistance including expertise and manpower to fight coronavirus and the prime minister’s leadership and outreach has been appreciated widely.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-thanks-canadian-pm-trudeau-for-taking-good-care-of-indians-during-covid-crisis/story-14JdaR6tDueJ8bYdgcKI8H.html
28-04-2020||India||MVA urges Governor Koshyari to nominate Uddhav Thackeray to upper house||Mumbai: A delegation of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers led by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar met governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari Tuesday evening at Raj Bhavan and urged him to take a decision on nominating chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to the legislative council.The meeting is seen as an attempt to build pressure on the Governor to take a decision on the recommendation of the state cabinet.With under a month left for Thackeray to fulfil the constitutional requirement of becoming a member of either house of the state legislature, the alleged delay by the Governor has kept the proverbial sword of Damocles hanging over Thackeray and the state government.On Monday, the Maharashtra cabinet, in a meeting presided over by Pawar, decided to write to the Governor, reiterating its earlier recommendation to process the nomination of chief minister Thackeray to the legislative Council at the earliest.On April 9, the state Cabinet had cleared a proposal recommending the nomination of Thackeray to Governor on the vacant seats of the upper house of the state legislature. The recommendation was sent to the governor but even after 19 days, the Raj Bhavan has not taken a decision.“The Cabinet has again recommended Uddhav Thackeray [to be nominated]; a letter pertaining to it was submitted to the Governor. The group leaders of the three parties of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, deputy chief minister and Chhagan Bhujbal met the governor and yet again requested him to take a decision at the earliest on the recommendations that have made by the Cabinet twice,” said Jayant Patil, state minister and Maharashtra president of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).Besides Pawar, Patil, and Bhujbal, Shiv Sena’s Eknath Shinde and Anil Parab and Congress’ Balasaheb Thorat were also part of the MVA delegation to the Raj Bhawan. Patil also declined to comment if the delay could be politically motivated to create instability in the state.Thackeray, who is not a member of either of the House of the state legislature, took oath as the chief minister on November 28. According to Article 164 (4) of the Constitution, “a minister, who for any period of six consecutive months, is not a member of the legislature shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a minister”. The six-month period in Thackeray’s case will end on May 27. As the MLC polls, scheduled for April 24, were pushed back due to the pandemic, the Maharashtra cabinet recommended Governor Koshyari to appoint Thackeray as a member of the Legislative Council (MLC) to avoid a constitutional crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mva-urges-governor-koshyari-to-nominate-uddhav-thackeray-to-upper-house/story-NCh8LwlOYX3fr3iQlAlUDJ.html
28-04-2020||India||CRPF sub-inspector succumbs to Covid-19, 1st death in paramilitary forces||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) sub-inspector, who was admitted at Safdarjung Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 five days back, succumbed on Tuesday, officials said.This is the first death due to the Covid-19 pandemic among the 10 lakh personnel strong central paramilitary forces that are deployed for border security, counter-insurgency and law and order duties across the country.Officials cited above said the sub-Inspector, who was posted with the 31st battalion of the forces in New Delhi, was suffering from co-morbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension. Patients with these conditions are more vulnerable to the Covid-19 infection.At least 31 other personnel of this battalion have been admitted at different hospitals after they were suspected to have contracted the virus from another colleague found positive in their camp.There have been over 60 positive cases of Covid-19 in all the central paramilitary forces till now. Earlier, cases have been reported in the Border Security Force (BSF) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). Some of them have been cured too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-sub-inspector-succumbs-to-covid-19-1st-death-in-paramilitary-forces/story-z6q0gAtyJmDcXTximjtlXK.html
28-04-2020||India||Odisha preps for return of 6 lakh migrant workers post-lockdown||The Odisha government said on Tuesday that the safety, dignity and privacy of the six lakh migrant people, set to return after lockdown is lifted on May 3, will be the state’s guiding principle. The state government has so far made arrangements for 1.72 lakh beds in 7,120 temporary medical centres in gram panchayats and urban local bodies. With more than double the number likely to turn up after the end of lockdown, the government is worried about maintaining social distancing, one of the most important means to stop the spread of Covid-19. About 6 lakh migrant workers of Odisha have registered with the state government portal for staying in official quarantine after their return.“The officials have been asked to keep in mind three crucial aspects such as privacy, safety and dignity. As far as privacy is concerned, separate rooms, baths and toilets must be arranged for men and women. In case there are people from LGBT community, separate provisions should be made,” the revenue and disaster management department said in a notification. The government also made it clear that no discrimination of any sort would be practised, promoted or tolerated.For people who would be housed at the quarantine centres, two bed sheets and as many pillow covers would be procured for each bed. “Procurement of beds (cots and mattresses, pillows) may be made through hiring and the cost can be charged to SDRF. If these have to be procured, funds under other schemes of the concerned department may be utilised,” the government order said.An amount of Rs 120 would be spent on food of each adult per day and Rs 100 for each child below 14 years per day during their quarantine period of 14 days. They would get a personal hygiene kit of Rs 300 that would include a toothbrush, paste, tongue cleaner, soaps, oil, razor, masks, sanitary pad, mug, bottle, bucket. The cleaning, sanitation and security cost per centre should not exceed Rs 2,000 per day, said Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena.Meanwhile, chief minister Naveen Patnaik directed senior officials to double the mandays under National Rural Employment Guarantee Act scheme from 5 lakh to 10 lakh daily in next one week. The chief minister also asked the officials to ensure that none of migrant labourers face any difficulties in getting foodgrains. Patnaik also asked the officials to take steps to increase the daily testing of Covid-19 at ICMR-approved labs and to test 15,000 samples daily from the 2,500-odd now. Three more fully automated Cobas 6800 RT-PCR would be installed in the three government medical colleges of Koraput, Bolangir and Balasore in the next two months. At present, there is only one Cobas 6800 machine at the Regional Medical Research Centre in Bhubaneswar that tests 800 samples. The Covid-19 testing is being done at Regional Medical Research Centre(Bhubaneswar), SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack, AIIMS Bhubaneswar, Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar, MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur, Ispat General Hospital in Rourkela and VIMSAR in Burla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-preps-for-return-of-6-lakh-migrant-workers-post-lockdown/story-VJjjJuUkbADgupZH2p5L1O.html
28-04-2020||India||BRO faces challenge of inducting 40,000 workers in forward areas for key projects||One of the biggest challenges for the Border Roads Organisation is to arrange a large labour force to carry out construction of key roads and tunnels in far-flung areas as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) sweeps through the country, BRO chief Lieutenant General Harpal Singh told Hindustan Times on Tuesday.“The foremost challenge facing the BRO is to induct up to 40,000 workers into sites in forward areas after the recent opening of passes. We are talking about migrant workers who play an important role in our construction projects. We are looking at how to make this workforce available at the earliest keeping the challenges posed by the pandemic in mind,” Singh said.The BRO’s peak working season extends from May to November. Migrant workers are a key part of the BRO’s workforce involved in building strategic roads, along the country’s northern border with China, scattered across Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh.The BRO plans to complete all 61 strategic roads assigned to it along the China border by December 2022. The roads are being built to allow swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.Singh said the BRO was on course to meeting the December 2022 deadline for building the strategic roads but admitted that accomplishing targets was “extremely challenging” because of the restrictions imposed to slow down the spread of the disease.“The challenges get compounded by the limited working season before the onset of snow. We also have to deal with the monsoon. However, we have institutionalised measures to work through the pandemic so that out plans are not affected,” Singh said.The BRO employs a labour force of around 100,000 workers for its various construction projects. Of this, around 60,000 workers are employed locally and the rest of the requirement is met through hiring migrant labour. With less than a few hours of notice, thousands of migrant workers were caught in a countrywide lockdown enforced on March 24 and extended until May 3. “One of the top priorities is to ensure that the virus does not infect the workforce and in case it does, we should be able to mitigate its spread,” the BRO chief said.Despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the BRO completed some important projects this month. It opened the Rohtang Pass three weeks in advance, constructed the strategic Daporijo bridge over Subansiri river in Arunachal Pradesh and also built a permanent bridge on Ravi river connecting Kasowal enclave in Punjab to the rest of the country.“It’s a challenge to keep lines of communication open and to continue work on strategically important projects in these times. We worked closely with the state governments and were able to mobilise labour and also move stores and equipment to open the Rohtang pass and build the Daporijo and Kasowal bridges,” Singh said. He said the BRO also cleared snow on 149 roads amounting to a length of 3,965 km.Singh said one of the top priorities for the BRO was to speed up work on the Sela tunnel. The tunnel --- announced by the government in the 2018 Budget --- forms part of a strategic road project that will reduce travel time to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh by at least two hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bro-faces-challenge-of-inducting-40-000-workers-in-forward-areas-for-key-projects/story-TewM9GlFFjshsCj7HhvLbI.html
28-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: On Muslim vegetable seller remark, Nadda warns BJP members against making irresponsible comments and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On Muslim vegetable seller remark, Nadda warns BJP members against making irresponsible commentsBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda has asked party members not to make “irresponsible” comments, a directive that came in the wake of an Uttar Pradesh legislator’s remarks on Muslim vegetable sellers. Read more here. Irrfan Khan admitted to ICU at Mumbai’s Kokilaben hospitalActor Irrfan Khan has been admitted to the ICU at the Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital in Mumbai, his representatives have said. The actor is currently under observation for a colon infection. Read more here. Shake a tree to win an iPhone 11 Pro on PUBG Mobile: Here’s howPUBG Mobile is in its last week for Season 12 and the developers are making it memorable with some great rewards. You basically need to shake a tree to win, we aren’t even kidding. Read more here.WATCH| Anxiety and chaos mar Chandigarh’s grain distribution with tokensA new tactic to ensure social distancing while distributing ration has been adopted in Chandigarh. The administration has started distributing food tokens to slum dwellers. Watch. Arnold Schwarzenegger celebrating his pet donkey Lulu’s birthday may be the best thing you’ll see on Twitter todayThe beloved action star and former Governor of California posted this almost one-minute-long video on Twitter on April 28. Read more here. Go back and bowl again as I’m still here: How Sachin Tendulkar countered Glenn McGrath in 1999Tendulkar sometimes tried to unsettle McGrath by taking the attack to him, McGrath a few times bowled only on side of the wicket to block Tendulkar’s famous flick shots. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-on-muslim-vegetable-seller-remark-nadda-warns-bjp-members-against-making-irresponsible-comments-and-all-the-latest-news/story-ZHhnVVz2DEeB9ERnoYYI1H.html
28-04-2020||India||Cancer patient dies during ambulance journey from Chennai to Tripura amidst lockdown||Amidst lockdown, a 72-year-old Tripura man died while returning home from Chennai, where he was being treated for cancer.Victim Mukul Chandra Dhar was a resident of Kamalpur in Dhalai District of the state, about 80 kilometres from Agartala. He, along with his son Subrata Dhar and one of his relatives, went to Chennai on February 17 this year for treatment at a private hospital. As the lockdown was extended after April 14, they decided to return to Tripura and booked an ambulance for the travel home. On April 25, when they were crossing over to Andhra Pradesh, Mukul Dhar died, said a government official, who was not willing to be named as he was not authorised to speak to the media. Distance between Chennai and Agartala is about 3,000 kilometres.Subrata returned home with his father’s body on the night of April 27, where his last rites were performed.“We have asked the two of them, who went to Chennai, to remain in home quarantine for 14 days,” said Kamalpur sub-divisional magistrate Sushanta Sarkar. The Tripura government has decided to bring back people of the state, stranded in different parts of the country. As of now, 167 persons have returned back. A few days ago, a couple, too, journeyed over 3,000 kilometres from Chennai to their hometown at Udaipur in Gomati district, 50 kilometres from Agartala. Currently, Tripura has no coronavirus patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cancer-patient-dies-during-ambulance-journey-from-chennai-to-tripura-amidst-lockdown/story-bp6gXvep1ZMrraITP19P6I.html
28-04-2020||India||An entire building need not be sealed if a Covid-19 case is found: Govt||There is no need to seal an entire building if a person living or working there tests positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) because disinfecting the affected floor and common areas could be enough to stop the spread of the infection, according to the Union health ministry directive.“The health ministry has issued a detailed advisory on dos and don’ts in case a non-Covid hospital reports a Covid-19 case. The same rules apply for office premises or any other building from where a case is reported. There is no need to shut the entire premises; rather one can just do proper disinfection of the main area and other common areas,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry.According to the health ministry guidelines for non-Covid hospitals (facilities not exclusively dedicated to the treatment of the deadly infection), when a Covid-19 patient is identified in a building, local health authorities need to be immediately informed, and disinfection procedures at the affected areas should follow.All contacts of the patient should be home-quarantined for 14 days, and authorities should check on their health. Their details must also be shared with the local health authorities.The building will continue to function if local health authorities are able to identify the source of the infection; if all contacts of the patients can be traced and quarantined; and if adequate sanitisation is done. But if the building still continues reporting new cases, it would be advisable to temporarily close the specific section of the building from where the maximum numbers are being reported. After thorough cleaning and disinfection it can be put to use again.However, experts said, whether a building needs to be shut or not depends on its design.“If the structure has multiple flats or different floors, then there is no need to seal the entire building as per the infection control guidelines. However, all the flats or floor got to remain under observation, and people should watch out for symptoms,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology at Christian Medical College.Despite these measures, if the primary source of infection could not be established and/or the building continues reporting large number of cases, then a decision needs to be taken on whether the building would need to be shut down under intimation to the local health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-entire-building-need-not-be-sealed-if-a-covid-19-case-is-found-govt/story-7qMOGeDERoqNibWnyD2mJK.html
28-04-2020||India||Nadda warns BJP members after MLA asked people to avoid Muslim vegetable sellers||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda has asked party members not to make “irresponsible” comments, a directive that came in the wake of an Uttar Pradesh legislator’s remarks on Muslim vegetable sellers. Suresh Tiwari, the BJP MLA from Barhaj constituency in Deoria district, stirred a controversy after he was purportedly heard telling people not to buy vegetables from Muslims in a video clip.As a row raged, the BJP issued a show cause notice to Tiwari and sought his reply within seven days, according to people aware of the matter.“The party president (Nadda) was extremely upset by the remarks of the MLA; he spoke to the Uttar Pradesh unit chief and said immediate action should be taken,” said a person privy to the details.The person quoted above said Nadda told office bearers to convey the message that the BJP will not tolerate any irresponsible remarks and that members should not violate the code of conduct.In the video, Tiwari is heard saying: “One thing you all should keep in mind. I am telling you openly. Do not buy vegetables from mias (Muslim vendors).”When contacted, Tiwari admitted that he made the remark. He tried defending himself by saying that he did so as a precautionary measure in order to protect people from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after apprehensions that the infection was spreading due to those associated with the Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic movement of preachers.A global religious congregation in New Delhi in mid-March, held by Tablighi Jamaat in defiance of official restrictions in the national capital’s Nizamuddin area, has emerged as a hot spot of the fast-spreading infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadda-warns-bjp-members-against-making-irresponsible-remarks/story-BdMszGZ40PVVgr38fFFycM.html
28-04-2020||India||Bengal tells hospitals to draw SOP blueprint if lockdown is extended||With no clear sign that the lockdown will be lifted soon in West Bengal, the Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday asked hospitals and medical colleges in the state to draw up blueprints to normalize services in a phased manner and cope with the evolving situation.As a part of the blueprint, all patients planning to undergo any kind of surgeries will now be first tested for Covid-19, a top official of the state health department said.“While there is lack of clarity on when and how the lockdown will be lifted, it is certain that we will have to normalize hospital services in a phased manner, commensurate with the evolving situation. In view of the above, all principals, medical superintendents cum vice principals (MSVPs) of government medical colleges and hospitals, CMOHs and superintendents of government hospitals are hereby advised to draw up a blue print for the normalisation of hospital services,” said an order issued by the state health department.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.The lockdown is scheduled to end on May 3.The flow of patients in the state-run hospitals and medical colleges has dwindled drastically during the lockdown and because of the increased flow of Covid-19 patients.At the Infectious Diseases hospital in Kolkata, the first hospital in south Bengal which started treating Covid-19 patients during the initial stages, the number of cases with serious dog bites (category II and III) has dropped from around 150 per day before the lockdown to around 10 to 15 at present.“Earlier on an average we used to get around 5,000 patients at the OPD every day. Now we are getting around 600. Before lockdown at least 1,500–2,000 patients used to stay in the hospital. Now there are only around 250 patients,” said Indranil Biswas, medical superintendent and vice principal of Calcutta Medical College and Hospital.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, after attending the video conference of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, had hinted that the Union government could extend the lockdown. “As a part of the blueprint, all patients coming for surgeries will now have to undergo Covid-19 tests. If it is a planned surgery and the patient tests positive, the surgery will be delayed. In case of emergency the surgery will have to be done with full protection gear following all protocols,” said a senior official of the state health department.This becomes all the more important because already two senior doctors have died while scores of frontline health care workers have either been detected with the virus or have been asked to go into quarantine after coming in contact with Covid-19 patients.“This is a welcome move, because we need to test even asymptomatic patients. Many health care workers have been detected with the virus or have been quarantined. The state has not released any figures,” said Dr S Mukherjee, a member of Joint Platform of Doctors in West Bengal.Bengal reported 28 new cases on Tuesday to take the total number of infections to 697. A total of 119 people have recovered while 22 have died so far. Authorities in Bengal have so far tested 13,223 people for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-tells-hospitals-to-draw-sop-blueprint-if-lockdown-is-extended/story-X5eo2VbNzj3Y3G74EqeReM.html
28-04-2020||India||Lockdown prompts wild animals to emerge from hiding in Bengal; two leopards killed||The 35-day lockdown is not just helping in the containment of Covid-19 cases in Bengal but has also come as a blessing for the flora and fauna in the hills of north Bengal districts.Wildlife experts and forest officials said while man-animal conflict has reduced to zero, there’s also no report of poaching from the several sanctuaries and wildlife parks in the region. The blessing in disguise has also taken its toll with two leopards being run over in the last one week.The sighting of a fishing cat---an endangered species and Bengal’s state animal-- after a long time has enthused wildlife experts. It was rescued on April 25 near Dasdargah in Jalpaiguri district and released in the wild.Ganga Prasad Chettri, chief conservator of forest (north Bengal circle) said, “The fishing cat was sighted in this region after many years.”Sanjay Dutta, the ranger of Belacoba forest, said, “I never spotted a fishing cat in North Bengal.” The sighting of the animal, which was around three feet tall, initially panicked local people.Experts said leopards have started crossing from both sides of the India-Bangladesh border.“Some days ago leopards were sighted by local people at Chalhati village along the India-Bangladesh border in the Rajganj police station of Jalpaiguri district. These big cats also created panic. A cage has been set up to capture these,” said Dutta.Forest officials said that negligible human movement along the international border has prompted the leopards to move freely. Two leopards sneaked out of the forests and were killed after being hit by vehicles in the Alipurduar area over the last one week.Talking of the impact of the lockdown on wild animals and human behaviour, Dutta said, “A few days ago a deer was rescued from Bhandiguri Tea Estate in Jalpaiguri district. The deer was caught by local people who informed the forest department. Had it been normal time the villagers might have killed and eaten the deer.”Chettri, who is one of the senior-most forest officers posted in Jalpaiguri, said there has been no report of elephants encroaching into human habitations. No human interference in elephant corridors can be the reason behind this, he added.The lockdown also has some negative effect, experts said. Chettri said since many migrant labourers have returned home, incidents of people entering the forest to collect firewood or chop down trees have increased.V K Sood, the additional principal chief conservator of forest, said, “Illegal lumbering has increased. Some people are taking undue advantage of the lockdown and felling trees. It is very difficult to carry out raids at this time,” said Sood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-prompts-wild-animals-to-emerge-from-hiding-in-bengal-two-leopards-killed/story-5AYDuFdrwc7iIVzT8xSgyO.html
28-04-2020||India||Karnataka allows shops in green zones to open, but conditions apply||The Karnataka government issued a notification which permitted the reopening of shops in green zone districts registered under Shops and Establishments Act, including those in residential areas and market complexes, except those in multi-brand and single brand malls with 50% strength of workers wearing masks and practising social distancing.The order was issued by chief secretary, TM Vijay Bhaskar, who is also the chairman, state executive committee, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority. The order also permitted industries to operate in rural areas outside the limits of municipal corporations. The order also allowed the reopening of manufacturing and other industrial establishments in industrial estates and townships apart from SEZs.The move to grant permission to all shops, including those selling non-essential items, comes close on the heels of the Union home ministry allowing the conditional operation of stand-alone retail outlets. The central order allowed the operation of neighbourhood and stand-alone shops, including those located in residential complexes, but did not include shopping malls, liquor and cigarette shops and sale of non-essential items through e-commerce platforms. The Centre, however, allowed markets in rural areas.Karnataka’s order is applicable to Chamrajnagar, Koppal, Chikmagaluru, Raichur, Chitradurga, Ramanagara, Hassan, Shivamogga, Haveri, Yadgir, Kolar, Davangere, Udupi and Kodagu.However, the Karnataka government made it clear that the lockdown will continue to be strictly enforced in Bengaluru Urban, Belgavi, Mysuru, Vijaypurua, Bagalkot, Kalburgi, Bidar and Dakshina Kannada districts, which are in red zones accounting for bulk of the 523 Covid-19 positive cases in the state.In the other districts of Bellary, Mandya, Bengaluru Rural, Gadag, Tumkuru, Chikkaballapur, Uttar Kannada, and Dharwad which are orange zones, the decision regarding the opening of shops and industries in taluks where there are no active Covid-19 cases will be taken by the district-in-charge minister in question.Even in the green zones (with no cases) where they are allowed to operate, establishments must make arrangements for workers to stay on the premises or ensure transportation to the place of work in dedicated transport and ensure social distancing while travelling.According to a government assessment in mid-April, 170 districts in 20 states and five Union Territories (UTs) were identified as red zones (which are home to clusters of cases). Additionally, there were 207 orange zones (with fewer cases than that in red zones) in the country, and the rest of India’s 730-odd districts were classified as green zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-allows-shops-in-green-zones-to-open-but-conditions-apply/story-xHBOnLAgzfgTVYVJTo1K9H.html
28-04-2020||India||Panaji mayor sparks outrage after he buys new car amid lockdown||The mayor of the Panaji has landed himself in hot water for purchasing a new car at a time when the state government is grappling with the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic. Mayor Uday Madkaikar sparked outrage after he bought a Toyota Innova Crysta on Monday despite Chief Minister Pramod Sawant saying that no new purchases of vehicles would be sanctioned. On Tuesday, Madkaikar offered a public apology for his purchase that came from the funds of the municipal corporation. “I apologise to the people of Panaji. I should not have bought a car in this crisis,” Madkaikar said but hastened to add that a new car for the Panaji mayor was long overdue since the current car was “already seven years old”. “The car I was using was seven years old. I had requested the government for permission to buy a new car. The cost for a new Toyota Innova base model is Rs. 16.70 lakh. The government at that time had sanctioned the Corporation up to Rs. 14 lakh for a new car for an incumbent mayor,” Madkaikar told reporters.Also read: With tourism down, clamour to restart mining in Goa gets louderThe Mayor took delivery of the car on Monday but claimed that he had booked it before the lockdown stared last month.“The vehicle was booked earlier and it is just that the delivery has been taken yesterday,” Madkaikar said.Car dealerships are yet to open in Goa. Several dealerships have said that they are hopeful that they will open on May 3 subject to guidelines from the state and central government.In a circular issued earlier this month, the Goa administration had said officers and government functionaries were eligible for more expensive cars. But the chief minister had claimed that the circular was a routine matter and while officers and departments will be eligible to purchase more expensive cars, no cars would actually be bought. “The circular was a routine administrative matter. The prices of vehicles were last revised more than eight years ago. No new vehicles will be bought or sanctioned,” Sawant had said when asked about the circular. Under the new circular the Panaji mayor was eligible to buy a car costing Rs 20-lakh up from the earlier limit of Rs 14 lakh.The mayor’s decision to buy a new car evoked some stinging reactions.“Congratulations to our BJP Goa’s #CCP mayor for #LockdownPurchase of [a] luxury car out of [the] huge profits in home distribution of essentials as well as illegal #ReopeningTax collected from business establishments of #Panaji. I am sure with remaining profit, the energies will now be concentrated on paying pending two months salaries of #SafaiKarmacharies who have toiled hard during the lockdown period to maintain hygiene in the city,” Sidharth, a former MLA of Panaji and a member of the BJP, said. During the lockdown the corporation had organized doorstep delivery of essentials, which Sidharth had alleged was a money-making racket, a charge the mayor denied. The Corporation of the City of Panaji also earned the ire of the city’s business community after it began charging Rs 500 to grant shopkeepers permission to reopen their standalone shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panaji-mayor-sparks-outrage-after-he-buys-new-car-amid-lockdown/story-xesRkuMGQ5bDeuiET34MSO.html
28-04-2020||India||28 new Covid-19 cases emerge in Bengal, 287 containment zones in Kolkata||Twenty eight new Covid-19 positive cases have been reported in the last 24 hours in West Bengal, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 522, chief secretary Rajiva Sinha said on Tuesday. There are 697 total coronavirus cases in West Bengal, including 20 deaths, according to health ministry data.Among the casualties, a senior orthopaedic surgeon succumbed to the highly infectious disease in Kolkata on Monday. The 69-year-old doctor had earlier tested positive for Covid-19.On Monday, the West Bengal government had released a list, saying four districts, including capital city Kolkata, have been declared as red zones with a maximum number of coronavirus cases amid the Covid-19 pandemic.In Kolkata, at least 287 areas have been identified as containment zones.Besides the capital city, Howrah, North 24 Parganas and East Medinipur districts have all been declared red zones.In West Bengal, 11 districts have been identified as orange zones with fewer coronavirus cases, while eight are in the green zone and have no Covid-19 patients, according to a list released by the state government.South 24 Parganas, Hooghly, West Medinipur, East Bardhaman, West Bardhaman, Kalimpong, Nadia, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling, Murshidabad and Malda are the Bengal districts which are in the orange zone.The eight districts in the green zone are Alipurduar, Cooch Behar, Uttar Dinajpur, Dakhin Dinajpur, Birbhum, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram.Sinha further said that in Howrah district there were 56 containment zones, and from 13 of them there has been no new case of the coronavirus infection.He said if no new case is reported from a zone for at least 21 days, the West Bengal government would announce relaxation of curbs there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-new-covid-19-cases-emerge-in-bengal-287-containment-zones-in-kolkata/story-BzPI9FiTrbjbUdZPV6A5zM.html
28-04-2020||India||Pregnant woman from Covid-19 red zone made to switch hospitals, dies||A 20-year old woman died in Hyderabad on Monday night, a day after delivering a baby boy, as she was forced to move from one hospital to another in three days to rule out the possibility of her being Covid-19 infected, her relatives said.The woman’s new-born baby also died of respiratory disorders, a day before she died fighting anaemia and hypertension. The deceased was identified as Jenila, from Yapadinne village of Gadwal district in Telangana.Mahendar, the woman’s husband, told reporters that she went into labour on April 24 and was rushed to district hospital at Gadwal, where doctors referred her to a bigger hospital at Kurnool in the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh state, which is around 50 km away, as she was suffering from severe anaemia and blood pressure.However, Mahender could not take her to Kurnool, which was under complete lockdown as it has highest number of positive cases for Covid-19 (332 cases and nine deaths till Tuesday) in the state and the only government hospital in the town has been converted into a Covid-19 speciality hospital.Having no other option, he managed to move her to Mahabubnagar government hospital, about 60 km away, thanks to the ambulance arranged by the Gadwal police.But the doctors at Mahabubnagar also did not want to take risk, as the couple hails from Gadwal, which also has a high incidence of Covid-19 (45 positive cases and one death) cases. They asked him to shift her to Government Maternity Hospital, Koti, in Hyderabad.On April 25, Jenila was brought to Hyderabad and taken to Koti hospital, where the doctor suggested that she be first tested for Covid-19 virus, as she had come from Gadwal, declared as a red zone. She was rushed to Gandhi Hospital, the designated hospital for Covid-19 in Secunderabad, for the test.A day later, Jenila tested negative and from Gandhi, she was shifted to the government maternity hospital, Petla Burz, where she gave birth to a baby boy. Since the child was also weak and had some respiratory problems, he was shifted to Niloufer Children’s Hospital, but died later that evening.As Jenila’s condition also became critical, she was shifted to Osmania General Hospital, where she died at around 8.30 pm on Monday.“Had the doctors treated her as an emergency case and given her the best treatment in time, she would have survived. It was because of their negligence and delay in treating her on suspicion of Covid-19, she died,” Mahender told reporters.Osmania Hospital superintendent Dr Nagender and Petla Burz maternity hospital superintendent Md Osman could not be reached for reaction.Meanwhile, Telangana state human rights commission ordered an inquiry into the death of the woman after she was forced to move from one hospital to another because she hailed from Covid-19 affected zone in Gadwal.It directed the state government and superintendents of all the hospitals to submit a report on the incident by June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pregnant-woman-from-covid-19-red-zone-made-to-switch-hospitals-dies/story-nyFAlRks8PAzsOmdnP8yEL.html
28-04-2020||India||Nation still awaits a clear lockdown exit strategy: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday said the nation was waiting for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to spell out a clear lockdown exit strategy after May 3, when curbs imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) come to an end.“We once again appeal to the Prime Minister to come out with a clear exit strategy for the lockdown, to state the road map for economic revival, and to deal with the health pandemic post May 3, as also restrict the lockdown only to hot spot zones,” Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said, addressing reporters through video-conferencing.The Prime Minister on Monday held a meeting with chief ministers through video-conferencing and sought their views on tackling Covid-19 and also on lifting the lockdown being enforced across the country since March 25.Surjewala said the Congress chief ministers requested the Prime Minister to tell the nation what the exit strategy from the lockdown will be.“What is the government’s strategy on the health front and the economic front in terms of post lockdown period? What is the road map for the future course after May 3?” he asked.“How is the Prime Minister going to come out with financial action plan as demanded by Congress president Sonia Gandhi and many other experts to address the issues of starvation, stranded migrant workers, or...small and medium enterprises?”Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-still-awaits-a-clear-lockdown-exit-strategy-congress/story-dfOMhexbMBOsDsweWw8IIL.html
28-04-2020||India||Aadhaar cards can now also be updated at 20,000 CSCs in a major relief to rural citizens||The Indian government on Tuesday enlisted the 20,000 common service centres (CSCs) in rural areas across the country for Aadhaar updates which is likely to provide relief to the population in the hinterlands that are located close to CSCs but are far from banks and post offices.The facility to update one’s Aadhaar record at 20,000 CSCs is likely to start by June end, which is the deadline set for the centres to upgrade their services. CSCs are a special purpose vehicle (SPV) that operate as banking correspondents in the rural parts of the country and come under the ministry of IT and electronics.Union Minister for Communications, MEITY and Law and Justice Shri Ravi Shankar Prasad tweeted to convey the development.Prasad requested the CSCs to handle Aadhaar work with responsibility and as per the instructions issued by UIDAI. He added that this move will help a large number of rural citizens to get Aadhar services closer to their homes.UIDAI or Unique Identification Authority of India has set a June deadline for the CSCs to begin handling Aadhar work after an upgrade to their existing infrastructure and other necessary approvals.CSC CEO Dr Dinesh Tyagi has asked CSCs to immediately undertake technical and other up-gradation required for starting Aadhaar updates.Dr Tyagi said it would further strengthen the efforts of achieving the goals of “Digital India” as envisaged by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi.So far Aaadhar enrolment and updation facility was available at select banks, post offices and other centres specially set up for this purpose by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-cards-can-now-also-be-updated-at-20-000-cscs-in-a-major-relief-to-rural-citizens/story-dYBgzxchMxqdPbO3hIbtQP.html
28-04-2020||India||Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad among 15 high Covid load places: Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant||Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant has identified 15 places including Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad as “high case load” and said India’s success in battling Covid-19 is dependent on them. Out of these 15, seven districts show particularly high case volumes, like Hyderabad (Telangana), Pune (Maharashtra), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Ahmedabad (Gujarat), Mumbai (Maharashtra) and Delhi. Other high case load places that are “critical” in the battle against Covid-19 include -- Vadodara (Gujarat), Kurnool (Andhra Pradesh), Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Jodhpur (Rajasthan), Agra (Uttar Pradesh), Thane (Maharashtra), Chennai (Tamil Nadu) and Surat (Gujarat). “These 15 districts are critical in our battle against #Covid_19 Of them 7 show particularly high case volumes. India’s success in battling Covid-19 is dependent on them. We must aggressively monitor, contain, test, treat in these districts! We must win here,” Kant said in a tweet. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to combat the spread of coronavirus, which has infected more than 29,000  people in the country. More than 900 people have died due to the deadly virus. The government had on March 29 constituted 11 empowered groups to suggest measures to ramp up healthcare, put the economy back on track and reduce misery of people as quickly as possible post the 21-day lockdown imposed to contain the coronavirus pandemic. Kant, heads the Empowered Group (EG 6) on coordinating with private sector NGOs and international organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-mumbai-ahmedabad-among-15-high-covid-load-places-niti-aayog-ceo-amitabh-kant/story-PLuIPvlCJ0yy67mxjELVLO.html
28-04-2020||India||PM Modi gets a SOS message from UAE for Indian healthcare personnel||The United Arab Emirates has requested the government to send Indian doctors and nurses to help the Emirates fight the Covid-19 pandemic, a senior government official said on Tuesday.The UAE, a federation of seven emirates with a population of less than 10 million people, has already reported 11,000 Covid-19 cases and has been adding an average of 500 patients every day.It relies heavily on foreign-educated doctors and paramedics including those from India to staff its hospitals.Some of them were on leave when governments in Delhi and Abu Dhabi cancelled all commercial flights to stop the coronavirus diseases from spreading their respective countries.“We have received two requests. One, to allow the healthcare providers who were travelling to India when commercial flights were cancelled to return to UAE to resume their duties,” a top government functionary told Hindustan Times.The second, is permission to hire or avail the services of doctors and nurses for a shorter duration to tide over the immediate crisis.“The requests are being considered of the government,” the official said.Officials said Abu Dhabi had offered to send a special plane to fly the Indian healthcare professionals employed by its hospitals.Also Watch: Pakistan’s terror tactic amid Covid-19 crisis explainedConsidering the nature of the relationship between the two countries, the first request is likely to be processed first, another official said.The request for additional doctors and paramedical staff, however, requires wider consultations within the government, the official said. The decision would be made after evaluating India’s requirements at this stage.But the effort is to find a way out to help UAE at this crucial juncture.Just a fortnight back, India had sent a 15-member team of military doctors and paramedics to Kuwait and promised to deploy more personnel should the need arise.These gestures, a foreign ministry official said, should be seen against the backdrop of how ties between India and the Gulf countries had deepened over the last five-six years.Right from the beginning of the NDA government’s first term, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his key advisers have invested diplomatic energy in improving ties with countries in West Asia, particularly Saudi Arabia, UAE, Jordan, Bahrain, Qatar and OmanIn 2015, Narendra Modi was the first Indian PM to visit the UAE - also home to 3.4 million Indian workers - in over three decades. In all, the six Gulf countries - Saudi Arabia. Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain - have about 12.6 million Indians.The personal relations started paying off within a few years when National Security Adviser Ajit Doval was able to persuade the Gulf countries to either push out anti-Indian elements or send them over to India.It was a reflection of this high-octane diplomacy at work that Dubai handed over Dawood Ibrahim associate and 1993 Mumbai blasts accused, Mohammed Farooq and Saudi Arabia deported Lashkar-e-Taiba operative Habibur Rahman. In all, over a 100 wanted persons have been deported to India by the Gulf countries over the last six years. Last year, UAE allowed Indian agencies to fly out AgustaWestland case accused Rajiv Saxena and prominent aviation lobbyist Deepak Talwar in a special plane.More recently, UAE made an exception for Indians when it started packing off foreign nationals from nearly every other country including Pakistan after the outbreak of coronavirus disease. Since state governments in India weren’t geared up to accommodate the Indian citizens abroad, the Indian government had requested to take care of them for some more time. India, on its part, had assured the Gulf countries that New Delhi would maintain uninterrupted supply of food and essential items from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-gets-a-sos-message-from-uae-for-indian-healthcare-personnel/story-puMmZC60VJR7MWP0sYMtOK.html
28-04-2020||India||Supreme Court tells Centre to examine providing PPE to healthcare workers in non-Covid areas||The Supreme Court has cited a rise in asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and asked the Centre whether it was feasible to arrange protective gears for all medical personnel regardless of whether they are involved in dealing with the pandemic.Various states have reported a growing number of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said 80% of coronavirus patients were asymptomatic in his state, which is the worst-hit by the pandemic in the country.“We direct the Union of India to examine this issue and make necessary suggestions in the ‘Rational Use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)’ Guidelines so that PPEs are provided to all health officials who are working in non-Covid treatment areas,” a bench of Justices N V Ramana, S K Kaul and B R Gavai said in an order on Monday.The court had on April 8 directed the Centre to ensure PPEs are made available to doctors, nurses, ward boys and paramedical staff treating Covid-19 patients or those who come in contact with them at the designated isolation/quarantine wards.The court’s fresh direction come in response to Nagpur-based medical practitioner Sameer Paltewar’s plea that highlighted that all health care workers were at the risk of contracting the infection.Advocate Shreeyash Uday Lalit, who appeared for Paltewar, said a hospital functions like an ecosystem. “Even if one health care professional is compromised with Covid-19, any hospital administration will have no choice but to cordon off the whole area.”The plea cited examples of two Mumbai hospitals, where medical personnel got infected by patients being treated for non-Covid-19 illnesses. Over 300 staffers of these hospitals had to be quarantined after around 30 nurses and doctors tested positive for Covid-19. A similar situation forced authorities to quarantine 100 health care professionals at a Delhi hospital.The plea said health workers in Covid-19 wards are required to visit non-Covid-19 areas and added this puts the entire ecosystem at serious risk.“Infection from asymptomatic patients is reported to be on the rise in the country. We find substance in the suggestions made by the applicant,” the court said.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, assured the court that the suggestions will be considered if not included in the revised guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-tells-centre-to-examine-providing-ppe-to-healthcare-workers-in-non-covid-areas/story-xqqLToJSywV8U5mV07hF7H.html
28-04-2020||India||Goa techie launches tool that helps people find jobs amid Covid-19 outbreak||Panaji: A Goa-based tech developer, Prajyot Mainkar, has launched a basic online editable tool to help people find jobs, including work from home, amid the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, as recession, reminiscent of the 1930s Great Depression, threatens to roil the global economy.The web-based tool has struck a chord with job seekers, as over 600 people have registered since it was launched on March 24. The tool was launched just a day ahead of the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions to contain the spread of Covid-19 outbreak.The tool seeks job aspirants to sign up – from around 60 categories of skill sets, including business process outsourcing (BPO) and the farm sector – an online Google form. Then, the aspirants’ data are shared with potential employers, including those engaged in information technology (IT) and IT-enabled services (ITes).Mainkar has been trying to emulate the success of an earlier online tool -- a live Google datasheet -- that he had launched to help locals in Goa find cash in functional automated teller machines (ATMs) after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced demonetisation of around 85% of old currency notes on November 8, 2016.“Developing an online editable tool sounded like a cool concept in a post-demonetisation world. But there were practical challenges such as making people aware of it and then getting them to download it till it’s utility was over after 10-15 days,” he said.“The tool worked well because of massive word-of-mouth publicity. Besides, it was a dynamic tool, as many users updated the ATMs’ status live by using its datasheet’s editing option,” he added.Mainkar is back in business four years on in his altruistic zeal and sees the ongoing pandemic an opportunity for both job seekers and job givers.“I’m playing a small part in helping people find the right employer in a bleak job market, where layoffs are the order of the day,” he said.Many are expected to lose their jobs, as the pandemic is triggering an all-round redundancy, but some sectors, albeit temporarily, are likely to hire amid the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which have been in place since March 25 till May 3, he reasoned.Mainkar is looking beyond IT and ITes sectors, as the job aspirants who signed up for the tool belonged to diverse professional backgrounds. “Digital marketing, sales and marketing professionals, content writers, financial consultants, graphic designers, video editors, interior designers, etc. all showed keen interest amid these uncertain times,” he said.“Around 40 companies, mostly start-ups, have got in touch with us. We’ve also started coordinating with other networks who have been collating data of start-ups that are looking to hire,” he added.Can Mainkar cater to the job aspirants’ needs amid a looming global recession triggered by Covid-19 and also compete with professional networking sites such as LinkedIn and Dysco?Perhaps, time will tell whether he has succeeded with his new tool like he did four years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-techie-launches-tool-that-helps-people-find-jobs-amid-covid-19-outbreak/story-zxZHgzjpxgabf3ZqoZZ04J.html
28-04-2020||India||Delhi, Mumbai among 15 places that account for over 60% of India’s Covid-19 cases||Delhi and 14 districts across the country account for over 60% of all Covid-19 cases reported in India, according to data from the federal think tank NITI Aayog, whose chief executive officer Amitabh Kant says diligent monitoring, and aggressive testing, treating and containment are required to check the spread of the disease. Delhi, which has 11 districts, account for 12.62% of all cases in the country as of Monday. Mumbai and Indore feature among the list of the 14 other districts.“Our job is to present the nationwide picture, but it is the state governments that have to take strong, ruthless containment measures, more testing, isolation, and treatment in order to bring the number of cases down,” Kant said. “These are the 15 places that have reported more than 1% of India’s cases and it is here that we have to flatten the curve to win the fight against the virus,” said Kant. There are 33 other districts that have reported over 100 cases each so far, he said.Along with the data, NITI Aayog also presented a weekly trend of the number of cases, which shows that most of the states with these 15 high-case burden areas have started showing a decline other than Maharashtra and Delhi.“However, it is not enough to show a decline over one week, this has to be consistent for three to four weeks to be a correct indication of a downward trend. This is the reason I have also put up Kerala’s trends, which has shown week on week constant decline. We must learn from what Kerala did,” said Kant.Most of the 15 places referred to by the NITI Aayog are big cities such Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Ahmedabad. Experts believe this is mainly due to density of the population in these cities and testing bias.These cities account for a big chunk of cases reported from their respective states – Mumbai accounts for 33% of cases in Maharashtra; Ahmedabad accounts for 66% of the cases from Gujarat, Indore accounts for 49.5% cases in Madhya Pradesh, and Hyderabad accounts for 55.6% of the cases in Telangana.“If you see the bigger cities, the population is dense leading to a faster spread of infectious diseases like Covid-19. Also, when it comes to testing, we have a track record of testing more in the urban areas – it was true for H1N1 pandemic, it happens for routine infections like typhoid and even lifestyle diseases like diabetes. Unless the sample has been selected statistically to represent both rural and urban population, we cannot say that the infection is not being reported from rural areas,” said Dr T Jacob John, professor emeritus and former head of virology department at Christian Medical College, Vellore.In Delhi too, the district with the highest number of cases are those with a high proportion of slums and resettlement colonies.“The analysis by NITI Aayog is wrong in considering Delhi as one whole. It is not that entire Delhi is reporting high number of cases, but certain districts are. And, if you closely look at the districts where this is happening, there are slums and resettlement colonies where maintaining social distancing is not possible,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of public health at Safdarjung Hospital.Experts say that it is community engagement rather than enforced lockdowns that can help bring down the number of Covid-19 cases.“Just locking down a street or a colony when positive cases are reported is not the solution. If people continue meet each other within the containment areas, the number of cases will rise. What we need to do is engage with the community, make them stakeholders, make them responsible for ensuring social distancing and other measures,” said Dr Kishore.Dr John cited the example of Kerala, where health authorities were quarantining all those who travelled to the state, whether from abroad or other parts of the country. “Maybe the government should have gone into communities like Dharavi in Mumbai and explained about the disease, asked them to start wearing masks a month ago. This would have slowed down transmission in the communities where social distancing might not always be possible. Cities like Ahmedabad where the population density is lower can still implement these measures, but for bigger cities like Delhi and Mumbai, all the government can do is fire-fight now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-places-account-for-over-60-of-total-covid-19-cases-in-india/story-34kENwyqCRHiTdSKiXQfBM.html
28-04-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 situation 84 times better than top 20 infected countries: Govt||The Centre on Tuesday cited WHO data to reiterate the point that India was faring much better than the worst coronavirus affected countries in the world because of ‘timely’ and ‘cohesive’ containment efforts, including the two-phased 40-day-long nationwide lockdown and other curbs.The health ministry official present at the regular briefing by a joint panel of government officials on the status of Covid-19 in the country on Tuesday said that the combined data of top 20 coronavirus affected countries (excluding China and India) in the world gave a good measure of India’s success in relatively keeping the disease under a check.The health ministry official threw light on the logic behind the comparison by pointing out that the combined population of these 20 countries-- United States, Spain, Italy, UK, Russia, Turkey, Germany, France, Iran, Brasil, Belgium, Canada, Netherlands, Switzerland, Peru, Portugal, Ecuador, Sweden, Ireland and Saudi Arabia-- was close to India’s population, and therefore, offered some perspective on India’s virus-fighting efforts.“According to the WHO data from yesterday, confirmed cases in those 20 countries are 84 times more than the positive cases in India. Similarly, the number of coronavirus deaths in these countries are 200 times more than the number of deaths reported in India,” Agarwal said.As on Tuesday afternoon, the top 20 infected countries, China excluded, listed on the WHO dashboard have a combined tally in excess of two million at 2,402,403 while India’s total tally was at 27,892. According to the latest data offered by the government, India had a total of 29,435 confirmed positive cases on Tuesday, including 21,632, who were under active medical supervision and 6,868 people, who have been cured so far. India’s recovery rate of patients had increased by a few notches to reach 23.3%, Agarwal said.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19He provided more statistics in support of government’s claim of faring better than the worst and said the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases now stood at 10.2 days.He added further that no new cases were reported from 17 districts in the last 28 days.For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-situation-84-times-better-than-top-20-infected-countries-govt/story-bBQlHhxJRPjUlu7TsGwmqL.html
28-04-2020||India||Central Railway comes to the help of two people who wanted medicines from Mumbai||The Central Railway authorities have emerged as a saviour for two patients --- one suffering from cancer and another from heart condition --- as they organised critical medical supplies for them in distant Gorakhpur and relatively closer Chiplun.Amruta Chaurasia, a cancer patient and a Mumbai resident, who had gone to attend a family wedding at a village in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district, was stuck with limited medicine supply after the central government announced the nationwide lockdown restrictions on March 24. Initially, the lockdown was enforced for 21 days from March 25 and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3 to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.Her son Sandeep, a Thane resident, unsuccessfully tried to courier her the life-saving drugs. Then, he reached out to India Post, a subsidiary of Union Ministry of Communications, via Twitter and he was told to contact Indian Railways. This led Sandeep to contact Central Railway authorities, and soon an officer, who lives in Mulund, collected the medicines from him.“On April 18, the medicines were brought to Kalyan station and sent to Gorakhpur via Nagpur in two separate parcel trains because there is no direct rail link between the two places,” said a Central Railway official. Amruta received the medicines on April 21, and now she has adequate supply to see her through the rest of the ongoing lockdown restrictions, which are likely to be lifted after May 3.Similarly, on Monday, the Central Railway made an unscheduled halt of a parcel train at Chiplun station under the Konkan Railway to deliver medicines to a patient, who is suffering from a heart condition and originally a resident of Vikhroli, Mumbai.The railway personnel had collected the medicines from his Vikroli residence and the drugs were sent from Panvel station to Chiplun.On Sunday, the zonal railway assisted in transporting camel milk from Falna in Rajasthan to Secunderabad, Telangana, for a two-year-old child, via Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT). “There is no direct rail link between Falna and Secunderabad, leading to a 28-hour detour via CMST. On Sunday morning, the milk arrived at Bandra Terminus in Mumbai from Rajasthan and was loaded at CSMT for Secunderabad,” the official added.Earlier, the railways had launched a helpline portal SETU (Swift & Efficient Transport of Utilities) to assist people in booking the supply of essential commodities via parcel trains during the ongoing lockdown restrictions.“We’re transporting essential items such as medicines for patients across the country via parcel trains. Personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, other emergency healthcare items, etc; are being delivered to strengthen the government’s efforts to rein in the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-railway-comes-to-the-help-of-two-people-who-wanted-medicines-from-mumbai/story-dUkdkyUvC3eoT8BheHSsoO.html
28-04-2020||India||‘Don’t delay or create hurdles in inter-state movement of goods’: Gadkari tells states||States must take urgent action to remove blockades for the movement of trucks at inter-state borders Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari told state transport ministers on Tuesday. The union minister pulled up state governments for creating delays in clearance of goods transport adding that nearly 3.5 lakh trucks were stranded at present due to delays in inter-state clearance and screening, officials aware of the development said adding that there was no discussion on inter-state public transport. “States also reiterated that decision on public transport will be taken following the ministry of home affairs’ order post May 3,” the official said. In a video conference with state transport ministers on Tuesday, Gadkari said states need to take urgent action so that blockades for trucks and lorries at inter-state borders are cleared at the earliest possible for smooth movement of essential goods to various parts of the country. “Ministers need to intervene in such matters and ensure resolutions through the local/district administrations. At the same time, adhere to health advisories and other guidelines like proper distance, wearing of masks, use of sanitizers, both by the driver/cleaners and also at the dhabaas,” Gadkari said.The meeting was also attended by the chief Ministers of Mizoram, Himachal Pradesh and Arunachal Pradesh. “There were several issues on movement of goods and transportation that needed to be resolved. There is delay in supply movement and hence the meeting was called to discuss the hurdles. There was no discussion on public transport yet, that will only take place on May 3,” Himachal Pradesh transport minister, Govind Thakur said. Gadkari also told states to provide transportation for labour to factories and ensure food and shelter for labourers. Transport associations have demanded an economic package and relief from the Centre since the lockdown. “Across segments there is an issue of shortage of drivers, money and load. Lack of labour is leaving vehicles stranded and has already led to shortage of supplies. Movement of vehicles is still a major issue despite MHA advisories. E-pass system is not working properly and movement of staff apart from drivers is still a tedious task. Local restrictions are not helping the transport fraternity as there is no fresh load, no unloading at the factories, go-downs or warehouses and the our vehicles get stuck for days together, apart from harassment by local administration,” All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) president Kultaran Singh Atwal said. “Screening process at inter-state borders has left several trucks stranded. There is screening process at interstate borders, e.g. Barobhisha Border (Bengal–Assam Border). There are long queues up to 6-7 kilometres and the drivers and crew are stranded without food and water,” he added. The Centre has also told states that top priority will be according to construction of national highways during the lockdown period. In a presentation made on the status of work being undertaken since the lockdown during the transport ministers’ conference it was stated stated that 1315 projects covering 49,238 km worth Rs 5.8 trillion (Rs 5,89,648 crore) were under progress, of which 819 projects covering 30,301 km costing as high as Rs 3.06 trillion (Rs 3,06,250 crore) were delayed. It also showed state-specific issues like pending land acquisition, environment clearance etc which have been delaying the project implementation. The participating states were suggested to take definitive steps towards mitigating the difficulties.Gadkari informed that he was according top priority for National Highway construction by 2 to 3 times of the present pace in the next couple of years. He urged the states to expedite land acquisition and asked them to utilize funds which are remaining unused with them, which have been estimated at about Rs 25,000 crore, according to the transport ministry. States also requested the Centre to expedite highway projects. Responding to a suggestion by a state minister, Gadkari said the ministry will start a helpline to resolve the transportation issues. Gadkari also suggested that states should explore operationalising app-based two-wheeler taxis especially in rural areas which will assist farming communities with smoother movement. This will also provide new employment opportunities, Gadkari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/don-t-delay-or-create-hurdles-in-inter-state-movement-of-goods-gadkari-tells-states/story-n4OJchhw0KIMBcXgRDP8TM.html
28-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand seeks Centre’s nod to resume work on Char Dham road project||The Uttarakhand government on Tuesday sought permission from the Union ministry of road transport and highways to bring skilled labourers from other states and raw material from outside to resume the construction of Char Dham all-weather road in the state.Work on the 880-km Char Dham project which will connect Badrinath Dham, Kedarnath Dham, Gangotri, Yamunotri, and part of the route leading to Kailash Mansarovar yatra had stopped because of the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus.The permission was sought by the state cabinet ministers Madan Kaushik and Yashpal Arya representing the state government during a video conference meeting with Union minister road transport and highways Nitin Gadkar.“We raised several issues pertaining to our state before the Union minister among which one was permission to bring back the skilled labourers who had gone to their respective states due to the lockdown. We already have our non-skilled labourers and if we get the permission to o bring back the skilled ones then we would be able to speed up the construction work of Char-Dham highway project and other road construction works in the state,” Kaushik told reporters after the video conference.“We also sought permission to allow the transport of heavy raw materials like steel and iron rods used in highway construction from other states which were stopped due to the lockdown.”Kaushik did not say when the state intends to resume highway construction work.He said Gadkari also discussed a special package for the states considering the losses incurred by them due to the lockdown. “There are certain issues like payment of salaries to drivers and other staff of the transport corporation in this lockdown. To facilitate that, we discussed a special package on which the Central minister said that based on the evaluation of the state’s situation, a special package would soon be announced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-seeks-centre-s-nod-to-resume-work-on-char-dham-road-project/story-RmAh6kJLAjNQYERplrkktJ.html
28-04-2020||India||‘Interference with free speech’: BJP MP Hegde complains to PM against Twitter||Anant Kumar Hegde, a former Union minister and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Uttara Kannada parliamentarian, has complained to Prime Minister Narendra Modi against Twitter, alleging that the microblogging site was interfering with “free speech”. India needs to develop an Indian version of Twitter to ensure “sovereignty”, Hegde, whose account was blocked earlier this week allegedly over communal content, said in a letter to Modi. HT has seen the letter dated April 25.Hegde, known for his controversial comments, said there has been “selective targeting” of several pro-India handles, which have been suspended or locked in the past few months.“Pro-Indian, national interest think tanks run by decorated veterans who never indulge in any mudslinging but speak about subjects like data sovereignty are silenced by suspending accounts. Handle belonging to elected public representatives are suspended without notice,” the letter said.Hegde alleged that handles “spewing poison and passing objectionable comments about Prime Minister of India, home minister of India, chief ministers and other Indian establishment are promoted via paid advertisements”.Attaching screen shots of various tweets, he also alleged that handles spreading discontent and fake news about Indian religions or elected representatives are not warned or blocked even after repeated complaints. Hegde’s letter called for a probe into what he called motives behind such acts by Twitter. When contacted, Twitter said: “We don’t comment on individual accounts for privacy and security reasons. At Twitter, no one is above our rules. We enforce our policies judiciously and impartially for all users — regardless of one’s political beliefs. If we receive reports of potential rule violations, we will take action, as appropriate and pursuant with our enforcement approach, as detailed here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interference-with-free-speech-hegde-complains-to-pm-against-twitter/story-hrFbUCBlaFWxUnFyJes9EP.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Congress gets 60k responses on MSMEs, set to invite tips on other key issues||Buoyed by the public response to its request for suggestions on the revival of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) sector, the Congress is all set to invite the views of the people on other key issues confronting the country due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.A senior Congress functionary said the party received around 60,000 responses from the people on its different social media platforms for an economic stimulus package for MSMEs hit hard by the nationwide lockdown being implemented to contain the coronavirus pandemic.“This was a very successful experiment and we are going to replicate it on other issues. This overwhelming response to our initiative also reflects that the people who don’t want to speak in public space wrote to us in private,” he added. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had launched the party’s online campaign for the revival of MSMEs on April 22.“Covid-19 has devastated our micro, small and medium businesses (MSME). The Congress party needs your help. Send us suggestions and ideas for what a MSME economic stimulus package should cover on voiceofmsme.in or in our social media platforms,” Gandhi tweeted using the hashtag “HelpSaveSmallBusinesses”.The suggestions were then assessed by the Congress’ newly formed consultative group, headed by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, and some of those were included in party chief Sonia Gandhi’s letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 25.In her letter, she urged the Prime Minister to announce an immediate Rs 1 lakh crore “wage protection” package and a credit guarantee fund of an equivalent amount for the revival of MSMEs, warning that if problems of the sector are not addressed it could have a devastating effect on the country’s economy.MSMEs contributed close to one third of the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP) and accounted for almost 50% of exports and employed over 11 crore people, she said, adding that at this moment, without appropriate support, more than 6.3 crore MSMEs stand on the verge of economic ruin.“It was Rahul Gandhi’s idea and he is actually driving this initiative himself,” said the Congress functionary quoted above.“We are now seeking public suggestions through our social media properties on other important issues confronting the nation in the midst of the Covid-19 crisis – be it the freeze on dearness allowance of central government employees and pensioners or the problems faced by stranded migrant workers,” he added.The Congress is also planning to seek legal recourse to the government’s move to freeze the dearness allowance of Central government employees and pensioners, and is currently in the process of drafting a petition on the issue.Terming it an “insensitive and inhumane” decision, the Congress insisted that the government should have instead suspended the bullet train and Central Vista beautification projects costing “lakhs of crores of rupees” to the state exchequer.The government on April 23 froze from January 1, 2020, to June 30, 2021, the inflation-linked allowance for its 1.1 crore employees and pensioners, a move states are likely to replicate, helping save around Rs 1.2 lakh crore that could be used to fight the pandemic.“If the government cuts its own wasteful expenses by 30%, it could yield around Rs 2.5 lakh crore and that amount could be used in paying the dearness allowance and relief for employees, pensioners and defence personnel who are at the forefront in the fight against deadly coronavirus,” Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cong-gets-60k-responses-on-msmes-set-to-invite-tips-on-other-key-issues/story-RFwsWou6lq1DyZhDOpKF0O.html
28-04-2020||India||Mumbai’s Mantralaya to be disinfected after 4 cleaning staff test positive for Covid-19||A day after four housekeeping staff tested positive for Covid-19, the Maharashtra government has decided to disinfect Mantralaya, the state secretariat. It has decided to disinfect the Mantralaya building at Nariman Point and the new administrative building, situated next to it on April 29 and 30. Consequently, both the buildings and all the government offices there will remain closed for both the days.“Following the directives issued by the Central government, it has become necessary to disinfect both Mantralaya and the new administrative building as a result they will remain closed on April 29 and 30,” states the order issued by Sitaram Kunte, additional chief secretary, general administration department (GAD).Kunte also confirmed that they had decided to disinfect the buildings after cleaning staff tested positive. “We decided to disinfect the buildings as a precautionary measure. We cannot take any risk,” he said.According to BMC officials, four employees from the cleaning team of Mantralaya have tested positive in the last two days. One staffer tested positive on Sunday while the other three tested positive on Monday.The cleaning personnel are employees of a private firm that has been appointed for housekeeping activities.Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, public works department (PWD) said they are taking all possible preventive measures. “We have also traced 17-18 people who have come in contact with the cleaning staff and all of them have been tested for Covid-19. Fortunately, no one from those contacts have tested positive,” Saunik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-s-mantralaya-to-be-disinfected-after-4-cleaning-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19/story-9XqiQFRXSyUm5wwijJd9AM.html
28-04-2020||India||33 doctors in over 4% Delhi health workers affected by coronavirus, situation ‘worrying’||Over four per cent of health workers in Delhi including 33 doctors have become affected due to coronavirus said Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and added that this situation as “worrying”. Harsh Vardhan’s comments reported by a news agency were made on Tuesday when the minister held a review meeting via video conference with top officials of the state, including the lieutenant governor (LG), health minister, Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) commissioners and DCPs of all districts of the national capital along with surveillance officers and heads of government hospitals.“13 paramedics, 26 nurses, 24 field workers, 33 doctors are COVID19 affected. This is worrying,” Harsh Vardhan is reported to have said.A dashboard of medical care professionals and volunteers deployed across the country prepared by the health ministry as part of the containment efforts says Delhi has nearly 18,000 MBBS doctors involved in fighting coronavirus, 2530 MBBS students, 43,865 Nurses, 12,011 Dentists, 11,213 Ayush workers, 350 lab volunteers, 5809 ex-Servicemen, 10,628 NYKS volunteers, 4478 trained health professionals among other categories of manpower. The health ministry had recently written to all states asking them to take utmost care of their health care professionals while listing out measures taken for their safety.It recommended that states used Hydroxychloroquine for prophylaxis of Sars-Cov-2 infection for high risk population including all asymptomatic health care workers who were involved in the care of suspected or confirmed Covid-19 cases. It also states that nearly 5.11 lakh additional PPEs (Personal Protection Equipment) had been supplied by the Centre to the states to augment the existing stock of 2.75 lakhs of PPE available with the states. Delhi has 4039 cases of coronavirus as per the latest figures released by the ministry of health and nearly 100 containment zones—areas with positive cases that present a threat of further transmissions. Dr Harsh Vardhan said that this number should come down before adding that the existing periphery of the containment zones could be increased to fight the disease better. The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19“According to experts, we need to increase the periphery of sealed areas in Delhi to fight Covid-19 better,” Dr Harsh Vardhan said while talking about the containment efforts in Delhi. For Coronavirus Live Updates||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/33-doctors-in-over-4-delhi-health-workers-affected-by-coronavirus-situation-worrying/story-LlunK3JYS8W09xbJZQiEZK.html
28-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand to distribute special kits to care for over 30,000 pregnant women||The Uttarakhand Women and Child development (WCD) department in an effort to take better care of pregnant women will soon distribute special kits comprising items ranging from sanitary pads for mothers to warm clothes for babies, officials said. The WCD department has already worked out the plan and will initiate it once the lockdown ends in the state, according to officials. Rekha Arya, minister of WCD department Uttarakhand said, “The initiative would largely help the government to take better care of pregnant women. We have already identified about 30,000-40,000 pregnant women in the state who will be given the kit made by the department.”Arya said the funds for the initiative have already been passed in this year’s budget. “The kit which costs about Rs 900 each will have eight or nine essential items meant for the care of pregnant women and their babies. It will have sanitary pads for women, baby lotion, warm clothes for babies, baby shampoo, soaps, blanket, and a disinfectant,” she said. The minister said the department would have distributed the kits in April only but “the lockdown got it delayed”.“As soon as the lockdown ends, our department will deliver the kits to women at their homes which have already been identified under the initiative,” Arya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-distribute-special-kits-to-care-for-over-30-000-pregnant-women/story-XgsguHcG9t1t9LJ4EHG69M.html
28-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Plasma therapy not approved treatment for Covid-19, can be dangerous, says Centre and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Plasma therapy not approved treatment for Covid-19, can be dangerous, says CentreThe Union health ministry on Tuesday advised against considering the plasma therapy to be a regular treatment for coronavirus and added that it should only be used for research and trial purposes till the time there’s robust scientific evidence to support its efficacy. Read more. In PM Modi’s plan to evacuate Indians, blue-collar workers have the first rightAs the foreign and civil aviation ministries start work on a plan to fly back tens of thousands of Indians stuck abroad, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spelt out the ground rule for the evacuation plan. India’s blue collar workers stranded abroad will get the first seats in the special flights that will be run by the government to get them home. Read more. Covid-19 lockdown: Pollution in Ganga declines as factories in UP, Uttarakhand remain shutAuthorities in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have said the quality of water in the Ganga has improved during the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, with samples collected by a research facility in Varanasi recording a nearly 30% decrease in pollution levels. Read more. Where is North Korea’s Kim Jong Un? Here’s what is possibleThe Day of the Sun -- the April 15 holiday celebrating Kim Jong Un’s late grandfather, Kim Il Sung -- has long been the most important date on North Korea’s political calendar. This year, the supreme leader failed to show. Read more. Can assume Dhoni might not play for India again: Aakash ChopraFormer India opener and now a successful commentator Aakash Chopra doesn’t believe MS Dhoni’s comeback to the Indian side was depended on IPL 2020. Defying the thought process of a host of former cricketers and reports, Chopra said India’s two-time World Cup-winning captain’s fate cannot be judged on the basis of one IPL.Read more. All aboard the virtual express: Throwback pictures and travel series fill up the void amid lockdownThe trains might stop, flying not an option anymore and roads barricaded. However, you can’t take the love of travel away from someone who’s wanderlust surpasses any other desire. Read more. Pentagon officially releases 3 ‘UFO’ videos, alien-related posts take over Twitter. They’re hilariousOn Monday, the Pentagon released three declassified videos which have now created a stir online. The videos of the “unidentified aerial phenomena” capture the rapid movements of what appear to be unidentified flying objects (UFOs). Read more. HRD Minister urges students to explore UGC MOOCs for various UG and PG coursesUnion HRD Minister Dr. Ramesh Pokhriyal on Tuesday invited students to explore UG and PG courses offered on UGC MOOCs, a vertical of SWAYAM, or the Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds. Read more. ‘Difficult to hold 2020 Tokyo Olympics without vaccines’: Japan medical chiefHead of Japan’s medical association said holding 2020 Olympics without vaccines would be difficult. Yoshitake Yokokura said games are possible only if infections are under control globally. He said, “In my view, it would be difficult to hold the Olympics unless effective vaccines are developed. I’m not saying it should not be held, but my prediction is that it will be difficult (to hold the 2020 Summer Olympics unless effective vaccines are developed).” Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-plasma-therapy-not-approved-treatment-for-covid-19-can-be-dangerous-says-centre-and-all-the-latest-news/story-XjEOJkXbhTgBFZkVaf35uI.html
28-04-2020||India||Plasma therapy not approved treatment for Covid-19, can be dangerous, says Centre||The Union health ministry on Tuesday advised against considering the plasma therapy to be a regular treatment for coronavirus and added that it should only be used for research and trial purposes till the time there’s robust scientific evidence to support its efficacy.The government added further that plasma therapy could lead to life-threatening complications if not administered properly.“There is no approved therapy for Covid-19 in the country including Plasma therapy. Plasma therapy is being experimented with and there is no evidence to support it as a treatment. It is only at an experimental stage. If not used properly, it can create life-threatening complications,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary health ministry.The health ministry official said that the country’s top medical research body was conducting a study to find out the efficacy of plasma therapy and till then, doctors are advised to use it only for trial purposes. “Plasma therapy is only to be used for research and trial purposes until an ICMR study on its efficacy is completed. ICMR is conducting a nation-wide research to study the efficacy of Plasma therapy,” he added.Government’s word of caution on plasma therapy comes at a time when several instances of it helping in virus-infected patients’ recovery have been reported. The Plasma therapy has been used selectively so far, mostly in severe cases where patients were on ventilator support.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19Use of plasma therapy involves injecting blood-component plasma extracted from a cured coronavirus patient into a positive case. The plasma of a cured patient is considered to carry virus-fighting antibodies which boost the immune system’s response to the disease. Plasma is the almost-clear liquid left behind after red and white blood cells and platelets are removed from the blood.Convalescent plasma therapy uses a blood component called plasma, which contains the virus-fighting antibodies, from people who have recovered from the infection to treat those who are severely ill with Covid-19Several Covid-19 fighting medical care centres in India are reported to have started banking plasma from coronavirus recovered patients after its use was said to have shown positive results.A few days ago, Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain had reported that six critical coronavirus patients had “nearly recovered” after administration of the plasma therapy. On April 26, it was reported that Mumbai’s Lilavati hospital, too, had identified Maharashtra’s first patient to be given the therapy.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOne of Delhi’s designated coronavirus hospital, Lok Nayak hospital is already using the plasma therapy and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is reported is to getting ready to start it for those with severe Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plasma-therapy-not-approved-treatment-for-covid-19-can-be-dangerous-says-centre/story-vTeSdM43Q7ND3lUiThCAZK.html
28-04-2020||India||Rajnath Singh asks OFB, DPSUs to ramp up production post-lockdown||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday asked the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) to draw up contingency plans for resuming operations after the lockdown to combat the coronavirus disease is lifted, the ministry said in a statement.Singh said such plans were necessary to ramp up production and compensate for the time lost due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Singh spoke to top officials of the OFB and DPSUs, via video conference, and reviewed operational plans as well as their contribution to the fight against the pandemic.Several units of the OFB and DPSUs located in non-red zones have already kicked off operations and drawn up plans for post-lockdown operations, the ministry statement said. Defence ministry officials said the units of the OFB and DPSUs plan to work in three shifts six days a week (against the usual five) to speed up production. Work will be carried out by observing social distancing and other relevant health guidelines, the officials said.The defence ministry statement said that Singh referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s plans to revive the economy post-lockdown and said that the DPSUs along with the private defence industry could play a major role in the revival.Singh praised the efforts of DPSUs in coming out with new products to fight Covid-19 and also the assistance provided by them to the local administration.The OFB’s contribution in fighting Covid- 19 includes the repair of more than 100 ventilators, manufacture 12,800 coveralls, development of specialised machines for testing of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and supply of 6.35 lakh masks to local authorities, the statement said.The OFB has also earmarked 280 isolation beds at hospitals spread across 10 locations.The statement said Bharat Electronics Ltd is ready to manufacture 12,000 ventilators in May and another 18,000 in June to support the national effort to tackle the disease. Around 3,000 engineers will help train health professionals in operationalising the ventilators, the ministry said.The statement said Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd has manufactured and supplied 300 aerosol cabinets to various hospitals and also distributed 56,000 masks and extended support to migrant labourers. HAL has also earmarked 93 isolation beds in Bangalore for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-asks-ofb-dpsus-to-ramp-up-production-post-lockdown/story-1kiXCcNRQnmf5LWX2sDIDK.html
28-04-2020||India||Cong slams Centre, asks how it can afford to waive bad debts worth Rs 68,607 crore||The Congress on Tuesday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre after a RTI query a couple of days ago revealed that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had written off a staggering amount of Rs 68,607 crore due from 50 defaulters, including absconding jeweller Nirav Modi and his partner Mehul Choksi.Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala who was interacting with the media via a video conference cited the RTI query and demanded to know how the government had the money to waive bad loans when the entire country was facing financial instability due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Waiving off bad loans of huge amounts for willful defaulters has become the mantra of the BJP. On March 16, 2020, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had demanded to know the names of 50 loan defaulters from the Union government on the floor of the house. The government had refused to divulge those names. On April 24, these bad loans were written off. When the entire country is fighting the coronavirus pandemic and at least 14 crore people have lost their livelihood, how can the government possibly waive Rs 68,607 crore in bad loans?” Surjewala questioned.“The Modi government has been unmasked and the fact that it is working towards writing off such bad debts shows that the government is hand in glove with the defaulters. In the list of 50 defaulters, absconding diamantaire Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi are on top. We demand answers,” the Congress leader said.“Can the Modi government afford to waive such bad debts and if it manages to do so, the government needs to inform citizens how that is possible,” Surjewala said. Simultaneously, Surjewala reiterated the Congress party’s pledge to fight the Covid-19 health crisis along with the government and provide every possible support that the Centre may need. Indian banks have technically written off a staggering amount of Rs 68,607 crore due from 50 top defaulters, according to a reply under RTI from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-slams-centre-asks-how-it-can-afford-to-waive-bad-debts-worth-rs-68-607-crore/story-9bcqiCZx7vgMbnQw6cPRbK.html
28-04-2020||India||In Thackeray’s phone call after 2 sadhus killed, a stinging jibe at Adityanath||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath over the killing of two sadhus in UP’s Bulandshahr and expressed concern over it. Thackeray called for strict punishment for the perpetrators of the “heinous” crime and said that the incident should not be given a communal colour.“I spoke to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath ji over the phone and expressed concern over the heinous murder of two sadhus in UP’s Bulandshahr. I told him that we are with you. Just the way we acted strongly in such a case, I wish you would do the same and bring the accused to justice. However, I appeal to you that the incident should not be given a communal colour,” Thackeray said.Adityanath had spoken to Thackeray after two sadhus were lynched in Maharashtra’s Palghar district earlier this month. The Maharashtra home department had subsequently booked over 100 people in connection with the case.While the BJP leaders suggested that the killing was intentional, the state government dismissed any communal angle in the Palghar lynching incident.Sena leader Sanjay Raut had earlier tweeted on the killings, warning against giving it a communal twist. “Terrible! Killing of two saints, sadhus at a temple in Bulandshahar, UP, but I appeal to all concerned to not make it communal the way they tried to make Palghar, Maharashtra incident,” Raut said.The bodies of the two sadhus were found inside a temple in a village in Bulandshahr on Monday night. The police arrested Murari alias Raju in connection with the murder of Jagdish or Rangidas, 55, and his 46-year-old disciple Sher Singh. The man told the police that it was “God’s will”.“The accused claimed during interrogation that it was the will of God meaning there was no personal enmity,” a senior government official said while speaking to reporters.Officials said Raju allegedly had an altercation with the sadhus over stealing their ‘chimta’ or tong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bulandshahr-killing-uddhav-thackeray-speaks-to-yogi-adityanath-calls-for-strict-punishment/story-nxngqislG20K0iQM7NrRaJ.html
28-04-2020||India||High Court directs Nagaland to set up Covid-19 testing labs in 10 days||The Kohima bench of the Gauhati High Court on Tuesday directed the Nagaland government to set up two Covid-19 testing labs within 10 days.Acting on a PIL filed by V Suokhrie, a division bench of Justice Songkhupchung Serto and Justice S. Hukato Swu ordered the Nagaland government to “make at least two testing labs of Covid-19 functional within 10 days”.The court also directed the government to “make every effort to establish other labs at strategic places in the state to facilitate free testing in the future”.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.Nagaland doesn’t have a single testing lab for Covid-19 and all its samples are sent to labs in Assam. Till Monday, 629 samples from the state had been tested.The lone Covid-19 case from the state, a 33-year businessman from Dimapur is undergoing treatment at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH). He has also been counted among the Covid-19 patients of Assam by the Union health and family welfare ministry.“The PIL was filed seeking the court’s indulgence on certain gaps which the respondents might have overlooked while dealing with Covid-19 preparedness in Nagaland,” said Neiteo Koza, counsel for the petitioner.Though an IAF aircraft landed in Dimapur on April 16 with equipment needed to set up bio-safety level 3 (BSL-3) lab in Nagaland to test samples of suspected Covid-19 patients, the facility has not yet started functioning.In its order, the HC asked the state government to provide sufficient PPE kits to all persons involved in treatment of Covid-19 patients and looking after persons in quarantine centres.Till Monday 31 people were in quarantine in the state and 1,090 people had been screened, Nagaland health minister S Pangnyu Phom said.The bench also directed that the state government should increase the number of ICU facilities and ventilators, provide ambulances to Covid-19 patients at the earliest and ensure that there is no shortage of trained personnel.“The state received another batch of equipment to set up a BSL-3 testing lab at Dimapur and some additional equipment for the BSL-2 lab in Kohima on Monday. The health department also received 10 new ambulances on Tuesday which will cater exclusively to Covid-19 patients and those in quarantine,” Phom said.The bench asked the government to ensure that the two hospitals - one in Dimapur and one in Kohima – are dedicated for treatment of Covid-19 patients are fully equipped and functional within two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-directs-nagaland-to-set-up-covid-19-testing-labs-in-10-days/story-3P3Da5SJ6T5tvaPe6qIxlO.html
28-04-2020||India||2 minor girls raped in Rajasthan in separate incidents: Police||Rajasthan reported two separate incidents of suspected rape of minors from Ajmer and Sirohi districts o n Monday, according to the police.In Ajmer, an unidentified person abducted an 11-year-old girl at around 4 am on Monday from the courtyard of the house, where she was sleeping with her parents. “Her mother woke her father when she found that their daughter was missing on Monday early morning,” said Mahaveer Sharma, station house officer (SHO), Kekri police station, Ajmer district.“An hour later, her parents found her in a field about a kilometre away from their home and her clothes were stained in blood. The parents lodged a first information report (FIR) on Monday and a case was registered against the unknown accused under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and Sections 376 (rape), and 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” SHO Sharma said.In Sirohi district, a 15-year-old minor girl was allegedly abducted and raped for three consecutive days by a person known to her. On Monday, the accused dropped the rape survivor at her home after which she shared the ordeal with her parents.Sumer Singh, station house officer (SHO), Pindwara police station, Sirohi district, said that on April 23 after the family finished their dinner, the teenager’s mother told her to lock the entrance gate of the house.“When she went near the entrance gate, one of her friends in the neighbourhood called her. While she going to her friend’s house, the accused, who is known her, kidnapped her by gagging her mouth. She was taken to a nearby government-run school, which is closed because of the ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, and raped her for three consecutive days,” said SHO Singh.“On Monday, her family members filed an FIR. A case was registered under the POCSO Act and Section 376 (rape) and other relevant sections of the IPC. The rape survivor’s statement has been recorded. Her medical reports are awaited, but further investigations are on,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-minor-girls-raped-in-rajasthan-in-separate-incidents-police/story-Bfvd7IAN9oNDUU1zdxZlUO.html
28-04-2020||India||Another scientist writes to govt, warns about climate change impact in Dibang Valley over hydro projects||Another scientist studying rivers in Arunachal Pradesh’s Dibang Valley has warned the government about climate change-induced natural hazards that hydropower dams may not be able to withstand.Chintan Sheth’s letter to the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) of the Union ministry of environment has come after several scientists issued a similar warning to the government over granting forest clearance for the 3,097 megawatt (MW) Etalin hydroelectric project in an area rich in subtropical evergreen and rain forests and rare flora and fauna.Dibang Valley has close to 300 glaciers in an area of 200 sqkm and there are about 350 glacial lakes covering an area of 50 sqkm. Glacial lakes indicate these areas had much larger glaciers that have now completely melted due to warming, Sheth has said in his three-page letter. Suggesting a cautious approach to siting hydropower projects in the region, the former research fellow with National Centre for Biological Sciences said Arunachal Pradesh has a vast elevation gradient and is drained by Tibetan rivers such as the Subansiri, Lohit and Siang.It is well known that these rivers are primarily fed by melting glaciers, snow cover and monsoon rainfall so are the rivers in Dibang Valley, he said.“I have currently mapped and detected rapid melting of glaciers since 2009 on the Mathũ (Mathun), Dri and Talõ (Tangon) rivers as well as recent emergence and expansion of glacial lakes,” he wrote.“The Etalin hydroelectric power project proposes two dams on these rivers. The risk of such projects upstream closer to glaciers and glacial lakes is extremely high due to the unpredictable nature of the volume and flow rate during glacial lake outburst floods,” he said.Though Sheth has flagged concerns for all projects in the region, FAC is currently considering granting forest clearance to the Etalin hydropower project. The risk of hydropower projects upstream closer to glaciers and glacial lakes is extremely high due to the unpredictable nature of the volume and flow rate during glacial lake outburst floods. Dam breach model studies for hydropower projects account for only extreme rainfall floods.“Even if the dam structures do withstand a glacial lake outburst flood, the dam itself acts as a barrier effectively creating a lake that drains after overtopping. In effect, a dam creates a second lake that floods further downstream, after it over-topples, rapidly increasing the energy and flow rate of water,” Sheth said.“In contrast the natural topography of a river allows the water to spread and dissipate energy across the length and width of the river channel decreasing the flow rates as the flood propagates downstream,” he added.Anil Kulkarni, a glaciologist at Indian Institute of Science, said: “The glaciers there are relatively small and they have not been studied enough.” “We have to understand that the climate is changing and will change significantly in the coming years. First, we need to understand how climate will change in the region and how the pattern of stream runoff will be influenced,” Kulkarni said over the phone from Bengaluru.“Another study needed is will there be a change in the volume of water in future? Also in case of a run of the river projects, the distance between the dam and the outlet is usually dry which causes irreversible changes to aquatic life and water availability for local people. We need to critically study these impacts,” he said.HT had reported on April 23 that a sub-committee of FAC, which visited the Etalin hydropower project site in February, has recommended in their report on April 21 that the project of 3097MW can be allowed with a condition that the developer deposit money for wildlife conservation in the area. The project will involve diversion of 1150.08 ha of forest land and felling of 2.7 lakh trees in what is described as “subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest and subtropical rain forests” in FAC’s documents.“A decision on the Etalin Hydropower project will be announced when the minutes of the FAC meeting is released,” a committee member said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-scientist-writes-to-govt-warns-about-climate-change-impact-in-dibang-valley-over-hydro-projects/story-fZa3k6Dzba585Mq5C8UzkL.html
28-04-2020||India||Uttarakhand woman admitted in AIIMS Rishikesh tests positive for Covid-19, tally increases to 52||A 56-year-old woman from Nainital district tested positive for Covid-19 at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh on Tuesday, informed officials. With this, the tally of Coronavirus positive patients in Uttarakhand has increased to 52 with 33 patients recovering successfully.Harish Mohan Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS Rishikesh said that the 56-year-old woman had been admitted to the hospital due to an ailment in her brain and she tested positive before the procedure on Tuesday.“The lady, a resident of Nainital was first admitted to a hospital there and then referred to a hospital in Bareilly before being admitted to AIIMS Rishikesh on April 22. We took her samples yesterday evening for a precautionary test before conducting any medical procedure on her and she tested positive today. The next course of action is being decided by the doctors,” said Thapliyal.He added that the woman had tested negative twice earlier when she was tested in Nainital and Bareilly.“As the woman had tested negative twice, we are trying to find out her source of contracting the virus. Here, she was first kept in an emergency ward and we are tracing out her contacts, but as a primary measure we will be keeping around 70 staff members of ours under quarantine and testing them,” added the official.On Sunday, a nursing officer from AIIMS Rishikesh had tested positive for coronavirus.UB Mishra, dean of AIIMS Rishikesh said that a nursing officer working with the urology department tested positive on Sunday after first showing symptoms on April 24.The HT Guide to Coronavirus COVID-19||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-woman-admitted-in-aiims-rishikesh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-tally-increases-to-52/story-rNQ4t9Gi88o7opQLC4RlxJ.html
28-04-2020||India||80 new Covid-19 cases emerge in Nagpur in hardest-hit Maharashtra; 750 people quarantined||There was a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra’s Nagpur on Tuesday, after which the authorities quarantined 750 people.“We have quarantined 750 people from Satranjipura in Nagpur and will quarantine 500 more persons from there. We took this step as 80 cases were reported from the area and we found missing links in contact tracing,” news agency ANI quoted Nagpur Municipal Corporation Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe as saying.Maharashtra has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country. The state reported 522 new cases on Monday, taking the total number of the infected people to 8,590, a health department official said.With 27 more fatalities, the overall Covid-19 death toll mounted to 369, he said.Of the 522 new cases in Maharashtra, Mumbai alone accounted for 39 cases and 15 fatalities, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release.The total number of coronavirus positive people in the country’s financial capital now stands at 5,589 and the overall death toll at 219, the release further said.The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the Pune division stood at 1,193 with 87 deaths, followed by Nashik division with 244 cases and 23 deaths, the official said.Maharashtra has so far tested 1,21,562 samples of which 1,12,552 came negative for the novel coronavirus whereas 8,590 are positive.The number of the people discharged after recovering from the Covid-19 disease is 1,282.A total of 1,45,677 people are currently in home quarantine across the state while 9,399 others in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-new-covid-19-cases-emerge-in-nagpur-in-hardest-hit-maharashtra-750-people-quarantined/story-jE3IZOs2gN1MPxtFyknWUM.html
28-04-2020||India||In PM Modi’s plan to evacuate Indians, blue-collar workers have the first right||As the foreign and civil aviation ministries start work on a plan to fly back tens of thousands of Indians stuck abroad, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spelt out the ground rule for the evacuation plan. India’s blue collar workers stranded abroad will get the first seats in the special flights that will be run by the government to get them home.Students stranded in different countries will be next. Then, everyone else including Indians who were travelling for work, or pleasure.“The prime minister was very clear… That the Indian expatriate workforce should get the first choice to return,” a top government official told Hindustan Times.At one meeting, PM Modi pointed out how the poorest of Indian immigrant workers - mostly in the Gulf countries - had helped India tide over the economic crisis. Like in 1998, PM Modi told them, when the United States and other western countries imposed economic sanctions on India after the then PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee detonated five underground nuclear bombs in Pokhran in May 1998.The Resurgent India Bond floated by the State Bank of India was targeted to raise $2 billion; it netted more than $4 billion.Two decades later, India’s massive diaspora is still sending money home. In 2019, according to the World Bank, India was still the world’s top recipient of remittances. The diaspora sent $82 billion; nearly half came from migrant workers in West Asia.But the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the Indian workers in West Asian countries hard. Many have lost their jobs due to suspension of projects and are stuck.Also Watch: Pakistan’s terror tactic amid Covid-19 crisis explainedGiven that the states did not have the capacity to accommodate the large number of workers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Foreign Minister S Jaishankar had worked the phones to reach out to the Gulf countries to ask them to take care of the Indians.Indian workers in six Gulf countries account for 70 percent of 12.6 million Indians abroad. The United Arab Emirates is home to 3.4 million Indians. Another 2.6 million are in Saudi Arabia. Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain are home to another 2.9 million NRIs.Apart from workers in the Gulf countries, officials said, Indian missions had received requests from thousands of students who were stuck in countries across the world, ranging from the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States of America to Russia, Singapore and Philippines. In Russia alone, an official said, the total strength of Indian students is about 15,000.Also Read: 70% of Indian citizens abroad are in 6 W Asian nations, shows data“It will be a complicated exercise. Indian missions abroad will compile a list of people who want to return to India, prioritise them and then coordinate with the states concerned. When they eventually land in India, everyone would have to be screened to figure if the person should be sent to a quarantine centre or straight to the hospital,” a government official said.The foreign ministry will have to set up a dedicated control room for this mammoth exercise, he said.The Centre hasn’t yet decided when to start the evacuation flights but the timing, and the pace of the evacuation would be heavily dependent on governments in the home state of the workers.If the home state of a worker is not ready to take the responsibility to house them in quarantine facilities, it may not be possible to evacuate them. It is for this reason that Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba had told chief secretaries at his last virtual meeting to quickly set up quarantine facilities and hospital beds.Kerala has been first off the block, announcing that they were prepared to accommodate at least two lakh expatriates, mainly blue-collar workers, at its special quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pm-modi-plan-to-evacuate-indians-blue-collar-workers-have-the-first-right/story-PpAIqYhtwX8m9JTEH2oKaO.html
28-04-2020||India||BJP MLA says stop buying vegetables from Muslim sellers, defends remark||A Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Uttar Pradesh’s Deoria district kicked off a political row when he suggested to people of his constituency not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors to avoid contracting the coronavirus infection.In a video, now gone viral, Suresh Tiwari is seen appealing to people: “You all should keep one thing in mind, I am telling you openly: do not buy vegetables from Mia ( Muslims).” When contacted, Tiwari confirmed to have made the remark and clarified that he suggested it as a precautionary measure to check the spread of infection after people complained to him about the role of Tablighi Jamaatis in spreading the deadly virus.There have been several instances of the people from the minority community complaining of discrimination and harassment after a global religious congregation in New Delhi in mid-March, held by Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic movement of preachers, turned into a hotspot of Covid-19 cases.“On April 18, I was distributing masks among people in Deoria when I came across general complaints from people who expressed fear that Tablighi Jamaatis are spreading the infection in Deoria. Many of them were worried that Muslim vendors are infecting vegetable with saliva. As a responsible MLA, I asked them not to take law in their hand, but simply stop buying vegetables from them. Tell me, what wrong have I done by saying such things,” said the Barhaj MLA.Tiwari’s remark drew sharp reaction from the opposition parties.UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu blamed the legislator’s party for spreading hatred even at the time of a pandemic .“At a time when the country and state are facing the coronavirus crisis, BJP leaders are busy fanning hatred .It’s a shameful act which has exposed the real face of the BJP. The Tablighi Jamaatis who were under attack and blamed for spreading the coronavirus have set an example by donating their plasma to cure patients. I am confident that the countrymen will put up a united fight against Covid-19 by neglecting such comments,” said the Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-says-stop-buying-vegetables-from-muslim-sellers-defends-remark/story-X0SQ9kLEmmk4LCpbyUTYGM.html
28-04-2020||India||Govt planning for evacuation of stranded Indian seafarers in international waters, abroad: Union minister||Union Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday held discussions with seafarers unions and Shipping Line Co via video conferencing and asked ship liners to provide the details of stranded Indian seafarers in international waters and abroad.Speaking to ANI, Mandaviya said, “I discussed with seafarers unions and Shipping Lines Co via video conferencing and clearly told ship liners to provide the details of stranded Indian seafarers in international waters and abroad.”“The Ministry of Shipping is charting out the plan for the evacuation of Indian seafarers and drawing the SOP for the easing out of sign on or sign off process at Indian ports,” he added.During COVID-19 lockdown, several decisions have been taken by the shipping ministry for the smooth functioning of ports. At all small and majors ports, all precautionary measures have been taken to fight COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-planning-for-evacuation-of-stranded-indian-seafarers-in-international-waters-abroad-union-minister/story-vMMOxDavoLXPTZmM16OqKL.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: Pollution in Ganga declines as factories in UP, Uttarakhand remain shut||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have said the quality of water in the Ganga has improved during the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown, with samples collected by a research facility in Varanasi recording a nearly 30% decrease in pollution levels.A study of Ganga water samples collected on March 24, before the lockdown was imposed, and those collected on April 20 showed pollution had decreased by 25% to 30%, said BD Tripathi, chairman of the Mahamana Malviya Research Centre for Ganga, River Development and Water Resource Management at Banaras Hindu University (BHU).Composite samples of the river water were collected from five locations – Shooltankeshwar Ghat, Samne Ghat, Asi Ghat, Dashashwamedh Ghat and Raj Ghat – on the two dates, he said. He explained that the term composite samples means an average of five samples were collected from different spots of every site to ensure accurate results.“We tested biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and the dissolved oxygen (DO) level in the samples. We found the concentration of DO increased by 20% to 30% and the concentration of BOD decreased by 35% to 40%. In total, the Ganga pollution load has decreased by 25% to 30%,” Tripathi said.“There has been a very positive effect on the Ganga and the river shows it can rejuvenate itself,” he added.Tripathi attributed the decrease in pollution to many reasons, including a decrease of around 40% in the number of bodies cremated at Manikarnika Ghat and Harishchandra Ghat, and a check on immersion of remains of cremated bodies in the river.The discharge of toxic effluents from more than 1,000 small-scale and cottage industries and motor workshops too has completely stopped at Varanasi, he said.The “highest transparency” was observed during the sampling of water because fish were seen swimming up to a depth of one metre from the surface of the Ganga, Tripathi said.In Uttarakhand’s capital Dehradun, authorities said a comparison of water quality of the Ganga at different locations from Devaprayag, done between March and April, showed the quality had improved significantly. The water at Har Ki Pauri was found fit for drinking in April, and the state government now plans to work on measures to keep the quality consistent and pollution-free.State forest and environment minister Harak Singh Rawat said: “With the latest data on improved water quality of the Ganga, we are going to study it with experts and decide on short-term measures which will help us maintain this quality even after the lockdown.“Clearly, nature has cleaned the river on its own due to fewer anthropological activities.”Tripathi too said authorities need to take a cue from the lockdown to improve the water quality in future. Data released amid the lockdown by the Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB) showed there was a 47% reduction in fecal coliform at Lakshmanjhula.At the barrage in Rishikesh, there was a 46% reduction in fecal coliform and 25% reduction in total coliform. Similarly, at Bindughat Dudhiavan, there was a 25% and 11% reduction in fecal coliform and total coliform, respectively.At Har Ki Pauri, there was a 20% reduction in BOD, 34% reduction in fecal coliform and 17% reduction in total coliform, whereas at Jagjeetpur in Haridwar, officials observed a 17% reduction in BOD and fecal coliform and a 27% reduction in total coliform.UEPPCB officials said there was a significant improvement in water quality at Har ki Pauri during the lockdown. UEPPCB member secretary SP Subudhi said fewer pollutants are entering the river as factories are closed. “We studied data from March and April and saw significant changes in water quality after the lockdown. This is mostly due to factories being shut, hotels being closed, and less mobile population in and around Haridwar,” said Subudhi.“We will be taking samples from the same spots again to reconfirm the findings, based on which suggestion can be made to the state and Central government on how to keep the water quality of the Ganga consistent.”Sewage treatment plants in the state are working according to norms and without extra load because of the lockdown, reducing pollutants in rivers.BD Joshi, an environmental scientist and founder of the Indian Academy of Environmental Sciences, said the water quality has improved due to reduced anthropological pressures on the Ganga but this will be very difficult to maintain once the lockdown ends. “In the past five to six weeks, the Ganga has cleansed itself but it is very difficult to say how much of this will continue after the lockdown. There is definitely a psychological impact on people due to the pandemic, on how people should respect nature and the environment, which can help us keep the river clean. The government and law enforcement agencies can use this to spread awareness among more people, which gives us hope the water quality might be maintained,” said Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-pollution-in-ganga-declines-as-factories-in-up-uttarakhand-remain-shut/story-ZKGahS4TVfIQqLAOQyHSxM.html
28-04-2020||India||16-yr-old is Assam’s youngest Covid-19 patient, state tally at 37||Assam recorded one new Covid-19 case on Tuesday afternoon when a 16-year-old girl tested positive for the virus. She is a secondary contact of a person who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month. The patient is youngest among the 36 positive cases reported in the state till date. Assam had recorded its first case on March 31 with a 52-year-old from Badarpur testing positive.“A 16-year-old girl from Salmara, Bongaigaon, a secondary contact of a (Nizamuddin) Markaz attendee, has tested Covid positive,” state health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted. Alert ~ A 16-year-old girl from Salmara Bongaingaon, secondary contact of a Markaz attendee, has tested #COVID positive.The number of #COVID19 patients in Assam now stands at 36. However active hospital cases are 8.Update at 12:20 pm / April 28#AssamCovidCountSarma said that the patient was already under home quarantine.The latest case come five days after a person from Bilasipara in Dhubri district tested positive on April 23. Also Read: Assam allows rural stand-alone shops to open, to continue inter-district travelWhile 27 patients have recovered from Covid-19 and been discharged from hospitals, nine others are still under treatment. The state has recorded one fatality thus far with a 65-year-old dying at Silchar Medical College Hospital (SMCH) on April 10.Also Read: ‘Feels great’: 391 Assam students get back home from Rajasthan’s Kota amid lockdownOne positive patient from Nagaland is undergoing treatment at the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH).While most patients have recovered and have been discharged, the state’s first patient who also suffers from cancer and diabetes is still under treatment at SMCH since March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-yr-old-is-assam-s-youngest-covid-19-patient-state-tally-at-36/story-5rfz46LGhGa9CZqjyqh1kJ.html
28-04-2020||India||‘It was God’s will’: Man who killed sadhus in UP’s Bulandshahr tells police||The man arrested in connection with the murder of two sadhus inside a temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Monday night has said there was no personal enmity with the victims, a senior official said on Tuesday.Police have arrested Murari alias Raju in connection with the murder of Jagdish or Rangidas, 55, and his 46-year-old disciple Sher Singh. Officials said Raju allegedly had an altercation with the sadhus over stealing their chimta or tong.“The accused claimed during interrogation that it was the will of God meaning there was no personal enmity,” a senior government official said while speaking to reporters.“When asked how did he kill them, he said he ate bhang and then came into the temple and attacked the sadhus with lathis (wooden rods) lying there,” he said.Watch: 2 sadhus murdered in Bulandshahr; Priyanka Gandhi calls for fair probe The official said the issue of stolen tongs is being explored as a cause behind the murders.Santosh Singh, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police, had said earlier that Raju had a fight with the sadhus two days ago, who had charged him with stealing their chimta.Villagers, he said, saw Raju going out of the village with a sword and was searched on the basis of that information.“He was found in a highly intoxicated and half-naked state two kilometres from the village,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-was-god-s-will-man-who-killed-sadhus-in-up-s-bulandshahr-tells-police/story-xQyJ72yBH4QMH4k6NP5dnM.html
28-04-2020||India||Pakistan Army shells three sectors along LoC in Poonch||The Pakistan Army on Tuesday fired mortars along the Line of Control (LoC) in three sectors of Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, a defence spokesman said. Indian troops effectively retaliated.“About 1100 hours on Tuesday, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along LoC in Shahpur, Kirni and Qasba sectors”, the spokesman said.On Monday, the Pakistan Army had targeted Mankote area of Poonch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-army-shells-three-sectors-along-loc-in-poonch/story-bCuzXVEmtcpAOV4VidpjjJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Treat Covid-19 as opportunity, prepare for boom in electronics manufacturing: IT Min Ravi Shankar Prasad||The Union Minister for Electronics and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad has asked state governments to treat the Covid-19 pandemic as an opportunity and prepare for the forthcoming boom in the electronics manufacturing sector.The comments of the minister came at a meeting with his state counterparts where he said that “anger against China can be used towards benefit for India’s manufacturing sector”.During his interaction with state Chief Ministers, IT ministers and officials, Prasad claimed that major opportunity in the electronic manufacturing sector is likely to open up for India soon.The minister, while addressing the participants, said that time has come when this calamity should be turned into an opportunity and praised various departments for their services during the lockdown.“I want to make an appeal to Chief Ministers, Deputy Chief Ministers and Ministers that age for electronic manufacturing is set to come in India. The condition in China is such and considering people’s anger against China, I am sure the opportunity of India is going to come. The ministry has given incentives and I would like to state that cooperation by states will play a crucial role in it,” stated the minister.The minister also said that a lot of relaxations were given for work from home and IT Secretary, Communication Secretary and Postal Secretary gave presentations of their departments citing requirements and expectations by the Centre from the state departments.Norms for work from home have been relaxed. “We will aspire that work from home should become a new norm,” said Prasad while asking the participants to encourage young entrepreneurs investing in new startups. The Minister praised the department for making Arogya Setu app a success. “Arogya Setu app has become very popular as well,” the minister added.He also lauded the Postal Department for undertaking social service and digital services like digital payments and wished that states would use the vast network of our postal department in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/treat-covid-19-as-opportunity-prepare-for-boom-in-electronics-manufacturing-it-min-ravi-shankar-prasad/story-JJiX2h3NN2jSlrHyepM38J.html
28-04-2020||India||Alien fish species pose threat to Manipur’s indigenous breeds: Experts||A fish from the Amazon River basin in South America has been found in Manipur, raising concerns among experts of an invasion of the northeastern state’s aquatic ecosystem by alien species.This came to light when Amazon Sailfin Catfish, also known as suckermouth catfish, was caught by a fisherman from the Waishel canal in Manipur’s Bishnupur district probably for the first time on April 22. Bishnupur district has the largest freshwater lake in the northeast region.Experts said the Amazon Sailfin Catfish was found in the Ganga in Bihar’s Patna some years ago and also in the Brahmaputra in lower Assam. But this species was not reported from any other northeastern states yet.“Report of catching of such alien species from the water bodies of the state is not a good sign because their presence may demolish the aquatic diversity of the region,” Dr Ch Basudha Devi, a senior scientist of the Manipur centre’s Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), said.“Subsequently it will affect the region’s biodiversity,” she added.The one-foot long fish is said to be a fast-spreading species. As per reports, this alga eating fish, which can grow up to 49 centimetres and weigh up to 310gm, has become a local pest to eliminate fish in a few countries. “Above all, they will start expanding and try to occupy the entire habitat and start competing with our native species, which are in low fecundity rate as there is no native predator to control them,” Yumnam Lokeshwor, an associate professor with Assam Don Bosco University’s department of zoology, said.Manipur’s water bodies are increasingly becoming populated by alien fish species. Some of them have been let out for commercial purposes by the state while some have been released accidentally from captivity due to lack of necessary regulations.Yumnam said more than a dozen alien species, including seven authorised exotic food fish, two authorised larvicidal fish, three unauthorised exotic food fish and five other freshwater ornamental fish, were found in the state’s water bodies after their introduction. “Some of them have already established a good breeding population and have emerged as a threat to the native species,” he said.The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) had listed seven native fish of Manipur as endangered freshwater species. Even the state fish, Pengba, has vanished from wild and is only bred in farm ponds.“Therefore the state fishery authority must adopt new policy to monitor the introduction of new species including the aquarium species (exotic) as this hobby has been increasing day by day,” Yumnam added. Sharing a similar sentiment, ICAR scientist Basudha also expressed the need to form a state-level assessment committee to monitor the aquarium fish trade and introduction of exotic species. N Gojendro, the newly-appointed director of the fisheries department, acknowledged the recent development. Gojendro said they have appraised the matter to his seniors to formulate a comprehensive guideline for importing, culture and marketing of fishes in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alien-fish-species-pose-threat-to-manipur-s-indigenous-breeds-experts/story-VPifoE7r15EsMCe3JTnqRP.html
28-04-2020||India||4.0 magnitude earthquake hits Chamba in Himachal Pradesh||An earthquake of magnitude 4.0 hit Chamba region in Himachal Pradesh this afternoon.The quake occurred 22 kilometres West-Northwest of Dharamshala in the territorial limits of Chamba at 12:17 pm. The epicentre of the quake was at a depth of 19 kilometres.The jolt was also felt in parts of Kangra district. However, no loss of life or damage to property has been reported from Chamba or Kangra.On April 6, a 3.1 magnitude earthquake was reported in Chamba.The state witnesses dozens of mild earthquakes every year due to its geographical location.Chamba and Kangra region witness more tremors due to a main boundary fault that runs up to Mandi. Apart from it, there are scores of smaller faults which cause some seismic activity beneath the surface.The national capital experienced an earthquake of magnitude 2.7 on April 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-measuring-4-0-on-richter-scale-hits-chamba-in-himachal-pradesh/story-NVdIDg0OOas5uiPYRVdxeL.html
28-04-2020||India||New guidelines for Covid-19 mild-symptom patients at home: What do they say?||The Union ministry of health has issued detailed guidelines for home isolation of people, who either have very mild symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) or are in the pre-symptomatic phase.“As per existing guidelines, during the containment phase, the patients should be clinically assigned as very mild/mild, moderate or severe and accordingly admitted to COVID Care Centre, Dedicated COVID Health Centre or Dedicated COVID Hospital, respectively,” the ministry said its new guidelines.“However, very mild/pre-symptomatic patients having the requisite facility at his/her residence for self-isolation will have the option for home isolation,” it said.The present guidelines are in addition to the one issued on April 7, which says all positive cases are isolated and treated at a facility.Here are the new guidelines:Who is eligible for home isolation?* The person should be clinically assigned as a very mild case or pre-symptomatic case by the treating medical officer.* Such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts.* A caregiver should be available to provide care around the clock. A communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation.Click here for live updates on coronavirus outbreak* The caregiver and all close contacts of such cases should take Hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis as per protocol and as prescribed by the treating medical officer.* Aarogya Setu mobile app must be downloaded and it should remain active at all times through Bluetooth and wi-fi* The patient shall agree to monitor his health and regularly inform his health status to the District Surveillance Officer for further follow up by the surveillance teams.* The patient will fill in an undertaking on self-isolation and shall follow home quarantine guidelines. Such individual shall be eligible for home isolation.Click here for complete coverage on coronavirus crisisWhen must one seek medical attention? Immediate medical attention must be sought if serious signs or symptoms develop: * Difficulty in breathing* Persistent pain/pressure in the chest* Mental confusion or inability to arouse* Developing bluish discolourations of lips/face * As advised by treating medical officerWhen can one discontinue home isolation?Patients will end home isolation if symptoms are clinically resolved and the surveillance medical officer certifies them to be free of infection after laboratory testing What are the instructions for care-givers? * The caregiver should wear a triple layer medical mask appropriately when in the same room with the ill person. Front portion of the mask should not be touched or handled during use. If the mask gets wet or dirty with secretions, it must be changed immediately. Discard the mask after use and perform hand hygiene after disposal of the mask. * They should avoid touching own face, nose or mouth.* Hand hygiene must be ensured following contact with ill person or his immediate environment. * Hand hygiene should also be practised before and after preparing food, before eating, after using the toilet, and whenever hands look dirty. Use soap and water for handwashing at least for 40 seconds. Alcohol-based hand rub can be used if hands are not visibly soiled. * After using soap and water, use of disposable paper towels to dry hands is desirable. If not available, use dedicated clean cloth towels and replace them when they become wet. * Exposure to the patient: Avoid direct contact with body fluids of the patient, particularly oral or respiratory secretions. Use disposable gloves while handling the patient. Perform hand hygiene before and after removing gloves. * Avoid exposure to potentially contaminated items in his immediate environment (eg avoid sharing cigarettes, eating utensils, dishes, drinks, used towels or bed linen). * Food must be provided to the patient in his room * Utensils and dishes used by the patient should be cleaned with soap/detergent and water wearing gloves. The utensils and dishes may be re-used. Clean hands after taking off gloves or handling used items. * Use a triple-layer medical mask and disposable gloves while cleaning or handling surfaces, clothing or linen used by the patient. Perform hand hygiene before and after removing gloves. * The caregiver will make sure that the patient follows the prescribed treatment.* The caregiver and all close contact will self-monitor their health with daily temperature monitoring and report promptly if they develop any symptom suggestive of COVID-19 (fever/cough/difficulty in breathing) What are the instructions for patients? * A patient should wear a triple layer medical mask all the time and discard it after eight hours or earlier if they become wet or visibly soiled. * Mask should be discarded only after disinfecting it with 1% Sodium Hypo-chlorite. * A patient must stay in the identified room and away from other people in the home, especially elderlies and those with co-morbid conditions like hypertension, cardiovascular disease, renal disease etc. * A patient must take rest and drink a lot of fluids to maintain adequate hydration* A patient must follow respiratory etiquettes all the time. * They must wash their hands often with soap and water for at least 40 seconds or clean with alcohol-based sanitiser.* They must not share personal items with other people. * Surfaces in the room that are touched often—tabletops, doorknobs, handles, etc—must be cleaned with 1% hypochlorite solution.* A patient must strictly follow the physician’s instructions and medication advice.* A patient will self-monitor their health with daily temperature monitoring and report promptly if develops any deterioration of symptom as detailed below.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-guidelines-for-mild-symptom-patients-at-home-what-do-they-say/story-f6bIfuCnC9oC9rQxQqp4lI.html
28-04-2020||India||‘As we battle Covid-19, India engaged with other nations including US’: Envoy||India remains engaged with other countries including the US and Israel for a coordinated response to the coronavirus pandemic, the Indian envoy here has said.India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu, in a conversation with the influential American Jewish Committee (AJC), said that the Indian leadership is in a close contact with its friends and ready to step forward to help them.“As we battle this pandemic, India remains engaged with other countries including the United States and Israel in an effort to partner towards a coordinated response.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here “Whether it is the form of ensuring supply of essential medicines or sharing expertise and knowhow or joint scientific collaborations, India stands ready to battle this pandemic shoulder to shoulder with our friends,” Sandhu said in his interaction with the AJC.As a country of 1.3 billion people, India faces unique challenges in combating this common enemy, he said.India has so far managed to slow the initial spread of the contagion since the first confirmed case in the country on January, 30.India, he said, has taken preemptive measures under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to enforce a total lockdown.Sandhu said that India and the US are global strategic partners with a multifaceted relationship which encompasses almost every aspect of human endeavor.“Our defence and energy partnership has grown over the years as has our scientific collaboration. As democracies with shared values and global strategic partners, we are in a unique position today, walking together to combat the COVID-19 crisis,” he said.Also read: 10 countries with highest number of Covid-19 cases and fatalitiesJason Isaacson, AJC Associate Executive Director for Policy and Managing Director of Government, said that the US is deeply indebted to the Indian healthcare workers who are such an important part of the health system of the country.The Indian medical device industry, the pharmaceutical industry continue to be essential, not only in India, but to the world, he said.The world, he noted, has come to rely on these devices and protective equipment and pharmaceuticals from India, he said.Sandhu said India has assumed the leadership role in “this very, very deadly” crisis.“We took not only proactive measures in India, but we also took active measures in the region and the world at large,” the Indian envoy added.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The deadly coronavirus, which originated in China late last year, has so far killed more than two lakh people and infected over three million globally. The largest number of them are in the US: more than 56,000 deaths and over one million infections.In India, mainly because of the early and aggressive preventive measures, the fatalities have remained comparatively low at 934 and infections at 29,435.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-we-battle-covid-19-india-engaged-with-other-nations-including-us-envoy/story-ldbAFnMJq0SH0SdcDR88vJ.html
28-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 4 areas in Delhi may come out of red zone by May 3, three more by May 10 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.4 areas in Delhi may come out of red zone by May 3, three more by May 10At least four areas in Delhi are likely to come out of the containment zone categorisation by May 3, when the nationwide lockdown to control the spread of coronavirus disease Covid-19 is scheduled to end. Read more. Niti Aayog staffer tests Covid-19 positive, building to be sealed for 2 daysApex government think-tank Niti Aayog on Tuesday sealed its office headquartered at Niti Bhawan after an employee tested positive for coronavirus. This is the second government building to be sealed a week after the ministry of civil aviation sealed its office at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan in New Delhi’s Jor Bagh. Read more. Shiv Sena calls Bulandshahr killings ‘terrible’, Congress demands thorough probeShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has called the killing of two sadhus in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr “terrible” and appealed people to not give it a communal colour. The bodies of the two sadhus were found in a temple in Pagona village in Anoopshahar area of Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Monday night. Read more. Can’t control when we could go home, so we don’t think about it: Sjoerd Marijne on life in lockdownBeing at the camp for nearly nine weeks now, Marijne says he is eagerly waiting for the lockdown to lift so that he and the players can visit their families.In an exclusive chat with Hindustan Times, the Dutchman opens up on how the team is keeping themselves positive away from families amid lockdown. Read more. Soon after MIUI 12 announcement, Xiaomi says MIUI 13 is underworksAnnouncing the next version of smartphone software is not new for Xiaomi. The company, soon after rolling out MIUI 11, confirmed that it is working on MIUI 12.Meanwhile, MIUI 12 has been announced in China alongside the Mi 10 Youth 5G Edition smartphone. Read more. Call this cat Regina George because it is done with people trying to make fetch happenThis 10-second-long clip was posted to Reddit on April 27. Descriptively captioned, “After 10 minutes of fetch, the new kitten decided she had had enough”; the video was shared to the subreddit ‘Startled Cats’. Read more. Quarantine closet detox: 5 rules to let go of the clothes you no longer need but keepWhen you open your wardrobe, is it bursting at the seams? It’s a possibility that it may take one more than an hour to scour through the hundred pieces and pick that one white shirt. Read more. Bombay HC strikes down UGC Regulation that restricted tenure of college principalsCollege principals can now continue to hold their posts till their retirement, as the Bombay High Court on Monday struck down a clause in University Grant Commission (UGC) Regulations, 2010 that converted their permanent posts into term posts. Read more. Donald Trump on Kim Jong Un’s health: ‘Have a very good idea but can’t talk about it’US President Donald Trump said he has a ‘very good idea’ about Kim Jong Un’s health. However, Trump said that he couldn’t talk about it. Trump also said that if he weren’t president, US would have gone to war against Kim. Trump said, “Kim Jong Un? I can’t tell you exactly. Yes, I do have a very good idea, but I can’t talk about it now. I just wish him well.” Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-4-areas-in-delhi-may-come-out-of-red-zone-by-may-3-three-more-by-may-10-and-all-the-latest-news/story-BrTO8kyzN87PTdnxHsVffJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Two minors kidnapped, allegedly raped in Rajasthan; cases registered under POCSO act||Two minors were allegedly raped in separate incidents in Rajasthan’s Ajmer and Sirohi districts. Both the incidents came to light on Monday.The incident in Ajmer involves an 11-year-old girl who was abducted by an unidentified person when she was sleeping with her parents in the yard of their home early on Monday morning.“Around 4 am, the mother of the victim woke up and when she looked around her daughter was missing after which she informed her husband. The couple then started searching for their daughter,” said Mahaveer Sharma, station house officer (SHO), Kekri police station.The SHO further added that the couple found the lock of the main gate broken. “The couple started searching for the girl near their house. An hour later, the minor was found one kilometre away from their homes in a field. Her clothes were stained in blood after which the couple informed the police and FIR was registered under POCSO Act, Section 376 (rape), 363 (kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code against unknown accused,” said Sharma.A team of senior officials from the police and forensics departments, and dog squad reached the spot on Monday for inspection and collected evidence. The girl’s clothes too were seized. However, the statement of the minor is yet to be recorded as she is undergoing treatment at a government hospital.“The minor was taken to government hospital after the incident for treatment and medical examination. She underwent a minor surgery yesterday. Most probably she would be discharged today after which her statements would be recorded,” said Sharma. In Sirohi district, a 15-year-old minor was allegedly abducted and raped by a person known to her. And her ordeal continued for three days.SHO of Pindwara police station Sumer Singh said that on the night of April 23, after the family had dinner, the mother of the victim told her to lock the main door of the house.“When victim went near the gate, a friend of the victim who lives in her neighbourhood called her. When the girl was going to meet her neighbour, the accused who is known of the victim wrapped the minor’s mouth with her hand so that she can’t shout loud and took her to a government school and raped her for three consecutive days,” said Singh.On Monday, the accused dropped the girl outside her home and fled. She then shared her ordeal with the family members after which a FIR under relevant sections of POCSO Act, 376 (rape) and other relevant section of IPC was registered.“The statement of the victim has been recorded. Her medical reports are awaited. Further investigation is on,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-minors-kidnapped-allegedly-raped-in-rajasthan-cases-registered-under-pocso-act/story-5Zuxdc7AvjvfElG1iKC4EJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Shiv Sena calls Bulandshahr killings ‘terrible’, Congress demands thorough probe||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has called the killing of two sadhus in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr “terrible” and appealed people to not give it a communal colour.“Terrible! killing of two saints, sadhus at a temple in Bulandshahar, UP, but I appeal to all concerned to not make it communal the way they tried to make Palghar, Maharashtra incident,” Raut said on Twitter on Tuesday in Hindi. भयानक! बुलंदशहर, यूपी के एक मंदिर में दो साधुओं की हत्या, लेकिन मैं सभी से अपील करता हूं कि वे इसे सांप्रदायिक न बनाएं, जिस तरह से कुछ लोगों ने पालघर मामले में करने की कोशिश की।Watch | 2 sadhus murdered in Bulandshahr; Priyanka Gandhi calls for fair probe The bodies of the two sadhus were found in a temple in Pagona village in Anoopshahar area of Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Monday night.The police said they were killed by a sharp-edged object. They have arrested a man who, according to the police, told them it was “God’s will”. They sadhus have been identified as Jagdish or Rangidas (55) and his disciple Sher Singh (46). “As per initial probe, it has been found that few days back, the youth had taken away a belonging (chimta) of priests after which they had scolded him. Following which, he murdered 2 priests today,” BulandShahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh said.Also read: UP cop dies after hit by bullet fired from colleague’s pistolChief Minister Yogi Adityanath took a serious view of the incident and directed senior officials to take strict action against the culprit and submit a detailed report.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded that the truth should come out and that the issue should not be politicised. “Today in Bulandshahr, two sadhus were murdered while they were sleeping. The truth must come out after investigation in this heinous crime and at this stage no body should politicise this issue,” she tweeted in Hindi. ..ऐसे जघन्य अपराधों की गहराई से जाँच होनी चाहिए और इस समय किसी को भी इस मामले का राजनीतिकरण नहीं करना चाहिए। निष्पक्ष जाँच करके पूरा सच प्रदेश के समक्ष लाना चाहिए। यह सरकार की ज़िम्मेदारी है।2/2The incident comes almost a fortnight after lunching of two sadhus and their driver in Maharashtra’s Palghar. They were on their way from from Nashik in Maharashtra to Surat in Gujarat, when a 200-strong mob attacked them near Gadchinchle village on April 16.Also read: Covid-19 free Pilibhit in UP reports fresh case, total number nears 2,000Asserting that nobody involved in the Palghar mob lynching incident would be spared, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a high-level probe by Criminal Investigation Department (CID).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-calls-bulandshahr-killings-terrible-congress-demands-thorough-probe/story-vwSg3EuymeL0KZwXtKjeaL.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: UP prepares to bring back over a million migrants||The Uttar Pradesh government is preparing to bring back over a million people from the state stranded across the country due to ongoing nationwide lockdown restrictions, which are likely to be lifted in a phased manner after May 3.Earlier, the state government had successfully transported several hundred thousands of migrant workers back home after the first phase of nationwide lockdown restrictions were imposed for 21 days from March 25. The curbs, announced to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, were extended by 19 days.The state government transported around 270,000 UP migrants, who had gathered on the state borders, adjoining Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), soon after the lockdown was imposed. In an overnight operation, the government brought them back to the state by running 1,000 buses and quarantined them in shelter homes across UP.Last week, the state government brought back 10,500 UP students from Rajasthan’s Kota, the coaching hub of the country for medical and engineering aspirants, on UPSRTC buses in an exercise spread over three days.Now, the process has begun to transport more UP migrant workers from other states.“UPSRTC ferried a total of 9,992 UP migrant labourers from Haryana on 328 buses over the weekend,” said Awanish Kumar Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home, UP.On Monday, the state government started transporting 10,000 students, who study at various coaching centres in Prayagraj, to their respective districts in UP. The UPSRTC authorities have deployed 300 buses to ferry them.“However, the operation that’s about to start would surpass all the previous ones combined. We’ll use buses at almost all depots to go to different states and ferry people from UP back home. It’s going to be a long haul lasting several days, and may extend up to a few weeks,” said a UPSRTC officer.Another state government official said nodal officers would coordinate with the respective states to ferry the migrants stranded in different states.The state revenue department has been entrusted with the responsibility to quarantine them for 14 days at shelter homes and quarantine facilities in the respective districts.The department is executing the task through the district administrations that have been apprised of the guidelines.In a circular to all the district administrations, additional chief secretary (revenue) Renuka Kumar, said, “Because we’re expecting nearly 10 lakh migrants from other states, each district must create the capacity to accommodate at least 15,000 of them. Some eastern UP districts may have over 15,000 migrants coming in. Earlier, the migrants were largely lodged in schools or panchayat buildings, but now, under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the district administration should acquire larger premises with an adequate number of rooms, washrooms and bathrooms. The migrants will have to be quarantined at these centres for 14 days to prevent the spread of Covid-19.”In guidelines to the district administration, Kumar said shelter homes and quarantine facilities, kitchens and community kitchens have to be sanitised twice a day. Washrooms must be sanitised thrice a day and wearing a mask or wrapping a cloth around one’s face is compulsory, the guidelines added. On Monday, Awasthi said that the number of inbound migrants could go up to 15 lakh and arrangements have to be made accordingly.“On arrival, each migrant will have to undergo a medical checkup. Only those without symptoms should be lodged at shelter homes and quarantine centres. Anyone who is showing Covid-19 like symptoms must be quarantined in a healthcare facility in the district,” said Sanjay Goyal, relief commissioner, Uttar Pradesh.Like the community kitchens, these shelter homes and quarantine facilities will also be geo-tagged.The kitchen staff must wear caps, masks and gloves. Social distancing has to be strictly maintained while serving food. When the migrants finish the 14-day quarantine in their home district, they will be sent home with ration kits, as per the instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-up-prepares-to-bring-back-over-10-lakh-migrants/story-vZ8mOuKVYDppGzlTA6x6VP.html
28-04-2020||India||Niti Aayog office sealed after employee tests Covid-19 positive||Government think-tank Niti Aayog sealed its office in New Delhi on Tuesday after an employee tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to officials.“Niti Aayog is following all protocols as per the ministry of health guidelines. The building has been sealed…sanitisation of the building is underway,” a senior Niti Aayog official who did not want to be named said.Contacts of the person, a director-level official who got his report around 9am on Tuesday morning, have been asked to go on self-quarantine. The Niti Aayog office will be sealed for a couple of days.“All officers of NITI Aayog are functional, available and currently working from home. As per the protocol of the Ministry of Health, the NITI Bhavan will resume normal operations after 48 hours,” Niti Aayog tweeted later in the dayAlso Watch: Covid-19 | Niti Aayog office sealed after employee tests positive  The body is tasked with leading some of the 11 empowered groups formed by the Union government to deal with the pandemic. On April 22, the ministry of ministry of civil aviation sealed its headquarters at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan in New Delhi’s Jor Bagh after an employee tested positive for Covid-19. The civil aviation ministry staffer was the first person in a central ministry to have contracted the infection. The office reopened on Monday. “TThe @MoCA_GoI office at Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan is sanitized, safe, up & reopened. It was sealed after one of our colleagues tested positive for #COVID19 on 21st April. After operating from Nirman Bhawan & Udhyog Bhawan for a while, I worked out of my Civil Aviation office today,” Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri tweeted on Monday. According to home ministry guidelines issued after the extension of the national lockdown until May 3, the government has ordered a phased return to office of central government ministry officials. The new guidelines call for 100% attendance by officers above the deputy secretary level and 33% attendance by junior staff.The sweeping curbs were first imposed on March 25 for 21 days, and then extended by 19 days till May 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-staffer-tests-covid-19-positive-building-to-be-sealed-for-two-days/story-xdM40PC62U5z71EvlviPRL.html
28-04-2020||India||Indian national is first case in US border protection custody to have Covid-19||A 31-year-old Indian man, who was apprehended on the suspicion of illegally crossing into America through the US-Mexico border, has tested positive for the Covid-19, becoming the first individual in the border protection agency’s custody to be infected with the virus.The US Customs and Border Protection (USCBP) said that on April 23, a border patrol agent apprehended three Mexicans and the Indian national suspected of having illegally crossed the US-Mexico border near California.While the three Mexican nationals were returned to their country, the Indian was transported to a border patrol facility for processing, CBP Acting Commissioner Mark Morgan said.The Indian national, who was not identified, displayed flu like symptoms, following which he was evaluated by medical personnel and placed in quarantine. He was tested for the COVID-19 and his evaluation came back positive.“This is the first individual in CBP custody to test positive for COVID-19,” the agency said.The CBP said it is currently conducting contact tracing with those he may have been in contact with and closely monitoring his symptoms.The man has been transferred to the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement where he will continue to be treated based on medical personnel’s recommendations.“The potential for the introduction and spread of COVID-19 in CBP stations and processing centres presents a danger to migrants, our frontline agents and officers, and the American people. Our agents and officers continue to protect our country from this invisible enemy, risking their own lives for the health of our nation,” Morgan said.He added that this is precisely the reason the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has given CBP the authority to return individuals that could potentially be infected with COVID-19.“Can you imagine if we were navigating this pandemic during this time last year, when we had more than 20,000 migrants in our custody? It would have overwhelmed our processing centres and stations, and crippled the healthcare system along the border,” Morgan added.Indians are among the thousands of Africans and Asian migrants crossing US borders from Mexico, led by smuggling cartels.According to the Johns Hopkins University data, the coronavirus has infected over 980,000 people and claimed over 56,000 lives in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-national-is-first-case-in-us-border-protection-custody-to-have-covid-19/story-5BM8iXWYHtVMQ3R5RxNoBJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Coronavirus lockdown: Wall built along Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border demolished after protest||Tamil Nadu’s (TN) Vellore district administration on Monday evening ordered the demolition of the two concrete walls constructed on an interstate highway connecting Andhra Pradesh’s (AP) Chittoor district a day before, hours after the pictures went viral and the AP authorities took exception to the unilateral move.Vellore district collector A Shanmuga Sundaram said that the walls constructed on the highway --- in a bid to prevent interstate movement between TN and AP amid the growing concerns over the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak --- had been demolished.“We’ve pulled down the walls that were erected on two places on the state highway connecting Vellore with Chittoor districts,” Sundaram told HT over the phone. “The Vellore district administration ordered the demolition of the walls after Chittoor district collector N Bharat Gupta took up the matter with Sundaram, citing the immediate need to restore emergency transport services,” Chittoor joint collector D Markandeyulu said.The wall, measuring three feet in width and five feet tall, was constructed at Gudiyattam village in Vellore district, which shares its border with Chittoor district’s Palamaner block.Another wall was erected at Kondappanaickenpalayam check-post near Ponnai in a bid to stop “unauthorised movement of vehicles and people between both the states” amid the nationwide lockdown restrictions, which were initially enforced for 21 days from March 25 and then further extended for another 19 days till May 3, to rein in the pandemic.The Palamaner-Gudiyattam stretch is used by people from both TN and AP for the movement of essential commodities such as vegetables, flowers, and groceries to the villages that are located on both sides of the interstate highway.Besides, the Vellore-based Christian Medical College (CMC) caters to thousands of patients from AP, who go there for treatment every year. Similarly, the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) is another favourite educational institution for Telugu-speaking students from the state.Earlier on Monday morning, Sundaram had told HT that the Vellore district administration had constructed makeshift walls only in two places of the highway of the six borders that they share with Chittoor district.“There are also a few other rural routes between the two states, which have been closed with boulders,” he had said.“We’ve sealed these areas in a bid to prevent unauthorised movement of people amid the lockdown restrictions. However, both the transport of goods and the movement of people on emergency situations are allowed through alternative routes,” he had added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-lockdown-wall-built-along-tamil-nadu-andhra-pradesh-border-demolished-after-outrage/story-7NTSIoyia9whdyA2WgZjJL.html
28-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: Rajasthan’s tally of Covid-19 mounts to 2,328, death toll at 51||There were 66 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), most from Kota, and one death in Rajasthan, news agency ANI reported citing state health department officials.The coaching hub of Kota had 19 Covid-19 cases, the state capital of Jaipur 16, Jodhpur 13 and Ajmer 11, ANI said. The tally Covid-19 cases in the desert state stands at 2328 now.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here One death was also recorded in Kota, taking the number of fatalities due to the respiratory disease to 51 across the state.Jaipur has the highest cases in the state (850) followed by Jodhpur (388), Kota (184), Tonk (126), Ajmer (135), Nagaur (116) and Bharatpur (110).The Rajasthan government has said it will bring back migrant workers from other states and send workers from other states back home ahead of the possible easing of the nationwide lockdown.“After much effort by the state government, migrants of Rajasthan will soon be returning home from other states. These people suffered a lot during the lockdown. Now when they return, it is our moral duty to take care of them, provide them with all help regarding food, medicines and quarantine facilities,” chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted on Monday.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “My appeal to all is please give moral support to our brothers and sisters returning home after a very hard period. Following the culture of Rajasthan that we never leave our people in distress, take proper care of the migrants,” he said.Rajasthan has selected 19 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) officers to coordinate with the governments of 14 states, district authorities and other agencies on the issue of migrant workers.The state officials will liaise with Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.Several guidelines have been issued for authorities in districts where returning workers are expected to enter the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-rajasthan-s-tally-of-covid-19-mounts-to-2-328-death-toll-at-51/story-Hv8rKrrjhOyIXZKFKGKreO.html
28-04-2020||India||‘Can opt to stay home’: Mumbai cops over 55-yrs-old told after 3 die of Covid-19||Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh has sent a communiqué to all the 94 police stations in the city stating that police personnel, who are above 55 years in age, don’t need to report to work till the second phase of the ongoing nationwide restrictions, which were imposed on April 15 for another 19 days to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. The second phase of the lockdown ends on May 3.The communiqué has been sent after three Mumbai Police personnel died and 55 others contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The order stipulates that police personnel, who are above 50 years and are suffering from multiple ailments such as hypertension, diabetes or any other major disease, can feel free to go on leave.“The decision has been taken in light of the fact that people above 50 years are one of the most susceptible to get infected. Hence, they don’t have the compulsion to report to work till May 3,” said an assistant commissioner of police, requesting anonymity.Also read: Here’s list of 16 districts in India with no new Covid-19 case in last 28 days“If any police personnel, who is above 55 years comes for work, then that person won’t be given a field duty because he has a higher chance of getting infected,” said a senior police inspector.Singh’s directive seeks to protect 45,000-strong Mumbai Police from the raging Covid-19 outbreak.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “A vast section of the personnel has been deployed across the city to ensure Mumbaikars are strictly enforcing social distancing norms and lockdown restrictions. They’re also involved in the management of containment zones across the city,” said a senior police officer, requesting anonymity.“If we feel there is a shortage of manpower, additional forces will be sought from local arms (LA). They will be deployed in Covid-19-hit areas,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-3-colleagues-die-of-covid-19-mumbai-cops-over-55-years-told-they-can-opt-to-stay-at-home/story-37xpEPRT0MxnUwIGumwodJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra doubled in just 1 week, total number at 8,590||Though officials have claim there have been a steady rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, official figures shows that the state’s count doubled in just one week.On April 19, the total number of cases in the state was 4,200 but in the last seven days, it has doubled to 8,590 (till April 27).The state has recorded 4,390 cases in the seven days - from April 20 to 27.This is because the state is seeing an average of 500 new Covid-19 cases on daily a basis since more than a week.On Monday, it recorded 522 new cases. Maharashtra took 30 days to cross 1,000 cases, after the first patient was reported on March 9. It crossed 2,000-mark in six days on April 13. It took six days to reach 4,000 casea and just four more days to cross the 6,000-mark, an analysis of the state data shows.The trend also showed that Monday was the 24th consecutive day the number of new cases has been in three digits, which is why 8,292 cases were registered in April alone.In Mumbai, the case count has gone up to 5,776 as 369 new cases were reported.However, officials said that the situation is still under control as most of the new cases are from traced contacts.“We can say that the situation is under control as we are aggressively doing contact tracing and most of the new cases are those who have been traced, following detection of Covid 19 cases,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).“It is true that we were expecting a decline in cases from April 21, which is not happening, but the rise is also not exponential and now we will have to wait for another incubation cycle of 14 days, which is ending on May 3, before reaching to any conclusion,” Dr Lahane said. Two 14-day incubation cycles were completed on April 20, since March 22 when international traffic was stopped.As the number of Covid-19 cases rise, the number of cases recovered so far also jumped to 1,282 as 94 patients recovered on Monday.Meanwhile, the health department has conducted 1,21,562 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them, 1,12,552 people tested negative. The death toll of the state also went up to 369 as 27 fatalities were registered on Monday. Of them, 15 were in Mumbai, six in Amravati, four in Pune and one each in Jalgaon and Aurangabad. With the total number of 219, Mumbai has the highest Covid-19 deaths.Of the 27 deaths, 22 patients had co-morbidities. One of the deceased had contracted HIV and another was suffering with cancer, said health officials.The mortality rate of the state has significantly dropped to 4.24 per cent from 7.41 per cent on April 13. However, it continued to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.13 per cent till Sunday, stated the data of the state medical education department.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state is prepared for any situation. “We have set up 1,677 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals, where 1,76,357 isolation beds and 7,248 ICU beds are available. These hospitals are divided into three categories - for asymptomatic, mild and serious cases. We also have around 3,000 ventilators, around 80,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 2.82 lakh N-95 masks,” he said.The state currently has 572 active containment zones. Around 7,861 survey teams, comprising doctors and assisting staff, have screened more than 32.28 lakh people.It has also kept 9,399 suspected patients at government quarantine facilities, while 1,45,677 are home quarantined, stated health officials.Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday appointed four IAS officers Anil Kawade as cooperation commissioner; Saurabh Rao as sugar commissioner; Sachindra Pratap Singh as animal husbandry commissioner and Kaustubh Diwegaonkar as director, Ground Water Survey and Development Agency (GSDA). These officers will help in planning preventive measures and their implementation to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in Pune, where 1,027 cases has been registered till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-doubled-in-just-1-week-total-number-at-8-590/story-fEkAIz9587SDuBIuBjMIDM.html
28-04-2020||India||Foreign minister S Jaishankar to attend BRICS meet on Covid-19||India will participate in a key meeting of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) foreign ministers on Tuesday to discuss the fallout of the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.The Sars-Cov-2, which first emerged in China’s Wuhan city late last year, has killed more than 200,000 people worldwide and infected over 3 million others, according to a tally by Johns Hopkins University.The meeting, to be held by the rotating chair Russia, will be convened via video conference.Foreign minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi will be among those to take part in the BRICS Foreign Ministers’ Extraordinary Conference on the coronavirus pandemic.Wang’s presence was confirmed by Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Geng Shuang in a statement on Monday.The statement said Wang will discuss with his counterparts the impact of the Covid-19 on international relations, concerted efforts to address global challenges, deepening BRICS cooperation and other topics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-minister-s-jaishankar-to-attend-brics-meet-on-covid-19/story-Rjb6IxGHaU3v2uNDNQOg3M.html
28-04-2020||India||2 sadhus killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr; 1 man arrested||Two sadhus were killed in Pagona village in Anoopshahar area of Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Monday night.The police have arrested a youth in connection with the case. According to police, the youth had altercation with sadhus over stealing their ‘chimta’ (tongs).“The youth Raju had altercation with sadhu two days ago who charged him of stealing their chimta. He has been arrested from a neighbouring village and has confessed to his crime,” said Santosh Singh, SSP, Bulandshahr.Watch: 2 sadhus murdered in Bulandshahr; Priyanka Gandhi calls for fair probe “The arrested man was under influence of some toxic substance therefore further interrogation would be conducted soon after he resumes his senses,” Singh added.The priests were attacked with a sharp-edged object. Their bodies were found by the villages inside the local templeThey have been identified as Jagdish or Rangidas (55) and his disciple Sher Singh (46). Police have been deployed in the area around the temple, Live Hindustan reported.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed senior officials to visit the village and send him a detail report on the incident.The incident comes more than a week after two sadhus and their driver were lynched by a huge mob outside Gadhchinchale village, 110 kilometre from Palghar in Maharashtra. They were attacked on the suspicion of being child-lifters.The incident in Palghar took place on April 16.It later emerged that the sadhus - 70-year-old Swami Kalpvriksha Giri and 35-year-old Sushil Giri - belonged to Varanasi-based Juna Akhara and were on their way to Gujarat to attend the last rite of their guru Mahant Shri Ram Giri.Asserting that nobody involved in the Palghar mob lynching incident would be spared, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a high-level probe by Criminal Investigation Department (CID).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-sadhus-killed-in-uttar-pradesh-s-bulandshahr-1-man-arrested/story-vK9PrGYXvTd8d6KYEIeLoJ.html
28-04-2020||India||6 cases from Patna among 68 from Bihar, tally up to 345||Six new cases of coronavirus were reported from Patna, as Bihar registered 68 cases Monday, its biggest single day spike so far, pushing its total tally of cases to 345, with two deaths so far.Munger reported the most number of cases after 22 people tested positive Monday from Sadar Bazar in Jamalpur sub-division, which has been listed under ‘red zone’. Rohtas reported 16 cases, forcing the district administration to enforce containment measures. The other cases during the day were reported from Bhojpur (7), Madhubani (5), Aurangabad (5), Lakhisarai (3), and one each from Saran, Nawada, Darbhanga and Purnia.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFour of the six cases in Patna were tracked to a contact from Khajpura, said Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi.“The four belong to a private firm, which is engaged in housekeeping and sanitary work at the Patna airport. They were tracked as contacts of an executive of a firm, which handles operations of ATMs,” said Ravi.The person, who tested positive for the virus around two days back, worked at the airport and resided as a tenant in the house of the CMS executive at Khajpura.“We had collected samples of 39 people on Saturday after a cleaning staff at the airport was detected to be positive. Four of those samples have now tested positive,” added Ravi.Besides, a two-year-old male child from Naubatpur, undergoing treatment at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), has also tested positive for the virus during a routine check-up there. The child was admitted to the hospital for eye ailment, the DM said.The sixth case from Patna was of a 23-year-old male, studying at Manipal in Karnataka.The young student had travelled from Manipal to Jaipur and then to New Delhi, before boarding the Rajdhani Express on March 16 to reach Patna. The fact that the young man had tested positive after 45 days of his travel to New Delhi, has baffled health officials now.His location was tracked to Nizamuddin in New Delhi as part of around 4,000 mobile numbers sent by the home ministry to the health department. These were numbers picked up through mobile tower location of those having visited anywhere near 3-5 kms of the Nizamuddin Markaz.Meanwhile, authorities would now collect samples of officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) as well after five staff of an outsourced firm, tasked with housekeeping work, had tested positive.Though the government denied community transmission of the virus, state health authorities had not been able to ascertain the source of infection in any of the 68 cases detected on Monday.In his tweets, principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar, said, “We are ascertaining their infection trail.”It has been more than a fortnight he shared data on contact tracing of Covid-19 patients.As per the last data Kumar shared through a tweet, 60% cases were contracted by patients who came in contact with infected person; 27% had international travel history; 9% had domestic travel history from infected areas while contact tracing was pending in 4% cases. The number of Covid-19 cases in Bihar then was 70.The health department, however, had neither updated that data nor was updating on daily basis information about new red or containment zones in the state after the number of cases had shown a sudden spike in the past couple of days. The state had reported 53 cases on April 24. As per government data, Bihar had reported 164 cases in the last five days till Sunday.Darbhanga and Purnia were the new districts which reported positive cases of the virus.Of Bihar’s 345 cases, Munger reported 90, followed by Patna (39), Nalanda (34), Siwan (30), Buxar (25), Rohtas (31), Kaimur (14), Gopalganj (12), Begusarai (9), Bhojpur (9), Aurangabad (7), Gaya (6), Bhagalpur, East Chamapran, Madhubani (5 each), Arwal, Saran, Nawada, Lakhisarai (4 each), Banka, Vaishali, (2 each), Madhepura, Jehanabad, Darbhanga, Purnea (1 each).Fifty-seven people had so far recovered from the disease and discharged from government facilities so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-cases-from-patna-among-68-from-bihar-tally-up-to-345/story-BaD59pVqwvvHvr3VFwbtLM.html
28-04-2020||India||Mohali records fresh Covid-19 case after 5 days, total number reaches 64||Mohali in Punjab recorded a fresh case of coronavirus disease Covid-19 after a gap of five days. With this, the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has reached 64.The fresh cases has been reported from village Jawaharpur in Dera Bassi of Mohali. The 42-year-old is the brother of village sarpanch, who was already tested positive of coronavirus.Dr Manjit Singh, Civil Surgeon of Mohali said, “We took his sample earlier, and he tested negative. But we were little doubtful and took his sample again and this time, he was tested positive.”He is a habitual drinker and now admitted at Gian Sagar hospital in Banur, Dr Singh added.In Mohali, the active cases are 35, as 27 patients have recovered and two died. Village Jawaharpur, which has been declared as hotspot and containment zone, now has 39 patients. Fifteen patients from the village have recovered so far.Health department will also take the samples of 34 people, who returned from Sri Hazur Sahib in Maharashtra in Mohali on Monday evening. They have kept in a school in Sector 70 of Mohali.With these pilgrims testing positive for Covid-19, the infection count in the state has gone up to 330.Meanwhile, a 63-year-old woman in Patiala died of coronavirus, taking the death tally to 19 in Punjab, an official said.Jalandhar district continued to lead the COVID-19 tally in the state with 78 coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mohali-records-fresh-covid-19-case-after-5-days-total-number-reaches-64/story-1TK6ELyUYcyAB35ESw9GSM.html
28-04-2020||India||Here’s list of 16 districts in India with no new Covid-19 case in last 28 days||The government has said that 16 districts which had earlier reported cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have not reported any new case in the last 28 days. Three new districts have been added since April 24 in the list. However, Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit and Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar in Punjab were removed due to fresh cases.The number of Covid-19 cases in the country mounted to 29,435 on Tuesday morning, with 1543 new infections and 62 deaths in the 24 hours, the Union health ministry said.The districts include:1. Lakhisarai (Bihar)2. Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh)3. Durg (Chhattisgarh)4. Rajnandgaon (Chhattisgarh)5. South Goa (Goa)6. Kodagu (Karnataka)7. Chitradurga (Karnataka)8. Davanagere (Karnataka)9. Imphal West (Manipur) 10. Aizawl (Mizoram)11. Gondia (Maharashtra) 12. Mahe (Puducherry)13. Pratapgarh (Rajasthan)14. Bhadradri Kothagudem (Telangana)15. Pauri Garhwal (Uttarakhand)16. Shivpuri (Madhya Pradesh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-here-s-list-of-16-districts-in-india-with-no-new-covid-19-case-in-last-28-days/story-1AHmQl2hcv8JeYBQ8N2X5J.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19 lockdown: 2,700 labourers in 60 buses to reach Punjab from Rajasthan today||As many as 2,700 labourers hailing from Punjab will reach their respective districts from various parts of Rajasthan on Tuesday in 60 buses.These labourer, belonging to different districts of Punjab, were being ferried from Ratangarh, Mohangarh and Jaisalmer districts of Rajasthan by the state government.So far, 12 buses have arrived at Gumjal, an inter-state border checkpost in Abohar, a sub-division of Fazilka district. The local health authorities are scanning these labourers before they move forward.“These labourers includes 1,150 from Fazilka district who along with others were working in various spheres of live but got struck up following imposition of lockdown to fight novel coronavirus in entire nation,” said Arwind Pal Singh Sandhu, deputy commissioner, Fazilka.“All 60 buses will reach here today only and after due medical screening, their will be allowed to continue their journey till final destinations,” said Sandhu.Thirty students from Punjab, studying in Rajasthan’s Kota, had arrived in Fazilka on Monday night. Out of these, 13 students who belonged to Fazilka, were allowed to go with an order to follow mandatory “home quarantine” after proper medical screening by the health authorities while rest moved further for their respective destinations.Eight of the Sikh pilgrims who had recently returned from Maharashtra’s Nanded tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, prompting a decision to quarantine and test all those who are brought to Punjab from there. With this, the infection count in the state has gone up to 330.Meanwhile, a 63-year-old woman in Patiala died of coronavirus, taking the death tally to 19 in Punjab, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-2-700-labourers-in-60-buses-to-reach-punjab-from-rajasthan-today/story-ZfP0FAO7lHpCmaFHw8rHKN.html
28-04-2020||India||Delhi Police pay siren tribute to Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, good gesture says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tweeted his appreciation for Delhi Police’s tribute to Gurdwara Bangla Sahib, which has been feeding thousands of people every day during the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.The Prime Minister shared the video of Delhi Police performing a ‘parikrama’ or circumambulation of the Bangla Sahib Gurudwara, which is in the heart of the national capital, on Monday. Good gesture by the @DelhiPolice.Our Gurudwaras have been doing exceptional work in serving people. Their compassion is appreciable. https://t.co/hdTn6vDFtj“Good gesture by the Delhi Police. Our Gurudwaras have been doing exceptional work in serving people. Their compassion is appreciable,” PM Modi tweeted on Monday.Eish Singhal, the deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), led the cavalcade of 35 police vans and 60 motorcycles in the ‘parikrama’.Senior police officers also paid obeisance at the gurdwara and did ‘seva’ or service by helping in the preparation of langar, a free community kitchen.“In the present times when Covid-19 is taking its toll on our society, there are a few individuals and organisations who have risen to the occasion and went beyond the calls of their duty to help the larger populace,” Singhal said, according to PTI.“I wish to place the sincere appreciation of the humanitarian work being done by Gurudwara Bangla Sahib and all its sevadars who are offering food to around 75,000 people every day from Gurdwara Bangla Sahib,” Singhal added.Delhi on Monday became the third state after Maharashtra and Gujarat to cross the grim 3000-mark after 190 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were recorded. The tally was at 3108 out of which 877 people have recovered and 54 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-pay-siren-tribute-to-gurdwara-bangla-sahib-good-gesture-says-pm-modi/story-xEIJG5D1q243RxVGL07kHN.html
28-04-2020||India||Uttar Pradesh update: Covid-19 free Pilibhit reports fresh case, total number nears 2,000||The number of Covid-19 positive cases inched towards 2,000-mark in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday. According to the data released by the Union health ministry, the number of infected people in Uttar Pradesh stands at 1,955.The state has reported 31 deaths due to the infection, the health ministry data showed. There were 113 fresh cases in the state on Monday.The sole death on Monday was reported from Shravasti district.The highest 10 deaths have been reported from Agra, followed by six in Moradabad, five in Meerut, three in Kanpur and one each in Basti, Varanasi, Bulandshahar, Lucknow, Firozabad, Aligarh and Shravasti, according to state health officials and reported by agencies.Of the 113 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, the maximum 27 were reported from Kanpur, 17 from Firozabad, 16 from Gautam Buddh Nagar, 12 each from Agra and Bulandshahr and 10 from Aligrah.Among the other cases, three each were reported from Meerut and Moradabad; two each from Lucknow, Bijnaur and Badaun; and one each from Pilibhit, Hapur, Bareilly,Rampur, Jalaun, Pratapgarh and Jhansi.Pilibhit, which was earlier declared Covid-free, reported a fresh case.Till now, 1,089 people belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat and their contacts have tested positive for Covid-19.Briefing the reporters in state capital Lucknow on Monday, Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said, “To strengthen the infection control protocol, district-level committees will be formed under the respective additional chief medical officers. These committees will have representatives from the district hospital, women’s hospital, Indian Medical Association, WHO, UNICEF and Pollution Control Board.”The mandate of these committees will be to train doctors about the infection control protocol, Prasad added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-update-covid-19-free-pilibhit-reports-fresh-case-total-number-nears-2-000/story-TaoRNOo4gJWjgjpuBnmiDI.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19 state tally: 9 states have more than 1,000 cases; Maharashtra on top||The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 29,435 on Tuesday. According to the latest figures updated by the Ministry of Health, there are 21,632 active coronavirus cases in the country, 6,868 patients have been cured or discharged while 934 people have died from the deadly contagion. Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have crossed the 8,500-mark while in the national capital, the number of cases are over 3,000. Gujarat continues to be the state with the second-highest number of coronavirus cases in the country after Maharashtra. Here’s statewise breakup of the number of coronavirus cases, deaths, and recoveries. MaharashtraWith 8,590 Covid-19 active cases, Maharashtra has registered the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. The state has recorded 369 deaths so far while 1,282 patients have recovered.GujaratPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state has registered 3,548 coronavirus cases and 394 recoveries so far. One hundred sixty two people have died from the infection in the state.DelhiAs many as 3,108 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital. Fifty four people have died from the infection while 877 people have made a recovery, as per the health ministry’s data.RajasthanCoronavirus cases in Rajasthan touched 2,262 on Tuesday. The state has reported 46 fatalities, and 669 patients have recovered from the infection.Madhya PradeshThe state has reported 2,168 positive cases of coronavirus. One hundred ten people have died from Covid-19 here while 302 have recovered.Tamil NaduThe southern state has 1,937 coronavirus cases. Tamil Nadu has seen 1,101 recoveries and 24 Covid-19 deaths.Uttar PradeshClose to 2,000 people (1,955 to be exact) have been infected from Covid-19 in the state. While 335 people have recovered from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, 31 have died from the infection here.Andhra PradeshThe state has witnessed 1,183 positive Covid-19 patients and 235 cases of recovery. Thirty one people have died.TelanganaOver 1,000 (1,004 to be exact) positive cases of coronavirus have been reported from the state so far. Three hundred twenty one people have made a recovery from the virus while 26 people have died from Covid-19.West BengalThe number of infected cases in West Bengal reached 697 on Tuesday. There have been 20 deaths and 109 recoveries in the state.Jammu and KashmirThe union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has seen the number of Covid-19 patients rising to 546. Seven people have died from the infection while 164 were cured.KarnatakaThe state has recorded 512 Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths. One hundred ninety three people have been cured and discharged.KeralaAs per the health ministry, Kerala reported 481 coronavirus cases on Tuesday. Kerala has witnessed four deaths due to Covid-19 while 355 people have successfully recovered.Haryana and PunjabThe neighbouring states have 296 and 313 Covid-19 cases respectively. While 18 people have died in Punjab, Haryana has seen three deaths. One hundred eighty three people have recovered from Covid-19 in Haryana, 71 in Punjab.In Bihar, 345 people have tested positive for coronavirus, two people have died while 57 patients have recovered. Odisha has 118 Covid-19 positive patients, 37 have recovered while one person has died. Jharkhand has 82 Covid-19 cases, three patients have died and 13 have recovered. Uttarakhand has 51 coronavirus patients, 33 patients have recovered from the infection. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, one patient has died and 22 have recovered. Assam has reported 36 Covid-19 cases, one person has died while 27 people have recovered. Chhattisgarh has recorded 37 cases of coronavirus and 32 people have recovered. In Chandigarh, 40 people have contracted the Covid-19 disease and 17 have recovered. Andaman has recorded 33 coronavirus cases, 11 have recovered.Ladakh has 20 patients, 14 people have recovered. Goa reported seven cases of Covid-19 disease, all patients have recovered. Puducherry has reported eight cases, three have recovered. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases and one death.Manipur and Tripura had two coronavirus cases each, all patients have recovered. States and Union territories with just one positive Covid-19 case include Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram, the Arunachal patient has recovered. Sikkim has not reported any Covid-19 case yet.Note: Figures are from official data released by the Ministry of Health, and may differ from realtime numbers released by various state governments subject to confirmation from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-state-tally-9-states-have-more-than-1-000-cases-maharashtra-on-top/story-fKJftgCl81EqfN2pLejikM.html
28-04-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: AIIMS set to begin plasma therapy, Tablighi Jamaat members donate plasma and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.AIIMS set to begin plasma therapy, Tablighi Jamaat members donate plasmaIn Delhi, after Lok Nayak hospital, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is set to begin plasma therapy for those with severe Covid-19 infections. The collection of plasma from over 350 eligible members of the Tablighi Jamaat started on Monday at the Covid Care Centres in Sultanpuri and Narela. Twenty-five donations have already been received.Read MoreDelhi review complete, govt allows vets, plumbers, electricians to start workThe Delhi government on Monday finally lifted the bar on veterinarians, plumbers and electricians after a complete review of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital. In a 7-point order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority also allowed inter-state travel of health workers, lab technicians and scientists that had been prohibited in the city.Read MoreOn Kim Jong Un’s health, Donald Trump says ‘have a very good idea, but can’t talk’US President Donald Trump on Monday appeared to confirm that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is alive, saying he wished him well after days of speculation over the dictator’s whereabouts.Read MoreDon’t quite trust this guy: AB de Villiers narrates story of first meeting with KohliApart from being one of the best batsmen of the current generation, Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers are also close friends. The duo, ever since brought together by Royal Challengers Bangalore in IPL, have relished each other’s company. In an Instagram live session recently, De Villiers revealed that he was sceptical about Kohli when he first met him.Read MoreHappy Birthday Samantha: Five films that are proof of her underrated versatilityLike most of her contemporaries, Samantha Akkineni rose to stardom by taking the quintessential heroine roles in star-studded projects before going on to experimenting with roles that were a proof of her untapped talent. On the occasion of her 33rd birthday, a look at five films from her illustrious career.Read MoreWhatsApp’s latest update for iPhones brings support for 8 people on group callsWhatsApp has officially rolled out support for more people on group calls. WhatsApp users can now make group video and voice calls with up to eight people. This is currently available only for iPhone users as of now. WhatsApp’s latest update on iOS comes with this feature along with visual improvements for iOS 13. Read MoreLockdown Fashion: Pyjamas are the new jeansThe coronavirus pandemic has utterly transformed the way most of us dressed, because now shirts have been replaced with oversized, boyfriend tees and jeans have been replaced with PJs. Designers and stylists tell us how they will influence our post-pandemic fashion as well.Read MoreWhy jump-starting car factories in India is no easy rideA week after the Centre announced allowing of partial resumption of production by industries, automobile companies including Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai, Toyota, Tata Motors, Ford and Mercedes-Benz are yet to resume production stating supply chain, not just component suppliers but also dealers, needs to start operating to re-start production. The companies said in most parts of the country most of the auto dealers and suppliers continue to be in a lockdown condition.Read More‘Covid-19 has made it difficult to manage cancer care’Dr Abhishek Shankar, assistant professor in the department of radiation oncology at Lady Hardinge Medical College said that coronavirus has made it difficult to manage the cancer care delivery system. A recent report ‘Cancer Care Delivery Challenges Amidst Coronavirus Disease Outbreak’ published in the journal of Asian Pacific Journal of Cancer Prevention has pointed out that cancer patients are more susceptible to coronavirus. Watch the full video for more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-as-aiims-set-to-begin-plasma-therapy-tablighi-jamaat-members-donate-plasma-and-all-the-latest-news/story-TobbJVZIlEfPmkhcO5bBhK.html
28-04-2020||India||Coronavirus update: With 1,543 new Covid-19 cases, India breaches 29,000 mark||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country mounted to 29,435 on Tuesday morning, with 1543 new infections and 62 deaths in the 24 hours, the Union health ministry said.There are 21,631 active cases and 934 people have died because of the respiratory disease till date, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard at 8am.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in the country was a little more than 23% as 6,868 people have been cured or discharged from hospitals. The Union health ministry had said on Monday that the recovery rate was 22.17%.Luv Agarwal, a joint secretary with the health ministry also said that 16 districts in the country have not reported any Covid-19 case in the last 28 days. Also read: China ‘concerned’ as India decides to stop use of Chinese Covid-19 test kits“The three new districts which got added to this list are — Gondia in Maharashtra, Devangere in Karnataka and Lakhi Sarai in Bihar. A total of 85 districts from 25 states and UTs have not reported any fresh coronavirus case in last 14 days,” Agarwal said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Agarwal said no community or area should be labelled for Covid-19 spread. He also urged that healthcare and sanitary workers or police should not be targeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-with-1543-new-covid-19-cases-india-breaches-29-000-mark/story-LrZhnAZiaKTJDnxXaKU1qN.html
28-04-2020||India||‘Inappropriate’: Kerala BJP on CM Vijayan skipping PM Modi’s video meeting||The Kerala unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday criticised Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for not taking part in the video conference called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country.BJP state chief K Surendran said while the whole country was fighting the pandemic together, it was “inappropriate” on part of the Kerala chief minister to miss the meeting.“Kerala chief minister said he had attended the last meeting and hence he did not attend today’s meeting. However, most of the chief ministers, who attended the last meeting, had attended Monday’s meeting. While the whole country is fighting the pandemic together, his absence cannot be justified,” Surendran said in a statement.However, Vijayan, in his daily Covid-19 evaluation press meet, said the Union cabinet secretary had on Sunday informed that only a few chief ministers will have a chance to speak at the video conference.Several issues were discussed by the Prime Minister and the heads of states at the digital meeting, and Kerala was the only state not represented by its chief minister.Kerala Chief Secretary Tom Jose participated in the conference.In the meeting, the southern state sought a staggered removal of the lockdown and an exclusive Covid-19 package. Another issue Kerala raised was the return of the migrant population from the Middle Eastern countries. It wants the Centre to expedite the evacuation.As the nationwide lockdown is about to end on May 3, PM Modi underlined the key challenge of balancing lives and livelihood in the country.The Prime Minister has already held three such meetings with chief ministers to discuss the situation in the country as it tackles a rising number of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inappropriate-kerala-bjp-on-cm-vijayan-skipping-pm-modi-s-video-meeting/story-nGB9Xjhv927NBpbTimhLqL.html
28-04-2020||India||PM stresses two-pronged strategy, states told to return rapid test kits: Covid-19 news today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has told chief ministers to carefully study the situation in each district and zone, and assess the kind of activities that can be permitted without the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spreading. He also said the key is to balance life and livelihood. The Indian Council of Medical Research asks all states to return rapid test kits sourced from China.Need to save lives, spur economy: PMIndia is focusing on a two-pronged strategy aimed at saving lives of its citizens while also restarting economic activities that have come to a virtual standstill due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told chief ministers in a video conference on Monday.Read MoreFive Oppn-ruled states seek Rs 2.25L cr to tide over crisisFive opposition ruled states have sought close to Rs 2.25 lakh crore from the Centre to overcome stress on state finances due to the national lockdown, which some chief ministers want to extend beyond May 3 in close to 330 Covid-19 affected districts.Read MoreCMs call for extension of curbs in hot spot districtsMost state governments recommended an extension of the lockdown in Covid-19 hot spots, a relaxation of rules to bring back stranded workers, and financial help to cope with a debilitating economic crisis in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.Read MoreCovid-19: What you need to know todayThe death toll around the world has crossed 200,000 but there’s a growing opinion that the actual number could be higher.Read MoreICMR tells states not to deploy rapid kits of China firmsSix days after it decided to evaluate rapid test kits (RTKs) used to test for Covid-19 antibodies after states reported huge variations in results, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday asked all states to which it sent the kits, sourced from China, to return them .Read MoreNeed for refined rapid kits, better staff training for accurate resultsInaccuracy in results from China-made rapid kits led India to suspend antibody testing for coronavirus disease last week. On Monday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) asked for states to return the kits, citing problems with them highlighted in its own assessment.Read MoreGovt appeals against discrimination, says recovered patients don’t spread infectionPatients who recover from Covid-19 do not transmit the infection, the health ministry clarified on Monday, appealing to the people to stop discriminating against those who have fought off the disease as health-care workers engaged in treating cases.Read More‘Mild-symptom patients can be isolated at home’Covid-19 patients who are pre-symptomatic or show mild symptoms can be isolated at home as long as they have enough space to avoid contact with other residents, according to a new Union health ministry guidelines issued on Monday. Whether a person can is fit for home isolation will be decided by the treating doctor and surveillance officer. According to existing guidelines, all positive cases are isolated and treated at a facility.Read MoreAction against 3 IRS officers for tax hike reportThe Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) initiated an inquiry on Monday and moved to punish three Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officers for their roles and complicity in preparing and circulating a report that suggested raising the income-tax rate up to 40% to fund economic revival in the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic,a finance ministry official said.Read MoreOnce lockdown ends, govt plans Make in India boostAfter the extended 40-day Covid-19 lockdown that ends May 3, the government plans to aggressively push its Make in India programme by offering domestic and foreign manufacturers policy and fiscal incentives to manufacture locally even as it increases import duty to make imports expensive, two government officials familiar with the plan said.Read MoreStates gear up to bring back stranded migrants Days after Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh started taking back stranded workers, the Rajasthan government issued guidelines to bring back stranded workers from other states and Odisha announced that it will have similar guidelines in place by the end of April.Read MoreIn touch with those from state stranded elsewhere: Bihar CM Nitish KumarEnsuring the relief and rehabilitation of hundreds of thousands of migrants from Bihar employed in other states is high on the list of priorities of chief minister Nitish Kumar. On the prospects of the workers returning home, Kumar said that when curbs on public movement are lifted after the extended lockdown ends on May 3, the host governments in other states must undertake health screening of Bihar migrants before letting them travel.Read MoreThis Pune medical officer stays by the deceased in their final journeyWhat is it like to oversee and ensure the burial and cremation of those dead from Covid-19? Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Assistant medical officer, Dr Kalpana Baliwant has been doing in these unprecedented times in a city besieged by the pandemic.Read MoreChina warns Australia of total boycott if it pursues virus probeChinese citizens could avoid Australian products and universities if Prime Minister Scott Morrison doesn’t stop calling for an international enquiry into the coronavirus origins, a top Chinese official has said in what is fast developing into a testy diplomatic exchange between the two countries.Read MoreVaccine could be ready in 12 months: Bill GatesBillionaire philanthropist Bill Gates is funding production of the seven most promising ideas for a vaccine as he refocuses his work on the coronavirus.Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-stresses-two-pronged-strategy-states-told-to-return-rapid-test-kits-covid-19-news-today/story-z8f8pTuFXfhQ0qvKVn7F2M.html
28-04-2020||India||‘Guests too have some dignity’: Man stuck in bride’s village due to Covid-19 lockdown sends SOS to CM Nitish Kumar||Stranded at his newly-wed bride’s village in Bihar along with other family members, a resident of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday made a fervent appeal to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to come to his rescue and save them from embarrassment as his father-in-law has come under a lot of debt to feed them during the lockdown.“Guests too have some dignity and decorum to follow. In all fairness to the Indian culture, it is beneath the dignity to overstay our welcome at the host’s house. CM Nitish Kumar may understand the helpless situation we have been facing. We are in a dharmsankat sir,” said bridegroom Mohammed Abid, echoing the common sentiment of other baaratis.The bridegroom, along with nine family members, reached Mathiya village under Rajepur Tumkariya panchayat in Narkatiganj sub-division on March 19. His nikaah with Salma Khatoon was, however, solemnised on March 24. But the baaratis from Uttar Pradesh got stuck in the village as the nationwide lockdown was announced.The bride’s family are leaving no stone unturned to make the stranded guests feel comfortable in their house.Bridegroom’s father Akhbar Miyan, 51, his samdhi (bride’s father) Anrul Miyan’s dharmsankat (ordeal) would continue as long as he, along with other baaratis, would stay as forced guests at his house in the given circumstances.“If my words are reaching the leaders and especially chief minister Nitish Kumar sir, I’d like to request them to treat our case as an exception. My samdhi is in a bad state. He has taken a loan to feed us and provide the comfort. It is embarrassing for us to see him like this,” said Akhabar Miyan.Meanwhile, bride Salma Khatoon’s father Anrul Miyan is in a different dharmsankant. “They are my samdhan- samdhi and son-in-law’s relatives. For us, making them compromise means our respect gone,” said Anrul Miyan.His ordeal began before the wedding day itself. “We did not have enough to feed ourselves for the first 14 days of the lockdown. Sensing the imminent crisis, we approached our village headman but no help came through. I had no option but to borrow money from my co-villagers,” said Anrul Miyan.Lockdown extension added to the worries of Anrul Miyan. He approached the block officials in a hope to find any assistance.“Entertaining his request, we are looking forward to help him by providing food grains,” said Raghvendra Tripathi, block development officer (BDO), Narkatiganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guests-too-have-some-dignity-man-stuck-in-bride-s-village-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-sends-sos-to-cm-nitish-kumar/story-POrr0Icd7Dh2QHspQx63UP.html
28-04-2020||India||Family in Kota Covid-19 hotspot carries man in cart to hospital, patient dies||A 65-year-old man died in Rajasthan’s Kota allegedly after his family had to ferry him in a cart from a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspot for around 2km after failing to get an ambulance.The incident occurred in the curfew imposed Fatehgari in Rampura Kotwali area of Kota city on Monday when asthmatic patient, Satish Agarwal, fell down in his bathroom and got injured. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here His wife Gayatri Agarwal and son Manish Agarwal tried to get an ambulance but did not get any for allegedly more than an hour. They put Satish on a cart arranged by their neighbours and ferried him for around 2km till Ladpura.Satish Agarwal was taken to the government-run Maharao Bhim Singh Hospital where he died. He is reported to have suffered cardiac arrest.The family members also accused the hospital administration of negligence in treating him when they brought him to the hospital. Satish Agarwal’s son alleged that doctors kept sending them from one room to the other.Also read| Covid-19: What you need to know todaySince the deceased loved in a hotspot, the hospital administration has kept his dead body in the mortuary of the New Medical College Hospital where his samples will be taken.When asked about the incident, Dr BS Tanwar, Kota’s chief medical and health officer, said there is no dearth of ambulances and there was one in the affected area.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The matter will be probed, Dr Tanwar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-family-in-kota-covid-19-hotspot-carries-man-in-cart-to-hospital-patient-dies/story-lcfbBteuOQsG1dQ0epbh5N.html
28-04-2020||India||All cops on Covid-19 lockdown duty to be tested, says Chhattisgarh Police chief||All police personnel on duty during the lockdown for the coronavirus outbreak in Chhattisgarh will be tested in a phased manner, the state’s police chief has said.Chhattisgarh’s Director General of Police DM Awasthi issued a letter on Monday in this regard to all the concerned officers of the state.As per the police chief’s instructions to Senior Superintendents of Police (SSPs), the tests should be done in a phased manner and those above the age of 45, with diabetes, heart ailments etc, should be tested first.“Police have been in the frontline enforcing the lockdown in the state and hence they should be tested as a precautionary measure after consulting the respective district health officer,” an official posted in police headquarters said about the contents of the letter.Some 72,000 police personnel have been deployed across the state to enforce the lockdown.Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases in the country climbed to 28,380 on Monday and the death toll rose to 886, registering a record increase of 60 deaths in 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry.There has been a spike of 1,463 cases since Sunday evening. Chhattisgarh has 37 Covid-19 cases.The number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 21,132, while 6,361 people have recovered, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-cops-on-covid-19-lockdown-duty-to-be-tested-says-chhattisgarh-police-chief/story-XSD3wGYdY1qSyCSyNOdTJK.html
28-04-2020||India||China ‘concerned’ as India decides to stop use of Chinese Covid-19 test kits||China on Tuesday expressed concern about an Indian medical body’s decision to stop using rapid antibody testing kits made by two Chinese firms, saying their products meet quality standards and are exported to many other countries.“The quality of medical products exported from China is prioritised. It is unfair and irresponsible for certain individuals to label Chinese products as ‘faulty’ and look at issues with pre-emptive prejudice,” Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement issued early on Tuesday.The statement came hours after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which plays a key role in advising authorities engaged in the fight against Covid-19, said state governments should stop using the rapid antibody testing kits from Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics after several states questioned the efficacy of the kits.Ji said: “We are deeply concerned with the evaluation results and the decision made by ICMR.”Also Watch l Covid-19: Chinese test kits sold to India allegedly overpriced; Govt reactsBoth Wondfo and Livzon, she said, had clarified that their testing kits had been certified by China’s National Medical Products Administration (NMPA), meet the quality standards China and importing countries, and had also been validated and approved by ICMR through the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.“The Covid-19 antibody rapid test kits produced by these two Chinese companies have been exported to and well recognised in many countries in Europe, Asia and Latin America,” she added.Ji further said Beijing hopes New Delhi “could respect China’s goodwill and sincerity, strengthen communication timely with relevant Chinese companies based on facts, and resolve [the matter] reasonably and properly”.She said there are strict requirements for the storage, transportation and use of rapid antibody testing kits. “Any operation which is not carried out by professionals in accordance with the product specifications will lead to the testing accuracy variations,” she said.Ji described viruses as a common enemy of mankind and said China will continue to support India’s efforts in fighting Covid-19, strengthen medical and health cooperation, and jointly work to overcome difficulties to safeguard the safety of people in both countries.India has placed orders for hundreds of thousands of testing kits and millions of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits with Chinese firms. However, several state governments reported wide variations in the results produced by kits from Wondfo and Livzon.The ICMR stressed in a statement issued on Monday that rapid antibody testing kits should be used only for surveillance, and said it had evaluated the kits from Wondfo and Livzon in field conditions.“The results have shown wide variation in their sensitivity, despite early promise of good performance for surveillance purposes,” the statement said.“In view of this, states are advised to stop using these kits procured from the above-mentioned companies and return them to be sent back to the suppliers,” the statement added.A separate Indian government statement said orders from the two Chinese firms had been cancelled as their kits were “under-performing”. This statement added that ICMR had not made any payments so far for the supplies and the government wouldn’t incur any losses from the cancellation of the orders.Wondfo reacted to ICMR’s decision by it was “surprised and disappointed” as its “SARS-CoV-2 Antibody Test (Lateral Flow Method) is one of the first tests to receive an import licence from India, and has been validated and approved by ICMR through National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune”.“We are currently investigating the ICMR’s concerns with our products and will share more information when it becomes available,” Wondfo said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-concerned-as-india-decides-to-stop-use-of-chinese-covid-19-test-kits/story-3xFHLLdqCTSTFSIDJirGbI.html
28-04-2020||India||With polls not held amid lockdown, BTC areas in Assam come under Governor’s rule||Areas falling under the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in Assam came under Governor’s Rule from Monday after the state election commission failed to hold polls due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of novel coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“In view of the expiry of the term of the Bodoland Territorital General Council today, Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi has resolved to assume the administration of BTC with immediate effect in public interest,” said a Raj Bhawan release.Four districts in Assam - Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Udalguri - come under the administration of BTC and are collectively called Bodoland Territorial Area Districts (BTAD).Election to the 40 constituencies of the council was scheduled on April 4, according to news agency PTI. However, the state election commission deferred it indefinitely on March 20 because of the Covid-19 scenario.But with the lockdown continuing, the state election commission informed the governor of its inability to conduct polls to the BTC general council while adhering to social distancing and other restrictions in place due to coronavirus outbreak.The governor decided to assume control of BTC in exercise of powers vested in him under sub-paragraph 2 and Para 16th of the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution. He has appointed Rajesh Prasad, IAS, principal secretary to the Assam government as the administrator of BTC areas.The Assam Cabinet, in its meeting on Monday, decided to request the State Election Commissioner to conduct the elections as soon as possible with some innovative ideas to avoid large gatherings, reports PTI.Addressing the media after the Cabinet meeting, Assam Parliamentary Affairs Minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said, “There can be door-to-door campaigns.”(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodoland-territorial-council-areas-in-assam-come-under-governor-s-rule/story-dltkigdxIg0UZSOMWCR5DL.html
28-04-2020||India||Supreme Court staffer tests positive for Covid-19||A staffer of the Supreme Court tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, triggering alarm bells in the highest court of the country.The employee, working with the judicial section of the apex court, was on duty on April 16 and had come in contact with two apex court registrars, who have been advised self-quarantine as a precautionary measure, a source said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHe suffered fever for two days after coming for work on April 16 and tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. He has been admitted to a government hospital and is undergoing treatment, the source said, adding that as per the standard protocol, contact tracing of the staffer will be done.It is the first such case of a Supreme Court staffer testing positive. The apex court had restricted its functioning since March 23 and is hearing matters involving extreme urgency through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-staffer-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-xyfN6WjPBrj5FcIXwQ6V8N.html
28-04-2020||India||Kolkata among 4 Bengal districts declared as red zones as Covid-19 cases spike||The West Bengal government on Monday released a list, saying four districts, including Kolkata, have been declared as red zones in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, and 287 areas in the metropolis identified as containment zones.Howrah, North 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur districts have been declared as red zones, besides Kolkata.Eleven districts have been identified as orange zones, while eight are in the green zone, as per the list released by the state government.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here Those in the orange zone are South 24 Parganas, Hooghly, Paschim Medinipur, Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Bardhaman, Kalimpong, Nadia, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling, Murshidabad and Malda.The eight districts in the green zone are Alipurduar, Cooch Behar, Uttar Dinajpur, Dakhin Dinajpur, Birbhum, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram.As many as 287 areas in Kolkata, the majority of which are in north and central parts of the city, have been identified as containment zones.Also read: Covid-19 cases spike in West Bengal, docs say testing rate too low There were eight containment zones in Purba Medinipur district, out of which there are five zones from where there has been no report of any new Covid-19 infection since April 9, Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said.In the North 24 Parganas district, there has been no report of any Covid-19 positive cases from 13 zones out of the total 57 containment zones, he said.He said that out of the 287 containment zones in Kolkata, there have been no cases from 18 zones in the last two weeks.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage Sinha further said that in Howrah district there were 56 containment zones, and from 13 of them there has been no new case of coronavirus infection.He said if no new case is reported from a zone for at least 21 days, the government will announce relaxation there.West Bengal till Monday registered 20 Covid-19 deaths, and a total of 633 cases. Of them, 504 are active cases and 109 people have been discharged from hospitals after they recovered.According to the Union Health Ministry, the number of Covid-19-stricken patients in the state stands at 649.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-update-kolkata-among-4-bengal-districts-declared-as-red-zones-as-covid-19-cases-spike/story-DvvK70oj31iuEsEUGqHGOM.html
28-04-2020||India||Villagers in Ambala protest suspected Covid-19 patient’s cremation, throw stones at cops||Violence broke out in Ambala’s Chandpura village when villagers objected to the cremation of a suspected coronavirus patient and later pelted stones at police and health officials on Monday afternoon. Ambala SP Abhishek Jorwal said an FIR has been registered in the matter. “The dead woman was a suspected corona patient and as per protocols, she was to be cremated at the designated cremation ground identified by the administration. The villagers raised objection, citing that she was not a resident of their village and started pelting stones as the area SDM and DSP reached the spot. To control the mob, the police had to lathicharge and also fire a couple of rounds in the air,” he added. Ambala Cantonment DSP Ram Kumar is among the cops injured in the violence. The mob attacked the ambulance and shattered its windshield and side glasses, DSP Kumar said.“The mob attacked the police and health officials. We’ve booked 200 people, 55 by name and others unknown under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act and the amended Epidemic Diseases Act. We’ve detained 15 of them and will arrest the remaining ones soon,” the DSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/violence-in-ambala-over-corona-patient-s-cremation/story-DZZphdUZ5zaC3Ky09cBlJM.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19 cases in Delhi cross 3,000 mark, no casualty on Monday||Delhi recorded 190 new Covid cases on Monday to take its tally to 3,108, the state’s health department said. It became the third state after Maharashtra and Gujarat to cross the 3,000 mark.Out of the 3,108 out of which 877 have recovered. There are currently 2,177 active cases. There were no casualties on Monday which remained static at 54.A total of 39,911 people have been tested so far out of which 3,108 have tested positive. A total of 34,145 tested negative and 2,401 results are pending, the health department said.The government conducted 2,298 tests on Monday and the number of tests per million of population has gone up to 1,976.Earlier Monday, the Delhi government on Monday added two more localities – one in south Delhi the other in New Delhi to the list of containment zones in the fight against Covid-19 to take the total number of such zones to 99. The government insists that the sealing of the containment zones is an effective way of checking the spread of coronavirus.On Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal ruled out any more lockdown relaxations in Delhi until May 3, except for those suggested by the Union home ministry.The government is also banking upon plasma therapy to reduce the mortality rate among Covid-19 patients.Kejriwal had also appealed to people who have recovered from Covid-19, to donate their plasma for those fighting for their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-in-delhi-cross-3-000-mark-no-casualty-on-monday/story-5leOdWFEH9zsTynqRoycTI.html
28-04-2020||India||Unusually cool and wet April takes weather office by surprise||It is the end of April but it is unusually pleasant in Delhi. The maximum temperature has touched 40 degrees C here only once compared to eight days by this time last year. Even in other parts of the country, maximum temperatures are mostly below normal or normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). No heat waves have been recorded so far except in isolated pockets of Gujarat and Marathwada (and only for a day in both), which is unusual for this time of the year.IMD scientists are also surprised by intermittent wet spells that have kept maximum temperatures down when the rest of the world is recording above normal temperatures. In northwest India, this pattern is linked to back-to-back active western disturbances (WDs), which are not supposed to be around in April. By this time, these disturbances which start as low-pressure systems in the Mediterranean weaken and move to northern latitudes. Scientists said such changes may be due to weather anomalies in Europe. They could also be linked to favourable sea temperatures over the Pacific.The WDs brought a lot of rain to northwest India; there is also moisture incursion in east and northeast India from the Bay of Bengal, which has been bringing good rains in the pre-monsoon season. According to IMD’s rainfall data, between March 1 and April 26, 13 states have recorded “large excess” of rains (60% above normal).“Our models show that wind patterns will not support the development of heat waves till the end of the first week of May. There has been a lot of rain in the entire Indo-Gangetic Plains region. Rains will not subside immediately. There will be another strong wet spell in northwest India from May 4 to 6. We have not recorded any heat waves yet, except in isolated patches for a day,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the National Weather Forecasting Centre.In Delhi and the National Capital Region, the below normal temperature has meant pleasant days and mildly cool nights. The maximum temperature on Saturday in Delhi was 7 degrees C below normal and minimum 5 degrees C below normal. “We had six WDs in March and six in April. Not all WDs brought rain but it has been mostly cloudy and winds are good which doesn’t allow maximum temperature to spike. In 2013 and 2014, we saw similar weather in April,” explained Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional weather forecasting centre.“In April or May, the intensity of WDs reduce. There could be many reasons for this unusual pattern of active WDs this year. It could be linked to European climate anomalies,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences.Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, agreed with Rajeevan, saying: “WDs are low pressure systems that generally originate over the Mediterranean region, propagate eastward with the help of the fast moving winds in the upper atmosphere — the westerly jet. This year we had a larger than usual number of WDs active over India. However, these short-lived WDs may not be the only factor that is regulating the temperatures. The ocean temperatures over the Pacific are also favourable since El Niño conditions have not developed. Usually if El Niño conditions (anomalously warm ocean temperatures) are present in the central-east Pacific, it can drive heat waves over India during April-May months. It seems that both these factors have been favourable for below normal temperatures over north India.”While this could mean bearable weather in cities, continuous unseasonal rains in other parts of the country have led to crop damage. “We haven’t seen any heat waves yet except 40+ temperatures in some isolated pockets. Temperature has been below normal to normal in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi-NCR, North Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh. There has been a lot of rain in the second half of April. Because of intense rains it has become cooler. Another WD is expected to affect northwestern India on April 30, which will again bring rain. Usually by April, WDs travel in upper latitudes. There is a lot of moisture incursion also. For the last two days, there has been a trough (region of low pressure) from Vidarbha to interior Tamil Nadu,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology at Skymet Weather.India in March recorded a mean temperature of 24.92 degrees C ( 0.29 below normal), a maximum average of 31.08 degrees C (0.769 degree C below normal) and an average minimum temperature of 18.75 degree C ( 0.2 degree C below normal), according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unusually-cool-and-wet-april-takes-weather-office-by-surprise/story-1M7hswjWupRf4sf3p1HPmL.html
28-04-2020||India||ICMR tells states not to deploy rapid kits of China firms||Six days after it decided to evaluate rapid test kits (RTKs) used to test for Covid-19 antibodies after states reported huge variations in results, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday asked all states to which it sent the kits, sourced from China, to return them — a move that comes even as one of the companies that supplied the kits revised prices sharply down following the Delhi high court’s observation on Sunday that there appeared to be significant profiteering going on. “ICMR evaluated the kits of Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics in field conditions. The results have shown wide variation in their sensitivity, despite early promise of good performance for surveillance purposes. In view of this, states are advised to stop using these kits procured from the above mentioned companies and return them to be sent back to the suppliers,” said ICMR’s fresh advisory on rapid test kits issued on Monday.Sensitivity is the ability of the test to identify a so-called true-positive -- it gives a positive result when someone is infected. On April 16, the first batch of 5.5 lakh rapid testing kits arrived in Delhi from China, after missing two deadlines. The kits were part of ICMR’s plans and those of several states to aggressively expand testing. Of these, 300,000 were from Guangzhou Wondfo, and 250,000 from Zhuhai Livzon. They were dispatched to the states over the following few days. But with states reporting variations between 6% and 71% in sensitivity, ICMR, on April 21, asked for the kits to not be used for two days. “Since performance of these kits has been different in field settings from what the companies had submitted, these kits will be returned, and no money shall be paid. Rapid tests anyway have a limited role to play; the gold standard for identifying infection remains the polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, said on Monday. Meanwhile, importers of the RTKs have begun selling at revised rates after the Delhi high court capped the price of a test kit at ₹400 on Sunday. The court had observed there was heavy profiteering in the import and distribution of Covid-19 rapid testing kits with a kit costing ₹245 being sold for as high as ₹600.The court observed that 500,000 kits that were supplied to ICMR for ₹30 crore cost ₹12.25 crore. Suresh K, proprietor, Matrix Labs, an importer of the Guangzhou Wondfo rapid test kits, said: “We have started selling the kits at ₹400 plus GST per unit. Whoever places an order will be given kits at this price from now on.”ICMR’s response on overpricing was that the price approved was based on the tender quotations received.“Price range approved by ICMR is ₹740-1,150 for RT-PCR, and ₹528-795 for rapid test. Any Indian company wanting to supply at lower rates is welcome to contact ICMR…,” the body said in an official statement. It added that “…this was the first ever effort by any Indian agency to procure such kits and the rate quoted by the bidders was the only reference point.” ICMR spokesperson Dr Rajnikant Srivastava said: “ICMR bought kits on pre-decided rates based on the tender quotation; now ICMR can’t keep a tab on who gets it for how much and how much profit or loss the companies are making. ICMR is not in the picture here.”“These kits are not for early diagnosis as for that RT-PCR test is the gold standard; it can only be used for surveillance purposes, to periodically spot disease trends. To collect data on whether there is an old infection in a section of population or it is a recent infection; whether the spread is increasing or being successfully contained in places that are termed as hot spots, etc,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, head, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR, in the briefing before deploying kits in the field. Suresh however, refused to admit that the kits have problems. “The kit is not faulty. It was made very clear from the start that these rapid kits are not meant to do confirmatory tests to detect infection. The states have got it all wrong,” he said.To be sure, researchers in the US too have found issues with first generation antibody test kits for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-tells-states-not-to-deploy-rapid-kits-of-china-firms/story-xQOrN2o5izTXovMWuIX6sI.html
28-04-2020||India||Need to focus on economy in battle against Covid: PM Modi||Suggesting that India will need to focus on a two-pronged approach — preserving public health and reviving economic activity — Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday placed particular emphasis on green zones (which include districts and regions which are free of the coronavirus disease) as the hub of future activity and a model to be aspired for.This is widely being interpreted as a sign that after May 3, the lockdown will continue in red zones — which are home to clusters of cases — while there can be further relaxations in the less affected zones. In an interaction with chief ministers on the pandemic on Monday — the fourth such meeting on the subject in just over a month — the PM emphasised the need for continued adherence to social distancing norms; spoke out against stigmatising people with the disease; told states that a high number of cases is not a matter to be ashamed about or fear, but to be dealt with through concerted action; and called for an intensive study of the situation in each district and zone to then assess the kind of activities which can be permitted without the disease spreading. In the meeting, most state chief ministers called for a continued lockdown in the red zones while easing restrictions in non-Covid districts. They also demanded a clearer protocol on the return of migrant workers, and asked the Centre for comprehensive financial support given the plummeting revenues and fragile fiscal situation in states. A participant at the meeting, directly quoting the PM, said, “He emphasised that on the one hand, we are challenged by how to save lives and on the other, we also have to equally focus on the financial aspect. Focusing on one more than the other is not possible. That’s why, the PM underlined, we have to strengthen economic activities and increase our strength to combat the virus.” To implement this formulation in practice, the PM said that each state must study the impact of the lockdown in red zones, orange zones and green zones, where a range of activities have been permitted since April 20, and carefully consider where it is possible to lift restrictions, allow private transport, permit the elderly to move, and resume more economic activity without the disease spreading. The meeting participant said, “The PM emphasised that there must be extra caution in red zones and hotspots, which are high-risk, with special teams assigned for them. The objective is to ensure that the infection does not move beyond the red zones and safe regions remain safe.” In this backdrop, the PM called the green zones sacred, and emphasised that while practising social distancing, these regions will contribute to economic activity. “The 300 districts which are safe/ green zones , I believe, should be treated as sacred, like our tirthsthans (pilgrimage sites). Our focus will be how to expand the green zone. How our life will be in the coming days will be determined by the model in the green zone, not in the orange and definitely not the red zone.” It will also help ensure, the PM said, according to the participant quoted above, that the lockdown stayed — but life continued as well. “The mantra he gave to states was to convert red zones to orange, and orange to green zones.” According to a government assessment in mid-April, 170 districts in 20 states and five Union Territories (UTs) were identified as red zones. Additionally, there were 207 orange zones in the country, and the rest of India’s 730-odd districts were classified as green zones. A district is considered a red zone if it has large outbreaks, multiple clusters or if the infection doubling rate is less than four days. If such an area does not report any new case for 14 days, it turns into an orange zone. With no cases for another 14 days, the region is then classified as green, or Covid-free. Commenting on the balancing act between health and the economy, Suyash Rai of Carnegie India said, “India has now ramped up testing and got beds ready. But eventually, to fight Covid-19, you need revenue. Or fiscal resources will dry up this year. So economic activity has to start carefully with all precautions in place.”The PM also repeatedly invoked a phrase he first used in a meeting with gram panchayat heads — of the need to maintain do gaj doori, or a distance of two yards. He spoke, for the second time after his Mann ki Baat address on Sunday, on the indispensability of masks. The PM also said it was important not to treat those who had tested positive as criminals, while remaining vigilant. To states, he said, “I want to, with all humility, say to all the CMs that if there are a spurt of cases, then your state won’t be seen as guilty. If cases are low in your state, it won’t be seen as great. We don’t want this sentiment. We will just try to tackle it. If numbers increase in your state, don’t be scared.” Nine chief ministers spoke at the meeting — while some others gave their inputs in writing due to constraints of time. They provided an appraisal of the situation in their respective states, while making specific demands from the Centre. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said it would not be possible to bring migrants back home unless the Centre issued clear directives in this regard. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik asked for enhanced testing facilities, and a screening of migrant workers for the disease before they were sent home. Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, in a communiqué to the Centre, asked for opening of all small shops, businesses and industries in all areas except the containment zones. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar asked the Central government to provide clarity on the schedules of various entrance examinations for medical and engineering college as well as for the armed forces, in the backdrop of the disruption in the academic calendar. He also provided details on the economic activities that have been resumed in the state. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal did not speak at the meeting, but a senior state government official said that the decision on the lockdown will be taken later in the week — in accordance with the guidelines laid out by the Centre. Kerala, which was represented by chief secretary Tom Jose in the meeting, has sought staggered removal of the lockdown and an exclusive Covid financial package. Kerala has also asked the Centre to expedite return of 1.8 million migrants from the state, currently in West Asian countries. Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren has sought relaxation on the ban on inter-state travel so that arrangements could be made to bring back students and migrant workers stuck in other states. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma of Meghalaya said he proposed extension of lockdown. “We have mooted to continue with the lockdown post May 3rd with relaxation on activities in green zones or non-Covid affected districts in Meghalaya,” Sangma tweeted after the meeting. Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga said that the only Covid patient in the state was recovering slowly. “Since we are surrounded by Myanmar, Bangladesh and neighbouring states, which also have Covid-19 patients, we can’t be complacent,” he said, adding that the state will relax the lockdown slightly after May 3 and allow some economic activity slowly. Another key issue in the intervention of states was that of finances. Five opposition ruled states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, West Bengal and a Rajasthan — have sought close to ₹2.25 lakh crore from the Centre to overcome stress on the state finances due to the national lockdown. This is in addition to demand of the state governments asking the Centre to pay the pending Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation immediately, increase the borrowing limit from 3% of the state GDP to 5%, suspend repayment of all state development loans for a period of three months and allow flexi funds under Centrally sponsored schemes for Covid management. Former chief statistician of India, Pronab Sen, said the Centre will have to strike a balance between the financial needs of the states and the central government departments. “There may be a need to re-look at the way the money is shared between the Centre and the states. The Reserve Bank of India has taken several steps to help the states but more could be needed if the lockdown continues for long. It is not time to worry about fiscal slippages and we should relax the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management norms to reduce human suffering,” he said.(With inputs from HT Correspondents)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-focus-on-economy-in-battle-against-covid-pm/story-zwPL7jySKD14nXmejffw2K.html
28-04-2020||India||Bombay HC directs BMC to reopen Bandra cemetery for burial of Covid-19 victims||The Bombay high court on Monday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to remove locks put up by some local residents on the gates of Navpada Kokani Muslim Kabrastan at Bandra west and to make the cemetery, closed by locals who were opposed to burial of bodies of Covid-19 patients there, available for burial.Justice BP Colabawalla on Monday refused to interfere with the April 9 order of the BMC, which identified the private Muslim burial ground as one of the sites for burial of Covid-19 patients. Four local residents had filed a petition challenging the civic order.The directive came after advocate Pratap Nimbalkar, who represented the Navpada Masjid, Bandra and Santacruz Golibar Dargah Trust, which manages the private Muslim cemetery, pointed out that some local residents had put up locks on the gate of the cemetery.Nimbalkar pointed out that on April 13 some locals created a ruckus over the civic body’s order of April 9 identifying the cemetery as one of the sites for burial of Covid-19 victims, when the body of a 63-year-old Muslim who died due to Covid-19 infection, was brought for burial at the ground. Some senior police officers tried to intervene, but failed to pacify the locals and eventually the body was buried somewhere else.Nimbalkar added that the trust had taken all precautions and identified isolated and secluded spots for burial of Covid-19 patients, but despite that the locals were not allowing burial at the site and therefore urged the court to direct BMC to reopen the burial ground. Justice Colabawalla accordingly directed the civic body to reopen the cemetery and granted it liberty to take the help of the local police, if necessary.The four petitioners said that there are three interconnected Muslim cemeteries at the site and all of them are at the heart of Bandra West and are surrounded by thickly populated residential areas.The petitioners said that on March 30, BMC had decided to cremate bodies of all Covid-19 patients at the nearest crematorium, irrespective of their religion. “The decision was taken as the burial grounds in Mumbai are in densely populated localities with high chances of contamination in the residential areas nearby,” said their petition.They added that the order dated April 9 was completely contrary to the March 30 decision and therefore prayed for an order restraining the civic body from burying any Covid-19 patients at the three Muslim cemeteries.Justice Colabawalla, however, refused to interfere with the latest civic body order on burial of Covid-19 victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-directs-bmc-to-reopen-bandra-cemetery-for-burial-of-covid-19-victims/story-fmDTyDQaWldJNvXxERL9WM.html
28-04-2020||India||Kashmir key part in Pak army book||New Delhi: Kashmir appears to be the focus of the 2020 edition of an internal publication of the Pakistan Army, with its chief Gen Qamar Bajwa describing last year’s Balakot air strike and the nullification of Jammu & Kashmir’s special status as events that impacted regional geo-politics.A majority of articles in the latest edition of the publication by army officers, former diplomats, academics and journalists reference the Kashmir issue, and offer suggestions ranging from creating a Kashmir Fund to support people in the Indian Union territory, and adopting information and cyber warfare by establishing communications links inside the Kashmir Valley.The Green Book 2020, a biennial publication of the Pakistan Army with essays by both serving and retired officers that reflect the military’s overall strategy and objectives, also has a message by Bajwa that describes Kashmir as a “nuclear flashpoint”.In his message in Green Book 2020, posted on the website of Pakistan's National Defence University (NDU), Bajwa says the environment in South Asia continues to be complex, with the lines getting blurred between different types of warfare.“Year 2019 witnessed two significant events which will have lasting imprint on the geopolitics of this region; first, the unwarranted Balakot Strike by Indian Air Force on 26th February and second, the unilateral annexation of Indian Occupied Jammu & Kashmir by [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi on 5th August, through abrogation of Article 370 and 35A,” Bajwa wrote in the message issued as patron-in-chief of the publication.“Former was a coercive attempt to carve out space for war under nuclear overhang and enforce compellence; adroitly denied by Pakistan Air Force the very next day, through a calibrated and proportionate response – Indian craving for establishing a New Normal was stymied comprehensively. The latter, despite condemnation by the world at large, continues to haunt the lives of over eight million Muslims of [Kashmir]…,” he added.“Kashmir is a nuclear flashpoint and in total disregard to international norms, Mr Modi has not only endangered the immediate neighbourhood, but has also raised the ante for the entire World. The scholarly discourse in current edition of Pakistan Army Green Book has accordingly spotlighted the implications of these events from diverse perspectives and dimensions,” Bajwa further wrote.Some recent editions of the Green Book had focused on the internal threat posed by terrorist groups but this year’s edition marks a return to the traditional focus on India as Pakistan’s greatest threat. Several articles in the Green Book dwell at length on the Pulwama terror attack by the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in February last year that triggered a fresh stand-off between India and Pakistan, the Indian Air Force strike on a JeM facility at Balakot and the retaliatory action by the Pakistan Air Force.The articles make references to other events such as the 1999 Kargil conflict and the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, which led to face-offs between the two countries, but make no mention of the role of Pakistan-based elements in triggering these events.Lt Gen (retired) Raza Muhammad Khan, a former Corps Commander and former president of NDU, in his article “The prospects and panacea of peace in South Asia”, recommended the creation of a “domestic and international Kashmir Fund”, saying it could crowd sourced and the Pakistan government “should provide tax incentives for donations”.The federal government, in the absence of resources, “must encourage the provinces to allocate at least one percent of their NFC [National Finance Corporation] shares and earnings” and the Kashmir Fund should be controlled by the prime minister to prevent human rights violations in Kashmir, “informing the Indian masses and liberal intellectuals about the colossal cost…of enslaving nine million Kashmiris…and exposing the lies of the Indian government,” Khan wrote.Khan also recommends that Pakistan must make any dialogue with India “conditional with the reversal of all illegal measures taken by it in August, and inclusion of third party, preferably UN mediators in the process”.Journalist Farzana Shah, who focuses on defence issues, wrote in her article “National security & emerging geopolitical scenario: Post Article 370 obliteration”, that Pakistan should adopt an out of the box solution by taking “the war into non-kinetic domains” such as information and cyber warfare and electronic warfare.Pakistan’s establishment “must provide support to diplomatic efforts being done by government through operations in these two domains with focused goal of extracting authentic information from stakeholders in [Kashmir], most importantly from general public…Once information [is] gathered, FO [Foreign Office] must disseminate it with proper narrative of the state of Pakistan,” she wrote.“A single video clip or picture can change the perception of India, which it has built so painstakingly over the years. Pakistan needs to keep world attention on [Kashmir] and in order to do that communication links inside the [Kashmir] valley must be established…Pakistan’s response in these two domains will be purely non-kinetic, denying any involvement of arms. If executed properly and a local uprising occurs inside [Kashmir], it will make it extremely difficult for India to keep selling the terrorism card….”“Only a native uprising will be just and politically defendable for Pakistan on international forums. Even such an uprising will need support in the information domain,” she added.Lawmaker Mushahid Hussain, chairman of the parliamentary committee on China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), wrote that Pakistan needs to pursue a multi-pronged strategy with regard to India and Kashmir with the “kind of clarity and commitment that Pakistani policy-makers demonstrated while building the Nuclear Bomb”.“Such a strategy should target Modi and his RSS Gang, and separate them from the broader Indian society and polity that opposes Modi, along with a united front of all Kashmiris and the linkup of the Kashmiri resistance with other insurgencies inside India,” he added.Former foreign secretary Shamshad Ahmad Khan, in his article “India-Pakistan relations in perspective”, wrote that “India’s continued ascendancy in Afghanistan will remain a danger of no less gravity to the already volatile security environment of this nuclearised region” than the Soviet presence in Cuba in the early 1960s.“Our main concern has always been to offset India’s superior conventional strength. The only credible response has to be a counter force which in the dreary India-Pakistan scenario could only be tactical warheads,” he added.The former diplomat wrote that US President Donald Trump’s offer during Prime Minister Imran Khan’s visit to Washington in July 2019 to play a “facilitating role in resolving the Kashmir issue” was the “best-ever position taken by an American president in recent history on India-Pakistan issues”.While continuing to support the Kashmiris’ “freedom movement”, Pakistan should resume the composite dialogue with India to build trust and develop mutually beneficial cooperation, he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-key-part-in-pak-army-book/story-xoq9WkGXhod4lZCASflKZO.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The number of Covid-19 cases in the world was nearing three million and that in the US, a million when this article was being written — and will likely be over those numbers when it is read.In India, the number of cases was 29,422 on Monday night, according to Hindustan Times’ tracker, with 933 deaths. The number of cases added between Sunday night and Monday night was 1,573.On Sunday, India added 1,611 cases for a total of 27,849; on Saturday, it added 1,834; and on Friday, it did 1,408. There’s not much of a pattern to be seen in those numbers — beyond the obvious fact that the growth is definitely not exponential like it was in Wuhan in China, Italy, the US (especially New York), the UK, Spain, and France.By Sunday night, the number of tests carried out in India was 665,819. That’s 512 people per million — still low, but higher than what it was in mid-April. It was only 233 per million population on April 16. Indeed, more than half (54%) of all tests in India have happened in the 11 days from April 16 to April 26, and more than a third (35%) in the week between April 20 and April 27.The death toll around the world has crossed 200,000 but there’s a growing opinion that the actual number could be higher.It’s easy to calculate the numbers if the data is available. Reported Covid-19 death tolls across nations are known; and the average number of people who died in a particular month (or even week) on average over the past five years is also known. The difference, if it is significant, is clearly a spike that can only be explained by Covid-19 — unless there is another mystery illness stalking people (there isn’t) or a sharp increase in deaths from accidents and murders (there isn’t).Late last week, The New York Times estimated that deaths were underreported by around 36,000 in 12 countries. On Sunday, the Financial Times reported that in 14 countries it studied, the deaths were underreported by around 60%, or 45,000. That doesn’t seem to be the case in India — a fact pointed out by Hindustan Times’ Mumbai bureau on April 14 using data for Mumbai, the city worst affected by Covid-19 in the country. According to that report, in March, Mumbai saw 5,669 non-Covid deaths, down from 7,155 deaths reported in March 2019 and 7,436 in March 2018. The story quoted the additional municipal commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation as saying that in general people are following better hygiene practices, taking care of themselves, and eating healthier. More importantly, with most vehicles and all suburban trains not running, there were almost no deaths from road and rail accidents.It isn’t just Mumbai, even in Delhi, deaths from murders and accidents are down, according to a report by Hindustan Times’ Delhi bureau on April 19. In the entire first phase of the lockdown (and the two days preceding it — March 23-April 14) only nine people died in road accidents in Delhi; on average, four people die every day because of road accidents in the city.If this trend holds up across cities and states, it will be another way in which the pattern of Covid-19 in India is different from that in many other parts of the world. Here’s hoping it stays that way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-TZnyJzJHqPw1QE6vZrObSJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Some foreign nationals who came to adopt kids stranded||New Delhi: For Georgia residents Whitney and Mike Saville, their trip to India in March was a realisation of a long-time dream of adopting a child. They came to India on March 6, after a two year wait. The paperwork for a passport and a US visa for their adopted daughter was pending when India announced a three-week lockdown starting March 25. The Savilles were stuck in India. The couple’s three sons, all between the ages of 4 and 7, were back home in Atlanta. Mike tried to fly back while Whitney stayed in India but the plan, early in the lockdown, went nowhere. The couple then made a video, asking for help. “We are grateful that we have Grace (the name they have given their daughter) in our care now. We are grateful we came, we just wish the circumstances were a little bite different,” Whitney said in the video. The Savilles weren’t alone. Foreign nationals who came to India to adopt children from countries such as the US, Italy and Malta were stranded.Col (retd) Deepak Kumar of the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) said that in April alone, the agency they helped four such couples. According to Kumar, foreign nationals usually come to India after a court order on the adoption has been pronounced. After this, the passport of the child is processed, and CARA sends a confirmation to aid the process. Finally, for an exit visa, the local Foreigners Regional Registration Office needs to issue a permit. In many cases, he said, the paperwork for the passport and the FRRO certificate were pending. As passports need biometrics, processing new ones has been a challenge, he added. “In all the cases we processed in April, we wrote to the FRRO after we got requests from foreign embassies. The FRRO processed these requests in less than a day, and in one case, in less than an hour,” Kumar saidIn the case of the Savilles, Georgia Senator David Perdue worked with the US state department and the American Embassy in New Delhi to process their safe return. They finally returned on a special flights that the American government had arranged for US nationals who were stuck in India. Kumar said that while there is no estimate of how many prospective parents came to India from abroad, in a typical year, CARA processes over 500 inter-country adoptions. “On an average we process about 40 cases involving foreign nationals. In half of these cases, the prospective parents are of Indian origin or non-resident Indians with extended family here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-foreign-nationals-who-came-to-adopt-kids-stranded/story-JGjxax6wtLQwA7ytsmSXAJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra likely to touch 10,000 mark by April 30; state count climbs to 8,590||Going by the rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra is likely to touch the 10,000 mark by Thursday (April 30). The case count has already breached the 8000 mark and on Monday it mounted to 8,590 after 522 new cases were registered.On an average, the state is getting almost 500 new cases on a daily basis since April 19. In the last nine days (since April 19), it has recorded 4,946 new cases, which indicates that there has been a steady rise in the total number, officials said. Maharashtra took 30 days to cross 1000 cases on April 7, but going by the average number of fresh cases it is likely to reach the 10,000 mark in only 23 days. It crossed the 2,000 mark in six days on April 13. From 2000 to 4000 cases it took six days on April 19 and from 4000 to 6000 cases it took only four days (April 23).The trend shows that Monday was also the 24th consecutive day when the number of new cases in the state was in three digits. This is the reason most of the cases - 8292 – have been registered in April alone.On Monday, the state also completed 35 days of lockdown that was imposed on midnight of March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was partially lifted on April 20 in areas where there are no cases or cases are minimal in number.In Mumbai, the case count went up to 5,776 as 369 new cases registered in a day.However, officials said that the situation is still under control as most of the new cases are from traced contacts. “We can say that the situation is under control as we are aggressively doing contact tracing and most of the new cases are those who have been traced following detection of positive Covid-19 cases,” said Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). “It is true that we were expecting a decline in cases from April 21 which is not happening but the rise is also not exponential and now we will have to wait for another incubation cycle of 14 days, which is ending on May 3, before reaching any conclusion,” Dr Lahane said.The two 14-day cycles of incubation period of infection was completed on April 20. It had begun from March 22 when international traffic was stopped. So far, the health department has conducted 1,21,562 tests at various public and private facilities across Maharashtra. Of them 1,12,552 people tested negative. The death toll in the state also touched 369 as 27 deaths were registered on Monday. Of them, 15 are in Mumbai, six in Amravati, four in Pune and one each in Jalgaon and Aurangabad. With this, the death toll in Mumbai also increased to 219.Of the 27 deaths, 22 patients had co-morbidity conditions. Of them, one was affected with HIV and another was suffering with cancer, said health officials.The mortality rate of the state has significantly dropped to 4.24% (342 deaths till Sunday) from 7.41% (148 cases) on April 13. However, it continues to be higher than the national mortality rate of 3.13% till Sunday, states the data of the state medical education department.As Covid-19 cases are rising, the number of patients who have recovered so far also jumped to 1,282 as 94 positive patients recovered on Monday.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state is prepared for any situation. “We have set up 1677 Covid-19 dedicated hospitals where 1,76,357 isolated beds and 7,248 ICU beds are available. These hospitals are divided into three categories between asymptotic, mild and serious cases. We have around 3000 ventilators, around 80,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 2.82 lakh N95 masks,” he said..Maharashtra, currently, has 572 active containment zones. Around 7,861 survey teams comprising doctors and assisting staff have screened more than 32.28 lakh people for the coronavirus infection. It has also kept 9399 suspected patients at government quarantine facilities while 1,45,677 are home quarantined, state health officials said.Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday appointed four IAS officers - Anil Kawade, cooperation commissioner, Saurabh Rao, sugar commissioner, Sachindra Pratap Singh, animal husbandry commissioner and Kaustubh Diwegaonkar, director, Ground Water Survey and Development Agency (GSDA), who will help in planning preventive measures and their implementation to contain the coronavirus cases in Pune, where 1027 cases have been registered so far.The state government has also allocated a sum of Rs 1275.25 crore to distribute among the poor, weak, deprived, widows and handicapped section of society who are beneficiaries under many government welfare schemes. The beneficiaries will get advance pay of three months considering lockdown restrictions which led to loss of income. Rs 130 crore has been received from the Centre whereas the rest of the amount will be paid from the state exchequer, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-maharashtra-likely-to-touch-10-000-mark-by-april-30-state-count-climbs-to-8-590/story-5DDhjpSyS1gYcvECPWUAwL.html
28-04-2020||India||For effective Covid-19 messaging, I&B secy looks at local languages||To ensure that the message of social distancing and the need to protect everyone from the coronavirus disease reaches each Indian in his or her own dialect and language will be the immediate priority of the information and broadcasting (I&B) ministry, I&B secretary Amit Khare said on Monday. The senior Indian Administrative Service officer took charge of the post at a time when the government is focusing increasingly on getting its communication strategy right in the midst of the pandemic before the 40-day lockdown to stop the spread of the disease ends on May 3. “Our strategy is that the communication should reach the last person in their own local dialect and language,” Khare told HT in a phone conversation after taking charge.This is the second time that the 1985 batch IAS officer of the Jharkhand cadre would be working as secretary in the I&B ministry. He held the position before being made secretary (school education) in the ministry of human resource development (HRD) in October 2019. Khare is also holding charge as secretary (higher education) in the HRD ministry.The veteran civil servant returns to the I&B ministry, which decides the Union government’s communication outreach, at a time the government is trying to increase public awareness of Covid-19, and explain the need for the people to strictly follow lockdown measures it has put in place to curb the spread of the disease.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been at the forefront of this information outreach, addressing the nation on television and holding interactions to communicate the government’s perspective on the situation. On Sunday, in his Mann Ki Baat radio address, Modi again focused on the coronavirus and warned against any sense complacence in the battle against the pandemic.With the government focusing on Covid-19 hotspots and devising different strategies for different districts depending on the extent of the spread of the virus, the I&B ministry is seeking to tailor its communication strategy to local needs and address the people in the dialect and language they understand best -- a challenge given India’s diversity.Another challenge the ministry faces is misinformation about the coronavirus disease being spread on social media.The traditional media -- newspapers and broadcasters-- have, meanwhile, been hit by the adverse impact of the virus in the form of a drop in advertising and circulation.“Print, digital and electronic media are playing an important role in the battle against the pandemic Covid-19. They are also facing challenges, both in terms of outreach and in terms of their business model. We will try to resolve these issues,” Khare said in response to a question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-effective-covid-19-messaging-i-b-secy-looks-at-local-languages/story-R0MlvbVYyqxWI1JeVZUlCJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Opposition-ruled states fear financial emergency amid Covid-19 lockdown||Finance ministers of opposition- ruled states and senior leaders of opposition parties said on Monday that they feared the country was moving towards a financial emergency amid the coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19) and accused the Centre of failing to address their mounting troubles.The opposition figures were participating in a webinar hosted by the Thiruvananthapuram-based Gulati Institute for Finance and Taxation (GIFT) Participants in the webinar demanded that the Centre take an immediate loan from the Reserve Bank of India and transfer the money to the states to help them tide over the coronavirus crisis. If the situation is allowed to worsen and people begin to suspect that the country is headed for a financial emergency, they can’t be blamed, the participants said. With their revenues falling by up to 80% during the Covid-19 lockdown that came into effect on March 25, several states have informed the Centre that they are almost broke and can’t even afford to pay salaries unless they borrow heavily and receive interim compensation from the Centre, Hindustan Times reported on Monday.“There is an undeclared emergency in the country. The country is going through a difficult situation and the economy is in the doldrums. We don’t want mere slogans now. The Centre is yet to come up with a concrete plan to revive the economy,” said senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh.Participants in the webinar urged all states to come together and fight what they called “unilateral decisions” being taken by the central government. Despite a dire situation, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is yet to call a meeting of state finance ministers at a time when the states are confronting a a major fiscal crisis, they said. Kerala finance minister Thomas Issac, who took the initiative in arranging the webinar, accused the Centre of discriminating against the states even in the midst of the pandemic. As an example, he cited the fact that company contributions to the newly launched PM-CARES fund were counted as corporate social responsibility spending, but not donations made to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund in the states. “We have been asking for the state FMs’ meeting for quite some time. But it is yet to take place. We have been hearing only monologues. We don’t need mere self-praise or kudos. We need ...money to tide over the crisis,” said Issac.Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, former Jammu and Kashmir finance minister Haseeb Drabu, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, and Communist Party of India secretary D Raja attended the webinar.“Delhi is in dire straits. If the situation continues like this, even the health sector will also be affected. Being a consumerist state, we are suffering heavily due to loss of economic activities. We need immediate help,” said Sisodia. Badal said Rs 1,000 crore was due to be paid to by the Centre as its share of the Goods and Services Tax , but the Centre was not willing to part with the amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-ruled-states-fear-financial-emergency-amid-covid-19-lockdown/story-Vi40jk1Y99AB6O0Hm0ucpJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Have asked govt to allow economic activity in the pandemic-free areas: Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||NEW DELHI: Uttarakhand has not lost any lives so far to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The state is taking measures to ensure that the rural areas are insulated from the pandemic. In an email interview to Smriti Kak Ramachandran, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said the state has sought the Centre’s permission to gradually scale up economic activity.Edited excerpts:Apart from suggesting an increase in the number of days under MNREGA, what other suggestions did you put forth at the meeting with the Prime Minister today? The country today finds itself in a very secure position, thanks to the historic and the timely decisions taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He is considered as a parent or a guardian and he’s taking along the whole country.At the video conference with the Prime Minister [on Monday], I suggested that the duration of work days under MNREGA should be increased from 100 days to 250 days as this will provide immense relief to people in the rural areas. Some relaxations have already been offered post April 20. We have also requested that it should be considered which other sectors can resume economic activity after following the necessary medical protocol. And we believe we must follow Prime Minister Modi’s Jaan Bhi, Jahan Bhi mantra. There is a need to maintain strict vigil in the sensitive areas and at the same time there is a need to increase economic activity in those areas that are free from the pandemic and are not in the hot spots.How is Uttarakhand preparing for relaxation after the lockdown? Are there any specific areas where you want activity to resume? We are ready for any situation. After May 3, when the lockdown is relaxed, whatever guidelines are issued by the Centre will be followed by us and complied with. There are many people who want the lockdown to be further extended. However, we also feel that economic activity in the rural areas and in those hilly areas of the state that are free from the pandemic should gradually be scaled up.We have requested the Central government to allow us to do this. In several sectors, such as pharma, food processing and agriculture related sectors we have begun to allow activity, but this is being done after following the guidelines issued by the Centre.The economy of Uttarakhand is heavily dependent on tourism, how will the state cope with the loss caused by the pandemic? Uttarakhand is a major tourist destination and it also gets a lot of traffic from religious tourism; but because of the global pandemic these sectors have come to a complete standstill. However, for us, the country and humanity are more important.On the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya we open the gates of Gangotri and Yamunotri, but ensured physical distancing protocols and made the wearing of masks mandatory. People in Uttarakhand have a steely resolve. We suffered nature’s fury in 2013 [when the state suffered devastating flash floods], yet we were able to restart the Char Dham yatra and organise it the way it was held before the floods.We are very confident that we will be able to defeat this pandemic and Uttarakhand will again emerge as a tourist destination.What are your expectations from the Centre for bringing the state back on track after the pandemic? Are there any specific demands that you have made? Right now our full focus is on defeating the corona pandemic. Everyone across the world is fighting to contain this virus from spreading. And it is our good fortune that our Prime Minister Narendra Modi is leading from the front and has emerged as a strong leader who took the right decision at the right time. He has been consulting and speaking to chief ministers on a regular basis; he is aware of all the ground realities and we are confident that when the time is right, not only Uttarakhand, but all other states will get whatever is needed to help revive the economy. But I want to say this is not the time for such things, our focus has to be only on fighting the coronavirus pandemic. There is a concern among environmentalists on the proposal to use some portions of the Rajaji National Park for the upcoming Mahakumbh. Will this decision be revisited? Environment protection is a key part of our life in Uttarakhand. We are aware and sensitised about the need for environmental protection. What we have suggested is to seek permission for parking during the MahaKumbh in a part of the Rajaji National Park where the river has dried up and there are no trees. And this is not going to adversely affect the environment in any way.The state has over 50 cases so far and no deaths. What is being done to ensure that the numbers do not go up?So far we have had 51 people testing positive for Covid-19. More than half of these cases have been discharged from hospital and are back home. Nine other districts are free from the pandemic and we have been largely successful in controlling the spread of virus in the state. To ensure there is no slip up, we are taking the help of the ordinary people. So far we have got the support of people in helping curb the spread of the virus as everyone has been conscientious in adhering to the protocol of the lockdown, whether it’s maintaining physical distance or what is known as do gaz doori, bohot zaroori. We have taken special care to ensure that the virus does not spread to the rural areas.We have been very strict in ensuring that intra district movement is allowed. Our doctors deserve appreciation for the fact that so far the state does not have a single death from the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-asked-govt-to-allow-economic-activity-in-the-pandemic-free-areas-uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat/story-Z6nA6L6AJUkzMbbmNuLL9H.html
28-04-2020||India||Rahul alleges scam in supply of rapid kits, urges PM to take action||New Delhi: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged a scam in the supply of rapid Covid-19 testing kits to the government, saying it was beyond belief that some people were indulging in profiteering from the immeasurable suffering of millions. He urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take immediate action to bring “the corrupt to justice.“That any human being would try and profiteer from the immeasurable suffering of millions of his brothers and sisters is beyond belief and comprehension. This scam is an insult to every Indian. I urge the PM [Prime Minister] to act swiftly to bring the corrupt to justice,” Gandhi tweeted.“When the entire country is fighting against the Covid-19 disaster, some people are still profiteering. Shame and disgust at this corrupt mentality. One detests and feels ashamed of such a corrupt mindset. The country will never pardon them. We demand from the Prime Minister strict action against these profiteers,” he said in another tweet in Hindi.The Congress separately cited media reports about the kits being sold at around 150% profits to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and asked the Prime Minister to fix the responsibility for it.Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said it was “shameful and inhuman” that people were supplying test kits bought for Rs 225 each at Rs 600 each to the state exchequer.“Corruption in Corona Testing Kits OR Profiteering by duping the Exchequer. Import Price of 1 Testing Kit= Rs 225! Purchase Price of Testing Kit= Rs 600! Profit Margin = 166.66 pc! Shameful and Inhuman! Will PM fix responsibility,” he tweeted.Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party spokesman Aman Sinha said the government has announced that strict action will be taken against those found profiteering under the Disaster Management Act. He called Gandhi’s comments self- contradictory. “On April 14, in a tweet he [Rahul Gandhi] had alleged that the government is delaying the purchase of the kits. Now when the kits were brought, he is making misleading statements.” Congress leader Ahmed Patel too demanded a clarification from the government. “The recent Delhi HC [high court] judgement has raised a pertinent question - Why was ICMR purchasing antibody test kits for Rs 600 per piece, which was imported for Rs 245?” he asked on Twitter.The high court last week fixed the price of the antibody test kits at Rs 400 each as against Rs 600 approved by the ICMR. The ruling came on a plea by two companies, which had entered into an agreement for distribution of the kits in India. The two companies approached the court after the importer sought full payment for the kits before delivering them, according to details submitted in the court.In a fact sheet on the issue, the government said it had conducted a tender process to procure the kits and the evaluation committee received four bids of Rs 1,204, Rs 1,200, Rs 844 and Rs 600. Accordingly, bid offer of Rs 600 was considered as it was the lowest.Later, addressing reporters through video-conferencing, Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari demanded that the government should make public details of all purchases made in the last one month to fight Covid-19.He said the government should put an immediate end to the huge profiteering in the procurement of equipment.“What is happening? There seems to be an absolute anarchy in the procurement of equipment for fighting Covid-19. We would like to demand from the government to make public all details made with regard to procuring equipment for testing, PPEs [personal protection equipment], and ventilators. All those transactions must be transparently placed in the public domain,” added Tewari.Referring to a company engaged in the supply of testing kits acquired from China, he alleged that kits purchased at Rs 245 each were being sold by the same company to ICMR at Rs 600 each while the same to Tamil Nadu government were sold at Rs 400 each.“The price of one testing kit was Rs 245, thus 5 lakh kits amount to Rs 12.25 crore. However, the firm sold the kits to another company at Rs 21 crore and the ICMR procured these kits at Rs 30 crore, which is a profit margin of more than 100%,” Tewari said.The Congress leader said the matter came to light in a petition before the Delhi high court by a company supplying such equipment.“This is an extremely serious matter which hurts the fight of India against Covid-19. Our country’s resources are scarce and we have to optimise them and not allow companies to make arbitrage of over 60% in these transactions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-alleges-scam-in-supply-of-rapid-kits-urges-pm-to-take-action/story-9QjfZMfoqxZlppboyZXsJN.html
28-04-2020||India||Mild-symptom patients can be isolated at home: Govt||Covid-19 patients who are pre-symptomatic or show mild symptoms can be isolated at home as long as they have enough space to avoid contact with other residents, according to a new Union health ministry guidelines issued on Monday. Whether a person can is fit for home isolation will be decided by the treating doctor and surveillance officer. According to existing guidelines, all positive cases are isolated and treated at a facility.Once examined by a doctor, a patient is categorised as very mild or mild, moderate or severe, and accordingly admitted to a Covid care centre, a dedicated Covid health center or a dedicated covid hospital respectively. A Covid care centre, for mild or asymptomatic patients, is not a hospital but a facility created in hotels, hostels, lodges and, in some areas, even make-shift structures.“Since in about 80% of the cases, symptoms are mild, these people can stay in their own house. However, there are detailed do’s and don’ts that these people would need to follow to be allowed to stay at home, which includes being close to a hospital in case symptoms worsen and they need medical care,” said a senior health ministry official, asking not to be named.“These people will be constantly be under observation of a district surveillance officer among other things,” the official added.The caregiver of the patient, and close family contacts, will also have to take the anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine as a prophylactic as per protocol and be strictly under the supervision of a medical officer.The Aarogya Setu mobile application, which monitors the location of a person, must be installed on the patient’s phone and the device should be kept active at all times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mild-symptom-patients-can-be-isolated-at-home-govt/story-ZsazJ7ruS976ubZ8xvGveK.html
28-04-2020||India||Need for refined rapid kits, better staff training for accurate results||Inaccuracy in results from China-made rapid kits led India to suspend antibody testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last week. On Monday, the Indian Council of Medical Research asked for states to return the kits, citing problems with them highlighted in its own assessment. Rapid tests do not assess current infection but are used to detect antibodies produced by the body to detect and neutralise Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.Unlike reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests that detect shards of the viral genetic material (RNA) to confirm current infection, antibody tests indicate past infection that may have been missed because it was mild or asymptomatic. Antibody tests are a crucial public health tool for surveillance, epidemic forecasting, and prevalence.They can also (at least on paper) detect infections after around 10 days of a person being infected, although experts strongly recommend against their use for diagnosis. “India so far uses basic lateral flow immunoassay (LFA) for antibody testing, which give yes and no results if the testing is done seven to 10 days after symptoms appearing. We don’t have data on how long Indians take to produce antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 ,” said Dr Shiv Kumar Sarin, director, Indian Institute of Liver and Biliary and Sciences, and the Chair of Delhi government’s five-member panel on coronavirus disease.The development of immunity to an invading virus is a multi-step process that takes place over one to two weeks. The body responds to a viral infection immediately with a non-specific innate response in which macrophages, neutrophils, and dendritic cells slow infection, and this non-specific response is followed by an adaptive response, where the body makes immunoglobulin M (IgM) and Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies that specifically bind to the virus to neutralise it.The first wave of antibodies that fight infection are IgM, which are detectable around eight days after symptoms appear and indicate recent infection, and IgG bodies appear around three weeks after infection, indicating the person was infected and has since, recovered.“We need kits that test for both IgM and IgG, so that both results can be combined . Detection rate is highest when IgM and IgG results are combined, but few vendors are making kits with strips for both types of antibodies,” said Dr Sarin, whose team was among the first to begin antibody testing at ILBS. The technology behind antibody tests requires knowledge of viral protein against which the human immune system produces antibodies that flag or kill the virus. To make the kits, sections of the viral protein coat that triggers an immune reaction are produced in the lab using cell lines for inclusion in the serological test to detect antibodies. First-generation antibody tests need to be refined and need at least six months to get the correct sensitivity and specificity to rule out false positives and false negatives. “Quality serological tests take around six months to be developed with ample data and validation. There’s a flood of tests with unproven quality, which cannot be depended on for diagnosis,” said Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, World Health Organisation.Test sensitivity indicates the capacity to correctly diagnose those with the disease (true positive rate), while specificity indicates correctly identifying those without the disease (true negative rate). Studies show that positivity rises with time after symptoms appear, with rates of positive results rising after two weeks and peaking after 20 days of illness.Training people when to do the antibody tests and how to read the results is critical for reliable diagnosis. “For accurate results, antibody tests must be done eight-10 days after the symptoms appear, and must be interpreted by highly-trained staff, with results with weak bands being reviewed by at least two to three trained people,” said Dr N K Ganguly, former director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“International studies show IgM and IgG antibodies sometimes takes two to three weeks, which makes the IgM test less reliable than IgG test. Both should be combined for interpretation. The persons reading it should be well trained since a weak band needs to be interpreted correctly,” added Dr Ganguly. Quality assessment done at ICMR-National Institute of Malaria Research in Delhi before the antibody kits manufactured by Guangzhou Wondfo and Zhuhai Livzon in China were sent to states found the efficacy, or capacity for correct diagnosis, to be 71% , against the declared sensitivity of 80% and specificity 84%. “This is a first-generation test developed in just three-and-a-half months and needs refinement, the variations cannot be ignored,” said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, chief, epidemiology and communicable diseases, ICMR.“Indian scientists have the capacity to develop these tests, so the focus should now be on domestic development and manufacturing of serological assays and training people when to do tests and how to read results. They have good enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Elisa) and chemiluminescence-linked immunoassay (Clia) being used in the US; there’s nothing holding us back from making them,” said Dr Ganguly. Interestingly, even in the US, the reliability of antibody tests have come under question. A test performance evaluation of 10 LFAs and two Elisa tests to detect Sars-CoV-2 antibodies showed heterogeneous assay performance, according to a yet to be peer-reviewed paper from multiple departments at University of California and Harvard Medical School, Boston. IgM detection was more variable than IgG, and detection was highest when IgM and IgG results were combined, with agreement between Elisas and LFAs results ranging from 75.8-94.8%, found researchers.“There is no “gold standard” to identify true seropositive blood samples. The extent and time-course of antibody development are not fully understood as yet, and may vary between different populations, even among RT-PCR-confirmed cases... Our study also reinforces the need for assay validation using standardised sample sets,” researchers noted in the evaluation paper.There is also an urgent need for good data from India. “Testing at the right time is critical but we still don’t have data on when antibodies appear in response to Sars-CoV-2. We assume its two weeks. It varies widely with infections -- IgM are detectable after 5-7 days in dengue, and 12 days for chicken pox. Until we have highly accurate tests, it’s better to err on the side of caution, as a false positive would mean a person who is not protected will believe he is. Serological tests are not meant for diagnosis,” said Dr Naveen Dang, consultant microbiologist and founder of Dr Dangs Lab. To increase specificity, serological tests must select sections of the spike protein that are particularly distinct across coronaviruses, according to The Lancet. “For accuracy, you need both sensitivity and specificity. Lowering specificity increases the odds of cross-reactivity with other coronaviruses – there are seven that cause disease in humans -- so you may have false positives resulting from immunity to the four coronaviruses that cause mild cold-like symptoms,” said Dr Dang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-for-refined-rapid-kits-better-staff-training-for-accurate-results/story-NETaytwNRBfOCKS7Kwc8dN.html
28-04-2020||India||Ahmedabad records second highest Covid-19 deaths in country||Ahmedabad, is second on two Covid-19 death counts --- the most people who have died because of the coronavirus disease after Mumbai and highest death rate after Pune.State health department officials are attributing the higher number of deaths to dominance of L-type of Covid-19 strain, which was found in Wuhan in China, from where the world’s first Covid cases were reported in December 2019.A scientist at the State-run Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC), said the novel coronavirus used for genome sequencing conducted by it was found to contain the L-type strain.“The coronavirus sample we collected from a patient for genome sequence contained the L-type strain. This strain has a much higher virulence as compared to the S-strain,” CG Joshi, director of GBRC. “The L-type strain has been dominant where more mortality is reported among coronavirus patients. This strain was found to be more prevalent in Wuhan.” Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary (health) said “scientists and medical experts are carrying out more research on this issue.” Till Monday evening, Gujarat reported 3548 Covid-19 positive cases and 162 deaths, of which 109 are from Ahmedabad alone. In Ahmedabad, from April 21 to April 27, there was a rise of 89.79% in the total Covid-19 positive cases. In the same period, the number of deaths in the city increased by 186.84%. The mortality rate in Ahmedabad is 4.8%, second highest after Pune and at par with that in another Covid hotspot, Indore in Madhya Pradesh.Ravi said 89% of the total COVID-19 cases are from Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara, even though 30 of the 33 districts are affected. “Ahmedabad accounts for 65%, Surat accounts for 16% and 8% are from Vadodara. The remaining 27 districts account for 11% of the total positive cases. Amreli, Junagadh and Devbhoomi Dwarka remain unaffected.” An official of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation(AMC) said the city has adopted the so-called EPIC approach -- enhanced testing, intensive surveillance, proactive detection and corona checkposts.“As a corollary to this approach, it was all but natural that reported cases would go up as we proactively discover more. But at the same time, utility of this strategy must be appreciated in that it helps us in locating the cases before they do large scale damage through community spread. Just to give a perspective, we have done 3,250 plus tests per million so far which is more than double what the next highest figure in city like Delhi has done at around 1500 per million,” said Vijay Nehra, commissioner, AMC.Director General of Police (DGP), Shivanand Jha, said that with the number of Covid cases increasing in Ahmedabad , a near-total curfew has been imposed in hotspots. “It is necessary for the citizens to cooperate with the police and maintain social distance. Citizens can go out every two or three days to buy essential items but not every day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-records-second-highest-deaths-in-country/story-H5hbOFdjOcEAzClZdXVeNP.html
28-04-2020||India||Recovered Covid-19 patients not carriers: Govt||Patients who recover from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) do not transmit the infection, the health ministry clarified on Monday, appealing to the people to stop discriminating against those who have fought off the disease as health-care workers engaged in treating active cases.“The recovered people do not infect others; in fact, they can be a potential source for healing..,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Union health ministry.The official cited the fact the antibody-rich blood plasma of recovered patients was being used in experimental plasma therapy which, if it proves to be successful, can be used to treat more people ill with Covid-19. “Sometimes lack of awareness or proper understanding can result in people experiencing fear or panic against Covid-19 patients, or frontline healthcare workers, and we start stigmatizing them. We discriminate against them; however, we must understand we have to fight the infection, not the infected or those working to protect us from getting infected,” said Agarwal.Many people with Covid-19- like symptoms are not coming forward to access treatment because of the stigma attached to the highly infectious disease, according to doctors, while there have been reports of health-care workers being abused and shunned because they are engaged in treating patients of the disease. Some people with flu-like symptoms are reporting to hospital when they reach a stage where they are actually gasping for breath, Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, had earlier said.“It is unfortunate that instead of sympathizing with these patients, we have created an environment of panic and stigma...This is a worrisome trend as it would affect the mortality rate in the long run,” Dr Guleria said..“In the initial stages of the disease we can save lives by merely providing oxygen support; there is no need for intensive care in at least 95% of the Covid-19 cases,” he added.Agarwal said such an attitude does not only harm the patients, but their family and even society at large.“What is required is that we stand by these patients, and provide them adequate support. We should not fall prey to misinformation and panic. We cannot label a community or an area for spread of Covid-19. We must not target patients, healthcare or sanitary workers or police as they are working tirelessly for us. This deep-rooted issue of stigma needs to be addressed with intensive awareness campaigns,” he said.On the high case-load in Maharashtra, the Indian state worst hit by the pandemic, Agarwal said it was {partly} because of the population density in the state. “If you look at Mumbai or Pune from where more cases are being reported, these are all densely populated areas; and we are trying our best to implement our containment strategy both in clusters and hot spots by making use of sufficient manpower for door-to-door-survey,” he said.As of now, 6,184 people have been cured in India, making for a recovery rate of 22.17%. At least 16 districts that had cases of Covid-19 have not reported any new cases in the past 28 days. Three new districts that have been added to the list are Gondia in Maharashtra, Devangere in Karnataka and Lakhi Sarai in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/recovered-patients-not-carriers-govt/story-XXiIJYuhPllV8lArNNUpBK.html
28-04-2020||India||As UGC looks to end session, multiple options on its table||Conducting viva exams on webcam, giving more weightage to online modules completed by students and holding internet-based tests are some of the suggestions before the University Grants Commission (UGC), which is deliberating how to navigate the disruptions triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and stick to an academic calendar.UGC, the higher education regulator, held a video conference on Monday and discussed holding exams in the time of social distancing. The commission, according to people aware of the developments, is of the view that a single option would not be enough for colleges and universities across the country.“...members gave different suggestions. The commission has felt the views of more stakeholders can be taken into account....the UGC chairman (DP Singh) has been authorised to issue the guidelines to varsities,” said a member who did not want to be named.Fresh admissions, ideally, can only take place if universities are able to close the 2019-2020 academic session for undergraduate or postgraduate by holding exams and declaring results.Generally, academic sessions end in colleges and universities in May-June and new sessions begin in July-August. Education institutes have been shut down across India since March 25, when a nationwide lockdown was imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19.Universities in green zones (districts with no Covid-19 cases) may be allowed to hold pen-and-paper exams, though they will have top strictly follow social-distancing norms, according to a members. Others in affected areas may be asked to conduct exams online or even assess students based on their assignments already submitted to the institutes.There is also a view that viva exams can be conducted through Skype for MPhil or PhD students. Another suggestion is asking varsities to develop mobile apps.“The next academic year can start from June or July in some universities, and in August and September in others depending on the situation. It is largely felt that the academic year would end in July 2021,” said a second commission member who too spoke on the condition of anonymity.The commission is also deliberating two reports --- one by a panel on academic schedule headed by RC Kuhad, the vice chancellor of the Central University of Haryana; and the other by a committee on online education headed by Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) vice chancellor Nageshwar Rao.“We cannot choose one-size-fits all approach. So we are going to allow freedom to universities,” said the second UGC member.“We are aware that large number of students may have difficulty in taking digital exams. Others may be at a disadvantage if another random criterion is adopted. The universities will have the freedom to take the call, these guidelines will not be binding,” this official said.Some students’ organisations have expressed concerns that those in remote areas with poor internet access or those who are underprivileged may have to face difficulty if their challenges are not factored in while brainstorming a solution.Asked if a grievance mechanism would be created for those who face difficulties, the second member said UGC already has a grievance mechanism system, but a concerned university can also be directed to take suitable action if complaints are too many.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-ugc-looks-to-end-session-multiple-options-on-its-table/story-9tZY6rGAr62nhNrT9lRf3J.html
28-04-2020||India||CMs call for extension of curbs in Covid-19 hotspot districts||Most state governments recommended an extension of the lockdown in Covid-19 hot spots, a relaxation of rules to bring back stranded workers, and financial help to cope with a debilitating economic crisis in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday.The states have urged the Centre to ensure that the new guidelines that will come in after the current lockdown ends on May 3, provide for much more economic activity in non-Covid districts, termed green zones, and stricter norms for Covid hot spots, described as red zones. The Centre is expected to take a call on the lockdown, scheduled to be in pace till May 3, in the next few days after taking into consideration views of different empowered groups and the key Central ministries. On Monday it received feedback from the states. Here is what some of the key states suggested.BiharChief minister Nitish Kumar told the PM that it will not be possible to bring back anybody, including students from places such as Kota in Rajasthan and migrant workers stranded elsewhere, till the Central government amended or issued fresh directive in this regard. Bihar is one of the few state to follow the rules. Others, such as Uttar Pradesh have gone ahead and bussed students out of Kota. Kumar reiterated his earlier stand that a move to transfer people from one place to other defeated the very spirit of implementing a lockdown even as the opposition accused him of failing to bring back the stranded students. On the lockdown, he said Bihar will comply with Centre’s decisions. Kumar said the state government has received over one lakh phone calls and messages from migrant workers and efforts were being made to “redress their problems”. “7.5 million families have been screened,” the CM said, while giving details of the efforts to prevent the spread of the disease.OdishaChief minister, Naveen Patnaik sought a safe passage for migrant workers from the state stuck in other states and requested other states to test the migrants for Covid-19 and only send back workers who test negative. Around five lakh workers from Odisha are stranded in different states. “During today’s meeting we stressed on the safe passage of Odia migrants stuck in other states,” said Odisha health minister Naba Das.PunjabChief minister Amarinder Singh wrote to home minister Amit Shah, asking for the opening of all small shops, businesses and industries in all areas except the containment zones. In a letter to Shah, in response to the Centre’s request for a written submission of issues faced by the state, the CM highlighted the issues that need the urgent attention of the Centre. He also sought special insurance cover for police personnel and sanitary workers, universal basic income of Rs 6,000 per month to industrial and migrant workers and 15 days’ wages as unemployment allowance to MGNREGA workers for the next three months.HaryanaCM ML Khattar asked the Central government to provide clarity on the schedules of various entrance examinations like JEE and NEET for medical and engineering colleges as well as NDA exam for the armed forces. Speaking at a meeting with the PM, Khattar said a large number of students preparing for the competitive exams were anxious because of ambiguity over the exam schedules.MaharashtraChief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to raise the issue of financial assistance from the Centre, the shortage in supply of the PPE kits and issue of stranded workers in a letter to home minister Amit Shah, according to Maharashtra government officials. Maharashtra wants only partial lifting of lockdown from non-Covid districts. The state will announce its decision later this week, the officials said. KeralaChief secretary Tom Jose attended the meeting. In his letter, CM Pinarayi Vijayan sought staggered removal of the lockdown and an exclusive Covid-19 financial package. Kerala has asked the Centre to expedite the return of 1.8 million migrants from the state from countries in West Asia. Kerala has also asked the Centre to send back around 3 lakh migrant workers housed in 10,000 camps to their respective states.Uttar PradeshUttar Pradesh has not made any submission to the Centre. “We keep on exchanging views and hold consultations with the Union government. But chief minister Yogi Adityanath did not make any demand at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers,” said chief secretary RK Tiwari.ChhattisgarhChief minister Bhupesh Baghel, in the past week, has demanded that states should be allowed to decide on which economic activities should be allowed . He also wanted a scheme for giving food grains in place of money for work done under MGNREGA. He has also sought financial assistance worth Rs 30,000 crore.JharkhandChief minister, Hemant Soren, has sought a relaxation of the interstate travel ban so that arrangements can be made to bring back students and migrant workers stuck in other states. Over 9 lakh migrant workers from Jharkhand are stuck in other states. Soren said the state government will explore legal options if the Centre fails to provide financial assistance to the state to deal with the pandemic. North-EastMizoram chief minister Zoramthanga said the state’s only Covid-19 patient was recovering slowly. “Since we are surrounded by Myanmar, Bangladesh and neighbouring states, which also have Covid-19 patients, we can’t be complacent,” he said, adding that the state will relax the lockdown slightly after May 3 and allow some economic activity slowly. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma said he proposed an extension of the lockdown beyond May 3. “We have mooted to continue with the lockdown post May 3rd with relaxation on activities in green zones or non-Covid affected districts in Meghalaya,” Sangma tweeted after the meeting. Meghalaya has recorded 12 Covid-19 positive cases, of which one has died. All the cases are from the state capital, Shillong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cms-call-for-extension-of-curbs-in-hot-spot-districts/story-twL9j4l2O08SSKRtcJCZBL.html
28-04-2020||India||Delhi review complete, govt allows vets, plumbers, electricians to start work||The Delhi government on Monday finally lifted the bar on veterinarians, plumbers and electricians after a complete review of the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital. In a 7-point order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority also allowed inter-state travel of health workers, lab technicians and scientists that had been prohibited in the city.The relaxation comes into effect from Tuesday.The Union home ministry had earlier cleared these activities but the city government had decided against allowing them for the time being. It had declared on April 19 that a decision on allowing these activities would be taken on April 27 after a thorough review of the ground situation.Delhi reported 190 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, pushing the total number of cases in the city to 3,108. This includes 54 people who lost their lives as well as over 850 patients who have recovered. The city has reported Covid-19 cases from all its 11 districts, which have been categorised as red zones.According to the late evening order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, services provided by self-employed persons - electrician, plumbers and repairing of water purifiers would be allowed in the capital.The home ministry’s guidelines had also allowed carpenters and motor mechanics. There was no reference to them in Monday’s order.It, however, explicitly allowed interstate (by air or road) and intrastate movement of all medical and veterinary personnel, scientists, nurses, paramedical staff, lab technicians, midwives, and other hospital support services, including ambulances.Veterinary hospitals, dispensaries, clinics, pathology labs, sale and supply of vaccines and medicines have also been allowed under the new order.Besides, the government order formally allowed shops of electric fans, educational books for students, shelter homes for persons with disabilities, children, elderly people, widows, etc.Some of these relaxations, such as the ones that allow shops selling stationary shops and electric fans, had already been covered by the Union home ministry’s decision last week to allow standalone shops to open.That relaxation had caught the Delhi government by surprise. It did not want to allow the neighbourhood shops to reopen over fear that it could give people an opportunity to step out of their house. But it had to give in after hundreds of shopkeepers in many parts of the capital opened their shutters before the city government could message that this restriction didn’t apply to the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-review-complete-govt-allows-vets-plumbers-electricians-to-start-work/story-n94mKfHUW9g8b1yu1byUHI.html
28-04-2020||India||Five Oppn-ruled states seek ₹2.25L cr to tide over crisis||Five opposition ruled states have sought close to Rs 2.25 lakh crore from the Centre to overcome stress on state finances due to the national lockdown, which some chief ministers want to extend beyond May 3 in close to 330 Covid-19 affected districts.Maharashtra has sought Rs 50,000 crore ; Chhattisgarh, Rs 30,000 crore; Kerala, Rs 80,000 crore; Rajasthan, Rs 40,000 crore and West Bengal Rs 25,000 crore -- as immediate compensation to the revenue loss suffered because of the national lockdown. Tamil Nadu, governed by BJP-ally the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, has sought Rs 9,000 crore.This is in addition to demands from states that the Centre pay the pending GST compensation immediately, increase the borrowing limit from 3% of the state GDP to 5%, suspend repayment of all state development loans for a period of three months, and allow flexi-funds under Centrally sponsored schemes for Covid-19 management. The states also want a further increase (it has already been increased twice, by a total of 60%) in their Ways and Means limit, which helps them borrow more. Many states, such as Punjab, Kerala and Maharashtra, have said that they will not be able to pay salaries of employees for the month of April, if the Centre fails to provide financial assistance. The Centre has given financial help to states through release of first instalment of money for the Centrally funded schemes, its share to states of the Central taxes, money for disaster relief and some part of the pending GST compensation.On Monday, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren threatened to take the Centre to the court, if it failed to compensate the state for its huge revenue loss. “We have no money. We need the Centre’s help. If that does not come, we will have to look for legal options,” Soren told reporters. Kerala chief secretary Tom Jose sought an exclusive Covid-19 financial package of Rs 80,000 crore from the Centre for the losses suffered during the lockdown in a letter to home ministry. “Our cumulative loss is over Rs 80,000 crore. Micro and small and medium enterprises alone lost over Rs 14,000. Hotel, tourism, fisheries, IT, self-employment and other sectors also lost badly. So we want an exclusive package to revive these sectors,” said Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.Maharashtra government officials said the state has demanded financial assistance of Rs 50,000 crore to be released over next five months in the context of the drop in the state revenue due to the lockdown. A finance department official said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already sought financial aid from the Centre.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to home minister asking for Rs 30,000 in the next three years as compensation for revenue loss. Apart from seeking 40,000 crore immediate relief, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has also suggested a Rs one lakh crore national Covid-19 management fund.“From this fund, the states can get money as and when needed,” Gehlot said. West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, backed the demand for the creation of a national Covid-19 fund and said Rs 10,000 be transferred to the bank account of every worker from the unorganised sector and MSMEs, farmers, and tea garden employees and that the 100-day rural job guarantee scheme be extended to 150 days. She has already sought Rs 25,000 crore from the Centre. In a letter to the home ministry, the Tamil Nadu government has sought to increase the fiscal deficit limits from 3% of state GDP to 4.5% and allowing borrowing of 33% more for the current financial year. This is other than Rs 9,000 crore compensation sought, officials said.“The GST compensation for December-January should be released now and 50% of the 2020-21 Finance Commission grants to the urban and rural local bodies should be given immediately,” the letter said. The state has sought an ad-hoc grant of Rs 1,000 crore from the National Disaster Relief Fund to procure medical and protective equipment . It has also asked for special financial aid for medium and small scale units, which have suffered the most during the lockdown period. “Payment of GST Advance Tax and IT may be deferred for six months to help the MSMEs,” the letter said.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has demanded the immediate release of Punjab’s GST arrears of Rs 4,386.37 crore. He also asked for a bonus to farmers for staggered purchase of wheat, as well as direct cash assistance to daily wage industrial and agricultural labourers.“A revenue grant for the next three months, with flexibility to spend as per local conditions, would help tide over the acute fiscal crisis faced due to revenue shortfall,” he wrote to the home ministry, repeating his suggestion that the 15th finance commission recommendation should come into force from the next financial year instead of April 1 this year. He has suggested that the commission re-evaluate its GDP estimate of 7% on the basis of which it submitted its recommendations. Singh demanded allowing the use of 25% flexi funds under CSSs for Covid-19 and to enhance it to 50%. States are allowed to customise central schemes to local needs and spend up to 25% of the total allocation for such schemes for this. He also demanded allowing contributions to CM relief fund as a fit charge under CSR on the lines of PM Relief Fund and the PM Cares fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-oppn-ruled-states-seek-2-25l-cr-to-tide-over-crisis/story-1rQ5FRTz1JCP3Owjm89PvK.html
28-04-2020||India||‘Bihar may be a poor state but…’: Nitish Kumar explains his Covid-19 strategy||Ensuring relief and rehabilitation of lakhs of Bihari migrants is high on the list of priorities of chief minister Nitish Kumar. On the prospects of them returning home, he told Vinod Sharma that when curbs on their movement are lifted, the host governments in other states must undertake their “health screening’ before letting them travel. Excerpts: The incidence of Covid-19 cases aren’t as alarming in Bihar as in states such as Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. But your administration cannot be complacent as the disease has footprints in 13 of the state’s 38 districts. How well prepared are you? As on 27th April (5pm), there are 329 Covid positive cases from 25 districts. However, 57 patients have been cured and discharged. So far there are 270 active cases. The chain of contacts was quickly indentified by the administration and tests were done. We have started door-to-door active health screening on the lines of Pulse Polio Campaign. This is a huge exercise and till date we have screened more than 40 millon people in 7.5 million households. We have six testing facilities at present and sufficient number of Covid hospitals, health centres and Covid Care centres. We also have sufficient isolation and quarantine facilities. We are aware of the ground realities and trying our best to fight the pandemic. We have also requested the central government to provide ventilator and help us enhance our capacity and testing facilities.Siwan and Munger have the reported 120-odd cases. Are there any particular reasons for that in terms of the topography and population mix of these districts?Initial Covid positive cases started from the foreign travellers and the infection spread through their contacts. Some cases were found in people who came in contact with Tablighi Jamaat. However, a new trend has been observed wherein new cases have been detected in migrant population who individually have returned from other states. At present, Munger has 90 and Siwan has 30 cases. In fact Patna has 38, Nalanda has 34, Buxar 25, Rohtas 15 and Kaimur 14 cases. These are among the districts having more cases. Siwan has only 12 active cases as on date and 18 patients have been cured and discharged.As of now, your bigger challenge apparently is in being true to your social justice plank by ensuring relief and sustenance for Bihari workers stranded in other parts of India, notably Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Punjab. What is your message for them? Can you reach out to them with help directly or do you have to depend on the Centre and the host governments?We always say that disaster-affected people have first right on state’s exchequer. A lot of our people are working in other states and are stranded there. We have developed a system of taking feedback from these Bihari people stranded outside Bihar. The disaster management department control room and help lines are fully geared up to get their feedback and coordinate with the concerned state governments and district administration for proper arrangement of food, shelter and medical facility for them. I have appealed to them to follow the lockdown norms and stay wherever they are. We may be a poor state, but we are leaving no stone unturned to help our people who are in distress.I directed CM secretariat officials to contact these people and get their feedback. Over 3,000 calls were made to talk to these people. Based on their feedback, I decided to give a special assistance of Rs 1,000 to all migrants stranded outside Bihar from Chief Minister Relief Fund and through the disaster management department. We have already released Rs 250 crore from Chief Minister Relief Fund. Nearly 2.5 million people have applied for it. Rs 1,000 has been transferred in the account of around 1.6 million people. I asked Bihar Foundation to provide meals, dry ration and shelter to the extent possible to our stranded people in other states. Bihar Foundation is running 55 relief camps in 12 cities of nine states and have served food to more than 1.2 million people and provided shelter to many.We have not left anybody. Many of these stranded people have families in Bihar. We have a commitment to help those distressed families in Bihar and for this all possible steps are being taken. We decided to give Rs. 1,000 rupees to all the ration card holder families in the state. We have also directed the district administration to revisit all pending cases of ration card applications to find out eligible beneficiaries. Besides, we are getting the survey done by Jeevika (self -help group) in rural areas and NULM (National Urban Livelihood Mission) in urban areas to find out eligible non-ration card holder families. We shall also help them and provide ration card thereafter.The disaster management department is operating more than 200 Aapada Rahat Kendra in different districts for labourers, rickshaw-pullers, daily-wagers and other needy people. More than 70,000 people are being given food, shelter and medical facilities at these centres every day. Many of these beneficiaries are people from other states but are stranded in Bihar.What’s the estimated count of the migrant Bihari population in India?The numbers of Bihari migrants are high compared to any other state in India. We don’t have the exact number of migrant Bihari population, but you will get an idea from this: during the crisis, with a view to facilitate and help migrant workers from Bihar, the government of Bihar started operating two 24x7helpline/call centres in the office of resident commissioner, New Delhi, and the department of disaster management, Patna, beside a dedicated centre in the Chief Minister’s Office. We have received more than one lakh phone calls and messages of migrants stranded outside Bihar, and as per real time information, more than 2.5 million migrants have applied for immediate relief of Rs 1,000, which is being provided from the Chief Minister Relief Fund through the disaster management department. We expect this number to rise to more than 3 million.The proposed lifting of curbs in some states might find them jobs but the remaining could return home. Have you drawn up plans for their temporary or permanent rehabilitation as leaving them to their devices could be dangerous and short sighted?At present, Bihari migrant workers who are engaged across the country in construction, garment manufacturing, mining and agriculture sectors contribute to the local economy in a big way. After the lifting of the curbs, presence of these migrant workers would be essential to kick-start factories and enterprises in these sectors. We have already started working on it and are creating job opportunities for them in Bihar. We have emphasised employment creation in rural areas. Schemes under Jal-Jeevan-Haryali Abhiyan, Saat Nishchaya (Har Ghar Nal ka Jal, Har Ghar tak Pakki Gali-Naliyan), Flood Protection Works and MNREGA works have been started with adequate social distancing norms. We have also released Rs 578.42 crore for agriculture input subsidy for farmers whose crop was damaged due to untimely rain and hailstorms in February and March.We have given Rs 3,102 crore to 10.8 million students through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) for various welfare schemes of the education department. We have also given three months’ advance pension to all the pensioners of the state under different pension schemes, which include Mukhyamantri Vriddhajana Pension Yojna, disability pension, widow pension and old age pension. A total of Rs 1,017 Crore has been transferred to 8.47 million beneficiaries. We have taken a decision to do procurement of wheat through PACS (Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies) at panchayat level so that farmers don’t have to resort to distress sale and they get minimum support price within stipulated time. This will benefit farmers a lot.Unlike your UP counterpart, you haven’t sought the return of Bihari students held up in Kota. Are your hands forced by your commitment to social justice? You seem apprehensive that special treatment of a set of citizens could beget a class/caste backlash from the less privileged.The Union home ministry issued the consolidated guidelines on April 15 under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and prohibited inter-district and inter-state movement of individuals except for medical reasons and permissible activities across the country for the lockdown period until May 3. All states and Union Territories have been directed to ensure strict implementation of the guidelines and we are following and enforcing these directives only. There have been demands from students in many cities and migrants from many states to return home. More than 2.5 million people stranded outside Bihar have applied for special assistance from Bihar Chief Minister Relief Fund. This will give you an idea about the number of people stranded outside Bihar. We are sympathetic to their cause and have apprised the central government accordingly. If the order issued under the Disaster Management Act is relaxed to allow such movements, then we have no objection to that. The concerned states should do health screening of such people and allow them to travel if they are found fit.As the BJP’s ally at the Centre and in the state, are you satisfied with New Delhi’s anti-Covid strategy? A BJP MP from Bihar is the junior health minister at the Centre. Did the PM consult you before the pan-India lockdown starting March 25?The central government is the repository of all information on the coronavirus pandemic. Since it’s a national crisis involving people from all states and Union Territories, the central government is in the best position to take necessary steps. After reviewing the situation in Bihar on March 13, the state government took a number of steps including closing educational institutions; transfer of midday meal money and Anganwadi centre benefits to the beneficiaries/parents’ accounts; closure of zoos, parks and museums; and suspension of all sports and cultural programmes. Then, on March 22, Bihar ordered a state-wide lockdown till March 31. Once the central government ordered a national lockdown from March 25 and issued guidelines for the same, we implemented those measures. Since the central government has all the information, it’s essential that all states and Union Territories follow the Centre’s guidelines and fight the pandemic together.What has been the Centre’s response to Bihar’s financial needs? Are you in agreement with other states for expeditious payment of their GST (Goods and Services Tax) share.We all are aware that the coronavirus pandemic has adversely affected the global economy and the Indian economy has also been impacted by it. The lockdown is bound to impact the economic and industrial activity adversely. The national lockdown has reduced the revenue collection of the central government as well as state governments. This has also affected our fiscal space and financial flexibility. We have shared our financial concerns on GST share, raising of borrowing limit under FRBM (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management) Act with the central government. We are sure that together we shall overcome this coronavirus pandemic challenge.Shouldn’t the Centre announce a special economic package for MSMEs and migrant labourers rendered jobless by the lockdown?You are aware about the reduced fiscal space of central and state governments. We have transferred Rs 1,000 to accounts of around 1.6 million migrant labourers stranded outside Bihar. We have given priority to those sectors that help the rural population such as farmers, daily wage earners, unskilled and skilled people and migrant labourers. The Bihar government has started works in rural areas so that more people could get employment. The departments of rural development and water resources have taken up a large number of schemes under Jal Jeevan Hariyali Abhiyan. Construction works have been taken up by engineering and works department with proper social distancing techniques. Any package given by the central government for MSMEs would be welcome and would help mitigate the problems of the migrant labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-touch-with-those-from-state-stranded-elsewhere-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar/story-PDSC4UeGf8vsacPteVDnxH.html
28-04-2020||India||Tamil Nadu builds wall to seal border with Andhra||Authorities in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore have built a wall to seal a border crossing with Andhra Pradesh and prompted an angry reaction from their counterparts in Chittoor, who say the move will prevent essential travel between the two places including access to a cancer hospital. Officials in Chittoor called the move unwarranted since non-essential travel was already barred between the two districts because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Chittoor’s joint collector, D Markandeyulu, said inter-state borders remain sealed in view of the national lockdown to check the Covid-19 spread but vehicles carrying essential commodities were being allowed to move. “People are allowed to travel between states as there are always certain emergencies. The border check-posts are meant for that purpose. If state highways are blocked permanently by constructing walls, it will affect the emergency transport services,” he said.Officials said thousands of patients from Andhra Pradesh go to Vellore for treatment at a cancer hospital there. Essential commodities like vegetables and groceries are also brought from Vellore to the border villages in Chittoor. Chittoor is one of the worst Covid-19-hit districts with 73 of Andhra’s 1,177 cases as on Monday. Vellore has reported 22 of Tamil Nadu’s 1,885 cases. Markandeyulu said the Vellore district authorities did not even consult them before taking such a “strange decision” to build the wall. “We would take it up with the Vellore district authorities to see that the wall is removed,” he said.He added the wall was constructed even as there was no inter-state movement of vehicles or travelling due to the lockdown. “There is an inter-state check post between Vellore and Chittoor... construction of a permanent structure between the two states is something strange, unusual and unwarranted,” Markandeyulu said. He said local revenue officials brought the construction of the 5 feet high a 3 feet wide wall into collector N Bharat Gupta’s notice on Sunday.Unconfirmed reports said similar attempts of constructing walls were being made at Settinthangal village along the Chittoor-Tiruthani state highway.Vellore collector, A Shanmugha Sundaram, said his district shares borders with Andhra Pradesh at six places. He added only two state highways were blocked with walls. “We have done it only to prevent unauthorised travelling of people in view of the pandemic. The transport of goods or travelling of people in emergency situations can be done through alternative routes,” her said.Sundaram said the walls were not permanent structures and were constructed only with hollow bricks which could be removed later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-builds-wall-to-seal-border-with-andhra/story-5su9hEBcTOiC6lPlbDxtaL.html
28-04-2020||India||States gear up to bring back stranded migrants amid lockdown 2.0||Days after Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh started taking back stranded workers, the Rajasthan government issued guidelines to bring back stranded workers from other states and Odisha announced that it will have similar guidelines in place by the end of April.Bihar on Monday urged the Centre to relax guidelines on isolation and quarantine for allowing the return of migrant workers to the state. Close to a million workers from Bihar, stranded in different states, want to return, said government officials manning the state’s helpline for migrant workers.Bihar chief minister, Nitish Kumar, supported the proposal of Odisha chief minister, Naveen Patnaik, that there should be national guidelines on interstate transport of migrant workers to prevent confusion at a meeting of all chief ministers with Prime Minister Modi.Hours after the meeting with the Prime Minister, Odisha health minister Naba Das said the state will come out with guidelines to bring back stranded workers by the end of April. He also said that 5.5 lakh people have registered with the portal launched to track migrant workers from the state.Odisha government’s chief spokerperson on Covid-19, Subroto Bagchi, said the state was anticipating a huge rush of workers if the lockdown norms are eased on May 3. Das said that the CM had held discussions with the Gujarat and the Maharashtra governments regarding steps required to facilitate the safe return of Odia workers stranded in these two western states.The Rajasthan government appointed 19 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) officers to coordinate with 14 state governments and respective district authorities to bring back stranded migrant workers from the state.Guidelines have also been issued for the desert state’s border districts from where the inbound migrant workers are likely to enter, which include mandatory testing and quarantine at transit camps for the returning workers. The home department has asked district collectors to keep a strict vigil on the movement of the inbound migrant labourers and ensure all their personal details, such as names, addresses, and mobile numbers, are recorded for contact tracing should any of them test positive for Covid-19. State chief secretary, DB Gupta, said these officers would also ensure implementation of guidelines and safety protocols.“After much effort by the state government, the migrant workers from Rajasthan will soon be returning home from other states. These people suffered a lot during the ongoing nationwide lockdown. Now when they return, it is our moral duty to take care of them, provide them with all the help regarding food, medicines and quarantine facilities,” Rajasthan CM, Ashok Gehlot, tweeted on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-gear-up-to-bring-back-stranded-migrants/story-pMkK1PRrCzGtxL7c3PnfKO.html
28-04-2020||India||CRPF seeks probe into jawan’s mistreatment||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has written to Karnataka police chief Praveen Sood seeking an inquiry into the alleged manhandling, arrest, and chaining of one of its commandos on leave in Belagavi last week, two officials familiar with the matter said on Monday.Police in Belagavi’s Examba village allegedly assaulted, handcuffed, and arrested the commando, Sachin Sunil Savant, on April 23. He is accused of violating Covid-19 lockdown norms and assaulting police officers. A video of the incident was posted on Twitter and provoked outrage. A photo purportedly also showed Savant chained outside a police station.One of the two officials cited above said the trouble began after Savant was found without a mask. He was not wearing one since he was just outside his home, the official added.Savant is a part of the CRPF’s Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) unit that specialises in guerrilla and jungle warfare especially in Maoist insurgency-affected areas. CoBRA commandoes are highly skilled and considered among the country’s best. Savant is part of CoBRA’s 207 Battalion that is deployed for anti-Maoist operations in Bihar, Jharkhand, and West Bengal.In a letter to Sood on CRPF chief A P Maheshwari’s behalf, the paramilitary force’s additional director general, Sanjay Arora, said the “unpleasant situation” could have been avoided had the state police taken them into confidence before arresting Savant. HT has seen a copy of the letter.Arora wrote Savant was cleaning his motorcycle in front of his house when the incident took place. He added Savant was “manhandled, ill-treated, paraded to the police station barefooted, kept in chains and handcuffs” by policemen on Covid-19 lockdown duty following a skirmish in Examba village.Arora asked Sood to get the matter inquired and “provide justice to the jawan keeping in mind the gravity of the incident and its impact on the relationship between the two forces”.“We have taken up the case with the state police chief of Karnataka. His [Savant] bail plea is coming before the court on Tuesday and the CRPF too shall be in court through its local officers. Thereafter, the case investigation shall be followed up to take it to the logical conclusion,” CRPF spokesman Moses Dhinakaran said.Arora wrote the CRPF is a force “with high standards of discipline and it has an institutional mechanism for taking care of such situations”. He added the conduct of police personnel was not citizen-centric. Savant has been put under suspension from his unit until the inquiry into the case is over.Belgavi police superintendent Laxman Nimbargi said Savant got into an argument with two of their constables while they were on a patrol and saw his sitting outside a house with a group of around six people. “When those people saw our men, they ran away except for one [ Savant]. When questioned why he [Savant] is not inside during the lockdown, he said he was also a policeman. Our constables said the law of the land is same for the everyone and asked him to go inside and wear a mask... This lead to argument,” he said.Nimbargi said Savant allegedly manhandled their constables and kicked one of them in his stomach. “We have released the entire video of the incident. Our men were assaulted. As per the law, action has been taken and case registered and he was produced in court. We have also sent report to his higher authorities.”He cited the ordinance passed to deal with assaults on health workers and security personnel and said they have merely implemented the government orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-seeks-probe-into-jawan-s-mistreatment/story-v0ax45YrRbn0zKWeutyhtI.html
28-04-2020||India||SC calls airfare refunds arbitrary, seeks govt reply||The Supreme Court Monday questioned the Centre on its decision to restrict full refund of airfare to only those persons who booked tickets during the lockdown period, beginning March 25. The apex court said it was “arbitrary” on the part of the government to exclude persons who booked tickets prior to the lockdown.The issue was brought to the court in a PIL filed by Pravasi Legal Cell. The NGO challenged the April 16 notification issued by the ministry of civil aviation announcing full refund of air tickets booked during the period from March 24 to April 14, and again from April 15 to May 3, on account of the extended lockdown.Since the imposition of lockdown, all commercial flight operations, both domestic and international, were banned in the country. This hampered travel plans of those who had booked tickets in advance. And with the government notification in place, the airline operators refused to refund them the airfare.Advocate Jose Abraham who represented the petitioner NGO claimed that no airline can deny refund to passengers under the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) regulations. He questioned how the Government order could benefit one class of passengers who booked tickets during the lockdown when citizens who booked prior to that date suffered equally due to the lockdown.The bench of justices NV Ramana, SK Kaul and BR Gavai was convinced by the petitioner’s grievance. Addressing solicitor general Tushar Mehta through video conferencing, the bench observed, “This seems arbitrary. The relief should be entitled to everyone whose flights were cancelled during the lockdown, irrespective of the period of booking.” The Court directed Mehta to submit a response to the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-calls-airfare-refunds-arbitrary-seeks-govt-reply/story-Zemh93HJdLZrepnq0JgmPM.html
28-04-2020||India||Once lockdown ends, govt plans Make in India boost||After the extended, 40-day Covid-19 lockdown that ends May 3, the government plans to aggressively push its Make in India programme by offering domestic and foreign manufacturers policy and fiscal incentives to manufacture locally even as it increases import duty to make imports expensive, two government officials familiar with the plan said on condition of anonymity. Also in the works are measures to encourage local entrepreneurs to take on multinational e-commerce giants such as Amazon and the Walmart-owned Flipkart, they added. The overall objective is to boost both manufacturing and services, and generate jobs, the officials said. The governments of some Covid-hit economies and executives of global corporations seeking alternatives to manufacturing in China have made overtures to the Indian government about setting up factories here, two of the officials added. “The new opportunity is in sync with India’s ongoing ‘Make in India’ initiative. Fresh policy decisions and fiscal incentives will be announced to take it further after the lockdown is eased. India needs to assure both its domestic and foreign investors, whether existing or potential, that it will also protect them from any import surge, particularly from China,” one of the two said. A vast market of 1.3 billion people, a relatively inexpensive workforce, and its democratic credentials are expected to hep India make its case, although the complexities of doing business in India (which have improved vastly in recent years), and poor infrastructure could play spoilsport. Experts also point to the policy flip-flops associated with doing business in India.The Make in India programme dates back to 2014, the first year of the Narendra Modi government’s first term in office, and was aimed at attracting investments in manufacturing, which contributes just 18% to the economic output of Asia’s third-largest economy. The government followed up the programme with measures to improve the ease of business and loosen tough labour regulations. The new incentives are aimed at burnishing India’s attraction as an investment destination for manufacturing companies.A thorough review of import duties is now underway with the objective of encouraging manufacturing or value addition in India, said the second official cited above. “Import of raw materials will be made increasingly cheaper, but higher duties will be levied on finished goods.” Sectors in which such measures are under consideration are electrical machinery, electronics, organic chemicals, plastic products and medical equipment, the officials said.Some of the ground for the next phase of Make in India has already been prepared with two announcements -- a deep cut in the corporate tax rate to 22% for existing companies and 15% to new ones, in September 2019, and an import duty hike on a host of products, from footwear and furniture to electrical appliances and toys, in the February 1 budget for 2020-21.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her budget speech: “It has been observed that imports under Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) are on the rise. Undue claims of FTA benefits have posed a threat to domestic industry. Such imports require stringent checks.” She added that “cheap and low-quality imports are an impediment” to the growth of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs)”.Major global economies will support Make in India in the post-Covid-19 era as they make a conscious effort to relocate their manufacturing activities away from China, said DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor at global consultant EY India .“India is an attractive destination in the medium to long term basis because of its high share of working age population. In terms of policy support, the CIT [corporate income tax] reforms undertaken last year will come in handy. A 15% CIT rate for new manufacturing units is highly competitive.” The second official quoted above said India would take the spirit of the Make in India campaign to services. “The government is considering encouraging Indian enterprises in domestically developed services such as e-commerce.” The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), along with domestic retailers, is planning to develop a national e-commerce platform that can be used by over 70 million kirana stores to accept orders online. The platform will connect domestic manufacturers, distributors, wholesalers, retailers and consumers, the official said.India must look beyond the domestic market, experts said. India’s primary strength lies in the services sector and in labour-intensive and skill-intensive manufacturing, Srivastava said. “This is why we have export advantages in traditional areas such as gems and jewellery and modern areas such as engineering goods and pharmaceuticals. In the longer run, we have to focus not only on Make in India but also on developing exports both in manufacturing and services.” Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) president Sharad Kumar Saraf said the post-Covid era is likely to see the shift of manufacturing of all types of products away from China. But issues related to land, labour and uncertainty in taxation are limiting the success of Make in India, he added.“Radical reforms are needed in all three areas. What more we need is policy and fiscal incentives in terms of ease of doing business, easy availability of finance for the industry and, above all, better infrastructure including both transport and logistics.” According to official data, India’s overall exports -- merchandise and services combined -- earned $528.45 billion in the financial year that ended on March 31, 2020, a 1.36% decline from the previous year. Imports shrank 6.33% in the year to $598.61 billion.India-China bilateral trade is heavily tilted in favour of China. According to trade figures released by the General Administration of Customs of China (GACC) in mid-January 2020, India’s trade deficit with China was $56.77 billion in 2019; bilateral trade amounted to about $92.68 billion last year, a 1.6% annual increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/once-lockdown-ends-govt-plans-make-in-india-boost/story-5CPKUtHTeQau4sK8GPg8zN.html
28-04-2020||India||Manipur’s 1st Covid-19 patient free from surveillance, no new cases reported from state||Manipur’s first patient of coronavirus disease, who tested negative thrice in successive tests, is now free from surveillance as per protocol as her test result was found negative for the 4th time on Monday.Sharing this information, the state chief minister N Biren Singh tweeted, “Glad to share that the 1st Covid-19 patient from Manipur is now free from surveillance as per protocol, as her test result is found –ve for the 4th time today. She was detected +ve on March & discharged from JNIMS on April 12 after testing –ve for the 3rd time.”23-year-old female, who had come back from the UK, tested positive on March 24. But she improved a lot during treatment at Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences (JNIMS) hospital and discharged from the hospital on April 12. Since then she stayed home for the mandatory 14 days quarantine.On the other hand, the state’s second patient of the Covid-19, who tested negative twice in successive tests, was also discharged from the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences hospital in Imphal on April 21.The 53-year-old man, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat’s congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, tested positive for Covid-19 on April 2 and was under treatment at RIMS. He tested negative on April 18 and 19.He is presently at home for the mandatory 14 days quarantine.Even though there is no report of new Covid-19 positive case since then, the state authority continues to take up various measures across the state particularly at the important entry points and porous international border. The vigil and necessary step along the Indo-Myanmar international border has been taken up by erecting 200 metre long barb-wire fencing in Churchandpur district border to prevent cross border movement to control spread of dreaded virus.As on Monday, 428 people have been tested for Covid-19 and 196,153 were screened for the infection in Manipur as per the status report of the state surveillance officer Dr L Tomcha Khuman of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme.In addition, 97 people ate staying at government quarantine centres and 319 of them have completed their quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-s-1st-covid-19-patient-free-from-surveillance-no-new-cases-reported-from-state/story-5QpO7Jt6fI167SubVLujNJ.html
28-04-2020||India||Bengal’s first private cancer hospital ostracised as patient tests Covid-19+||Founded by a legendary oncologist in 1973 and later named after him, the Saroj Gupta Cancer Centre and Research Institute at Thakurpukur on Kolkata’s southern fringes was forced to stop most of its services in the last ten days because of acute staff shortage triggered by social ostracism.This happened soon after a patient admitted with lung cancer on April 17 was referred to Bangur Hospital, the state-run nodal hospital for Covid-19 patients, after he tested positive for coronavirus.Follow coronavirus latest updates here.“Soon after the patient left the hospital, local residents and neighbours of many of our workers stopped them from coming to work, visiting markets or even collecting water from street outlets. It is extremely unfortunate that this happened, despite repeated appeals from the Union health ministry. Relatives of some staff members were also threatened,” said Dr Arnab Gupta, director of the institute and the founder’s grandson.“I contacted the state health department and moved the police administration. The situation started improving since this morning,” Dr Gupta told HT on Monday afternoon.Equipped with 310 beds and modern amenities, the non-profit institute, which is run by a trust, has 850 staff members. There are more than 180 doctors on its panel. Recognized by the World Health Organisation, the institute is a member of the Union for International Cancer Control, Geneva. “We had to stop several services and defer chemotherapy sessions and operations. Despite our efforts, many patients were compelled to go home. We kept around 55 patients, some of whom are in critical condition and the rest are children.” said Dr Gupta. “On April 19, there were only 15 staff members on duty. I had to join them,” he added.“The police campaigned in the local neighbourhoods and told people that they should appreciate the efforts being put in by health workers and doctors. We said cancer patients need special care, as much as Covid-19 patients do,” an officer at Thakurpukur police station said on condition of anonymity. Popularly known as Thakurpukur cancer hospital, the institute was Bengal’s first private cancer hospital to boast of modern facilities but treat patients at a nominal cost. It was first known as Cancer Centre Welfare Home and Research Institute. Dr Saroj Gupta was helped by a handful of doctors and social workers to set up the facility with 25 beds. They raised the earliest funds by staging a play scripted by the oncologist (Dr Saroj Gupta) who also played a cancer patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-first-private-cancer-hospital-ostracised-as-patient-tests-covid-19/story-XoQcya89zEVfNQVjg422IM.html
28-04-2020||India||Naveen Patnaik pitches SOP on return of stranded persons across states||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday pitched for a national standard operating procedure for smooth movement of stranded persons including students, workers, pilgrims, patients, professionals so that it is seamless across states.Patnaik’s proposal came during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers. The chief minister also sought assistance from the Centre for increasing Covid-19 testing capacity.Though Odisha health minister Naba Das early in the day said Odisha had demanded extension of the lockdown for a month, he later denied it saying the same was demanded by all the health ministers. “Neither my state nor I have personally demanded,” he said, adding that Odisha has the coronavirus crisis in control, when compared to other state’s population and the number of tests performed.During the meeting, PM Modi said that the impact of coronavirus will remain visible in the coming months. He highlighted the importance for states to enforce guidelines strictly in the hotspots i.e. the red zone areas. He stated that the efforts of the states should be directed towards converting the red zones into orange and thereafter to green zones.The prime minister also urged chief ministers to factor in the changes in weather – advent of summer and monsoon – and the illnesses that can potentially come in this season, while strategising ahead.Of the 111 who tested positive for Covid-19 in Odisha, 37 have recovered while one person who also had co-morbidity factors, died.Odisha was the first state to declare lockdown all over the state on March 24 after predicting a doomsday-like scenario of 36,000 cases of coronavirus in the state by May-end if people did not remain in their homes.In the last two weeks, apart from Sundargarh, Jajpur, Balasore, Bhadrak and Koraput districts, none of the other 26 districts have reported a single case. Khurda district which includes the capital city of Bhubaneswar is the only hotspot district in the state though no new cases have been reported from there in the last 12 days.The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation and Bhubaneswar police commissioner said that as the capital city is in a red zone with 46 cases, all the norms of lockdown will continue.Meanwhile, chief minister Patnaik announced an ex-gratia payment of Rs 15 lakh to the next of kin of any working journalist and ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh for police personnel in case of death while performing the Covid-19 duty. A few days back the government had declared that Rs 50 lakh ex gratia will be given for all doctors, nurses and heath personnel who lose their lives in the fight against Covid-19. The state government also said health workers who die during the fight against Covid-19 will be treated as “martyrs” and accorded a state funeral.In another development, a 32-year-old doctor posted at the Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), a dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Bhubaneswar, died Monday. He had a day off after seven days and died of some other medical complications. He had tested negative for Covid-19, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-moots-another-month-of-lockdown-seeks-more-testing-centres/story-Dagpu3wiDX1QGWGo5GEmRP.html
28-04-2020||Today's||Need a comprehensive law on epidemics in post Covid-19 situation | Opinion||Covid-19, also known as ‘coronavirus’, has raised a number of challenges across the globe; practically in different spheres of administration, border crossings, health services, civic behaviour, technology’ diplomacy and so on. Country after country is struggling with the tough choice between saving lives vs saving livelihoods. Whether they should place the country under a lockdown, if so, for what duration, should the entire country be locked down or only few regions, whether it should be a total lockdown that mirrors a curfew or some essential activities should be exempted. These are some of the questions which are frequently being discussed. In a large and diverse country such as India, the challenges are even more complicated, particularly when public health is not a central or even a concurrent subject but purely a state subject.Entry 6 of the List II (State List) of the seventh Schedule of the Constitution clearly mentions “6. Public health and sanitation, hospitals and dispensaries.” However, a question of public health cannot, and should not, be discussed in isolation from the broader issue of livelihood of the populace.When India declared a complete nationwide lockdown, becoming one of the first democracies in the world to opt for this stringent measure, there was a string of criticism and concerns, all begging one question – Was the lockdown necessary? One month later, with the benefit of hindsight, everyone not only agrees but also applauds the government’s farsightedness in imposing a nation-wide lockdown.The lockdown, however, does not come without a fair share of problems of its own, the most pertinent is centered around the protection of basic civil rights in this lockdown. People at the bottom of the socio-economic pyramid, especially migrant workers have been the worst hit by the lockdown. Amid the crisis, one question, among many, conspicuously, remains unanswered: How to balance the ‘civil liberties’ of individuals with the ‘responsibilities towards the community, state and the country’.In a welfare state (such as India), the “State is obliged to protect and promote the economic and social well-being of the citizens on the principles of equality, parity and public responsibility”. Public responsibility in this context can be understood aptly through the Supreme Court ruling in State of Punjab vs MS Chawla, where the court decided that providing the basic healthcare facilities to the citizens falls within the purview of the fundamental right to life under the Constitution’s Article 21. The verdict is also in resonance with the Siracusa Principles. It is also reflected in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights which make it obligatory upon the government to treat patients to the highest attainable standard, even during a pandemic.Further, India, with its vast territory, large but extremely diverse population, and low literacy levels, poses a special kind of challenge to a government trying to develop a nationwide solution to tackle the epidemic. The reckless disregard to the lockdown by some people and the numerous instances of rumour mongering have been extremely problematic for the administration to maintain law and order across the country.This presents an extremely peculiar position where the government, on the one hand, has to ensure the basic civil rights of people, and on the other, has to curb the outbreak of the disease. Though it might be too early to call, but from the data available, one can easily deduce that countries which have opted for ‘slightly authoritarian measures’, like Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan, despite their proximity to China have prevailed, while countries like the United States, the United Kingdom, Italy either due to their lax or vacillated approach have succumbed to the virus. A cursory inference of this data easily invokes the dogma of whether “desperate times require desperate measures”, meaning whether and to what extent should the government impose restrictions on civil rights to curb the pandemic.In such testing times, where the entire scenario can be narrowed down to the equation of liberties vs lives, a hybrid approach that encompasses the spirit of both sides should be applied. Drawing the line in such cases, however, becomes an arduous task. This implies that while certain fundamental rights, such as the right to religion or the right to expression can be restricted, the restriction in all such cases shall be reasonable and open to judicial scrutiny. The recent case of T. Ganesh Kumar vs Union of India captures the essence of this quandary, where the Madras High Court rightly dismissed a petition that sought a ban on newspapers.On a deeper analysis, one can easily attribute this conundrum to the colonial-era Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, which leaves much to be desired. The four-page long law is dotted with ambiguous and open-ended wording.However, perhaps the biggest deficiency of the act is its failure to provide an outline of the basic civil rights which the government needs to ensure during the epidemic. The act is neither successful in laying out the course of action, nor in describing the rights of the citizens in such a situation. That combined with its excessive reliance on Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (where the maximum punishment is six months imprisonment or a thousand rupees) for penal punishment in cases of violation, presents an extremely haphazard state of affairs.The effect of these shortcomings in the statute is also indicated in several states invoking the National Security Act (NSA) against people who violated the lockdown norms and potentially, put others in harm’s way. However, maintaining the charges of NSA, within the courtroom can be extremely challenging. The Supreme Court in the case of Vikram Singh vs Union of India has held that the punishment must be proportionate to the offence committed, and conviction under an act like NSA requires an exceptionally high level of threshold.The way forwardThe best remedy to successfully tackle the current epidemic and prepare for the future lies in modifying or rather creating a comprehensive legislation that specialises in dealing with such cases. A law that provides a detailed road map of the course of action and a clear demarcation between rights and liberties; the ones that may be restricted by the State and the ones that cannot be restricted. Quite like the recent Ordinance on Measures to Combat the Coronavirus (Covid-19 Ordinance 2) promulgated by The Swiss Federal Council that has been enacted to take steps to contain spread of the disease and mobilise the capacities required to manage the epidemic, particularly to maintain the conditions required to provide the population with adequate care and a sufficient supply of therapeutic products. The Ordinance has specific provisions for border crossings, export controls for protective equipment, provisions for health care and also measures that apply to population, organisations and institutions. The Swiss Federal Council Ordinance also provides for a three-year jail term for violators. It would do India well to have a comprehensive health epidemic legislation for the country.(Ishan Khare and Pratyush Nigam are students at the National University of Juridical Sciences, Kolkata)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/need-a-comprehensive-law-on-epidemics-in-post-covid-19-situation-opinion/story-1bcV6lECgCR6HWXozn8YQN.html
28-04-2020||Editorials||Home isolation is a good idea | HT Editorial||In new guidelines released on Monday, the health ministry prescribed an important new method for the management of suspected and confirmed cases of Covid-19. Those with very mild symptoms, or who are asymptomatic — and have requisite facilities at home — can now be in home isolation, instead of being admitted in a hospital. This is contingent on a set of conditions. There should be a 24*7 caregiver; there should be constant communication between the caregiver and a hospital; the patient should have downloaded the Aarogya Setu app and keep it active; the patient should regularly provide updates to the district surveillance officer; the caregiver and other close contacts should take hydroxychloroquine; if severe symptoms develop, the patient must seek immediate medical attention; and the period of home isolation will end only after the patient is tested negative and a medical officer provides a certificate.This is a welcome move. Based on what is now known about the coronavirus disease, it is clear that a larger number of infected individuals are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. They will also recover with adequate care. Health systems across the world — and more so in developing countries such as India — are already stressed. The period of the lockdown has, to be sure, been used to ramp up testing, increase hospital beds, create dedicated quarantine facilities, and ensure the availability of more ventilators. But if there is a surge of cases — which is likely once restrictions are eased — India will not have the requisite infrastructure to cope with it. This is where home isolation will help. With adequate precautions, patients can stay home — and recover — without straining the health system. But there are real implementation challenges. Given India’s high density of population, and the fact that large sections of citizens live in cramped homes, sharing a room with a dozen other people, many do not have the space to exercise this option. For those who can avail this option, the obstacle will be in monitoring. The entire idea is contingent on two major variables — of patients and their caregivers voluntarily providing accurate information on an everyday basis; and of already over-stretched district medical authorities keeping track of such cases and intervening when required. If either of these conditions is not met, the plan will not work. It is also important to note that there is often a rapid decline, where patients with no symptoms end up developing severe symptoms, at which point, the chances of survival diminish. This means that there must not be any delay in hospital admissions. But if these issues are addressed, the experiment of home isolation can provide a much-needed breather to India’s health system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/home-isolation-is-a-good-idea-ht-editorial/story-VWb9R9reE4cMmvHkVaKzzN.html
28-04-2020||Editorials||India’s defence spending is justified | HT Editorial||India emerged as the world’s third-largest defence spender last year. This is both good and bad news. The good part is that the country continues to invest in military preparedness in a difficult region. The bad part is that an expenditure of $ 71 billion a year, with a similar amount likely to be spent this fiscal year, will be a burden at a time of economic stress. Any expectation the Covid-19 pandemic would inspire a more pacific sentiment in the region has been dissipated by the violence India is experiencing along the Line of Control. For Pakistan, it is business as usual as far as cross-border infiltration and shelling are concerned. The Sino-Indian border has been a quieter affair, but Beijing’s economic and verbal aggression against other governments indicates the dragon has not been tamed by the virus. India cannot afford to lower its defences. India’s number three position is as much because of the decline of Russia and Saudi Arabia as it is about New Delhi spending more. With a defence budget that is about two per cent of GDP, India spends well below the global average and is light-years behind China’s $261 billion. The past decade has seen New Delhi seek to squeeze waste and duplication out of the armed forces, a process that should continue. Getting more bang for the buck will be the path of every government in a time when bucks are far and few.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-s-defence-spending-is-justified-ht-editorial/story-npob082asfsX7bbZVrf6hM.html
