01-08-2021||---||Celebrations on||Amritsar, July 31Meritorious students in Amritsar city continued celebrating the CBSE 2021 Class XII results. With all schools reporting 100 per cent results, the number of students getting 90 per cent and above marks remained relatively higher this yearIn The Millennium School, Manik Jain emerged as the school topper with 97.6 per cent, followed by Gurleen Kaur at 97.4 per cent and Tanveer Singh as well as Aswar Khanna at 97.2 per cent. Of the total 61 students, 52 per cent students scored above 90 per cent, and 78 per cent students scored above 80 per centKhalsa College Public School (KCPS) student Mehtab Kaur got 98.4 per cent and topped in the school in Commerce stream. Samrath Singh Randhwa got 98.4 per cent in Humanities while Jaskaran got 96.4 per cent in non-medical, Mandeep Singh got 96.4 per cent. Over 40 students in the school scored more than 90 per cent, as informed by Principal AS GillSimilarly, Amrit Kaur from Khalsa College International Public School (KCIPS) scored 97 per cent, Arshdeep 96 per cent, Jasnoor got 95 per cent. In total 17 students scored more than 90 per cent marks, said Principal Nirmaljit KaurRyan International School topper Harmanpreet Singh scored 96.6 per cent (non-medical), followed by Vriti Bedi with 96.6 per cent (humanities), Mehul Kapoor with 95.8 per cent (commerce) and Samreen Kaur, with 95.6 per cent (medical)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/celebrations-on-291329
01-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Attempt to steal cash from bank||A miscreant tried to steal cash from the Punjab and Sind Bank branch at Shahbazpur village here on early this morning. Dinkar Parshad, manager of the bank, on the basis footage of the CCTVs installed in the bank, said one thief managed to enter the bank premises by breaking the wall of the bank from the rear side at about 4am. The accused disconnected all CCTVs and then tried to break the lock of the strong room of the bank, but failed in his attempt. A case has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/attempt-to-steal-cash-from-bank-291327
01-08-2021||Amritsar||23-yr-old youth drowns in drain||Two of GNDU get Rs18-Lakh packageAmritsar: Multinational companies are hiring students in big numbers from Guru Nanak Dev University. As many as 754 students from various departments have been placed in many MNCs even before the completion of their formal studies. These students will join their jobs in August 2021 after passing out their respective courses in July, 2021. Bharat Nishchal, a B Tech student of the CSE branch got placed in Swiggy at the highest pay package of Rs 18 lakh per annum. Another student Harman Deep Singh from B Tech, CSE, got a job offer of Rs 18 lakh per annum from Amazon. ocOne booked for raping minorAmritsar: A 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a youth in Jandiala Guru area, around five months ago. However, a complaint was lodged with the police after the accused Varinder Singh, a resident of Maqboolpura locality, sent her objectionable video on her uncle's phone. The police have registered a case while no arrest has been made till now. The victim alleged that around five months ago, Varinder Singh, the accused, allegedly started forcing her for making physical relations, which she refused. She said one day the accused also made her objectionable video. He later forwarded the video on the mobile of her uncle. The police have registered a case in this regard. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/23-yr-old-youth-drowns-in-drain-291326
01-08-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Child begging, a menace that goes unabated||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 31Though there are many stringent laws to curb the menace of begging and there is no dearth of guidelines for rehabilitation of such persons, a large number of children, including toddlers, can still be seen begging at various traffic intersections in the city. It also raises a serious question mark on the sincerity of the government.Small children, some barely five years old, can be seen tucking at the elbows of motorcyclists or knocking at the windows of cars. Some of them carry small clothes and try to wipe the windscreen of the vehicles to attract the attention of passengers in a vehicle.They move from vehicle to vehicle trying their luck. “Some of these children are so small that you cannot even see them if they are crossing the road by the front side bumper of the car. A careless driver might hit them when the traffic signals turn green,” said commuter Jagtar Singh. He said the government departments concerned should come forward and make efforts to identify who these children were.In the past, the administration had once suggested to people to stop giving alms to them so as to curb the menace of begging. “The concern should be on to verify who their parents are. Are they drug addicts who are forcing their children to beg or they have a genuine problem. In both cases, it is the duty of the state and society to respond to their situation,” said a senior citizen Balkaran Singh.Residents suggested that the district administration in association with religious organisations and NGOs should try to find a solution to the problem. They said as it was a holy city, small children begging at traffic signals are a blot on its reputation.“Without education and proper guidance, what we expect from them when they grow up. People want to help them and that is the reason why they give them food or money. I myself try to give them food as they are not old enough to make purchases with the money. The money surely goes to their parent or the one who is controlling,” said Sunil Kumar, another resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/child-begging-a-menace-that-goes-unabated-291302
01-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja
||Akalis claim majority in Ajnala nagar panchayat||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, July 31 Though the Congress councillors proved their majority during the MC elections in Ajnala in April, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillors are now claiming their majority as one of the councillors unofficially joined the SAD group after she had expressed her resentment with the elected president of then nagar panchayat.  Deepak Arora of Congress was elected president of Ajnala civic body unanimously on April 15. There are a total 15 seats in Ajnala civic body out of which eight were won by candidates of SAD and 7 were of Congress. Later, Raminder Kaur Mahal, who contested on the SAD ticket, joined the Congress which  later got the majority.  Due to internal friction among Congress councillors, the Congress representatives failed to call the meeting till the first week of July. The SAD councillors claimed that as per the rule, the elected house should call a meeting within 90 days.  Meanwhile, one of the Congress councillors Geeta Rani joined the Shiromani Akali Dal camp unofficially.  Finally on July 12, president Deepak Arora called a meeting but the SAD councillors, led by Jaspal Singh Dhillon, asked the Congress councillor to prove their majority before discussion on the agenda. The meeting was postponed and a second meeting was called on July 26.  The Shiromani Akali Dal councillors claimed their majority and demanded majority test  Jaspal Singh Dhillon, councillor of SAD said, “We met Additional Deputy Commissioner to conduct the majority test and re-elect the president as Congress does not have a majority. Due to lack of majority, the Congress is not able to complete its quorum. The development work is suffering in the town due to this conflict.”  Deepak Arora, President, nagar panchayat, did not respond to the repeated phone calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akalis-claim-majority-in-ajnala-nagar-panchayat-291303
01-08-2021||---||Second wave of Covid ebbing in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 31The second wave of the Covid-19 disease seems to be ebbing with the district reporting 324 cases and 20 deaths due to the disease in the month of July.Comparatively, the district had reported a total of 2,039 cases in June while the death toll stood at 108 during the month. Life in the city is slowly returning to normal as the panic created by the infection is subsiding.The district had witnessed the peak of the second wave in May when it had reported a total of 12,194 cases and 495 deaths in the month. From a few hundred cases each day to only a few cases daily, the situation is taking a turn for the better.In the last fortnight, the number of daily cases has come down to a single digit. However, health experts stated that the residents must not lower their guard in view of the apprehensions of a third wave.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said, “The residents are advised to continue following proper safety guidelines. The situation has improved a lot during the last one month, but it is not over yet.” He said the government was keeping a watch on the situation. “The Health Department has put proper arrangements in place to deal with the third wave,” he said.The second wave of the contagion had begun after mid-February after which the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths increased drastically over the next three months. With the situation now taking a positive turn, the health teams too are heaving a sigh of relief.Meanwhile, a total of 6,602 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Saturday. Of these, 3,895 were administered the first dose of the vaccine, while 2,707 received the second dose.Dist sees 1 death, five fresh cases Amritsar: With one death reported due to Covid in the past 24 hours, the district toll increased to 1,585 on Saturday. The deceased has been identified Malook Singh, a 75-year-old resident of Athwal Village near Majitha. The district reported five fresh cases on Saturday. A total of 6,602 residents were inoculated on Saturday. TNSTarn Taran reports 1 caseOne covid positive case and no death due to the covid infection had been reported in the district on Saturday. As many as 373 residents have lost their lives to Covid in the district till date. OCCovid Update||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/second-wave-of-covid-ebbing-in-amritsar-291304
01-08-2021||---||Silence your noisy bikes!||Amritsar, July 31 The city police have imposed a ban on bikes with altered silencers that produce high decibel noise while driving.  For producing high-decibel sound, many youths get the silencers of their vehicles altered, which is an offence under the Motor Vehicles Act.  The city police while imposing the ban stated that these high-sound producing bikes are a source of noise pollution and cause inconvenience to commuters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/silence-your-noisy-bikes-291305
01-08-2021||---||AFSO, police accused of  harassment||Amritsar, July 31Days after a woman was booked by the police for allegedly slapping an Assistant Food and Civil Supply Officer (AFSO) Mohanjit Singh, the woman today accused the police of harassing her and acting under political pressure.The caseParwinder Kaur held a press conference on Monday and alleged that she was forced to name another AFSO-rank officer in the case, but she refused, thus a case was registered against her. She had accused Mohanjit of physical harassment for rectifying her blue card, which was wrongly shifted in Verka area. She said she made rounds of the District Food and Civil Supply Department for making the necessary correction, but they asked me to meet Mohanjit for the same. She alleged the official called her at the department's godown on Loharka road where he harassed her. When she resisted, Mohanjit threatened her.Parwinder Kaur held a press conference on Monday and alleged that she was forced to name another AFSO-rank officer in the case, but she refused, thus a case was registered against her.She had accused Mohanjit of physical harassment for rectifying her blue card, which was wrongly shifted in Verka area. She said she made rounds of the District Food and Civil Supply Department for making the necessary correction, but they asked me to meet Mohanjit for the same. She alleged the official called her at the department’s godown on Loharka road where he harassed her. When she resisted, Mohanjit threatened her.Parwinder said she had filed a complaint with Gwal Mandi police chowki in this regard, but it did not take necessary action. She said she also wrote to the DGP, the Women Commission and the Police Commissioner, but nothing happened. Disturbed over this, she had slapped him near his office. She alleged when the police arrested her, they forced her to name another AFSO.Mohanjit denied all the allegations and added Parwinder was doing all this at the behest of another AFSO-rank officer. He said the police have registered a case against her and further investigation was under progress. “There is a conspiracy to defame me and whosoever is behind this, should be taken to task,” he said. Assistant SI Sushil Kumar (Investigating Officer) refuted the allegations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/afso-police-accused-of-harassment-291306
01-08-2021||Our Correspondent||100% result for two Tarn Taran schools||Tarn Taran, July 31Authorities of various city schools affiliated with the CBSE and PSEB on Saturday felicitated meritorious students who performed well in the Class XII board exams declared yesterday.The pass percentage of Khadoor Sahib Baba Gurmukh Singh Uttam Singh Senior Secondary School had been 100 per cent. In science stream, 121 students had appeared in the exams, while 53 students had appeared inthe commerce stream. Three science students — Sandeep Kaur, Amreenpreet Kaur and Sejpreet Kaur — secured 492 (98.04 per cent), 489 (97.08 per cent) and 465 (93 per cent) marks out of 500 respectively. In commerce stream, Ramanpreet Kaur, Sahilpreet Kaur and Deepak Kaur Khehra secured 484, 482 and 480 marks respectively. As many as 20 students of science were able to get above 90 per cent marks, while 11 commerce students also got above 90 per cent marks.According to the Class XII results declared by the PSEB, all students of Shah Harbans Singh International Public School, Rani Wallah, cleared the exam. School managing director Gulwinder Singh Sandhu said Simranjit Kaur of science group secured 91 per cent marks.Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School Principal Ranjit Bhatia said in the CBSE Class XII board exam results declared on Friday, Kanan Gupta, a commerce student, bagged overall first position in the school by scoring 96.4 per cent marks. Arts student Prabhleen Kaur stood second in the school with 95.4 per cent marks, while Karishma and Manisha of medical stream, Simrandeep Kaur of non-medical and Supreet Kaur of commerce stood third by scoring 95.2 per cent marks. Harjeet Singh and Gurinder Singh, from the managing committee of the school, congratulated the students and the outshining students were felicitated in the school.Chabal Sri Guru Harkrishan Public Senior Secondary School Principal Urminder Kaur said Nikita (medical) and Harjot Kaur (non-medical) secured 95.2 per cent marks and Sonia Dhillon (commerce) got 94.8 per cent marks. A total of 122 students from the school had appeared in the CBSE Class XII exams and 19 scored above 90 per cent marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/100-result-for-two-tarn-taran-schools-291307
01-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Canine sterilisation drive in city gets a fillip||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 31Finally, the civil wing of the Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA) has completed the construction of an Animal Birth Control Centre at Gumanpura for sterilisation of stray canines in the city. The health wing of the MCA would start functioning at this centre soon, Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu said.The MCA has initiated dog sterilisation drive several times in the past few years but in the absence of proper infrastructure, the drive could not succeed.Pilot projectThe MCA had started a pilot project to sterilise 2,000 dogs in December 2018 and hired a private firm, which was supposed to do the job for Rs 18 lakh. Due to poor infrastructure, the MC could sterilise only 1,451 dogs in two years.Meanwhile, the MC General House sanctioned Rs 45 lakh on December 31, 2020, to sterilise 5,000 more dogs. Observing the requirement of a full-fledged sterilisation center, the MC started constructing an Animal Birth Control Centre at Gumanpura. The ongoing sterilisation project was hanging fire due to inadequate infrastructure.The Mayor said the construction of the Animal Birth Control Center had been completed. “It has a capacity to sterilise 150 dogs weekly. The health wing of the MC will prepare a schedule to catch and sterilise dogs. The project would be implemented in a systematic way,” he maintained.At present, there are over 25,000 stray dogs in the city and the problem has taken alarming proportions. However, the poor infrastructure was only one of the main reasons for the MC projects failing as there were some other hurdles too. Animal activists and dog lovers often raised their voice against the MC’s attitude towards stray dogs. They also demanded a clean and hygienic environment for dog sterilisation to avoid mortality among sterilised canine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/canine-sterilisation-drive-in-city-gets-a-fillip-291308
01-08-2021||---||Meenakshi, Nagita joint toppers||Amritsar, July 31District Education Officer Secondary Satinder Bir Singh today announced the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) results of Class XII that were declared yesterday.Meenakshi and Nagita of Meritorious School in the district jointly secured the first position in the district with 98 per cent marks. Similarly, Rekha of Government Senior Secondary School, Nawankot, secured the second place with 97 per cent marks.Meenakshi, who aspires to join the Indian Air Force, is a student of non-medical stream and credited her success to her parents and teachers. “Despite the Covid pandemic, my teachers helped me study throughout this period through various modes such as online and also offline modes,” she said. Meenakshi, the only sister of two brothers, born to father Jugraj and mother Pushpa Devi, has made the entire family proud.Nagita said she wants to pursue her fathers’ dream of making a name for herself. Her father passed away when she was young and she is supported by her mother Rekha Devi. “My mother has been my constant support. She worked tirelessly to ensure that I complete my education. I want to make her proud by becoming an IPS officer. This year was very tough for students, especially for those who do not have good internet access or smartphones. But the government provided them with phones which helped them come out with flying colours,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/meenakshi-nagita-joint-toppers-291309
01-08-2021||---||STF may bring drug smuggler Sumra on production warrant||Amritsar, July 31A Special Task Force (STF) is contemplating to bring Shahid Kasam Sumra, a notorious drug peddler allegedly involved in sneaking over 500-kg heroin to India through sea route in Gujarat, on production warrant regarding seizure of 200-kg heroin from Sultanwind village last year.Sumra was arrested by the Anti-Terrorism Squad of Gujarat from Delhi airport three days ago. Special Task Force DSP Vavinder Mahajan said the 200-kg heroin seized was part of the 500-kg consignment smuggled from Pakistan through Gujarat by Sumra.His arrest is a major breakthrough as it would help in ascertaining his links in Punjab, who are involved in illegal drug trade.“Though the case was taken over by the National Investigating Agency, we may also bring him in the case for identifying his links in the state,” said Mahajan.The STF had confiscated around 450-kg narcotics, including 194-kg heroin from a plush house in Akash Vihar at Sultanwind village on January 31, 2020 and arrested six persons in this regard. The arrested accused included an Afghanistan national Ankush Kapoor, Arman Basharmal and Sahil, son of MC councillor. Ankush’s interrogation had led to the seizure of another 3-kg heroin from his residence. During the course of investigation, the police nabbed SAD leader Anwar Masih as the seizure of drugs was done from his property.Mahajan said the NIA recently took over the case following “nacro-terrorism” angle that cropped during the investigation of four drug-related cases against Sumra as he allegedly funded terror activities from the ill gotten money from drug trade. He had been evading arrest and fled abroad after his name figured in the seizure of drugs case. He along with Simarjit Singh Sandhu, a resident of Amritsar, who is now residing in Italy, got a part of the consignment into the state, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stf-may-bring-drug-smuggler-sumra-on-production-warrant-291310
01-08-2021||Abohar||Firing case: 2 held in Abohar||Two accomplices of miscreants who shot at a petrol pump owner to steal cash in Sriganganagar on Thursday night have been arrested. SP Rajan Dushyant said Mohit (19) and Monu Sain (18) were nabbed after examining CCTV footage. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/firing-case-2-held-in-abohar-291195
01-08-2021||Amritsar||SI, ASI booked under NDPS Act in Amritsar||Following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana HC, the Amritsar rural police have booked a Sub Inspector and an Assistant Sub Inspector under the NDPS Act for “unnecessarily searching, detaining and arresting” a person.They were identified as SI Satish Kumar of the Lopoke police station and ASI Rajpal of the Kakkar police Chowki. The case pertains to the seizure of tramadol capsules from four persons a year ago. The police had arrested Kulwinder Singh, Jugraj Singh among four persons. Kulwinder had moved the HC, alleging he was picked up from a filling station at Manawala where he was buying petrol on July 8, 2020. He said Jugraj and others were already in the police vehicle. Next day, he said, he was booked under the NDPS Act, showing a recovery of 5,000 tramadol capsules. Amritsar rural SSP Gulneet Singh Khuranna said they were booked under Section 58 of the NDPS Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/si-asi-booked-under-ndps-act-in-amritsar-291194
01-08-2021||---||Key suspect in Patti double murder case ‘linked’ to Canada drug cartel||Amritsar, July 31The prime suspect in the Patti double murder case, Lakhbir Singh, alias Landa, has alleged links with the international drug racket busted by the Canadian police in a yearlong operation in April, claim the Punjab Police. Of the 30 persons nabbed in the operation, 25 are of Punjab origin.The Tarn Taran police had recently put forward a case of issuing a red corner notice against him to Bureau of Investigation, Punjab, which was sent to the CBI for taking up the matter with Interpol.“We have found evidence that Landa and his associates had links with the drug cartel busted by the Canadian police. Among the Punjab origin persons nabbed by them, several belonged to the Makhu area of Ferozepur,” said Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale.In the report, the police claimed Landa fled to Canada just before he was convicted in a criminal case in 2017. He was sponsored by his sister Sukhraj Kaur, who lives in Canada.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/key-suspect-in-patti-double-murder-case-linked-to-canada-drug-cartel-291189
01-08-2021||Tribune Web Desk||Video of elderly Amritsar woman selling juice goes viral, help pours in on social media||Chandigarh, July 31Touched by an emotional video of an elderly woman running a juice stall in Amritsar, people have come forward on social media to do their bit for her. The 30-second clip, which has gone viral, shows the woman running a juice stall to earn a living for herself. She is seen making fresh mausambi (sweet lime) juice and is serving people with a smile.It shows the woman working hard in her age to feed herself. Appearing to be in her 80s, the woman's stall is located at Rani Da Bagh near Uppal Neuro Hospital.This 80 year old woman runs a stall in Amritsar. She is working hard in her old age to feed herself. She's struggling to have customers from sometime. Her stall is located at Rani Da Bagh, near Uppal Neuro Hospital. Please visit her stall, help her so that she can earn some money pic.twitter.com/RTTTakRT9q  As soon as we get a chance to visit Amritsar - definitely will meet her.  Hats off to this old lady.Its painful to see her working so hard to make her both ends meet.I request the people of Amritsar to help her.  The internet users are heartbroken seeing her work so hard at this age. They have pleaded the local government and agencies to intervene and come to her aid. Several persons inquired about her bank account number so that they could come forward and help her.The video was also shared on Instagram by food blogger Gaurav Wasan who goes by the handle @youtubeswadofficial.A post shared by Gaurav Wasan (@youtubeswadofficial)  It has received over 9 million views and 915k likes since it was shared.As per reports, the stall is located in Rani Da Bagh, opposite SBI branch in Amritsar. Although she is serving people with a smile, internet users were quite concerned about her working at such an old age to sustain herself.In 2020, we had seen a similar story of an octogenarian couple from Delhi who was unable to earn a living for themselves from their eatery. Baba Ka Dhaba was the name of the eatery in Malviya Nagar, which had created a stir online. Interestingly, the video of the Amritsar lady's juice stall was shared by the same food blogger who had earlier shared the Baba Ka Dhaba video story.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/video-of-elderly-amritsar-woman-selling-juice-goes-viral-help-pours-in-on-social-media-290989
