02-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Functioning of MTP wing at Amritsar Municipal Corporation takes a hit, shortage of staff to blame||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 1The Municipal Town Planning (MTP) wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) has been facing sheer shortage of staff, which affects the day-to-day functioning of the department.In a recent move, the Local Bodies Department transferred one of the building inspectors and draftsman to other station, which deepened the crisis of the inspection staff.According to the official data, there are 24 sanctioned posts of building inspector but only eight inspectors are working in the MTP wing. Due to the shortage of building inspectors, there is no one to take care of building violations in the West Zone. Ironically, during the rainy season, the department doesn’t have sufficient staff to check unsafe buildings in the walled city.Similarly, there were two draftsmen working against six posts in the MTP wing. After the transfer of one of the draftsmen, only one draftsman is working now, who is reportedly overburdened. The senior officials of MTP wing claimed that the building inspectors were unable to do paper work and don’t have time to check illegal buildings and violation of building by-laws.Last time, the state government recruited building inspectors and draftsmen in 2013. After that, no efforts were made to fill the vacancies.“I have written to senior officials that our functioning is suffering due to the shortage of staff. The government should recruit the staff or outsource it. Our staff is overburdened and works on weekends too. Due to shortage of staff, some important tasks are ignored. The officials have assured to address the issue,” said Narinder Sharma, Municipal Town Planner (MTP).The officials of the MTP wing of the MC claim that they were unable to check installation of rainwater harvesting systems at houses and commercial establishments due to the shortage of staff. It is one of the reasons that residents are not constructing the system to save water, which is mandatory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/functioning-of-mtp-wing-at-amritsar-municipal-corporation-takes-a-hit-shortage-of-staff-to-blame-291657
02-08-2021||---||Youth arrested for raping mentally unstable woman||Amritsar, August 1  A mentally unstable elderly woman (65) was raped by a youth in Kartarpur Butala village, falling under the Beas police station here.  The accused tied her mouth and hands before committing the crime.  Investigating Officer Sub-Inspector Harvinder Kaur said the accused, identified as Karan (25) of same village, has been arrested and further investigations were on.  The incident came to light when the victim’s daughter suddenly woke up on Friday night on hearing some noise.  She told the police that around 12.30 am, intervening night of Friday and Saturday, she suddenly woke up after hearing some noise. She said her mother was sleeping in the verandah outside, while she was sleeping in the room. She said when she came out, she found the accused raping her mother. She said when she tried to catch him, he fled.  The police have registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-arrested-for-raping-mentally-unstable-woman-291658
02-08-2021||---||Snatcher flees from lock-up, 2 cops suspended||Amritsar, August 1  The Amritsar rural police have booked and suspended two cops after a snatcher fled from the police lock-up of Kathunangal police station.  The accused, identified as Akshay Kumar, was on three-day police remand.  Besides Akshay, the police have booked cops Amritpal Singh and Dalbir Singh, who were posted at the police station during night duty.  ASIAjit Singh said besides Akshay, there were two other persons, who were booked under the NDPS Act — Ranjit Singh of Abdal village and Akashdeep Singh of Varyam Nangal village, who were lodged in the police lock-up.  He said on Saturday, when he returned to the police station from his duty at a checkpoint, he found Akshay, a resident of Muradpura village in Tarn Taran, missing from the lock-up. He said when he asked night munshi Amritpal Singh and Santri Dalbir Singh about this, they could not give a satisfactory answer. He said due to their negligence, Akshay managed to flee from the lock-up.  Akshay was arrested by the police in connection with a snatching case, in which the earrings of a woman, identified as Jasbir Kaur of Chawinda Devi village, were snatched.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snatcher-flees-from-lock-up-2-cops-suspended-291659
02-08-2021||---||Two held for looting trader, 4 absconding||Amritsar, August 1With the arrest of two persons, the Sultanwind police on Sunday claimed to have solved the robbery case, in which a trader, identified as Jatinder Singh, was robbed by two persons in the Dashmesh Nagar area on the Tarn Taran road two days ago.Those arrested were identified as Sandeep, alias Sanju, and Rajesh Kumar of Fateh Singh Colony. The police recovered the scooter used in the crime, besides Rs 42,000 from their possession.At a press conference here on Sunday, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harjit Singh Dhaliwal along with Assistant Commissioner of Police Harminder Singh and Sultanwind police station SHO Perneet Dhillon stated that the accused had done the recee and informed his accomplices about the movement of victim Jatinder Singh, a wholesale trader of sugar and ghee in Dhab Basti Ram.A preliminary probe revealed that a total of six persons were involved in the looting. Besides the two, Gautam, alias Gothu, of Himmatpura area, Sanju’s brother Pardeep, a notorious element, and his two unidentified accomplices had committed the robbery.Gautam used to work at the shop of Jatinder Singh around three years ago and he knew that he used to take home the money he earned daily. He informed Pardeep who planned to loot the money.The SHO said the police zeroed in on the accused with the help of the footage of CCTVs in the area. The CCTV footage helped the police to identify the accused who were following Jatinder and later the entire case was cracked. He said raids were on to nab the remaining suspects and recover the remaining amount looted from the victim.Jatinder Singh told the police that he ran a shop in the Dhab Basti Ram area. He said he took the day’s cash collection with him. He said when he reached outside his house, the four unidentified persons pointed a pistol at him. He said before he could understand, the accused snatched his bag containing the cash and fled from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-held-for-looting-trader-4-absconding-291660
02-08-2021||---||AAP promises revival of trade &industry||Amritsar, August 1The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will come out with a blue print on trade and industry after holding thorough deliberations with the traders and industrialists of Punjab.The decision was taken by the trade wing of AAP, Punjab, on Sunday after holding deliberations with local traders and industrialists with the objective to know the grassroots problems being faced by them.AAP state president, trade wing, Raman Mittal; senior vice president, Anil Thakur, assured that the blueprint would be implemented in the state after the formation of AAP government in 2022. They said the revival of trade and industry in Punjab would automatically generate numerous avenues of employment in the state.Trade and industry representatives, including, president, PPBM, Piara Lal Seth; state secretary, Sameer Jain; chairman, CII (Amritsar), Rajeev Sajdeh, Ajay Poddar; vice president Focal Point, Gaurav Gupta, north chapter FIO, Sandeep Khosla, president, industry town Bal Kalan, interacted with the AAP leaders.Former IG Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh was another prominent AAP leader present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-promises-revival-of-trade-industry-291661
02-08-2021||---||PPBM threatens to hold protests in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 1The local chapter of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) has threatened to hold public protests in case their demands were not met, as it released its list during a meeting of 50 trade and industrial associations held on Saturday night.Surinder Duggal, president of the local chapter of the PPBM, along with industry leaders SK Wadhwa, Ranjan Aggarwal and others, said only that party will rule the state which will talk about the benefit of trade and industry.They spoke on innumerable matters concerning trade and industry. They said their matters concerning Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) remain unresolved. For instance, fixed charges imposed on the industry during the lockdown from April 2020 to September 2020 remain un-lifted besides seeking power rate at Rs5 per unit for the industry to bring the indigenous industry on a par with the neighbouring states as far as the power tariffs are concerned.They urged the state government to offer relief package to textile industrial units under Section 80 1(B) to them by taking it up with the Union Government situated in the border districts of Punjab. They claimed that the same packages were offered to the industries in neighbouring hill state of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. They asked it to bring in special policies for textile and food processing industries. They stressed that both union and state governments must bring down the quantum of VAT and excise from oil and diesel to offer relief to middle segment of traders and income families.They urged the Capt Amarinder Singh-led government to set up business hubs in the state to check growing unemployment and menace of addiction among youth. The move will also increase the state’s GDP.They blamed the government for day-by-day complicating the norms for procuring the GST number. Unlike earlier, now officials carry out physical verification, biometric recording of Aadhaar. They questioned: “Doesn’t it contradict the ambitious policy of ease of doing business?”They rued that the GST officials were suspending the GST numbers without giving adequate time to contest and appeal to the registered traders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ppbm-threatens-to-hold-protests-in-amritsar-291662
02-08-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 3 +ve cases||Amritsar, August 1 With three positive cases reported on Sunday, the total count in the district has increased to 47,068. The new cases include two influenza-like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient.  The district Health Department has also reported recovery of five cases, with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,452. The district at present has a total of 31 active cases.  In the ongoing vaccination drive, 8,677 residents were inoculated on Sunday. Of these 5,372 received the first dose of the vaccine while 3,305 received the second one. No case in Tarn Taran  No new Covid case and death have been reported in the district on Sunday. The tally stands at 373 for the past more than a week. Deputy Commissioner said the teams of the Health Department collected 628 samples for testing and the report of 340 samples is awaited. The number of active Covid cases stands at six and out of these, five have been isolated at their homes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-3-ve-cases-291663
02-08-2021||---||Too long a journey to bid the last adieu||Amritsar, August 1Finally 56 days after Ranjit Singh’s death in Dubai, his family in Hasanpur village, near Rayya, received his body with the efforts of Sarbat Da Bhalla Charitable Trust at the international airport here on Sunday morning.The family members of the deceased said 46-year-old Ranjit died a natural death in Dubai and the family tried everything within their means to bring back the body, but failed.Ranjit’s brother Balkar Singh said Ranjit had gone to Dubai 20 years ago to earn a livelihood for his family. “He fell sick last year and returned. After getting treatment for many months, he again went back as huge money was spent on his treatment,” said Balkar, adding that due to Covid-19 situation, he failed to find any work and was not happy.Balkar said the family approached Sarbat Da Bhalla Trust run by philanthropist businessman Dr SP Singh Oberoi a few days ago for help. The family members said they wanted to cremate Ranjit’s body properly but had lost all hopes.Baldeep Singh Chahal, personal assistant to Dr SP Singh Oberoi, said the trust helped in bringing back 245 bodies of workers, who died in other countries due to some or the other reason. He said in all cases, the families were poor and did not had means to bring back the bodies for cremation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/too-long-a-journey-to-bid-the-last-adieu-291664
02-08-2021||---||Vehicle lifters’ gang busted, 5 arrested||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, August 1The local police have arrested five members of a gang of vehicle lifters with five motorcycles and three datars (sharp weapon) from the bridge of Jarmastpur village on Saturday.SHO Varinder Singh Khosa(PPS under-trainee) on Sunday said the accused have been identified as Vikramjit Singh Vicki; Sandeep Singh, alias Kala (both of Tarn Taran); Gurbhej Singh Bheja; Jatinder Singh, alias Mantri (both of Pakhopura); and Amanpreet Singh of Sheron village.The SHO said the police party led by ASI Harpal Singh raided the specific site, where the gang members were holding a meeting to commit some robbery. All five robbers were arrested by the police with five stolen motorcycles without registration numbers and three datars. The accused had snatched a number of vehicles and during police remand, the cops expect that many robberies would be solved, the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vehicle-lifters-gang-busted-5-arrested-291715
02-08-2021||How do you think we can check the exodus of youngsters to foreign countries?||Systematic reforms in social, educational sectors need of the hour||Lack of opportunities, infra prime reasonsThere are no institutions providing free/affordable quality education. Even the majority of those who can afford good education from the private ‘education malls’ remain unemployed and unutilised by the state. Besides huge unemployment, unrest among underpaid, contractual teachers, para-medical workers, doctors, roadways employees, sanitary workers, etc. make our youngsters think that their only hope lies beyond Indian shores. What would they end up becoming here? The fact that our highly qualified/ skilled, semi-skilled, or even unskilled youth are all making a desperate beeline for abroad indicates that there are not enough development, infrastructure, or research activities going on in the country. Why not presume then that the state is comfortable with this exodus and the youth is also desperate to leave the homeland for the lure of greener pastures abroad. Gone are the days when brain drain was viewed as a big national problem.HL SharmaFocus on secondary sector to create jobsPunjab is an agrarian state with the maximum number of people employed in the agricultural sector. This has been a great boon for the country as it has helped to tide over various crisis relating to shortage of food grains in the past. However, the agricultural sector is marred with one major problem of disguised unemployment, which means that the labour force employed in a job is not actually utilised for the production of goods and services. So many young people prefer to migrate abroad for work as they can’t find suitable jobs here. We can check this exodus by giving more importance to the industrial sector in the coming times. All of the major developed countries of the world have shifted from the agricultural sector to the industrial sector and then finally to the services sector. So, we should focus heavily on the secondary sector of the economy as this would help to absorb the major job-seekers of the state.Jatinderpal Singh BatthReforms to tackle unemployment neededUndeterred by the badly hit economic and academic curriculum all around due to Covid, the exodus of youth to study abroad goes on unabated. Barring a few genuine cases, most of the boys and girls under the garb of admissions to overseas colleges/ universities find an easy way out to realise their aim. The favourite destination countries have better infrastructure and discipline in their institutions. According to an estimate, every third student from Punjab is pursuing IELTS with a view to migrate. It is quite worrisome that even after 74 years of Independence, we have not been able to create enough opportunities for satisfactory placements of our youth. While Delta+ variant and the third wave of pandemic are in sight in many parts of the world. Despite that, the yearning for green pastures on foreign lands goes on unabated. To reverse the trend, the government is required to bring about extensive reforms to tackle unemployment and ensure congenial working climate sans exploitation.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathImprove level of quality educationStudents go abroad in search of greener pastures as they feel assured that after completing their education in institutes of higher studies they would get lucrative placements and then get settled there. Covid has given rise to many apprehensions in the minds of the students who still aspire to go overseas, although there is no lack of parallel educational institutes of higher studies in India. The government is mulling over increasing the number of such institutes and also the number of seats in them to stem exodus of the students. Mere increasing the intake won’t serve the purpose as ancillary to it, the number of faculty and supporting staff and the faculty-student ratio has to be considered, along with, to give it a practical shape. The existing institutes may be scaled up through extension of the campuses. The students stuck here due to pandemic can be given lateral entry in the institutes and eminent international faculty be enrolled to lecture online. Indian industry carries a huge potential for placement of such aspirants. Its collaboration must be sought. Creating more opportunities might check their migration.Anil KhannaMake education system job-orientedYouth in Punjab are hell-bent on moving abroad attracted by the top-class facilities, higher standards of life, attractive career opportunities, better educational avenues and living conditions provided by the foreign universities, companies, organisations and governments. When countries such as Australia and Canada provide top-notch facilities, handsome pay packages and perks to residents, it becomes difficult to dissuade the wannabes from going abroad. The craze to settle abroad through study visa has grown tremendously among the youth of Majha region giving two hoots to the pandemic. To check the exodus, our educational institutions need to change with the present times making students realise that openings at home are more attractive and beneficial for them than that of abroad. The entire education system should be radically overhauled to make it job-oriented. It should be more flexible to enable youngsters take up part time jobs to earn and study simultaneously. Mega job fairs have failed to fetch the desired results. Some effective measures to provide employment to the unemployed should be taken and jobs should be given as per the qualification of the job seekers. Many in Punjab find it difficult to get admission in the top institutions. The admission in premier institutions should be made easier so that the youngsters don’t hanker after foreign institutions for higher studies which are just a ruse to migrate to Australia or Canada. Scholarship opportunities should be encouraged. They should provide practical knowledge rather than slowing down students’ learning process and restricting their growth in particular study fields. Qualitatively better, cheaper education and employment generation can check the exodus.Tarsem S BumrahIt’s better to settle abroad for youngstersConsidering the state of economy of our country, there are fewer employment opportunities and the pandemic has further deteriorated the situation. So, the only alternative left is to go abroad for study purpose and due to abundance earning opportunities settle there permanently. What is wrong in it? Instead of remaining unemployed and becoming a liability for parents and society, it is better to settle abroad. In this way they earn for themselves and for their families left behind in India. It should not be checked rather it should be encouraged. The government should be more liberal in providing loans to study abroad. Ultimately, the government’s investment is to be returned with interest and in form of foreign exchange.Naresh JoharLong-term solutions are neededStudying abroad or getting a job has more or less become the norm in Punjab. If someone thinks otherwise it’s often frowned upon. Living standard, economic conditions, government support and education are better in other countries. It is not a secret that India has been one of the worst countries at handling Covid which gives people another reason to move to a country with better ways of controlling the pandemic. With borders opening up for vaccinated people around the world, travelling to another country for work or studying is becoming more realistic. In order to check the exodus, I think we need to dig deeper into why youngsters are so eager to go abroad despite these baleful conditions. A lot of answers lie with the outdated institution, corrupt and opaque government coupled by its obsolete system. For students the unrealistic cut offs and for working people the ever so disappointing economic conditions and policies are the last straw. It is alarming to notice that despite the current hazardous scenario people still don’t think twice before making plans to move abroad, which shows that Covid doesn’t play a major role for people to stay in India. The only solution for this problem I see is a long term one, which would include revamp of the education system, development of educational infrastructure, apart from the settlement of industries in the state.Gurjas SinghSet up world class universitiesThe major factors for large scale exodus to foreign land in the pursuit of higher education among students of Punjab are joblessness and high cost of education in the country. Job placement with good perks is the prime attraction for students going abroad, the other one is easy availability of part-time job while studying. In post-Covid scenario, students opt for study only for the sake of job as classes are being held online. The government should grab this opportunity to end flow of student migration by setting up world class universities in India, provide course-linked placement, rationalise fee structure and reserve seats for economical weaker class.Anil VinayakControl drug trafficking problemWhile the whole world is battling with the adverse effects of Covid-19, the youth of Punjab is migrating to the West. There are various reasons behind the trend. Firstly, as a result of decline of employment opportunities the youngsters are deep in the dumps. Even after the completion of higher education, they are unable to find lucrative jobs in the state. So, they prefer to move abroad. Secondly, the social environment is not safe as there are increasing numbers of drug rackets in the state. Worried parents prefer sending their children abroad for higher studies and work. To conclude, it is the total failure of the state government to make Punjab an attraction for its youth. It should create better job opportunities and control the drug trafficking in the state, otherwise Punjab will be the land of old and unemployed.Harsimrat KaurGovt should encourage youth to settle abroadThe uneconomical agriculture system, unemployment, poor law and order situation, deterioration in education system, unbridled spread of drugs, predominance of mafias, uninspiring political leadership, has brought about overall despondency and substantial decrease of faith in the government among youth. The government or society has no moral strength to tell youth not to go abroad. Rather it should facilitate them to move abroad for better living and this is the only sure way presently.Hardish SandhuWe need advanced education, infraCovid has wrecked havoc on lives and livelihood. Businesses have plunged to bankruptcy and economy is in tatters. Students have borne the brunt of the pandemic as education has suffered a mammoth setback. Envisaging the huge population load in India, it will be a herculean task for any government to tackle any such pandemic in future. Even though the whole world was reeling under Covid, still they see better prospects outside in terms of corruption, politics and reservation. We need to provide a better and advanced education infrastructure. More and more job opportunities at par salary of foreign placements should be created. If such measures are taken, youngsters won’t flee to foreign lands.Raman GuptaAmend education, employment policiesShaheen ParshadQUESTIONThe onset of monsoon has again exposed the lack of preparedness on the part of the MC as several areas get inundated causing great hardships to residents. Should the civic authorities be taken to task for their negligence and indifferent attitude towards public issues? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.comby Thursday (August 5)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/systematic-reforms-in-social-educational-sectors-need-of-the-hour-291719
02-08-2021||Amritsar||One held with 250-gm charas||3 mobiles seized from jail inmatesAmritsar: Amritsar Central Jail staff confiscated three mobile phones from prisoners during a search operation on Saturday. Prisoners Rashpal Singh of Bhuchar Kala in Tarn Taran, Gurjashan Singh of Kotli Sakka village and Bhupinder Singh of Harsha Chhina village were found to be having smart phones. A case was registered. TNSMan attacked, robbed of mobileAmritsar: Three unidentified persons armed with a weapon snatched a mobile phone from a local resident, identified as Goldy, when he along with his nephew Rohit was going towards Othian. He said when they were around 100 metres away from the Verka bypass, three accused came on a motorcycle and attacked them. They snatched his mobile phone and fled. TNSOne booked for abducting teenTarn Taran: Nishan Singh of Mohalla Chandigarh (Fatehbad) village, abducted a teenaged girl of his locality on July 26. The girl studies in Class XI. Her father told the Goindwal Sahib police that on July 27 morning, the family found their 17-year-old daughter missing from the house. A case under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC has been registered. OC2 snatchers held with cell phonesAmritsar: Two snatchers, identified as Chamkaur Singh of Khalsa Colony, and Sunil Kumar of Bhai Manjh Road, Sultanwind village, were nabbed with five mobile phones and a datar (sharp weapon) from them. Ranjit Singh Dhaliwal, SHO, Maqboolpura police station, said Chamkaur was wanted in four cases of snatching, theft and under the NDPS Act, while Sunil had two snatching cases against him. He said the duo used to snatch mobiles and valuables from passersby by brandishing weapons. They were brought on police remand for further probe. TNSSharing child porn: 3 bookedAmritsar: The police have booked three persons in separate incidents for allegedly publishing material depicting children in sexually explicit act in electronic form. The accused have been identified as Gurman Randhawa of Urdhan village, Gagan of Bhindi Saida and Gursab Singh of Jasraur village. They were booked under Section 67-B of the IT Act, Sections 13, 14, 15 of the POCSO Act and Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. Assistant Inspector General, Cyber Crime Cell, forwarded tip lines received from National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal. These were investigated following which the cases were registered. Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP Attari, IO in two cases, said it (child pornography) was a serious offence. TNSArhtiyas air their grievancesTarn Taran: The vegetable commission agents of the local sabzi mandi under the banner of the Sabzi Mandi Adhtia Association in a meeting with Avtar Singh Taneja, vice-chairman of the market committee, brought their problems to his notice. Satwant Singh Sandhu led the delegation and other officer-bearers were also present. The members said there were no signs of cleanliness in the sabzi mandi. Rather, there were heaps of garbage at every nook and corner. They said pumps installed for draining out rainwater from the mandi complex were often out of order, as a result of which rainwater accumulated on roads for days together. They sought another shed on the complex to protect vegetables from heat and rain. Taneja instructed the secretary to ensure cleanliness in the market daily. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-250-gm-charas-291720
