03-08-2021||Amritsar||197kg heroin seizure: Court issues Anwar Masih’s arrest warrant||The court of Additional Sessions Judge Pushpinder Singh on Tuesday issued arrest warrant of former Punjab sub ordinate staff selection board member Anwar Masih in connection with the seizure 197kg of heroin by Special Task Force in January last year.Three days ago, the court had rejected his bail and asked him to surrender before the court on August 3.Nevertheless, he failed to appear in the court and his lawyer reportedly demanded extension of period for surrendering on the basis of health grounds.An official of STF said that they would collect the arrest warrant from court tomorrow and would arrest Masih.The STF had arrested Masih in the seizure of 197kg of heroin from a residential complex allegedly belonging to him last year. He was out on interim bail in the case on the basis of health grounds.The court had earlier rejected his application of getting regular bail and asked him to surrender in Amritsar Central Jail. Following this, he had filed an application before the court seeking further 10-day time for surrender.On July 14, Masih attempted suicide when he along with several Christian organisations was protesting against alleged harassment by a former AIG and three DSP rank officials of STF.They were demanding quashing of case registered against him in connection with seizure of contraband from the residential building in Akash Avenue located in Sultanwind village on January 31, 2020.As the building belonged to Anwar Masih, the STF booked him under Section 25 of the NDPS Act (owner of the place where drug trade is being carried out is responsible for the premises).The STF had seized 197-kg heroin and narcotic material and arrested around 20 persons including an Afghan national in the case. Masih had claimed that he had sold the house and he was unaware about any drug factory being run from the premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/197kg-heroin-seizure-court-issues-anwar-masihs-arrest-warrant-292395
03-08-2021||Realising my dream of playing in Oly||5 stars from Amritsar: Aim for glory, say hockey players’ kin||Neeraj BaggaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 2In the two Indian hockey teams that have entered the semifinals in Tokyo, five are from Amritsar district — four men and one woman — quite a feat indeed.Harjinder Kaur, mother of Gurjit Kaur, who scored the all-important goal in the women’s team win today, said Gurjit’s prayers and hard work have been blessed by ‘Guru Maharaj’. The family is based in Miadi Kalan village in Ajnala. Gurjit’s cousin Gurcharan Singh said the entire village was upbeat after learning of her feat. “Despite there being no hockey culture in the village, both Gurjit and her sister Pardeep played the game,” he said.Making village proudThe four players from the district who are in the men’s team are Shamsher Singh of Attari, Dilpreet Singh of Butala, Gurjant Singh of Khaliara and Harmanpreet Singh of Timmowal village.Shamsher’s father Hardev Singh, a farmer, said he enjoyed watching each match on TV, and vividly remembers the goal his son scored against Argentina.Dilpreet’s father Balwinder Singh, who had played the nationals from 1990 to 1996, said: “I keenly watched each match. Dilpreet gave several good passes to his teammates, who converted them. It was like realising my own dream of playing in the Olympics.”Gurjant’s father Baldev Singh said all residents of Khaliara village were elated with his son’s performance. Gurjant was inspired to take up the sport by his maternal uncle Hardev Singh Chahal.Harmanpreet’s father Sarbjit Singh said he was proud of his son and the team. “I think the team performed well and I wish them luck for the semifinal tomorrow,” Sarbjit said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-stars-from-amritsar-aim-for-glory-say-hockey-players-kin-292213
03-08-2021||---||Masked up, they are happy to be back in school||Amritsar, August 2As per the instructions issued by the state government, Monday morning saw teachers enthusiastically welcoming students of all classes in government schools. Students, too, had a smile on their face, as they met their teachers after a gap of several months.The primary classes reported lesser number of students turning up in the district as parental consent was still awaited for many students. Classes VIII, IX and X saw good attendance with parents coming to drop their wards to school.Education Department officials said the heads of government primary, middle, high and senior secondary schools had been asked to adhere to strict safety measures keeping in mind the arrival of students in schools. They said about 35 per cent attendance was reported from primary schools on the first day, while the number of students in the upper primary schools (i.e Class V onwards) was more than 50 per cent.Harbhagwant Singh, Deputy District Education Officer, said all school heads and teachers had already informed students and parents of students about the reopening of the school for all classes.“Books and reading aids have already been made available to students. Uniforms have also been provided to students as per the government instruction,” said Harbhagwant Singh. He said students coming to school would have no problem in starting the month of August in classrooms, as the curriculum for the months of April, May and July has already been conducted online and students were in constant touch with their studies. He said as for kindergarten classes, schoolteachers have been asked to visit parents to get their consent.Meanwhile, private schools refrained from resuming offline classes for pre-primary, primary classes, as they were yet to get parental consent. As for upper primary classes, schools have distributed consent forms and will only take a call in a day or two.70% turn up in Tarn TaranGovernment elementary schools in Tarn Taran reported high attendance as schools reopened for all classes on Monday. Paramjit Singh, Deputy DEO (Elementary), said he visited the government elementary schools of Chutala, Pandori Gola, Malhia and Naushehra Pannuan and on an average, 70 per cent students turned up. “There are 231 students at Government Elementary School, Nanaksar, and 89 came to school,” said Rajwinder Kaur, head teacher at the school. She said the staff had been visiting the school daily and the building was sanitised. Gagandeep Singh, a Class V student, said he was happy to go to school, as he missed extracurricular activities and his teachers. He said they enjoy having midday-meals and would be able to meet his friends as well. The staff of Government Elementary School, Chutala, had decorated the gate and the school to welcome students. Paramjit Singh, Deputy DEO, distributed sanitisers, note books and pencils among students. Sukhmander Singh, Principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Rataul, said the attendance was good as students of junior classes joined from Monday. The Principal said the attendance improved after more students attended the school on Monday.With 50% attendance, turnout expected to get better in GurdaspurAs schools reopened for all classes, 50 per cent attendance was reported across schools in this border district. DEO (Secondary) Madan Lal Sharma attributed several reasons for the restrained turnout. “Things are bound to improve by the end of the week. We have no reasons to worry. Normally, it has been seen that whenever schools open after long lay-offs like after the summer holidays, the percentage of students coming to schools is not very high. But then things start improving after a few days,” he said. Officials claim efforts were being made to contact parents and get their consent to send their wards to schools. Sukhbir Kaur, a teacher at Government Primary School, Hardobathwala, said she and her colleagues remained busy throughout the day trying to inform parents that sending children to schools was perfectly safe. “I met scores of parents who were wary of sending kids to school because of the pandemic. Actually, it is not the fault of these parents. The fact is that there are so many rumours floating around about the third Covid wave, that it is making parents a bit apprehensive. We are trying hard to dispel this absurd notion,” she said. Sukhbir said many parents were also averse to giving their consent. “We assured them that their children will be absolutely safe. It was only then that many of them relented,” she said. Sources claimed that another drawback was that the Education Department had given an option to children that if they were unable to attend, they could attend online classes. “This is also a big factor in keeping students away from their classrooms. Kids have now adjusted themselves to getting taught through the online system and now, they feel comfortable studying from home rather than attending their classes in schools. This needs to be tackled carefully. We have told parents that the online teaching system was a stop-gap arrangement and classrooms were the best places to study,” an official said. PSEB Toppers honouredSatinder Bir Singh, District Education Officer, Secondary, Amritsar, honoured students, who bagged top positions in the district in the PSEB Class XII, on Monday. Several students who scored above 90 per cent marks were awarded medals and insignia. All students were from Meritorious School. Among them were Meenakshi, who secured the first position in the district with 98 per cent marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/masked-up-they-are-happy-to-be-back-in-school-292126
03-08-2021||---||3 more contract virus in Amritsar dist||Amritsar, August 2With three more positive cases reported on Monday, the total count has increased to 47,071 in the district. The cases include two influenza-like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient. The district reported no death due to the disease.With the recovery of four patients, the recovery count has also improved to 45,456. At present, the district has a total of 30 active cases.In the ongoing vaccination drive, 5,438 were inoculated in the district on Monday. Of these, 3,543 received the first dose while 1,895 received the dose of the vaccine.2 more test positive in Tarn TaranThe district on Monday reported two more cases of Covid-19. Meanwhile, no death due to the contagion was reported on Monday.As many as 6,356 jabs were given to residents on Monday with which the total number of vaccinated people had touched 2,80,945 in the district.DC Kulwant Singh said the Health Department teams collected 861 samples to be tested. The administration was yet to receive the report of 514 samples. The number of active cases has been reduced to eight and six of these had been isolated to their respective homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-more-contract-virus-in-amritsar-dist-292138
03-08-2021||Amritsar||Doctors boycott duties at Amritsar GMC||The doctors at Government Medical College observed a pen-down strike on Monday to protest against the pay panel report. The medical fraternity boycotted OPD services, surgeries and classes for the entire day.However, emergency services, Covid ward was taken care of and university examination were also conducted. Dr Mridu Grover of Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association, Amritsar, said the IMA, Amritsar Chapter, has lent support to the ongoing agitation against the pay cut.Dr Mridu said the decrease in NPA and delinking of basic salary would prove dearer to doctors and they would not accept it. She said the protest would continue till the government accepted their demand.Meanwhile, the veterinary officer also staged a protest at the district headquarters of the department under the Punjab State Veterinary Officers’ Association. President Gagandeep Singh Dhillon said Cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu promised to resolve the issue before July 30. He said the government was dilly dallying, but the employees would not end the protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctors-boycott-duties-at-amritsar-gmc-292139
03-08-2021||---||Amritsar man accuses daughter,  son-in-law of theft at his home||Amritsar, August 2A man has accused his daughter and son-in-law for allegedly stealing household goods in his absence from his house.He alleged that the accused earlier threw him out of his house, which they had transferred in the name of his daughter. He has now filed an application with the district administration for getting his property back.Following the statement of the victim identified as Narinder Kumar of Sohan Avenue in Kot Khalsa area, the police have booked his daughter Shivani and her husband Harwinder Singh, both residents of Dam Ganj area besides seven unidentified persons. Both were booked for theft (380 IPC).Files application with SDM to get property backTwo days ago, my daughter and son-in-law stole two double beds, four almirahs, two sofa sets, four ceiling fans, a fridge, two centre tables, three ACs, three gas cylinders, a 40-inch LED and other household items. As I got the information, I reached and asked them about it. They again thrashed me and I had to run away from the spot to save myself. —Narinder Kumar, Resident of Sohan Avenue in Kot Khalsa areaIn his complaint, he said he had two children Rohit Singh and Daughter Shivani. He said in February this year, his wife Bima died. He said as the economic conditions of Harwinder Singh was not good, both Shivani and her husband were living with him. He said he bought the house in 2005 on loan. He said when his wife died, he transferred the house on Shivani’s name. He said two years ago, he retired and after his retirement gave Rs9 lakh cash, a new bike, scooter and gold ornaments worth Rs2 lakh to Shivani.He said since the death of his wife in February this year, he was facing harassment at the hands of his daughter and son-in-law. He alleged that they did not even allowed him to meet his relatives. He said on May 30, they allegedly thrashed him and threw him out of the house. He said a month later, Harwinder attacked and threatened to kill him along with unidentified accomplices. He said as his son Rohit tried to rescue him, he was also thrashed.He said he filed an application with the Sub-Divisional Magistrate Amritsar-2 for getting back his property from the duo. Following this, on June 19, Harwinder and his accomplices attacked him and he filed a complaint against them in Kot Khalsa police station here. He said on June 22, they again attacked him and later gave a fictitious complaint against his son Rohit Singh when he tried saving him.He alleged that two days ago, the accused stole two double beds, four almirahs, two sofa sets, four ceiling fans, a fridge, two centre tables, three air-conditioners, three gas cylinders, a 40-inch LED and other household items. He said as he got the information, he reached the spot and asked the accused about it. He alleged that the accused again thrashed him and he had to run away from the spot to save himself.Police authorities said a case has been registered and further probe was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-man-accuses-daughter-son-in-law-of-theft-at-his-home-292142
03-08-2021||---||Man ends life, woman booked||Amritsar, August 2Maqboolpura police on Sunday booked a woman on the charge of abetment to suicide after a man ended his life by consuming poison. The victim, alleged to be in his early forties, has been identified as Mohan Singh.Following the statement of his wife Jyoti Devi, the police have booked a woman, Sonia, a resident of Rajinder Nagar locality. No arrest has been made so far and investigation is in progress, said the police.Investigating officer ASI Kulwinder Singh said Jyoti Devi told the police that she was married to Mohan Singh around 20 years ago. She alleged that the accused (Sonia) used to harass her husband. On Saturday evening, the accused called her son from the mobile of her husband that Mohan Singh had consumed some poisonous substance and was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.The complainant said she along with her son immediately rushed to hospital where he died. She alleged that the accused used to blackmail her husband and therefore he ended his life.The ASI said a case under Section 306 of the IPC had been registered and raids were on to nab Sonia. He said her arrest would clear the case as why she used to harass and blackmail the victim.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-ends-life-woman-booked-292144
03-08-2021||Amritsar||Ex-CEA Kaushik Basu shares vignettes of policymaking at Majha House||Kaushik Basu, former chief economist at the World Bank and Chief Economic Advisor (CEA) during the UPA government, has always been known for his sense of clarity, a virtue also reflected in his latest book ‘The Policy Maker’s Journal: From New Delhi to Washington, DC’.He participated in an online discussion around his book hosted by Majha House. Addressing the audience, Basu said, “I do a lot of reasoning inside my head, which helps me in making decisions. There has to be absolute clarity in my mind, which isn’t political in any way and is backed solely by logic and reasoning. You can compare it to having a Game Theory in your mind, if you will.”In conversation with Amrita Dhillon, professor of Economics at King’s College, London, Basu said since the book’s contents are personal experiences, its narrative, too, is personal yet not that of an economist. “The book is far from a serious account of economic policies. It’s a personal journal. You have to know how to interact and react with people with different natures and perspectives; they can infuriate you with their parochial and closed views. Writing a diary was like therapy for me, a way to vent out my anger and frustration,” he shared.Defending Dr Manmohan Singh’s stint as a Prime Minister, Basu said, “People allege that he was a weak Prime Minister; that he was ‘controlled’. But let me make it clear that wherever economical decisions were concerned he had a free hand. All progressive economical ideas like globalisation that took India ahead in world economics can be attributed completely to his acumen and vision.”The book also contains anecdotes about his meetings with Barack Obama, Sheikh Hasina and Rahul Gandhi. He said Rahul Gandhi always come across as an intelligent, honest person; open to ideas regarding policies.Speaking about the lacunas in India’s progress as a formidable economical power, he blamed the bureaucracy that hampers Indian economics at every step. “I call it frozen ideas; you are in a comfort zone with certain ideas and you just don’t want to change your perspective. That is why the ease of starting a business, the business index, in India can be very low as compared to other countries,” he said.Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, said, “The book provides an insider’s view of the vast difference between the flat world of academia and the government. It has the immediacy of a diary and is full of witty anecdotes about his meetings with different people across the world.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-cea-kaushik-basu-shares-vignettes-of-policymaking-at-majha-house-292145
03-08-2021||Tarn Taran||No compensation: Farmers protest in front of SDM office in Tarn Taran||Farmers under the banner of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha organised a protest by holding a march in the bazaars of the town and staged a dharna in front of the SDM office here on Monday.The farmers were protesting against not releasing the compensation announced to the family of a farmer, who lost his life more than six months back, while participating in the Delhi Morcha against three farm laws.Women farmers and representatives of other public organisations, too, extended their support to the agitating organisation.Farmer Surjit Singh (32) of Cheema Khurd died on March 3, 2021, while participating in the Delhi Morcha.Daljit Singh Dialpur, while addressing on the occasion, apprised the local civil administration of not releasing the compensation to the family of the farmer in spite of repeated requests.Chaman Lal Darajke, Devinder Sohal, Narinder Kaur Patti were among other leaders who addressed on the occasion. The leaders alleged that due to the undue interference of the leaders of the ruling party, the officials were not releasing the compensation. The leaders said CM Capt Amarinder Singh had announced to give a compensation of Rs5 lakh to the farmer losing life in Delhi morcha. The leaders asked for a government job for the kin and loan waiver due to be paid by the farmer to the banks. SDM Ranjish Arora could not be contacted. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-compensation-farmers-protest-in-front-of-sdm-office-in-tarn-taran-292147
03-08-2021||---||Gangster Preet Sekhon, Nikka Khaduria's remand extended by 3 days||Amritsar, August 2The sub-divisional court in Ajnala has extended the police remand of notorious gangster Preet Sekhon and his accomplice Nikka Khaduria for three days, while Gurlal Singh, who was booked for sheltering him, was sent to judicial custody.Daya Singh, alias Preet Sekhon, and Khaduria were nabbed from Chamiari village in Ajnala on July 27. He was wanted in over a dozen criminal cases, including that of murder, attempt to murder and ransom.The police had recovered five country-made pistols and a double barrel gun and ammunition besides three mobile phones from him. The police also held Nikku Khaduria from the spot, while their accomplice Gurlal Singh was arrested from Tarn Taran.Preet Sekhon has become a headache for the Punjab Police as his graph of crime was rising day by day. Recently, he along with his accomplices gunned down a gangster Amandeep Singh, alias Aman Fauji, and SAD worker Prabhjit Singh, alias Pooran, in Patti in Tarn Taran on June 1.One Shamsher Singh Shera was injured in the assault. Sekhon was also a prime suspect in the killing of a bouncer Jagroop, alias Jagga of Nangli Batha village in the Ranjit Avenue area in October 10 last year.On July 16, he along with his unidentified accomplices were booked for murder bid after they opened fire at a house in Dolenangal village. He was demanding Rs10 lakh from a Canada-based Punjabi singer’s family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-preet-sekhon-nikka-khadurias-remand-extended-by-3-days-292151
03-08-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar 
Dav College  boys shine in university exams||GNDU gets overall 17th rankGNDU has jumped three steps in its national position in the “India Today Ranking-2021”, getting overall rank of 17, among all public ,central and state universities in the country. It has upscaled its position from 20th rank in 2020 to 17th rank in 2021. However, it has retained its position at 11th place among the state universities of India in 2020. The university has improved its score in the parameters such as reputation & governance, academic & research excellence, infrastructure & living experience, personality and leadership development, and career progression and placement. Vice-Chancellor Prof (Dr) Jaspal Singh Sandhu has appreciated the efforts of the faculty, students and administrative departments for attaining these high ranks and wished the university to touch high peaks its future endeavours.Scholarship for Covid-hit familiesPresenting a positive and productive approach to the community of Amritsar Group of Colleges (AGC Amit Sharma , Chairman AGC announced a special help to the families with 100 per cent concession in the tuition fee for the entire course to the families who have become the victim of the current pandemic. Apart from this, the college is offering various scholarships based on the academic and sports performance of the students. Further ensuring the plans to re-open the college campus, Sharma said that the college is appropriately taking all the necessary and sufficient steps as declared by the government. The entire faculty has been vaccinated and student vaccination is under process. Apart from this, AGC has taken initiative to provide the organic vegetables to the Covid sufferers at the subsidiary costs.Students shine in Class XII examsTarn Taran: Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, celebrated its 100 per cent results of Class XII on Sunday. The results were declared by the CBSE on Friday. Gurbachan Singh, Deputy District Education Officer (Secondary) was the chief guest on the occasion. School Principal said all 109 students, who appeared in the exam, achieved the success. He said every student scored above 60 per cent. As many as 19 students achieved marks above 90 per cent. Sukhmanpreet Kaur (commerce) remained at the top with 98 per cent marks. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-dav-college-boys-shine-in-university-exams-292154
03-08-2021||---||Guru Harkrishan’s birth anniversary observed||Amritsar, August 2The birth anniversary of Guru Harkrishan, eighth guru of Sikhs, was commemorated in the city. ‘Chabeels’ and langars were organised at different places to mark the occasion.At Gurdwara Kalgidhar Sahib on Maqbool Road, former Chief Khalsa Diwan president Charanjit Singh Chadha and his family members observed the occasion. The gurdwara was being looked after by the Chadha Charitable Society.Chadha declared that a banquet hall built in the gurdwara premises would be offered free of cost to the underprivileged families to marry their daughters. “I am happy to announce it that those who could not afford the wedding expense would be given not only the banquet hall but langar to the gathering without any charge”, he said.“In the trying times of Covid-19 crisis, when the economic slowdown has broken the backbone of every industry and household, we could only pray to the Almighty to relieve the suffering humanity”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-harkrishans-birth-anniversary-observed-292157
03-08-2021||---||Fans erupt in joy over hockey teams’ victory||Jalandhar, August 2The entry of both men and women Indian hockey teams in the semi-finals of the Tokyo Olympics has made the city proud.Celebrations for the occasion were held in almost every household as most residents stayed glued to the TV for the past few days to watch the Indian contingents and cheer them as they advanced to this level.At Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, where hockey player Gurjit Kaur studied and was groomed in the game, the faculty and students rejoiced the moment when she scored a penalty corner, thus defeating the three-time champions Australia.Principal Dr Navjot Kaur addressed that everyone, including LKCW fraternity and Gurjit’s parents saying that the whole country was proud of her. She also expressed her gratitude towards her coach Kulbir Singh and appreciated the efforts of the faculty members. President, College Governing Council, Balbir Kaur congratulated the whole hockey team and especially Gurjeet on her achievement as she said, “Today, we feels proud of its daughter Gurjit Kaur and are assured that every sports girl of the college would follow her footsteps.”Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and Surjit Hockey Society working president and MLA Pargat Singh, Secretary Iqbal Singh Sandhu, Chief PRO Surinder Singh Bhapa in a joint statement congratulated the Indian women’s hockey team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fans-erupt-in-joy-over-hockey-teams-victory-292158
03-08-2021||---||Blood donation camp to mark the death anniversary of Bhagat Puran Singh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 2To mark the 29th death anniversary of its founder Bhagat Puran Singh, the All-India Pingalwara Charitable Society has initiated a series of programmes here.A writer, publisher, environmentalist and philanthropist, Bhagat Ji had died on August 5, 1992. President of society Inderjit Kaur and vice president Dr Jagdeepak Singh said following the footsteps of Bhagat Ji, a blood donation camp would be organised at society’s Mannawala campus on August 3. The society has announced to organise a ‘kavi darbar’ from 11 am to 2 pm on August 4 at its head office on GT road.On August 5, the society has announced to hold discussions on the life and teachings of Bhagat Puran Singh, after bhog of ‘Sehaj Path’ and Kirtan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blood-donation-camp-to-mark-the-death-anniversary-of-bhagat-puran-singh-292160
03-08-2021||---||Mulberry Orchard — a green retreat for Amritsar folks||Amritsar, August 2Local environmentalists, along with the Voice of Amritsar (VOA), planted several trees of mulberry to come up with an orchard in the historic environs of Gol Bagh. Gunbeer Singh of Dalbir Foundation stated that this bagh, on the periphery of the old walled city of Amritsar, has been a host to many freedom rallies against the British during the Independence days. Today, it serves as a green area where everybody can rejoice.In addition to the Mulberry trees, other native fruit varieties, including tamarind, jujube, moringa, guava and bel were also planted.The VOA and some other NGOs of the city had initiated the #The5TreeProject this year. The objective of the drive is to motivate residents to plant at least five trees and make efforts for their clean and green surroundings.A number of activists, including children, participated in the drive. Gunbir stated that the focus of their foundation is to promote native trees and increase the green cover in the city. Apart from this, a number of other NGOs planted the trees in various locations of the city.The residents of Veer Enclave planted more than 125 trees on the bypass and internal roads. The plants were provided by Baba Sewa Singh of Khadoor Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mulberry-orchard-%E2%80%94-a-green-retreat-for-amritsar-folks-292161
03-08-2021||---||Opponents ‘humiliating’ Dalits, OBCs, alleges Punjab BSP president Jasvir Singh Garhi||Amritsar, August 2Punjab BSP president Jasvir Singh Garhi, during an organisational review meeting held here on Sunday, alleged that the Central and state leadership of the Congress and BJP was “humiliating” people belonging to the Scheduled Caste and Backward Class, especially those associated with the BSP, after the SAD and the BSP struck an alliance. The BSP would be contesting from Sri Chamkaur Sahib and Sri Anandpur Sahib Assembly constituencies.He said the state government failed to take any action against its leader for uttering objectionable remarks against dalits. He said the Congress party was misleading the Dalits by forming a Dalit Welfare Board.“BSP is a party with the vision and blessing of gurus and great men. It is fighting for social change and economic emancipation for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes and the poor,” he said, adding that Aashirwad Yatra, a motorcycle rally, would commence from August 7. It would start from Bhagwan Valmiki Ashram and end after paying obeisance at Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/opponents-humiliating-dalits-obcs-alleges-punjab-bsp-president-jasvir-singh-garhi-292165
03-08-2021||Amritsar||Import, export prospects discussed to boost trade||Ambassadors of Columbia and El Salvador have called upon local industrialists, importers and exporters to invest in their countries to bolster the bilateral trade with these countries.The Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) in association with Shawl Club of India and Indian Chamber of International Business organised a session with Ambassadors of Columbia and El Salvador.Ambassadors of Columbia Mariana Pacheco and El Salvador’s Guillermo Rubio Funes in their address elaborated potential of business in their countries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/import-export-prospects-discussed-to-boost-trade-292167
03-08-2021||Amritsar||Five cell phones seized from Amritsar Central Jail||Mobile snatched from traderAmritsar: Manohar Lal, a shopkeeper at National Shopping Complex was looted by armed robbers from outside his shop on late Sunday evening. The accused decamped with his bag containing 10 mobiles including three new ones besides clothes and documents. The victim has returned from Delhi after procuring the mobiles. He told the police that he runs a shop Sahil Enterprises at National Shopping Complex. He said he returned on Sunday from Delhi, from where he had procured three new and seven old phones. He said he, along with his son, had gone to check the shop, when the accused came and snatched the bag on weapon point. A case was registered. TNSThree held with intoxicantsAmritsar: The Majitha police have arrested three persons for allegedly possessing sedative pills, heroin and drug proceeds. They were identified as Karambir Singh of Majitha, Malkeet Singh of Dadupura village and Charanjit Singh of Majitha. According to the police, the accused were travelling in a car (PB-02-DU-6032) from Amritsar to Majitha. The police got a tip-off that the accused could be possessing drugs and therefore a checkpoint was installed near Majitha Dharam Kanda. The police team signalled the car to stop and during search, found the intoxicants wrapped in a polythene bag in the dashboard of the car. When the police team searched the accused, it recovered 10gm heroin from Charanjit and Rs68,000 of drug proceeds from them. He said no contraband was recovered from Karambir and Malkeet Singh. Sam Nath, investigating officer, said a case under the NDPS Act was registered against them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-cell-phones-seized-from-amritsar-central-jail-292174
03-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Hockey player Dilpreet Singh wins hearts at Olympics, kin elated||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hockey-player-dilpreet-singh-wins-hearts-at-olympics-kin-elated-291743
