04-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Property tax dishonoured cheques: Either pay tax or face sealing||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 3The message is loud and clear — either pay your property tax dues or face sealing.The Municipal Corporation on Tuesday sealed six properties of defaulters, whose cheques were dishonoured. MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi gave the ultimatum to defaulters, whose payment cheques were dishonoured — to pay the pending tax till July 31 otherwise be ready to face the music.According to information, there were around 30 property owners whose cheques were dishonoured in the past months.The superintendents of the property tax wing visited the property and recovered the amount from the defaulters but six of them did not deposit it.Malwinder Singh Jaggi said: “We sealed six buildings on Tuesday. Other defaulters deposited tax along with the penalty. We urge residents to get the benefit of rebate of tax payment and deposit the tax before September 30. Strict action will be taken against defaulters. Sealing drives would be conducted for the recovery of tax.”Secretary Daljit Singh said despite serving several notices, defaulters were not paying the pending amount. Today, a team comprising Davinder Singh Babar, Sunil Bhatia, Jaswinder Singh, Pushpinder Singh along with a police team visited several markets and sealed six commercial establishments.MC Commissioner Jaggi had instructed officials and superintendents of property tax to focus on commercial buildings and assure 100 per cent tax recovery on July 23. The notices are being issued to all industrial units, banks/ATMs, corporate offices multinational company offices, brand stores, hotels/guest house, hospital/nursing homes, private educational institutes, marriage palaces, automobile agencies, mobile towers, shopping malls, and boards/corporation offices.“We have targeted to double the recovery amount of property tax as compared to last year. We will seal maximum properties to achieve the target,” Jaggi said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-tax-dishonoured-cheques-either-pay-tax-or-face-sealing-292704
04-08-2021||Neha Saini||CBSE Class X results: Hargun Preet Singh is Amritsar district topper, obtains 99.8%||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 3Beating the pandemic blues, students of CBSE Class X celebrated their academic success as the results were declared on Tuesday.Since the CBSE did not release any merit list this year, the number of students crossing the 90 per cent mark was high. Hargun Preet Singh from Senior Study II became the district as well as state topper scoring 99.8 per cent, followed by Kashvi Aggarwal from DAV Public School, who stood second with 99.6 per cent. The third position in the district was shared by Roop Amandeep Singh, Kavya Gupta and Shranay Malhotra, all students of DAV Public School, who scored 99.4 per cent.Beating the pandemic with perseveranceHargun Preet Singh, who managed to score 499/500 (the best of five core subjects) in Class X, shared his excitement over the result by hugging his parents for the longest time. In a year that was full of uncertainty and horror of second wave of Covid-19, Hargun, too, had struggled to keep his mind focused. “He was an excellent student throughout and the stress of online studies and being locked down affected his mental health a lot. Hargun is a zonal-level table tennis player and he started playing table tennis to relive his stress. It really helped him to keep his mind focused on academics,” his father Amritpreet Singh, shared. Hargun’s elder brother Jaskaranpreet scored 97 per cent in the CBSE Class XII exams this year. Great grandson of former Jathedar, Akal Takht, Giani Chet Singh, Hargun wants to make a name in the field of robotics engineering. When not studying, he keeps himself busy by making robots out of spare parts.Playing badminton helped her perform wellBrimming with confidence and smile, Kashvi Aggarwal hugged her friends as she fed them laddoos and got a mouthful for herself as well. Scoring 99.6 per cent in CBSE Class X is no mean feat, especially so when all academic activity shifted to online mode. Despite her consistent performance academically, Kashvi said she had a tough time in keeping her academic rhythm going during lockdown. “I am a single child. So, mostly when I used to feel stressed, I used to spend time with my parents and play with them. My father is a good badminton player and I, too, had played the game till district level. So, I used to play badminton everyday and then spend 2-3 hours studying. It really helped in keeping my sanity,” she shared. Content with her results, Kashvi said she wants to pursue business management and become an entrepreneur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cbse-class-x-results-hargun-preet-singh-is-amritsar-district-topper-obtains-99-8-292705
04-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar ISBT blocked for 4 hrs, commuters at receiving end||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 3Members of the Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha staged a blockade for four hours at the Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) putting commuters to a lot inconvenience on a hot and humid Tuesday.The four-hour blockade at the ISBT will also be held on Wednesday.Raising slogans against the Capt Amarinder Singh government, they flayed it for not honouring its promise of regularising jobs of part-time and contractual employees.Those commuters who came from far-flung areas of the district to catch a bus to reach their destinations were extremely disappointed. One such victim was Sharanpreet Kaur who along with her two minor kids came to board a bus for Tanda to meet her relatives there. “After a cardiac arrest, my uncle was hospitalised last night, so I came to board a bus to meet him. As my husband was not getting leave from work, I was compelled to travel alone with small kids. I cannot afford expensive travel by a taxi,” she said.Suba Singh, vice-president of the Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union, said he along with the members of his union came here on the call of strike given by the Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha. Expressing his apprehension, he said the sub-committee of the Cabinet, formed to discuss their demands, was scheduled to meet on Wednesday. He threatened that they would not accept anything less than regularisation of jobs. He said any move to create division like regularisation of those staff members who completed 10 years’ tenure would not be accepted.He said there were nearly 7,500 contractual workers in Punbus and PRTC across the state. Though the government completed four-and-a-half years of its tenure, it did not deliver on its promise of regularisation of contractual staff.Kuljit Singh, president, Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union, said the four-hour strike was imposed between 10 am and 2 pm. He said a three-day strike would commence from August 9. He said the government did not make any alternate arrangement of buses and private transporters had pressed in services outside the ISBT.Meanwhile, the government was caught off-guard as they did not have any alternate arrangement in place to handle the situation.Earlier, a three-day strike by the Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union for the same demand had concluded on June 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-isbt-blocked-for-4-hrs-commuters-at-receiving-end-292706
04-08-2021||---||1 dies, two contract coronavirus in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 3With two more positive cases, the district Covid tally increased to 47,073 on Tuesday. These include two influenza-like illness cases. No contact of positive patient was found.The district reported one death due to the disease as one Gurjit Kaur, 84, a resident of Sultanwind Road succumbed to the virus.With the recovery of seven patients, the recovery count has also improved to 45,463. At present, the district has a total of 24 active cases. In the ongoing vaccination drive, 3,973 were inoculated in the district on Tuesday. Of these, 3,869 received their jab at government-run centres, while 104 at private centres. As many as 7,48,049 persons have been jabbed so far.No death, case reportedin Tarn Taran districtNo death due to the coronavirus was reported nor any positive case surfaced in the district on Tuesday. Total 373 persons have lost their lives due to the virus in the district so far. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the Health Department teams collected 859 samples to be tested for the virus from different places on Tuesday. The number of active cases has reduced to eight, who have been isolated at their respective homes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-dies-two-contract-coronavirus-in-amritsar-district-292710
04-08-2021||---||Amritsar: Couple dies in accident as car ‘driven by drunken cops’ hits bike||Amritsar, August 3A rashly driven car hit a bike and dragged a couple to several feet in a road mishap, thereby leading to their death on the spot on Ram Tirath Road on Tuesday.The occupants of the car fled from the spot leaving behind their car. People found liquor bottles, a police belt and stickers from a white-coloured Maruti Suzuki Swift car (PB-02-CN-2647”. The police have taken the car into their custody and started a probe into it while initiating the process of registering an FIR.Car dragged them 20-ft away from spot Akash, son of the deceased, told the police that when his father Balwinder Singh (in pic) and mother Raj Kaur reached near Wadala farmhouse, a rashly driven car hit their bike. The car dragged them to around 20-foot from the spot leading to on-the-spot death. Eyewitnesses said it appeared that some cops, who were driving the car, were under the influence of liquor.The victim have been identified as Balwinder Singh and Raj Kaur, both residents of Baoli village falling under the Kamboh police station here. A cyclist, Amrik Singh, was also injured in the mishap. He was admitted to a hospital.The victims were going from Sanghna village to meet some relative when the incident took place. Akash, son of the deceased, told the police that when his father and mother reached near Wadala farmhouse, a rashly driven car hit their bike. The car dragged them to around 20-foot from the spot leading to on-the-spot death. Eyewitnesses said it appeared that some cops, who were driving the car, were under the influence of liquor.Prabhjot Singh, SHO, Kamboh police station, said a case had been registered against unidentified persons for now and the car was impounded. “We are in the process of getting the details about the ownership of the car which would further reveal who were the occupants,” he said, adding that the accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-couple-dies-in-accident-as-car-driven-by-drunken-cops-hits-bike-292711
04-08-2021||---||17-year-old raped in Amritsar hotel, auto driver booked||Amritsar, August 3A 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped by an auto-rickshaw driver who took her to a hotel room near Mahan Singh Gate a week ago. The police have registered a case against the accused, identified as Sewak Singh, of Ward No. 6, Pandora in Sultanwind village here.The victim, who hailed from Modde village near the Indo-Pak border, said she used to work as a domestic help in a house on Jamun Wali Road, Lawrence Road.She said she used to live there. A theft incident took place in the house and she was blamed for this. She said though she did not steal anything, she got afraid and ran away from the house in the evening of July 27. She said she met the accused who lured her and took her to a hotel where he forcibly made physical relations with her. She said he later dropped her near the Golden Temple.After staying alone for a few days, she called her parents from someone’s phone. They came there and took her along. She narrated her woes and later a complaint was lodged. The police said a case under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act was registered and efforts were on to nab him. The medical of the girl was also conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/17-year-old-raped-in-amritsar-hotel-auto-driver-booked-292713
04-08-2021||---||Seizure of 197 kg-heroin: Arrest warrant issued against Anwar Masih as he fails to surrender||Amritsar, August 3The court of Additional Sessions Judge Pushpinder Singh on Tuesday issued arrest warrant against former Punjab Subordinate Staff Selection Board member Anwar Masih in connection with the seizure of 197kg-heroin by the Special Task Force in January last year.Three days ago, the court had rejected his bail and asked him to surrender before court on August 3. Nevertheless, he failed to appear in court and his lawyer reportedly demanded extension of period for surrendering on health grounds.An STF official said they would collect the arrest warrant from court on Wednesday and arrest Masih.The STF had arrested Masih in the seizure of 197kg of heroin from a residential complex allegedly belonging to him last year. He was out on interim bail citing health problems.The court had earlier rejected his application of getting regular bail and asked him to surrender in Amritsar Central Jail. Following this, he filed an application before the court seeking 10 more days to surrender.On July 14, Masih attempted suicide, when he along with several Christian organisations were protesting against the alleged harassment by a former AIG and three DSP-rank officials of the STF. They were demanding quashing of case registered against him in connection with the seizure of contraband from the residential building in Akash Avenue located in Sultanwind village on January 31, 2020.As the building belonged to Anwar Masih, the STF booked him under Section 25 of the NDPS Act (owner of the place where drug trade is being carried out is responsible for the premises). The STF had seized 197-kg heroin and narcotics material and arrested around 20 persons, including an Afghan national, in the case. Masih had claimed that he had sold the house and was unaware about any drug factory being run from the premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seizure-of-197-kg-heroin-arrest-warrant-issued-against-anwar-masih-as-he-fails-to-surrender-292714
04-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Hockey in limelight again||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 3Even as India lost to Belgium in the hockey semifinals in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics on Tuesday, hockey lovers are upbeat that the national game has regained the limelight once again after decades. Now, Indian men hockey team will take on Germany for a bronze medal on Thursday.Members of the Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM) congratulated both men and women hockey players for bringing laurels. Members of the AVM especially congratulated five sportspersons of the border district — Dilpreet Singh, Harmanpreet Singh, Gurjant Singh Virk, Shamsher Singh and Gurjit Kaur.They said Gurjit, who scored a goal, which catapulted Indian women hockey team into the semis, proved the world that women of this district were no less than others. She has become a role model for numerous other girls, they said.Khalsa College Àmritsar—nursery of hockey— must be provided with sufficient funds by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) to lay an AstroTurf at the earliest, said the AVM members.Members of the Punjab Sudhar Sabha, lauded youngsters for showcasing their prowess at international level. “These youngsters have set a benchmark for youngsters to shun drugs and participate in games.”Both NGOs said in order to polish hockey skills in Amritsar, the Sports Authority of India should sanction sufficient funds required to fix the AstroTurf on hockey ground situated at Guru Nanak Dev University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hockey-in-limelight-again-292718
04-08-2021||---||100% results in CBSE Class X: Students, teachers erupt in joy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 3District schools reported 100 per cent results in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class X exams, the results of which were announced by the CBSE on Tuesday. Students and teachers erupted in joy as many students reported 90 per cent and above marks, despite academic interruptions throughout the year due to the pandemic. As students celebrated their achievement, teachers were happy that the uncertainty had finally come to an end. As the highest score in district touched 99.8 per cent, several students came close to the mark with 95 per cent and above marks being reported from each school.Senior Study II, PutligharHargun Preet Singh bagged the top position with 99.8 per cent, followed by Janesh Khurana who scored 97.6 per cent while Aarushi Chopra and Pratham Chhabra got 96.4 per cent. A total of 31 students scored 90 per cent and above. Principal Upasana Mehra said, “It was a collective effort. The devotion of teachers, the dedication of students and the support of the parents brought the desired results.”DAV Public SchoolA total of 502 students appeared for Class X from DAV Public School. Kashvi Aggarwal shone brightly at the top with 99.6 per cent marks, Roop Amandeep Singh, Kavya Gupta and Shranay Malhotra shared the second position with 99.4 per cent marks. The third position was shared by Mannan and Tanvi Aggarwal with 99.2 per cent marks. The school had 147 students securing above 90 per cent in the CBSE Class X examination.The Millennium SchoolThe Millennium School achieved a 100 per cent result in the Class X exam. Stuti Arora emerged as the school topper with 97.2 per cent, followed by Sudhanshu Batra with 96.6 per cent and Hridya Sehgal, Prithvi Nayyar and Aarnavbir Singh Osahan scored 96.4 per cent each. A total of 36 per cent students have scored above 90 per cent marks and 72 per cent have scored above 80 per cent.Khalsa College International Public School & Khalsa College Public SchoolSunidhi Sharma from Khalsa College International Public School (KCIPS) scored 99.2 per cent marks in the CBSE Class X examinations. Apart from her, Simranpreet Kaur got 92.4 per cent, which registered 100 per cent results with six students getting above than 80 per cent marks. Similarly, the results of Khalsa College Public School (KCPS), GT Road, were also impressive as Navjot Kaur scored 96.8 per cent, Tarundeep got 96.6 per cent, Pratima scored 96.4 per cent and Gurjaap and Gursewak both got 96.2 per cent marks. Over 25 students got above than 90 per cent marks. Another Khalsa College Public School (Heir) under Khalsa College Governing Council also registered good results as Prabhnoor scored 91 per cent while Prabhjot here got 90 per cent marks while five more students got more than 80 per cent marks.Bhavan SL Public SchoolYatish from Bhavan SL School bagged top position in school by scoring 98.6 per cent. As many as 11 students scored 100/100 marks in different subjects individually as the school reported 100 per cent result.DAV International SchoolIn DAV International School, of the 376 students, Ashray Aggarwal bagged first position in the school with 98.8 per cent marks. Mohit Verma, Eliza Arora and Saneha Sharma stood second with 98.2 per cent marks and Harsift Kaur with 98 per cent marks got the third position. With 100 per cent result of the school, 24 students scored above 95 per cent and 88 students scored above 90 per cent.Sri Guru Harkrishan Sr Sec Public School, GT RoadWith 100 per cent pass percentage in CBSE Class X exams, Agamjot Singh and Lakhwinder Singh emerged as school toppers with 98.8 per cent marks. Anmol Verma and Kirandeep Kaur bagged second position with 98.4 per cent marks while Jasmine Kaur got the third position with 98.2 per cent marks. Rejoicing over their success Principal Dr. Dharam Veer Singh informed that out of total 400, students 25 students scored 95 per cent and above marks.Girls outshine boys in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Girls outshined boys in the CBSE Class X exams in the district. Besides, most of the schools have registered 100 % pass percentage. Jatinderpal Singh Randhawa, director of Guru Amar Dass Adarsh Institute, Goindwal Sahib, said the school got astounding 100% results. Navroop Kaur secured the first position in the school with 97.4% followed by Sehajpreet Kaur at the second position with 96% and Gurnoor Kaur third by securing 95.4%. Twentyfour of the 96 students, who appeared in the exams, scored above 90%. Nishan-e-Sikhi International School, Khadoor Sahib, recorded 100% results with Khuspreet Kaur bagging the top position. Khuspreet scored 95.8% marks followed by Kirandeep Kular, who came position with 95%and Gurleen Kaur and Ravnoor Singh third with 94.6%. Principal Amarjit Singh said a total of 82 students appeared of which nine got more than 90% and 11 students above 80%. Dr Raman Dua, Principal of Majha Public School, said the results were 100%. Opinderjit Singh, Simranpreet Kaur, Gurleen Kaur and Harmit Kaur were among the toppers in the school. Gurcharan Kaur, principal of Mamta Niketan School, said all students had passed the exam. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/100-results-in-cbse-class-x-students-teachers-erupt-in-joy-292724
04-08-2021||---||Gangster Rana Kandowalia shot at in Amritsar, admitted to ICU||Amritsar, August 3Gangster Rana Kandowalia, out on bail since December 2019, was shot at in a private hospital on the Circular Road here this evening.According to the police, Kandowalia was alive, but in a critical condition. He was admitted to the ICU of the hospital.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said initial investigations suggested around four armed assailants entered the hospital premises. Two of them went up to the second floor, where they allegedly opened fire at Kandowalia. The incident occurred at 7.20 pm.According to information, Kandowalia had gone to meet a relative admitted to the hospital four days ago. He had visited her earlier too.The suspects had apparently kept track of his movements, said the police. Initial probe suggested the incident was the outcome of gang rivalry. Further investigations were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-rana-kandowalia-shot-at-in-amritsar-admitted-to-icu-292574
04-08-2021||---||Despair & hope at homes of hockey stars||Jalandhar, August 3It was a day of rollercoaster emotions for fans of Indian hockey. When the Indian men led Belgium 2-1 in the semifinals of the Olympic Games hockey, it was a moment to celebrate — but as they conceded goals to first give up their advantage and then concede the lead, joy turned to despair.The families whose sons were playing in Tokyo went through the same emotions — joy and despair. But there remains the hope of a medal, which a win over Germany in the bronze playoff would ensure.Manjit Kaur, mother of Indian captain Manpreet Singh, was crestfallen after today’s loss. She was unhappy, and said her son was in the same state of mind when they talked after the match. “Khush nahi si oh,” she said.“All of us are disappointed after today’s loss,” she added. “Let’s see what happens in the next match with Germany… Asi Germany nu easy nahi lai sakde (we can’t take it easy against Germany).”Hoping for bronzeThe families of the four players from Amritsar district are also hoping for a bronze with a win over Germany. Balwinder Singh, father of Dilpreet Singh, said he spoke to his son after the match. “He sounded a little disheartened, and I told him to not lose heart over a result which cannot be altered,” said Balwinder. “I told him — put all your energy into the next match as the whole country would be looking at all of you with hope.”“It is better to have something rather than nothing,” said Hardev Singh, father of Shamsher Singh, from Attari village. “One out of the two teams must lose. Sadly, it was not our day.”Sarbjit Singh, father of Harmanpreet Singh, said he spoke to his son and his room partner Mandeep Singh to motivate them for the crucial match against the Germans.“I told them to not brood over a lost match and focus on the next match as the whole of India hopes for a hockey medal this time,” Sarbjit said. “Anyway, it is not a small feat that after decades, this team reached the semifinals at the Olympics.”“I told them they played well today, and that it was only in the last 10 minutes that Belgium steered the match in their favour,” he added.Gurjant Singh’s father Baldev Singh said the team played well for the most part. “They led 2-1 in the first half and it was only in the second half that Belgium converted penalty-corners into goals. This means our team’s field hockey is strong enough to counter direct attacks,” he said, hoping the team would ensure a medal on Thursday.In Faridkot, the family of drag-flicker Rupinder Pal Singh remains confident that the team would come back with a medal. “They still have a chance to secure a bronze medal, and I have no doubt that the boys will bring back a medal,” said Rupinder’s father, Harinder Singh.(With inputs from Amritsar & Faridkot)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despair-hope-at-homes-of-hockey-stars-292562
