05-08-2021||Various decisions taken by SAD in Tarn Taran are being observed closely by their opponents. After Ranjit Singh Brahmpura left SAD and formed his own outfit||All eyes on Khadoor Sahib constituency||In 1997 Brahmpura won from Naushehra Pannuan from SAD ticket. He was shifted to Khadoor Sahib after delimitation of the constituency and fought Vidhan Sabha elections in 2012, but lost to Congress candidate Ramanjit Singh Sikki.In 2014 SAD again gave ticket to Brahmpura from this segment and and he won the elections. SAD has put their weight behind three-time former MLA Harmit Singh Sandhu from Khadoor Sahib segment. The reason behind this is that Rani Vallah, native village of Sandhu falls in Khadoor Sahib. Sandhu started his outreach campaigns to garner trust and votes. Along with competing with Congress and AAP, SAD leader also needs to keep into consideration the cross-voting factor.Harmit Singh remained active in Khadoor Sahib constituency since the last one year but he suddenly had come back to Tarn Taran a few days back. Now, Akalis in their latest survey suggested to field Sandhu from Tarn Taran than Khadoor Sahib after AAP came up with assurance of 300 units of free electricity to domestic consumers. —  Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-eyes-on-khadoor-sahib-constituency-293413
05-08-2021||---||Amritsar: Medical fraternity's protests linger on, no respite for residents||Amritsar, August 4To intensify the protest, all administrative works at the Civil Surgeon’s office have also been boycotted by the employees resulting in the loss of services for the general public.With no end in sight, the ongoing protest by the medical fraternity has been proving dearer for the poor patients, as they were unable to get the required medical help.Now, as the administrative services have also been disrupted, the public services as birth and death registration, disability certificates and others have been stopped.The employees are protesting against the reduction in non-practising allowance (NPA), its delinking from the basic salary and cut on other allowances for last one month.The faculty members at Government Medical College took a mass casual leave on Wednesday to protest against the state government. The Punjab Civil Medical Services’ Association (PCMSA) also organised a protest at the Civil Surgeon’s office on Wednesday, which was attended by prominent Indian Medical Association (IMA) leaders including Punjab president Dr KD Singh and district president Dr Amandeep Kaur.PCMSA Amritsar president Dr Madan Mohan said talks are going on with the state government. He hinted that a solution might be found soon, as positive indications have been received.Sunita Devi, a visitor to Government Medical College, said: "Government hospitals are usually visited by poor people as they cannot afford treatment at private hospitals. As my son is sick, I will now have to visit a private clinic, which is costlier compared to OPD charges at government hospitals."Meanwhile, the Veterinary Officers’ Association held a protest at the Veterinary Department for the third consecutive day and boycotted services. Association president Dr Gagandeep Singh Dhillon said the adamant attitude of the Finance Minister was responsible for the loss of services for the public.Docs lock Civil Surgeon’s office in Tarn Taran Tarn Taran: With no fruitful results from Tuesday’s meeting with the government, the PCMSA members continued with their strike at all government hospitals in Tarn Taran district against the report of the 6th Pay Commission. The doctors also closed the offices of the SMO and Civil Surgeon here on Wednesday. Dr Jaspreet Singh, president, PCMSA, said on the recommendation of the 6th Pay Commission, the non-practising allowance (NPA) has been reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent and delinked from the basic pay, which will result in financial loss to doctors. The strike was held in protest of that but emergency and Covid-related services were exempted. The government has constituted a committee comprising principal secretaries to resolve the issue, but the meetings bore no fruit. The protesting doctors said they were hopeful that the government would take up the matter at the earliest. Dr Satwinder Singh, Dr Surinder Bhagat, Dr GS Kalra, Dr Surinder, Dr Navpreet, Dr Ramandeep Padda, Dr Sumeet Singh, Dr Sahil Gupta, Dr Pankaj Arora were present in the protest lodged in front of the Civil Surgeon's office. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-medical-fraternitys-protests-linger-on-no-respite-for-residents-293047
05-08-2021||---||Man goes to meet girlfriend in Verka, her brothers strangle him to death||Amritsar, August 4A 32-year-old man went to meet his girlfriend at her house in Verka, but was reportedly killed by the girl’s family members on Tuesday night.The deceased has been identified as Jagtar Singh, alias Jagga, of Navi Abadi Verka. The police have booked the woman and her two brothers in this regard.According to a police source, Jagga had an affair with a girl near Shankar di Chaki in Verka. Last night, Jagga went to meet her at her house. He was reportedly thrashed by the girl’s brothers. The body of Jagtar was recovered from her house. The family members of the woman were absconding.The police officials, who visited the spot on Wednesday morning, said during preliminary investigation, they found that he was strangled to death. The Station House Officer, Verka Police station, said a small cord was recovered from the spot and it is being observed that Jagga was strangled to death with the cord by the girl’s brothers.The police have booked Jagga’s girlfriend and her brothers — Ashwani Kumar and Dharminder Kumar — for murder.“The cause of death will be cleared after the autopsy,” the SHO said.According to the information, Jagga was married and had two daughters while the woman was unmarried. Following this, the girl’s family was unhappy with this relationship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-goes-to-meet-girlfriend-in-verka-her-brothers-strangle-him-to-death-293048
05-08-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 3 Covid cases, no death||Amritsar, August 4With three positive cases reported on Wednesday, the district tally increased to 47,076. All new cases are influenza-like illness cases.The district Health Department has reported recovery of eight patients, with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,471. The district at present has a total of 19 active cases.In the ongoing vaccination drive, 1,292 residents were inoculated on Wednesday. Of these, 834 received the first dose, while 458 received the second dose of the vaccine.1 test +ve in Tarn TaranNo death was reported due to the coronavirus infection, while one person tested positive in the district on Wednesday. The toll stands at 373 and the number of active cases had been reduced to seven. All of them have been isolated at their respective homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said total 2,34,032 residents have been given the jab so far. The Health Department teams collected 904 more samples to be tested for the virus. The report of 521 samples was yet to be received. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-3-covid-cases-no-death-293049
05-08-2021||---||Children with special needs break barriers of limitations||Amritsar, August 4Breaking the barriers of limitations, children with special needs (CWSN), proved their mettle in the Central Board of Secondary Education Class X exams.Four students of Spring Dale Senior School, the only schools in the city, which has an inclusive education programme for the CWSN, obtained above 80 per cent.Saksham (name changed), got 84 per cent, despite having multiple physical and learning disabilities.Saksham (22) suffers from cerebral palsy and related complications. “There was a time when we had almost given up hope that our son would be able to study. We are grateful to his educators, who gave us the confidence and empowered him through specific learning programme. We are extremely proud of him,” said his mother and added that the lockdown and online classes almost broke the routine of Saksham. She said she had to take special classes to understand the methods and learning tools used for special education. “I used to learn from his tutor and then work with him. As it was difficult to study in one go, we divided the work,” she said.While it was easy for Saksham to lose focus, his mother said whenever he used to feel stressed or missed his friends, he used to listen to music. “He is fond of Punjabi songs and they are his stressbuster.” He has been asking her to allow him to get a tattoo to celebrate his achievement.Prerna, who is a special educator at the resource centre of Spring Dale School, said the CWSN were taught using specific learning programmes as regualr classes were suspended. “It became a challenge to continue with their education. We devised individual learning programmes for them,” she said.In Saksham’s case, he was put under peer mentoring, entire curriculum was provided in audio-visual format and his worksheets were converted into visuals.“His worksheets included coloured pictures/ graphic organisers and separate audio recording of each concept was done at the school recording studio. Videos were made by subject teachers in simplified language for explanation of concepts and provided personally to him. As he couldn’t access labs on the top floor, tools and materials were bought to the resource centre for him,” said Prerna.An individualised education programme was designed for his holistic development which included life skills. “He was given a choice to send self-recorded audio’s/ videos as alternate to submission of assignments,” said Prerna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/children-with-special-needs-break-barriers-of-limitations-293051
05-08-2021||---||ISBT blocked again, commuters suffer||Amritsar, August 4The four-hour long blockade of the Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT) concluded by burning the effigy of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh here on Wednesday.The blockade brought the movement of buses to a halt.Called by the Theka Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha, contractual workers employed at various government offices took part in it.Raising slogans against the government, they alleged that the Congress-run government was no different from the erstwhile SAD-BJP combine. They accused Finance Minister Manpreet Singh of ignoring employees during the entire tenure of the Congress rule in the state.Kuljit Singh, president, Punbus Contractual Workers’ Union, said there were nearly 400 contractual workers in the district, who have been working on contract for the last nearly four to 12 years. He recalled that about 1,600 contractual workers had managed to clear the written examination in 2015 and were assured that they would be regularised after three years of service. It was not the case, he said, adding that even after the lapse of nearly six years, they had not been regularised.Hira Singh, another leader, said those buses of Punbus which managed to pay off loans were merged in the Punjab Roadways, but the same rule is not applicable for the staff. Buses under the Punjab Roadways are driven by regular staff and there are no contractual workers under it.Though the government did not make any alternate arrangement of buses for ferrying passengers, private transporters pressed their buses into service close to the ISBT to ferry passengers.Meanwhile, all public dealing works came to a halt at the Deputy Commissioner’s office as well as its nearly 111 employees under the patronage of DC Office Employees’ Union went to take part in the protest outside the residence of Revenue Minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar in Bathinda on Wednesday. Asunil Kumar, a union leader, said their strike had been extended by two days till August 6. He said the government was not honouring their demands and they have been protesting for the last two months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/isbt-blocked-again-commuters-suffer-293052
05-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Cops on the lookout for drugs across fence in Tarn Taran district||Tarn Taran, August 4The police conducted a search operation across the fencing in Tarn Taran district on Tuesday. Inspections was held as a precautionary measure against frequent seizure of drugs and arms being pushed from across the international border.Tarn Taran SSPDhruman H Nimbale said as many as 250 cops participated in the operation. He said SP (Narcotics) Jagjit Singh Walia and Bhikhwind DSP Lakhbir Singh supervised the entire operation. He said the SHOs’ from Bhikhiwind, Khalra, Kacha Pakka, Khemkaran and Valtoha police stations, assisted their seniors.The SSP said the Tarn Taran police had recovered 4.6-kg heroin from across the fencing and Amritsar (rural) police had seized arms and ammunition. He said a few days ago, two Pakistan-based intruders were gunned down by the Border Security Force (BSF)jawans as they were trying to enter into the Indian territory. Nimbale said no objectionable material was recovered in the search operation as it was a routine exercise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-on-the-lookout-for-drugs-across-fence-in-tarn-taran-district-293053
05-08-2021||---||Punjab Naatshala to train aspiring artistes for free||Amritsar, August 4Punjab Naatshala, which provided a platform to many renowned artistes, including Bharti Singh, Kapil Sharma and more — from Amritsar, has announced to impart free training to aspiring actors. Jatinder Brar, owner of Naatshala and noted playwright, said a three-month free training course will be given to aspiring actors from aged 12-16 years. The Naatshala will be recruiting professional theatre artistes as mentors and a batch of 25-30 students will be conducted in one go.“The pandemic has suspended all theatre activity in city and so, theatre has been hit really hard and so have been the artistes. To encourage and motivate aspiring theatre artistes to take up theatre as a profession, we have decided to impart free training. During the training, children will be made to learn basics of theatre and production to nuances of stage design and other aspects involved in making of a play,” informed Brar.Meanwhile, Natshala is gearing up to revive live performances as per safety guidelines issued by the government. The admission of the free theatre training programme will be done through auditions, with a panel of theatre artistes as judges. The training programme will commence from August 20 onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-naatshala-to-train-aspiring-artistes-for-free-293054
05-08-2021||---||Use treated sewage for irrigation: Amritsar Citizen Environment Committee||Amritsar, August 4Despite the acute shortage of surface water, farmers are using it for irrigation. Instead of helping farmers, the Amritsar Municipal Corporation is allowing the treated water from its Gaunsabad Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) to flow into the Hudiara drain and go waste. The government had spent a huge amount on laying the sewer lines and installing the Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) under a Rs 360-cr sewer project funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).Members of the Amritsar Citizen Environment Committee claimed that after spending a huge amount on the treatment of sewer water, the treated water was again being dumped into a nullah. The highly toxic water of the Tung Dhab drain is also released into the Hudiara drain and several industrial units discharge their untreated effluents into it. Both untreated industrial water and treated water are released into the same drain, which flows into Pakistan territory.Daljit Singh Kohli, Amritsar Citizen Environment Committee, said, “It is unfortunate that the treated water is not being used anywhere. It can be used for irrigation purposes. Farmers around the treatment plant are using the surface water, further increasing the problem of water depletion. On the other hand, the treated water is being wasted. There must be provisions in the project to use the treated water and the MC should take appropriate action to use the water.”Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “We will check the status and ask the Irrigation Department to make a proposal for proper use of the treated water. The MC does not dump untreated water in the Tung Dhab drain. The industry is releasing the untreated effluents into it and it should be stopped by the authorities concerned.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/use-treated-sewage-for-irrigation-amritsar-citizen-environment-committee-293055
05-08-2021||Principal of Sri Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary Public School Chabal running under the aegis of Chief Khalsa Diwan also registered a remarkable performance by giving 100 percent result. The principal said Shahnoor Kaur bagged the 1st position by scoring 97.4%||Sri Guru Harkrishan Sr Sec School's students shine||Students shine in Class X resultsTarn Taran: Students showing remarkable performance in the results declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday were honoured by the management committees of the institutions concerned on Wednesday. The girl students remained ahead of boys in the results.Sri Guru Harkrishan Public SchoolRanjit Bhatia, principal of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, running under the management of Chief Khalsa Diwan, announced 100 per cent result. The principal stated that nine students got more than 90 per cent marks in which Mehakdeep Kaur bagged the overall first position by getting 96.6 per cent marks, Sanyam stood second by getting 96.4% and Ashneet Kaur stood third by getting 94.4% marks. Three girls — Sanyam, Mehakdeep Kaur and Parambeer Kaur — got 98 in English, Sanyam got 98 in Punjabi, Gurshanpreet Kaur got 92 in maths, Ishratdeep Kaur got 98 in social science, Sanyam got 97 in science, two girls Parambeer Kaur and Sanyam got 99 in Hindi and another two girls Mehakdeep Kaur and Palakpreet Kaur got 98 in IT.Guru Nanak Dev Academy, Noori RoadGurdeep Kaur, principal of Guru Nanak Dev Academy, Noori Road (Tarn Taran) said Ramandeep Kaur secured the first position (94%), Simranjit Kaur secured second (88.8%) and Avneet Kaur secured third position (87.4%). The result of the school was 100 cent percent, said the principal.Shah Harbans Singh Int’l SchoolThe results of Shah Harbans Singh International Public School, Rani Walah, too was 100%. Gulwinder Singh, director of the school managing committee, said Anmoldeep Kaur, Navdeep Kaur, Navpreet Kaur and Sharandeep Kaur were toppers in the school. OCSpring Dale Senior SchoolAmritsar: Spring Dale Senior School reported 100 per cent results in CBSE Class X with Kavisha Khanna, securing top rank in school with 99 per cent marks. Nikhil Gupta stood second with a score of 98.2 per cent marks whereas the third position was secured by Snehpreet Kaur Chandi with a score of 97.8 per cent marks. Rajiv Kumar Sharma, Principal, Spring Dale Senior School, said that a total of 485 students appeared for the Class X CBSE Board examination wherein 21 students secured the marks 95 per cent and above and 106 students scored the marks 90 per cent and above. He shared that the CWSN (Children With Special Needs) too appeared in the examination and they all came out with flying colours. Four out of eight children with special needs secured 80 per cent and above and the highest among them was 86.8 per cent.Khalsa College InternationalSunidhi Sharma (in pic), from Khalsa College International Public School scored big by getting 99.2 per cent marks in Class X. Simran Preet Kaur got second place with 92.4per cent ,Simrandeep Kaur got third position in the school by securing 89.2 per cent.Principal Nirmaljit Kaur Gill said that the school has performed well despite the challenge of shifting to online mode of education.Shri Ram Ashram Public SchoolShri Ram Ashram Public School reported top score of 97.6 per cent by Vansham Mahajan, who stood first in school. The second position was clinched by Gunin Mahajan with 97.4 per cent. Bhawika Mahajan bagged third position with 97.2 per cent. As many as 48 students got above 90 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sri-guru-harkrishan-sr-sec-schools-students-shine-293060
05-08-2021||The Tarn Taran police have expressed satisfaction over its performance to tackle drug trafficking and smugglers. Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale said huge quantity of contraband has been seized during the last one year. However||Tarn Taran diary: Cops pat self on the back||Achievement surveyAll the 1,800 teachers of elementary wing in the district were being trained to conduct the National Achievement Survey (NAS). The Education Department has been organising camps at nine block-level offices. Paramjit Singh, Deputy District Education Officer (Elementary), said the survey aims at understanding the health of the education system in the government and government-aided schools. He said in order to increase focus on quality of education, the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act (RTE) Act 2009, was amended in February 2017 to include references on class-wise and subject-wise learning outcomes. He said all developments in the survey should be brought on record.A ‘Koshish’ for job aspirantsThe district administration has launched a ‘Koshish’ project to provide free coaching to unemployed youths, with assistance of the District Employment and Entrepreneur Bureau. Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh inaugurated the project. Free coaching for written tests will be provided for forty days by Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government College, Tarn Taran. The Deputy Commissioner said as many as 179 apirants have got themselves registered. He urged aspirants to take coaching to crack the written tests. He said it’s much better than sitting idle at home. Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Jagwinderjit Singh Grewal, Tarn Taran SDM Rajnish Arora, Assistant Commissioner (General) Amanpreet Singh, HS Bhalla, Principal, Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government College, shared their own experiences with job aspirants. Teachers from Career Launcher India Ltd will give coaching to aspirants.— Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-cops-pat-self-on-the-back-293061
05-08-2021||Amritsar||SGPC offers Rs 10 lakh aid for Gurdwara Guru Nanak Darbar in Shillong||Agri officials to protest on Aug 6Amritsar: The Agriculture Sub-Inspectors Association has announced to hold a protest rally in Patiala on August 6. A meeting of the association was held here on Wednesday to mobilise employees for the protest. The association leaders stated that till 2011 their cadre received equal pay as received by veterinary pharmacists. They alleged that as their pay grades were not revised, their salary at present is much less than veterinary pharmacists. Association leader Prabhjot Singh Chahal said their cases for promotion have been delayed even after completion of all formalities. He added that as the Chief Minister holds the agriculture portfolio, they would be protesting in his constituency on August 6. TNSAdmissions for vacant seatsAmritsar: The Department of Human Genetics, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, was established in 1990 for dedicated research and education in the field of human genetics and to provide genetic services to the society. The department has received grants various national and international R&D agencies such as UGC, DST-FIST, DST Purse, UGC-SAP, DBT, CSIR, PSCST and ICMR. Dr Badaruddoza, Head of Department, said at present, the Department of Human Genetics have few vacant seats in M.Sc (Human Genetics) and MSc (FYIC), the prospective students are requested to contact Head, Department of Human Genetics (Mobile: 9815631536). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-offers-rs-10-lakh-aid-for-gurdwara-guru-nanak-darbar-in-shillong-293062
05-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Crackdown on illicit liquor in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 4The Excise Department and the district police, on the instructions of Excise Commissioner Rajat Aggarwal, conducted search operations in three border area villages, under Operation Red Rose. Huge quantity of illicit liquor and lahan was recovered from them.Navjot Bhatri, a local Excise Officer, said, raids were conducted in Kalsian Kalan, Sandhran and Mari Megha villages. Seven of the accused have been arrested while one managed to escape from the spot. Those arrested include a couple (Sukhpal Singh and his wife Harpreet kaur) of Sandhran village.The Excise Officer revealed that the other accused arrested have been identified as Baldev Singh, Randhir Singh (from Kalsian Kalan), Lakhwinder Singh (from Sandhran village), Gurjant Singh and Gurlal Singh (from Mari Megha village). Another accused Hira Singh of Kalsian Kalan village escaped from the spot.The Excise Department and the police recovered 1,00,500 ml of illicit liquor, 640-kg lahan with seven iron drums and five containers.Cases under Sections 61, 1, 14 of the Excise Act have been registered against the accused at the concerned police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crackdown-on-illicit-liquor-in-tarn-taran-293063
05-08-2021||---||SGPC organises gurmat samagam at Sadullapur Bangar village in Uttar Pradesh||Amritsar, August 4The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) organised a gurmat samagam (religious congregation) at Sadullapur Bangar village in Uttar Pradesh.Sadullapur Bangar is the only village in UP, where Gujjar Sikhs have been settled for the past two centuries.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh tied turbans of more than 40 children. He appreciated villagers for preserving their identity.“Great legacy of Sikh faith and Saabat Soorat (unshorn hair) appearance is unique identity of the community. It’s pleasing to see that residents of Sadullapur village have kept their children connected to the inheritance.” SGPC member Gurpreet Singh Jhabbar, chief of Gurdwara Singh Sabha and Shahjahanpur Bibi Kamlesh Kaur were also present on the occasion.Online kirtan organisedTo commemorate the Parkash Purb of Sri Guru HarKrishan, Chief Khalsa Diwan(CKD) organised an online kirtan at Kalghidhar Sahib. Kirtan jathas of Bhai Surinder Singh Jodhpuri, Bhai Jarnail Singh Koharka (hazuri ragi, Darbar Sahib), Bibi Prabhjot Kaur, Bhai Rajinder Singh Jaap recited kirtans.Giani Raghbir Singh (Jathedar Kesgarh Sahib) and Giani Jagtar Singh (Head Granthi, Darbar Sahib) graced the occasion.CKD chief Nirmal Singh they always aim to preserve heritage and associate youths to their roots through such religious programmes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-organises-gurmat-samagam-at-sadullapur-bangar-village-in-uttar-pradesh-293064
05-08-2021||Tarn Taran||AAP workers march against drug abuse||Protesting against the drug menace, AAP volunteers observed ‘black day’ and took out a foot march from Aladinpur village to the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here on Tuesday.The party volunteers who were from the Khadoor Sahib Vidhan Sabha constituency were being led by party leader Manjinder Singh Lalpura. The leaders submitted a memorandum to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh through the DC. They were holding black flags in their hands and some were wearing black clothes. They raised slogans against the state government and the administration.Lashing out at the state government and the administration, Lalpura said drug smuggling continued in the state and the administration had failed to check it. He said people were losing their lives due to drugs.He said just a year ago as many as 100 persons of the district lost their lives to spurious liquor in a day but it was still being prepared and sold illegally even now. He demanded a high-level probe into the spurious liquor episode again. Lalpura also demanded a probe into seizure of 3-quintal heroin from Mumbai port in which one accused of Chohla Sahib village had been arrested. He had already levelled allegations that some politicians had their links with the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-workers-march-against-drug-abuse-293066
05-08-2021||Amritsar||Gangster Rana Kandowalia dies, four booked||Gangster Rana Kandowalia, who was shot at here yesterday, succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital this morning, said Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill.Kandowalia was admitted in a critical state to the ICU of the hospital, where he was fired upon by armed assailants. The city police have booked four persons, including Jagroshan and Mani Rayya, both accomplices of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, besides two unidentified persons in this connection.Meanwhile, a Facebook post in Bhagwanpuria’s name claimed he and gangster Goldy Brar were behind the attack. In the post, it was claimed Mandep Tuffan, a gangster from Batala, killed Kandowalia at Bhagwanpuria’s behest.Kandowalia had supported slain gangsters Vicky Gounder and Davinder Bambiha in the past, the post claimed. “He helped Bambiha kidnap Dilbag Singh ‘Lamma Patti’. We had warned them not to go against us. They have killed our brother Gurlal Brar without any reason,” it said, while threatening other potential targets. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-rana-kandowalia-dies-four-booked-293228
05-08-2021||Amritsar||Sikh Sadbhawna Dal activists’ bid to stop SGPC project foiled||An attempt to disrupt the ongoing SGPC project for devotees’ convenience in the Golden Temple complex was thwarted by the police today.Amidst heavy police force deployed at Dharam Singh Market on Heritage Street, an 11-member unarmed ‘jatha’ of Sikh activists, led by Sikh Sadbhawna Dal president Baldev Singh Wadala, tried to dodge the police and proceeded towards the Golden Temple complex. As they were passing through a narrow lane to reach the spot, the police intercepted them on the way. They said the SGPC was being insensitive towards Sikh ‘heritage structures’.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said every possible effort was being made in consultation with Panthic scholars and historians to preserve the buildings of historical significance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-sadbhawna-dal-activists-bid-to-stop-sgpc-project-foiled-293227
05-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||2 goals in 2 matches, Ajnala’s Gurjit Kaur shines at Olympics||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 4The Indian women’s hockey team gave a tough fight to Argentina before losing 1-2 in the semifinals at the Tokyo Olympics, but Gurjit Kaur’s two goals in two matches have given her family and friends hope for a bronze medal.Gurjit’s sister Pardeep Kaur, a former player who is now a coach, said: “Destiny did not favour India. Argentina are a very talented bunch. Gurjit and her teammates put in their best but luck was not with them.”The whole family — including father Satnam Singh, mother Harjinder Kaur and brother Gurbhej — were glued to the TV the whole afternoon at their house in Miadi Kalan village, which falls in the Ajnala sub-division. “I told Gurjit to advise the team not to lose heart and continue to work hard, and they would find success in the next match,” said Satnam Singh.In Jalandhar, after Gurjit’s goal, the phone of Navjot Kaur, principal of the Khalsa College for Women, has just not stopped ringing.It was during her time at this college as a BA student, from 2013 to 2015, that Gurjit’s international career took off. She first played for India in 2014, but even before that her coaches — Olympian Varinder Singh, Parminder Kaur and Kulvinder Singh Saini — had seen the makings of a star in her.“We knew she was special. During college days, she practised for hours in the field during peak afternoon!” said Saini. “We would ask her not to overdo it and she would say: ‘I’m having proper diet, I will handle it’.”“She was fluid on the ground. She has stayed in touch all through her sporting journey,” Varinder Singh said. “We won the state championships for three consecutive years when she was a student,” said Parminder Kaur. “She was so shy and soft-spoken, she used to hide behind others during interactions!”“During her college days, when a teacher was absent, Gurjit would go missing. She would be eventually found in the ground, practicing,” said Navjot Kaur.(With Aparna Banerji in Jalandhar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-goals-in-2-matches-ajnalas-gurjit-kaur-shines-at-olympics-293121
