06-08-2021||Amritsar||Three held with illegal weapons||223.5 Q Wheat stock stolenTarn Taran: Markfed detected theft of 223.5 quintals of wheat stock from their godown situated at Chuslewar village in Patti. The stolen wheat stock has a market value of Rs5.14 lakh. Kulwinder Singh, district manager, Markfed, said the theft took place on August 1. He said watchman Mehal Singh informed senior branch manager Bikramjit Singh, who immediately rushed to the spot along with field officer Charanjit Singh and assistant field officer Daljit Singh. The district manager said the two-member committee was formed to detect the stolen stock. The Patti Sadar police have registered a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC in this regard. OCAward for 10 doctorsAmritsar: Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu conferred ‘Pillars of Medical Science’ awards on 10 doctors of Amandeep Hospital. The recipients include Dr Avtar Singh, Dr Ravi Kumar Mahajan, Dr Ashwarya Mehra, Dr Yadvinder Singh, Dr Mandeep Singh, Dr Vineet Sehgal, Dr Manmeet Singh Jhawar, Dr Rishabh Sehgal, Dr Sudhanshu Bansal and Dr Inderdeep Singh. Dr Amandeep Kaur, director, Amandeep Hospital, said the award speaks volumes about the distinction of its specialists as well as excellent medical services provided by the hospital.TNSMinor girl raped, two bookedAmritsar: A minor girl was allegedly raped by her uncle and a cousin in Jaura Phatak. The victim had been residing there after her mother had solemnised a second marriage following the death of her husband. The accused have been identified as Resham Singh and his son Suraj, both residents of Judge Nagar, in Jaura Phatak. The victim who studies in Class VI told the police that after her father’s death, her aunt adopted her. She said for the last two years she was repeatedly subjected to sexual harassment. She said her uncle threatened her to throw out of the house in case she told anyone about this. She said on July 31, they again did the same. Deeply upset, she reached the police station and lodged a complaint. IO Baljit Kaur said as the victim was depressed and giving different statements, she was first counselled and produced before the Child Welfare Committee. The police have registered a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC and Sections 3 and 6 of the POCSO Act against Resham and Suraj. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-with-illegal-weapons-293870
06-08-2021||Art galleries are known to give a glimpse into the era gone-by. These not only feature eminent works by several artists but also serve as a cultural space for art enthusiasts.||A bygone era on canvas at SG Thakar Gallery in Amritsar||Tribune correspondent Neha Saini & lensman Sunil Kumar visit SG Thakar Gallery that houses paintings & artworks of not just Thakar but of his contemporaries as wellThe holy city is known for its old world charm. Apart form being a spiritual hub, it is also a focal point of art and culture. Bearing testimony to this fact is the SG Thakar Singh Art Gallery situated in the heart of the city. Run by the Indian Academy of Fine Arts Amritsar (IAFA), it is one of the oldest and the most prestigious art institutions of India. Established in 1928 by Thakar Singh other members, including Master Gurdit Singh, another eminent artist of that time with the help of other artists, the academy initially also ran the Thakar Singh School of Arts. Started from one room, the gallery now has three exhibition halls, an auditorium and several workshops and demonstration rooms. Works of eminent artists from the city and the region, including Sobha Singh, Phulan Kaur, Arpana Caur, OP Verma, Baldev Gambhir, Shivdev Singh and others also find place here.SG Thakar Singh, one of the most celebrated artists from the region, was born in Verka, in 1899. He became the state artist for more than 10 princely states at the time when India was under the British Raj. His first commercial work got him Rs500 when he was only 18 years of age. Most of his portraits of royals and dignitaries adorn places such as Pataudi Palace, Parliament House and Kolkata Museum. Among his most celebrated works is his painting ‘After Bath’ that won the second prize of £800 at the British Empire Exhibition in London in 1924. It was later owned by the Maharaja of Patiala.Aesthetic delight An untitled portrait of a woman with peacocks in the background, painted by Phulan Rani in 1954.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-bygone-era-on-canvas-at-sg-thakar-gallery-in-amritsar-293869
06-08-2021||Amritsar||Woman alleges rape, 1 booked||A married woman has alleged that a person blackmailed and raped her. The victim (37) of Mullechak village told cops that the accused later uploaded her objectionable pictures on social media.The accused has been identified as Varinder Singh, alias Bubba, of Bhai Vir Singh colony, in Mullechak village.The victim said Varinder forced her to talk to him and made a video of her while she was bathing. She said the accused threatened to post the video on social media in case she did not talk to him.She said in May 2019, he took her to a hotel near the Golden Temple, where he offered her a cold drink laced with sedatives. She said she fell unconscious. She alleged Varinder then raped her and made a video of her. She said two days ago the accused made her video viral on social media, which prompted her to file a complaint against him.IO Sharanjit Kaur said case under Sections 328, 376, 354-C and 506 of the IPC and Sections 67 and 67 (A) of the IT Act has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-alleges-rape-1-booked-293868
06-08-2021||---||Gangster Rana Kandowalia murder: 1 suspect hurt in retaliatory fire during assault||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 5One of the gangsters, who was running away after firing at rival gangster Ranbir Singh, alias Rana Kandowalia, in a private hospital on Tuesday, was also injured in retaliatory firing by a supporter of Kandowalia.He was reportedly identified as Mani Rayya and the police were on his trail. Police teams have been conducting massive raids at the suspected hideouts following the incident.The police have been searching for him and an alert has been sounded and hospitals in the Majha region were asked to inform the police as he would try to take treatment for his gunshot injury.DCP (Investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar confirmed by saying that Tejbir, a Kandowalia’s friend, told the police about a gangster injured in the retaliatory firing. “We have been on the trail of perpetrators who were on the run since the incident,” he said.The CCTVs outside the hospital where incident took place revealed Tejbir Singh, a supporter of Kandowalia, retaliating and firing at the two gangsters while escaping after firing at him (Kandowalia). Tejbir also sustained bullet injuries and a security guard, identified as Arun Kumar, who tried to bolt the gate of the hospital also suffered a bullet injury.Meanwhile, the police on Thursday procured production warrant of gangster Jagdeep Singh, alias Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who was currently in Tihar jail in Delhi and another criminal Deep Dhillon. Bhagwanpuria had shared a post on a social media claiming the responsibility for the murder. In the post, he claimed that Kandowalia was killed by Mandeep Toofan of Batala. He said he was killed in revenge for kidnapping of Lamma Patti who, along with Gurlal Brar, was gunned down in a gang war. Kandowalia was supporting other gangsters Vickey Gounder and Davinder Bambiha who had rivalry with Bhagwanpuria. The police had booked Jaggu, Jagroshan and Mani Rayya, besides two unidentified accomplices in the case.The police were still investigating the veracity of the claims. He said Jagroshan and Mani Rayya were recently threatened by Kandowalia and his accomplices, therefore they had the motive behind the murder. But, the involvement of Mandeep Toofan of Batala was being ascertained. The police suspect Mandeep had formed another gang and therefore Jaggu wanted to implicate him in the case to teach him a lesson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-rana-kandowalia-murder-1-suspect-hurt-in-retaliatory-fire-during-assault-293867
06-08-2021||---||2 held for murder of Verka resident||Amritsar, August 5The police have arrested Ravi Kumar and his sister in connection with the murder of Jagtar Singh, a resident of Verka. He was found murdered at the house of his girlfriend on Tuesday night.Jaswant Singh, father of the victim, told the police that on Tuesday he had gone to Ludhiana and came late in the evening. He said after having meal, the entire family went to sleep. He said Jagtar received a call around 10.15 pm and he went outside. He said he and his family members tried to locate him, but failed. He alleged the girl was forcing Jagtar to marry her.He said he along with his nephew Jaspal Singh and brother Nirmal Singh reached the house of the girl on Wednesday.He said they came to know that the accused found him in objectionable position with his sister, thus they killed him. According to police, Jagtar was strangled to death. The police recovered a small cord from the spot. Cops said their third accomplice Ashwani Kumar was yet to be nabbed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-for-murder-of-verka-resident-293866
06-08-2021||Amritsar||Four test positive in Amritsar district||With four positive cases reported on Thursday, the district Covid tally increased to 47,080. The new cases include three influenza-like illness cases and a contact of a positive patient.The district Health Department has also reported recovery of five patients with which the recovery count increased to 45,476. The district at present has a total of 18 active cases. In the ongoing vaccination drive, 4,782 residents were inoculated on Thursday. Of these 3,619 were given the first dose, while 1,163 received the second dose. — TNS1 dies, 1 +ve in Tarn TaranThe district reported one death and one positive case. The toll touched 374, while there are eight active cases. Of these, seven have been isolated in their homes. One parson has been admitted to a hospital out of the district. The Health Department collected 925 samples today. The report of 556 is awaited. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-293865
06-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||...will inspire generations to come||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 5The winning spree in the Olympics may bring hockey and other sports in the limelight again and revive its past glory.There are four Hockey Olympians — Harmanpreet Singh, Shamsher Singh, Dilpreet Singh and Gurjant Singh, who hail from the district. It may instil a ray of hope for the national game and boost players’ morale to excel in the sport.There is huge potential in the players from Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts. There are several villages including Atari, Mehta, Sathiala, Butala, Timowal, Marar, Pakharpura and Chahlan in the area, where hockey is being adopted as a folk culture. Even the area of ‘Riarki’ near Batala is known to be a nursery of football.There was a good environment in the city for hockey, athletics and swimming. According to experts, players are not able to achieve good results in the absence of infrastructure and proper coaching.As far as hockey is concerned, there is only one AstroTurf in the city at Guru Nanak Dev University. Players claim that it, too, needs repair. There is no other AstroTurf in the city, where budding players can practice.Ironically, the Sports Department in the state doesn’t provide any ground, turf or coaching for hockey. The players have to join private academies to practice in the city. The department hasn’t recruited hockey coaches in the district for years. Not only hockey, several other indoor and outdoor games are deprived of proper infrastructure and coaching. Here it from experts…We are hopeful that the state government will now recognise the importance of hockey. We are lacking in infrastructure and coaching. Our budding players practice on ordinary grass grounds but they have to compete on an AstroTurf. We need AstroTurfs at school level. If the government can’t arrange a full AstroTurf, at least a 6-A-side turf should be provided at schools to practice. It will change the scenario of the game in the region. Secondly, we need coaches at schools, colleges and district level. Olympians and senior players should be deployed as coaches to train budding players. — Balwinder Singh Shammi, who played the 1988 Olympics in SeoulHockey players from the district created history and made the sports fraternity proud. The border districts of Punjab, especially Amritsar, have a great potential for the sport. After practicing on ordinary grounds, they competed with European players and defeated them. These Olympians will not only encourage budding hockey players, but also motivate sportspersons from other games such as athletics, swimming, wrestling, boxing, basketball and kabaddi. — Gurlal Singh, District Sports OfficerFinally, some action at govt levelAccording to information, after the achievement of Indian hockey team on Thursday, the state government has asked sports officials in the district to send the details of infrastructures required. The Sports Department has also asked the government to repair the AstroTurf at GNDU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-inspire-generations-to-come-293864
06-08-2021||Gurbaxpuri||When Hockey stick did the talking||Tarn Taran, August 5As Indian hockey team scripted history in the Olympics on Thursday, tears of joy flowed from almost every Indian’s eyes, as everyone waited for this momentous day. The men in blue finished at the third spot by winning a bronze for the country.Baba Sewa Singh, patron of the Kar Sewa sect and Nishan-e-Sikhi, Khadoor Sahib, who also runs Baba Uttam Singh National Hockey Academy, was also instrumental in providing a training ground to budding players, some of whom are in the current squad. Star hockey players — Varun Kumar, Mandeep Singh and Dilpreet Singh — started training quite young at the academy.Inspector Harmeek Singh, who coached Varun and Mandeep from 2006 to 2008, said Varun was very shy, but skilful, while Mandeep was an all-rounder besides a good scorer. Dilpreet’s father Balwinder Singh from Butala is the chief coach at the academy. While talking about his son, he said he started practising when he was just seven and never missed seeing Olympics matches. He said: “Dilpreet always used to say that he must participate in the Olympics to win a medal one day and so they did. As I was a coach at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Hockey Academy, Amritsar, from 2008 to 2011, Dilpreet, too, started practising. He was hardly eight and always insisted on staying with me to practise the game. I told him that you can’t even tie your hair (jura) on your own, how will you play? Within no time, he learnt to tie his hair after practising it a number of times.” While remembering Varun and Mandeep, Baba Baldev Singh said they had firm determination and were well-disciplined and never missed coming to the ground.He said Mandeep used different techniques right from the beginning and was hardly 8-years-old when he started captaining. He would always be declared as the best player in almost all tournaments. “These are moments of another upswing for Indian hockey and we wish the team will strengthen itself to gain further glory. It did not happen overnight, it is a fruit of toilsome efforts of hockey lovers and institutions like Hockey India,” he said. Secretary, Nishan-e-Sikhi, Avtar Singh Bajwa; director of Baba Uttam Singh Hockey Academy Sandeep Singh; Baba Baldev Singh, hockey coach Jaspal Singh and Principal Beerinder Singh also sent congratulations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-hockey-stick-did-the-talking-293858
06-08-2021||GS Paul||Obscure villages now on global map as five players from Majha region in Indian hockey team||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 5The five players from the Majha region in the Indian team have made their presence felt in Tokyo. The feat has put their obscure native villages on the global map.Simranjeet Singh belongs to Gurdaspur’s Chahal Kalan village whereas the four from Amritsar district are Gurjant Singh of Khaliara village, Harmanpreet Singh of Timmowal village, Dilpreet Singh of Butala and Shamsher Singh of Attari. Simranjeet (25) and Gurjant (26), both cousins, played together in the team.It was Simranjeet who opened the account of the team with a field goal and interestingly, sealed the victory with the winning goal against Germany. His paternal uncle Rashpal Singh Chahal said: “At a very young age, he was dedicated to hockey. I got him admitted to Shahbad Hockey Academy, followed by Surjit academy in Jalandhar.”Gurjant’s father Baldev Singh said both the players got inspiration from their uncle Hardev Singh Chahal who was also a national hockey player (1985-1990). “Both cousins played many tourneys, including the 2016 junior World Cup, together. We are proud of their achievement,” he said.At Timmewal village, Harmanpreet's father Sarbjeet Singh said his inspiration was former dragflicker Jugraj Singh, who taught him tricks of the trade. "Harmanpreet gained the attention of the school coach at the age of nine. His coach inspired me to let him take professional training. I managed to spare money for his training through my meagre resources,” he said.At Butala village, Dilpreet’s father Balwinder Singh said : “We are loaded with congratulatory messages and frequent visits by relatives. We are all proud of Team India,” he said. However, the atmosphere at Shamsher's home at Attari was sombre due the sudden demise of a member in the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/obscure-villages-now-on-global-map-as-five-players-from-majha-region-in-indian-hockey-team-293561
