07-08-2021||Amritsar||Man booked for raping minor in Amritsar||28-year-old man found murderedAmritsar: Manjinder Singh (28), a resident of Taja Chak village falling under the Gharinda police station, was found murdered near Basarke Bhaini village here on Thursday. The police have booked unidentified persons for the murder. Victim’s cousin Nirvail Singh told the police that on Thursday evening, he left the house saying that he was going out for some work and would return soon. But he did not return. They repeatedly called on his cell phone, but nobody picked up the phone. He informed that the owner of the mobile was found dead on the Basarke Bhaini village link road. All family members and relatives immediately rushed to the spot. The police have registered a case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC against unidentified persons. TNSHind, Pak dosti fest on Aug 8Amritsar: The Folklore Research Academy announced resumption of its annual edition of seminars dedicated to the Independence Day celebrations. Ramesh Yadav, chief, Folklore Research Academy, said a seminar on ‘Indo-Pak relations and current political situation’ will be organised on August 8. Yadav said they held a meet regarding preparations for the annual Indo-Pak friendship festival with the Hind, Pak Dosti Manch, SAFMA and the Virsa Vihar Society. “This year’s theme will be dedicated to farmers. We will be having renowned editors and journalists of Punjabi newspapers,” said Yadav. TNSAgri land for small farmersTarn Taran: Landless, marginal or small farmers who have been cultivating and occupying the government land for a period of 10 years or more are eligible for the allotment of the land. The person concerned need to apply to the sub divisional magistrate. The government has enacted ‘The Punjab (Welfare and Settlement of Landless, Marginal and Small Occupant Farmers) Allotment of State Government Land Act, 2021’ for welfare of landless, marginal and small farmers. Applications along with copies of revenue record can be submitted to the SDM concerned by paying a fee of Rs100. The applicants can get more detailes on https:// revenue.punjab.gov.in. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-raping-minor-in-amritsar-294283
07-08-2021||---||‘Aortic stenosis may cause sudden death’||Amritsar, August 6The sudden cardiac death is defined as natural death due to cardiac causes, heralded by abrupt loss of consciousness within one hour of the onset of symptoms.In patients with aortic stenosis, which is narrowing of the aortic valve, the incidence of sudden death was noted up to 37 per cent, revealed a meta-analysis study by eminent cardiologist Dr. Rajneesh Kapoor who is a Punjab Rattan awardee and presently Vice Chairman in the department of Interventional Cardiology at Medanta Hospital.Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Dr Kapoor while sharing the details of study said that valvular heart disease is the number three cause of death from heart disease in India.He told that the function of heart valves is to maintain the blood flow in a proper direction. If these valves become defective it leads to abnormal blood flow causing conditions such as brain stroke, dangerously low heartbeat, decreased heart functioning, enlargement of heart, conduction abnormalities, heart attack- all of them may cause heart failure that is life-threatening.“According to data from our transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) registry, 70 per cent of patients with aortic stenosis disease were from the age group of less than 60 years and 20-30 per cent of patients were less than 50 years old”, he said. In the meta-analysis, from seven big studies and 4,000 patients, it was seen that in patients with symptoms of aortic stenosis the prevalence of sudden death was as high as 37 per cent whereas in patients with no symptoms it was around 1 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aortic-stenosis-may-cause-sudden-death-294282
07-08-2021||---||‘Post-Covid, hospitality industry looks up’||Amritsar, August 6Having worked at several luxury properties in the country, Paramveer Singh, general manager of Taj Swarna, sounds optimistic. Talking about the post-Covid scenario, he says the industry has a bright future in the holy city. With more than 15 years of experience in the hospitality industry, he was recently appointed here at Taj Swarna.He says, “The hotel is located strategically in the heart of the city. I am excited to again start afresh. Pandemic left the hospitality sector bruised but there huge chances of its revival.”He led operations of group’s landmark hotels in Udaipur, Mumbai, Delhi, Nashik, Agra and Gurgaon. An IHM Meerut graduate, he holds General Manager Development Programme Certification from IIM, Ahmedabad, and Nanyang University, Singapore. Paramveer’s last assignment was working as a general manager at Taj Damdama Lake Resort, Gurgaon. He loves reading, listening to music and exploring new scenic destinations.“Featuring spacious hotel rooms, an array of dining options, a contemporary bar, state-of-the-art meeting facilities, health club and a Jiva spa and salon, the hotel offers the ultimate comfort and luxury in the city”.He said the lean time during Covid-19 offered an opportunity to them to fine tune and ensure operational efficiency of the highest standards in departments such as finance, HR, engineering house-keeping, food and beverage and front office through the best in class training and overseeing adherence to all brand standards. During his stay in Agra, he was an executive member of the Tourism Guild of Agra, a body representing tourism in Agra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/post-covid-hospitality-industry-looks-up-294281
07-08-2021||Amritsar||Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana: Needy families get letters of financial aid in Amritsar||Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MLA Inderbir Singh Bularian distributed letters of financial aid to eligible beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana here on Friday.The letters were given to transfer the installment of financial assistance given for construction of houses in their bank accounts. This financial assistance is for poor families, who do not have any means to build their house or who have old roofs so that these families can make their homes “pucca” by using this financial assistance properly. Under this scheme of the government, the Mayor claimed that they have distributed crores of rupees to the beneficiaries on behalf of the MC, Amritsar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pradhan-mantri-awas-yojana-needy-families-get-letters-of-financial-aid-in-amritsar-294280
07-08-2021||---||Amritsar MC seals shops of defaulters||Amritsar, August 6Finally, the estate wing of the Municipal Corporation sealed six shops of tenants, which were not paying rent to the civic body for long, here on Thursday.Following the directions of Mayor Karamjit Singh and Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi, the team of Estate Wing led by Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh visited the Golbagh Taxi Stand Market and Berri Gate and took action against defaulter tenants of rented shops.The action was especially targeted against the tenants who had not paid their dues despite repeated notices issued by the Land Department for a long time. A total of six shops were sealed during today’s departmental action against the tenants.Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh said such actions would be expedited in the future to increase the recovery of the Land Department on the directions of the Mayor and Commissioner. He appealed that the tenants who have not yet paid the due rent of their shops, avoid the action of MC by depositing the dues without any delay. Inspector Raj Kumar, Inspector Deepak Kumar, Jagir Singh, departmental staff and police force were involved in today’s operation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-seals-shops-of-defaulters-294279
07-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Showing the way: This farmer from Amritsar village reaps a bumper crop sans fertilisers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 6A marginal farmer Gurmeet Singh from Madhu Shanga village has been setting an example for others by cultivating organic crops.Initially, Gurmeet began by adopting the technique for domestic use and subsequently stopped using chemical fertilizer, insecticides and pesticides with the passage of time. Then the government agriculture agencies came to know of his interest in the organic farming and motivated him to grow the organic crops for commercial use. For the past two years, Gurmeet Singh is growing the organic Basmati in his fields at Madhu Shanga village.“Initially, I adopted organic farming in one-acre land and will increase it depending upon the demand for crop in the market. The agricultural experts have been supporting me for non-chemical farming. In order to minimise the pesticide residues and for enhancing its export, the regional office of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) set a field demonstration in my field,” said Gurmeet. The project emphasised on the use of non-chemical methods and biological methods for management of insect pests.“The agricultural experts are laying stress on not using banned insecticides which causes residue problem and hence puts hurdle in the basmati export. The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) experts have provided pheromone traps for catching adults of stem borer. They provided the cards to breed the farmer friendly insects in the crop. I have sprayed only neem oil and other herbal products,” he added.“The pesticides cause health hazards and hence their use should be minimised. The experts from KVK, PAU and NABARD often visit and train us to identify the nature of damage, symptoms and management of various insect pests in basmati crop. Dr Narinderpal Singh from KVK also shared tips on marketing of organic basmati. The organic produce needs separate market chain as there is no separate stall in the ordinary markets,” he said. Growing organic basmati in his fieldsInitially, Gurmeet began by adopting the technique for domestic use and subsequently stopped using chemical fertilizer, insecticides and pesticides with the passage of time. Then the government agriculture agencies came to know of his interest in organic farming and motivated him to grow the organic crops for commercial use. For the past two years, Gurmeet Singh has been growing the organic basmati in his fields at Madhu Shanga village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/showing-the-way-this-farmer-from-amritsar-village-reaps-a-bumper-crop-sans-fertilisers-294278
07-08-2021|| Amritsar||Golden Temple becomes more disabled-friendly||For the convenience of elderly and specially-abled devotees visiting to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, the World Cancer Care donated 11 wheelchairs. While receiving the wheelchairs sent by Dr Kulwant Singh Dhaliwal, chairman of the World Cancer Care, SGPC President Bibi Jagir Kaur said that the devotees express their devotion at the Golden Temple by contributing with various services.She said the World Cancer Care organisation had earlier also served with wheelchairs at various Takhts for the convenience of the elderly and the specially-abled devotees. On this occasion, the representative of World Cancer Care Dr Dharminder Singh Dhillon, SGPC member Gurmail Singh Sangatpura, Amrik Singh Vichhoa and Amarjit Singh Bhalaipur, OSDs to SGPC president Dr Amrik Singh Latifpur and many others were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/golden-temple-becomes-more-disabled-friendly-294277
07-08-2021||---||Amritsar DC Office Employees’ Association postpones strike till August 9||Amritsar, August 6Members of the DC Office Employees’ Association postponed their strike till August 9 after assurance by Principal Secretary to CM Suresh Kumar and Finance Commissioner (Revenue) Ravneet Kaur. Sunil Kumar, a leader of the union, said the strike was called off by the noon and employees resumed their work. “The next course of action will be announced after knowing the government’s response on August 9.”“Officials on behalf of the state government assured to take back the orders of discontinuing four posts of senior assistants and nine posts of clerks in the DC offices. This order had affected seven clerks who were recently promoted to senior assistants,” he said.He said the government assured that these clerks would not be reverted to their previous positions. Promotion of superintendents of Grade-I and Grade-II have been stopped for the last one year. It was ensured that a decision in this regard will be finalised by September 30.Meanwhile, members of the Revenue Patwar Union held a protest at the DC office in Amritsar on Friday. They raised slogans against the government for not accepting their long pending demands. Their demands include creation of a post of kanungo over seven patwar circles, full salary to newly recruited kanungo, reinstatement of old pension, adequate sitting arrangement for public and patwaris in offices, potable water supply and a night watchman for the safety of record at the office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-dc-office-employees-association-postpones-strike-till-august-9-294276
07-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar industrialists resent erratic power supply in old Focal Point||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 6Industrialists in the old focal point area are irked over the erratic power supply causing deterioration in the quality of products being manufactured or processed at that time. They said the old Focal Point falls in Category-II, where power cuts cannot be enforced without prior intimation and without valid reason such as maintenance.The PSPCL had earmarked weekly off for power on Monday and the industrialists coincided it with weekly holiday for labourers to ensure working of units for at least six days a week. Samir Goyal, a manufacturer of steel goods, said: “The norms for category-II industrial area state that power can go off as an outcome of emergency fault, but it is to be rectified immediately. However, these days without giving any prior notice or intimation to factory owners, three to four-hour long power outages are being imposed at least once a week.”“It causes huge financial loss to units in the process of manufacturing goods. Many factories are in the process of melting and heat treatment and after power goes off, products change entirely. In case of manufacturing screws, knife blades, wire heat treatment, an entirely new product, which is of substandard quality, comes out and the entire lot is rejected. As a result, their value comes down from Rs150 per kg to Rs50 per kg in the market, which is a huge loss to manufacturers, as they are unable to meet even the input cost,” he rued.Pankaj Kohli, manufacturer of machines being used in furnaces, said: “The PSPCL is causing huge losses to the industry by providing power supply on weekly off days, when labourers also take off. However, it imposes power cuts on working days, which again causes loss as labourers do not get work while their wages have to be paid.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-industrialists-resent-erratic-power-supply-in-old-focal-point-294275
07-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Gang of peddlers busted, two held||Tarn Taran, August 6The police on Friday busted a three-member gang of drug peddlers headed by an Army man. While two of the gang members have been arrested, one is absconding.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said on Friday that the Army personnel, identified as Jorawar Singh of Boparai (Patti), and his accomplice Puran Singh had been arrested.The police team, led by Sub-Inspector Sone, SHO, recovered 2,900 tramadol tablets, one pistol, five bullets and one Mahindra Scorpio car from Army man Jorawar Singh who informed that he had purchased these tablets from Puran Singh.The Army man, who used the Punjab Police sticker on his Scorpio (PB-46 Y-5224), was nabbed during routine checking launched by the SHO Sone.Jorawar Singh is deputed at 15 Punjab, 7 RR Battalion, Srinagar, as a constable and had come on leave to his village. He had purchased these intoxicating tablets from Puran Singh whom the police arrested later. One of the gang members, said to be a bus driver, is absconding, said the SSP.The accused had been booked under Sections 22, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act, and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-peddlers-busted-two-held-294271
07-08-2021||---||Man hurt in firing in Rajasansi area||Amritsar, August 6One person was injured and another escaped unhurt after seven persons fired at them in the Rajasansi area here on Thursday evening. The injured has been identified as Amanpreet Singh. He was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here. An old rivalry is stated to be the cause behind the crime.The victim told the police that he, along with his brother Lovepreet Singh, was going to Kallomahal village from Amritsar on Tavera at around 8.15pm. The latter was driving the vehicle. He said when they reached near Pears Garden in the Rajasansi area, an SUV and a car came to a screeching halt before them. He said before they could understand, the accused came out and started firing at them. He said Amanpreet was injured by splinters of bullets fired by Parminder Singh.Besides Parminder Singh, the police booked Gurpinder Singh, Jaswinder Singh and Dilbagh Singh and their three unidentified accomplices. All of them were booked under Sections 307, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-hurt-in-firing-in-rajasansi-area-294268
07-08-2021||---||Rana Kandowalia murder: Ten rounded up for facilitating gangsters||Amritsar, August 6As different agencies of Punjab Police have launched a hunt to nab the killers of notorious gangster Ranbir Singh, alias Rana Kandowalia, over a dozen persons facilitating the perpetrators were rounded up by the police for finding some clues regarding the whereabouts of the suspects.Rana Kandowalia was gunned down outside a private hospital three days ago by four persons. Notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria had taken the responsibility for the murder.Meanwhile, the police brought Mandeep Singh, alias Deep Dhillon who was lodged in Amritsar Central Jail, on production warrant. He was produced before the court which remanded him in three-day police custody. Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who was lodged in Tihar jail in Delhi, would also be brought on production warrant in the case.Deep Dhillon had attacked Kandowalia in 2018. Later, he killed a sarpanch. He was also arrested by the State Special Operation Cell in connection with the seizure of 48 foreign-made pistols smuggled from Pakistan through drones recently. An official privy to investigation said over 10 persons were rounded up by the police who used to facilitate these gangsters.“Police teams have been raiding different places to arrest the suspects. They have been on the run since the incident,” said the official wishing not to be named. Kandowalia had gone to meet a girl of his village who was admitted to the ICU of a private hospital when the accused shot at him. He suffered bullet injuries that led to his death. His accomplice was also injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rana-kandowalia-murder-ten-rounded-up-for-facilitating-gangsters-294260
07-08-2021||Amritsar||Four more test positive in Amritsar district||With four positive cases reported on Friday, the district Covid tally increased to 47,084. The new cases include three influenza-like illness cases and a contact of a positive patient.The Health Department reported recovery of two patients with which the recovery count increased to 45,478. At present, the district has a total of 20 active cases.In the ongoing vaccination drive, 2,090 residents were inoculated on Friday. With this, the number of inoculated people reached 7,56,213.No new case in Tarn TaranThe health authorities reported no new case and Covid-related death in the district on Friday. The toll stands at 374. The district has eight active cases and out of them seven patients had been isolated at their homes. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-more-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-294255
07-08-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Garbage dots road leading to mental health institute in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 6In contrast to a swanky road with a dedicated cycle track built at the government expense around a shopping mall, the passage leading to north India’s prestigious Dr Vidya Sagar Institute of Mental Health can be seen littered with trash and wild grass.The medical institute caters to patients from Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. It also serves as a clinical training institute for nursing students.Apart from trash, which has piled over the years on this stretch, garbage collected from homes has been dumped along the wall of the institute.While the road leading to the premier institute has eyesore for patients and their attendants, the one built around the nearby shopping mall has become a favourite stretch for joggers and cyclists.“The shopping mall has used large steel blinds to hide filth lying behind the hospital as the sight is appalling. The authorities concerned are totally unaware of it,” said a visitor.A girl student said, “I daily walk from circular road to the institute. It’s picturesque alongside the mall, but when I take the last turn, wild grass several feet high fills me with fear.”Those working at the institute said one has to be careful as they have spotted reptiles around the passage.The mental health institute was originally set up in Lahore in 1900, but was shifted to Amritsar after the Partition.Interestingly, the chunk of land on which the sprawling shopping mall has been constructed, belonged to the medical institute, but was transferred to the private entity by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/garbage-dots-road-leading-to-mental-health-institute-in-amritsar-294251
07-08-2021||---||Rs 35-crore property tax: Amritsar Civic body serves notice on mall||Amritsar, August 6Amritsar Municipal Corporation issued a notice to a prominent shopping mall on the GT Road to pay property tax worth Rs 35.30 crore. The mall authorities were asked to pay dues from 2014-15 to 2019-20 after scrutinising the old self-assessed payments of property tax.The officials of MC stated that one of the prominent shopping malls of the city was paying Rs 66 lakh property tax every year. Now, the Property Tax Department of the MC after conducting scrutiny of all rented showrooms found that the said mall had to pay Rs 35.30 crore of pending tax.The Property Tax Department of the MC has been conducting scrutiny of all commercial buildings of the city and issuing notices to pay the pending taxes.On last Tuesday, the Municipal Corporation had sealed six properties of defaulters, whose cheques were dishonoured. MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi has instructed to take strict action against defaulters. After sealing the building, the MC has collected more than 60 lakh property tax.Malwinder Singh Jaggi urged residents to get the benefit of rebate of tax payment and deposit the tax before September 30. Otherwise, a strict action will be taken against defaulters.“The notices will be served to all defaulters till the end of month and sealing drives would be conducted for the recovery of tax,” said Jaggi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-35-crore-property-tax-amritsar-civic-body-serves-notice-on-mall-294249
07-08-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Tarn Taran: Farmers gherao PAU officials||Tarn Taran, August 6Farmers gheraoed a three-member team of the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) who had come to investigate a complaint regarding sale of mixed seed of PR-121 (paddy) at Palasaur village on Thursday.Daler Singh, who is a marginal farmer (2 acres), had taken 8 acres on a lease for Rs 60,000 per acre. He had purchased paddy seed from the Vegetable Research Centre, Usman, Tarn Taran, for 10 acres. After one and a half months of sowing paddy, Daler was stunned to see mixed plants on his fields.The team was headed by plant breeder Gaurav Khosla. Farmers led by Lakhwinder Singh Palasaur of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and Parminder Singh, former sarpanch of the village, gathered at the spot.The PAU team was of the view that the seed must be mixed erroneously which caused loss to the tune of 20 per cent. Farmers asked the team members to give it in writing, which the latter denied. As situation seemed to go out of hand, SHO Varinder Singh Khosa and tehsildar Ajay Kumar (Duty Magistrate), reached the spot.After consulting his seniors, Khosla gave the report that 20 per cent seed of wild rice led to 20 per cent crop loss on 10 acres of Daler.The Duty Magistrate said he countersigned the report of the three –member team of the PAU. Palasaur demanded a high-level probe into the matter and sought action against erring officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-farmers-gherao-pau-officials-294247
07-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||80K quintals of wheat stock worth Rs 20 crore goes missing in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 6A total of 80,000 quintals of wheat worth Rs 20 crore was allegedly misappropriated by an Inspector-rank official of of the District Food and Civil Supply Department who was in charge of eight godowns.The incident came to light when different teams of the department swooped down for physical verification at the godowns located in Jandiala Guru, Gehri Mandi and Dhire Kot villages on Saturday.It’s learnt that Dr Rakesh Singla, vigilance committee’s head of the department, sent these teams to conduct physical verification after getting complaints regarding suspected bungling of huge quantity of wheat.Officials got a hint after Inspector Jasdev Singh allegedly went into hiding around a week ago without informing the department. He also took away all the records pertaining to these godowns from his office.Assistant Food and Civil Supply Officer (AFSO) Arshdeep Singh, who was heading a vigilance team, said Jasdev never handed over the records pertaining to these godowns even after repeated written orders. Therefore, a complaint was lodged with the higher authorities in this connection. “As Jasdev took away the record with him, we can find the exact amount of bungling only after completion of physical verification of these godowns,” he added.Gurlal Singh, AFSO, who was heading another team inspecting a godown at Gehri Mandi village said there’s definitely some shortage in jute bags. The sources in the department revealed that the inspection team found around 80,000 quintals of wheat missing from these godowns. District Food and Civil Supply Controller Rishi Mehra said, besides departmental action, legal action would also be initiated against the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/80k-quintals-of-wheat-stock-worth-rs-20-crore-goes-missing-in-amritsar-district-294246
07-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga & Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Punjab village proud of hockey player Gurjit Kaur’s stellar performance at Tokyo||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar/Jalandhar, August 6“Tu jitti hain, haari nahi,” said a proud Satnam Singh while speaking to his daughter Gurjit Kaur on the phone after the Indian women hockey team lost to Great Britain in the bronze medal match and finished fourth at the Tokyo Olympics. “You gave an unforgettable performance. The entire nation is very proud of you,” he said.Unforgettable momentTu jitti hain, haari nahi (You have won, not lost). You gave an unforgettable performance. The entire country is proud of you and other girls of the team. — Satnam Singh, Gurjit’s FatherThere will be many Gurjits nowGurjit’s feat will now inspire many young girls to pick up a hockey stick. There are going to be many Gurjits now. Women hockey is in for a revival. — Parminder Kaur, Gurjit’s College CoachLater, talking to The Tribune, Satnam Singh, said: “I felt sad to see tears in the eyes of our girls. Had Gurjit not scored goals in the Olympics, we would have felt bad. She, along with other girls, gave her best.”Though residents of star dragflicker’s Miadia Kalan village in Ajnala tehsil were heartbroken after the team’s defeat, they felt proud of their daughter for making the obscure village famous and hogging the limelight at the international level.Gurcharan Singh, a village nambardar, said: “If it was goalkeeper Savita who was the protagonist of the team in the first quarter, saving two penalty corners and three goal attempts, it was dragflicker Gurjit Kaur in the second quarter who converted two penalty corners into goals.”Gurjit’s sister Pardeep Kaur, a coach at Sansarpur, said: “I am proud of my sister. She has worked very hard to make it up to here. The girls played their hearts out and gave us a perfect display of quality hockey”.Parminder Kaur, who coached her at Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, said, “Gurjit’s feat will now inspire many young girls to pick up a hockey stick. There are going to be many Gurjits now. Women hockey is in for a revival with Gurjit at the centre of it.”Meanwhile, Congress leader Dilraj Singh Sarkaria today inaugurated a stadium named after Gurjit Kaur in the village.(With inputs from Aparna Banerji)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-village-proud-of-hockey-player-gurjit-kaurs-stellar-performance-at-tokyo-294106
