08-08-2021||Amritsar||One arrested in notorious gangster Rana Kandowalia's murder case||Days after the sensational killing of notorious gangster Ranbir Singh, also known as Rana Kandowalia, at private hospital premises, the city police on Sunday made their first arrest.Nanit Sharma, also known as Saurav—a resident of Shakarpura village located on Dera Baba Nanak Road in Batala—was arrested for allegedly sheltering the perpetrators, and making arrangements for the treatment of an injured accused Sharma.With his arrest, the police had identified all the suspects, barring a Haryanavi speaking youth.His interrogation revealed, that besides Haryanvi-speaking youth, Jagroshan Hundal of Tarn Taran and Mani Rayya, Mandeep Singh also known as Toofan of Batala and Happy Shah, also known as Sharma, had allegedly committed the murder of Rana Kandowalia.The police have also nominated six persons for sheltering and harbouring them.Besides Nanit, others were Laddi Dairy wala, Sukhraj Malli, Jagtar Singh, Prabhjot Chatha and Lalli Dairy wala, all residents of Batala.“They were booked under section 212, 216 and 120-B of Indian Penal Code,” said Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Investigations.Nanit was being produced in the court and the police have sought his police remand for further interrogation.His preliminary interrogation revealed that he and Sukhraj Malli were old friends of Mandeep Toofan who worked for notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria.He said, though he was on the run for the past four years, they were in contact with him. He said Mandeep his accomplice Jagroshan Hundal and Mani Rayya used to meet at his fruit shop.He said on Tuesday evening he got a call from Toofan that they had killed Rana Kandowalia, but one of his accomplices Happy Shah was also injured in the retaliatory fire. He asked him and Sukhraj to make arrangements for his treatment.He said Malli called Laddi Dairywala, Prabhjot Chatha and Jagtar Singh who were known to of Mandeep Toofan for this.He said they later met them at Batala bypass. Happy Shah and Jagroshan Hundal sat with Prabhjot while Mandeep sat in the car with Nanit and Sukhraj Malli.The Haryanvi boy and Laddi Dairywala and Jagtar Singh took their Creta car to some undisclosed place. He said they took injured Happy Shah to a private hospital for treatment. Later, they helped him safely going out of the city.Bhullar said they were also contemplating action against the hospital authorities, which failed to inform the police before treating the injured gangster.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-arrested-in-notorious-gangster-rana-kandowalias-murder-case-294837
08-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Wheat embezzlement: Food Civil Supplies Inspector booked for Rs20-crore fraud||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 7Following the complaint of District Food and Civil Supplies Controller Rishi Raj Mehra, the Amritsar rural police have booked custodian inspector Jasdev Singh on the charge of fraud (420, IPC) and criminal breach of trust (409, IPC) and other relevant sections of the IPC.Jasdev Singh mysteriously disappeared last week. Following this, the head of the vigilance committee of the department has ordered physical verification of eight godowns which were looked after by him.The incident came to light when the Food Corporation of India was to upload wheat in a special train from the Gehri Mandi railway station and as per the norms, it was mandatory for the custodian inspector to remain present with the record. However, he was not present there. When officials called him, his mobile was switched off. Even his family members have also disappeared from the house. Jasdev was the custodian of eight godowns located in Jandiala, Gehri Mandi and Dhire Kot villages.He allegedly took along the records pertaining to these godowns from his office. Arshdeep Singh, Assistant Food and Civil Supply Officer, here said he was repeatedly asked to submit the record which he never did. Therefore, higher authorities were informed about this.Following this, the department decided to hold a physical verification by its vigilance department. The physical verification continued for two days and the department found as many as 87,160 quintals of wheat worth Rs 20 crores missing. According to the complaint submitted to the police, the DFSC said as many as 1,45,787 bags of 50-kg wheat each belonging to Pungrain and 47,556 bags containing 30-kg wheat each (total 1,93,343 bags) were found bungled from eight godowns.The Food and Civil Supply Department on behalf of PUNGRAIN and the Punjab Government procured the grains from the grain market.Sources, however, pointed out that the sheer quantity of wheat bungled pointed out that he was not alone in the embezzlement. “A truck can load maximum 500 bags. This means nearly 400 trucks were used to ferry the bungled wheat,” he said. How come no other person in the department got to know about where such a huge quantity of wheat went? Further, this can never be possible without political patronage, they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wheat-embezzlement-food-civil-supplies-inspector-booked-for-rs20-crore-fraud-294758
08-08-2021||---||Rana Kandowalia & Satnam Singh Sattu murder: Police find a link||Amritsar, August 7Adding a twist to the brutal murder of notorious gangster Ranbir Singh alias Rana Kandowalia, the Punjab Police have found close links in a case related to the murder of a property dealer Satnam Singh alias Sattu, who was gunned down by bike-borne persons on July 30, in Fatehgarh Churian. The duo was killed by the same group.Gang war in districtSattu, a close ally of Kandowalia, was sitting in his SUV when he was shot dead. The Batala police had booked unknown persons at that time and later nominated Mandeep Singh alias Toofan in the case.It was Toofan along with Jagroshan Hundal and Mani Rayya, who had killed Kandowalia on August 4 at a private hospital.A police official, privy to the investigations confirmed that both the murders could be connected. It has been learnt that following Sattu’s murder, the accused hid in Rajasansi and conducted a recee of Kandowalia. A car with sticker of an advocate was reportedly used for this purpose.The sources said Kandowalia had information about the attack on Sattu and he had even attended his cremation as well.Rayya was injured in retaliatory firing by Tejbir Singh, an associate of Kandowalia. Tejbir was also injured in the attack.The police have learnt that Rayya was treated at a private hospital located on Batala-Jalandhar link road. Rayya had suffered two bullet injuries. It’s learnt Jaggu Bhagwanpuria financed his treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rana-kandowalia-satnam-singh-sattu-murder-police-find-a-link-294759
08-08-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar district sees 8 fresh Covid cases||With eight fresh cases reported on Saturday, the district tally has increased to 47,092. The new cases include six influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of positive patients.With recovery of five patients, the recovery count has increased to 45,483 in the district. The district at present has 23 active cases.Meanwhile, under the ongoing vaccination drive, 11,989 residents were inoculated on Sunday. Of these 7,248 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 4,741 received second dose.6 test +ve in Tarn TaranThe district on Saturday reported six fresh Covid cases. With no new casualty today, the district toll stands at 374. At present, there are 14 active cases in the district and seven had been under home isolation. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said teams of the Health Department had collected 915 samples to be tested for Covid while report of 594 was yet to be received.Vaccination camps were organised at 102 places on Saturday, where 9,336 persons were inoculated. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-sees-8-fresh-covid-cases-294760
08-08-2021||---||Stagnant water cause for concern in Tarn Taran||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, August 7The polluted water from Malhia village has not only entered the complex of two government offices but has also become a potential health hazard with the water remaining stagnant here for days together. The authorities, as usual, have failed to take steps to drain out the water.The complex houses the offices of Block Elementary Education Officer (BEEO), Noordi, and Tarn Taran (Proper). It also has a government elementary school, in which 200 students study.The complex is situated at a level lower than the path leading to the village and the Tarn Taran-Jandiala Guru road also pass near the complex. During the rainy season, the overflowing water from the drain enters the complex and remains stagnant due to lack of drainage facilities. Besides, rainwater also adds to the problem. Stagnant water starts emitting foul smell and those passing the complex area have to bear the stench.Though the village panchayat and officials concerned are well aware of the situation, none is serious about solving the problem. The worst sufferers are officials working in the offices, and the teachers coming to the school.Teachers say that they have been facing the problem for the last decade, but the administration has always been more or less careless.Harjinderpreet Singh, BEEO (Proper), said he had written recently to the Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) and the District Education Officer (Elementary), Tarn Taran, to resolve the problem. He said the DEO (E) had assured him of releasing funds soon. He said with the grant, they would make arrangements for early drainage of the polluted water. The BEEO said it was a problem of just a few days and it would be resolved soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stagnant-water-cause-for-concern-in-tarn-taran-294761
08-08-2021||---||Amritsar: Weavers of durries, khes wait for biz to pick up||Amritsar, August 7Manjit Kaur, 40, had been weaving durries all her life, learning the art from her mother. Little did she know that she could earn a living by making these colorful, beautiful traditional dosuti looms that have been a part of Punjab’s textile heritage.‘Need to save the inherent craftsmanship’“I used to make traditional khes and durries during weddings in the village and make a few for my family. But six years ago, I joined the training workshop programme of Cocoon Foundation, through which I started earning for myself by making durries,” she shared. Just like Manjit, Sarbjit Kaur along with other women in her village in Sangrur, joined the initiative by Cocoon Foundation to revive and rehabilitate the weavers and traditional handloom artisans. The foundation has been running several empowerment initiatives for local artisans and weavers across the country to enable them to make a livelihood.Khes is traditional loom made in geometrical pattern, using colourful thread on a pit loom. From the famous majnu khes popular in the pre-Partition era to the modern weaves, the khes has been part of bridal trousseau for generations. Similarly, durries or woven rugs have been part of every rural household in Punjab. Earlier, every household in the village used to have a panja loom to weave durries.Resurgence of these handlooms ensure that the village economy stays afloat. Manjit and many women in her village have made the journey towards self-reliance through selling these traditional weaves. She said she used to earn enough to give good education and manage household before the outbreak of the pandemic two years ago, which wreaked havoc on their livelihood.“I used to get orders of 10 durries, sometimes, even more. They sell at Rs 300 per piece to even Rs 10,000 for intricate and elaborate designs that take a month to weave. The demand was good and income consistent before the arrival of Covid-19. With no orders coming in and work still on at a very slow pace, it will take a lot of time to pick up the business like before,” she said. Her husband is a daily wager.Harsharan Singh, a weaver for the past 45 years, from Chherherta, too said the pandemic hit on the livelihood of weavers and the handloom industry hard. “There has always been huge demand for traditional Punjabi handlooms, especially in overseas market. I run my own loom, where I train women and youth in traditional crafts like durries, phulkari, etc. There is dearth of orders and we used to export 60 per cent of our products. But with the pandemic, 50 per cent of business has been affected.”Hailing from a family of weavers, Harsharan said he had trained around 350-400 women and village youth in traditional weaves. “I also upgraded by looms from manually-operated to power looms. We have been working in association with different government agencies to market our products. We hope that international demand picks up soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-weavers-of-durries-khes-wait-for-biz-to-pick-up-294762
08-08-2021||---||2 ‘thieves’ caught, tied to pole, hair clipped||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 7Traders at IDH market near the interstate bus terminus on Saturday nabbed two alleged thieves and tied them with poles. They also cut their hair and beard and later put the video on social media websites.They were later handed over to the police for further necessary action. The police authorities said that they were not aware about this and the matter would be investigated.In the video, the two thieves were seen tied with a pole and shopkeepers gathered around them. One of them was holding a stick while another was cutting his hair.The shopkeepers association pointed out that there were incidents of stealing in the market for past one month and they had informed the police a number of times requesting them to take appropriate measures and arrest the thieves. They alleged nothing concrete was done by the police. Today they nabbed two thieves red handed and they were later handed over to the police. The shopkeepers were also heard in the video to blacken the faces of alleged thieves.Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has condemned the incident and asked the police authorities to investigate the matter and take appropriate measures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-thieves-caught-tied-to-pole-hair-clipped-294763
08-08-2021||---||Artistes are back on stage||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 7Post-lockdown, the cultural spaces in city hosted several live performances and events to revive the buzz. The Virsa Vihar Society began this week’s theatre festival edition by staging ‘Dukh Darya’ written by Shahid Nadeem, under the directions of Daljit Sona.Saavan celebrations at art galleryPost-reopening, the Indian Academy of Fine Arts organised the first art exhibition by artist Gurdip Singh on Saturday. The exhibition titled ‘Journey- Hell to heaven’ comprised of paintings and drawings by the artist. The Art Gallery also hosted a special cultural evening to celebrate the Saavan month, where various artistes performed gidha to mark the festival. Artists such as Latika Arora and others were also present.The play was staged by Azad Bhagat Singh Rangmanch Virasat Group. The weekend theatre festival by the Virsa Vihar is the first live performance festival being organised post-pandemic. The edition kick started by popular playwright Waryam Sandhu’s story ‘Mein Ro Na Lavan Ek Var’, directed by Kewal Dhaliwal.Dhaliwal, also the Virsa Vihar Society president, said the theatre festival was being received by the audience. “We are taking all precautions and following SOPs. The response has been good. Due to Covid, people do not want to come out in full numbers and we are not expecting a packed house,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/artistes-are-back-on-stage-294764
08-08-2021||---||SC Post-Matric Scholarship: Aided-colleges seek pending dues||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 7The coordination committee of the Non-Government Colleges Managements Federation (NGCMF), representing 142 aided colleges in the state, held a meet on Saturday under the chairmanship of Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, who is also a secretary of Khalsa College Governing Council.The committee sought immediate release of pending grants under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship for students from the state government.They said the aided colleges were facing financial hardships and non-release of the SC grants had further complicated the problems for them.“The pending grants must be released in one instalment and the government should not dilly-dally over the matter any further,” said Chhina.Members unanimously resolved that the government must withdraw the letter relating nominating its representative to the managing committees of colleges, which can be seen as a direct interference into the functioning of educational institutions.They also discussed other issues, including pending DPI grants, implementing 95 per cent grant-in-aid schemes instead of 75 per cent for appointment of teachers in colleges were also taken up during the meeting. The state government had recently issued orders to pay only 40 per cent of Rs 200 crore arrears of educational institutions against the SC scholarship scheme for the period 2017-18 to 2019-20.“Pending grants should be cleared at the earliest,” said Chhina.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sc-post-matric-scholarship-aided-colleges-seek-pending-dues-294765
08-08-2021||Amritsar||Awareness drive concludes||The campaign initiated by the district Health Department to educate public, especially mothers, about the importance of breast feeding newly born children concluded here on Saturday. Under the seven-day awareness programme, workshops were held for field staff and literature was released. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said the department would use posters at public places to create awareness among public.He said a child must be breast-fed for the first few months and mothers must understand that their milk is the best diet for the child. District Family Welfare Officer Dr Jaspreet Sharma said using bottles for feeding children is not advisable as it leads to problems among kids. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/awareness-drive-concludes-294766
08-08-2021||---||Will jail sacrilege accused: BJP||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 7State chief of Bharatiya Janata Party Ashwani Sharma on Saturday said those behind sacrilege incidents would be put in jail once they form the government.Sharma said, “Sacrilege of holy books is an important issue for residents. The state government has failed to give justice.”Taking a dig at other parties on free electricity units, he said the BJP would not only provide electricity at low cost, but also ensure 24x7 power supply. “People should ask such leaders from where they will get funds for free electricity,” he said.The BJP president claimed that 4,000 people joined the party in the state in recent days. “Though these members are from all castes and communities, a majority of them are from Majhabi Sikh community,” he said.He said the Centre had ensured regular supply of ration for the needy during the Covid pandemic. “It’s another matter that ration reached the houses of leaders of Congress party as the distribution was under the state government,” said Ashwani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-jail-sacrilege-accused-bjp-294767
08-08-2021||Batala SP (Operations) Varinderpreet Singh is a man riding high on cloud nine. His son Hardik Singh was an integral part of the bronze medal winning hockey squad. His goal against Belgium-his first and the team’s third-is being spoken about even now. The SP says it was Hardik’s grandfather who taught him the nuances of the game in their native Khusropur village in Jalandhar. He says Hardik was a quick learner and when he reached college he had already made a name for himself on the hockey turfs of the country. The officer is being feted by everybody and anybody who matters in the Punjab Police. Right now||On cloud nine||Hopeful poor cousin India’s overall medal tally in the Tokyo Olympics is not at all impressive keeping in view the fact that India is a nation of more than 130 crore. For Indian sport, despite a medal here and a medal there, the past remains imperfect while the future remains tense. The hockey bronze indeed came as a whiff of fresh air but our inability to score in other sports stood out like a sore thumb. As for now, Indian sport resembles a boxer with a glass jaw having an aura of uncertainty to it. Let us come back to our national game. The ball was rolling in India’s favour till Europeans introduced the astro-turf in the 1976 Montreal Olympics. Suddenly, things went off track. The turf was brought to modern day hockey because it suited the rugged, long hitting style of the Europeans. Slowly, the dribble and the art of short passes died. Hockey is played on grass with bodies bent but when it comes to the turf a player must keep himself erect because of the ball’s high bounce generated by the synthetic surface. The Indians never really adapted themselves. The last of the Olympic gold medals came in the 1980 Moscow Olympics but for all that that was a depleted field with just 6 nations taking part. The IHF has failed to understand that TV is the engine that drives modern sport. The IHF failed to bring in big time sponsors which could have filled the coffers of the game like they have done with cricket. During 90s stretching to the early part of this millennium, a genius like Dhanraj Pillay ruled the roost. His style combined with the heavy mop of curly hair meant he could have been a sponsor’s delight. Add to it the poetry he used to write on the field. However, the IHF failed to market him and others of his ilk. This meant that, very much unlike cricket, the game of hockey remained poor. Having said all this, the bronze in Tokyo has surely given us some hope. Every sportsman knows hope is a powerful thing. It inspires us to do the impossible and helps us carry on through difficult times. The sources of hope are many and for hockey the bronze is one such source. Observers claim this is the right time to pitch on the TV bandwagon. This will bring in cash to run the game. And till money comes, hockey will remain a poor cousin of cricket.missing warriorsLast week, a Dhruv chopper fell into the Ranjit Sagar Dam lake after developing a technical fault. The Punjab Police and the district administration scrambled a team of divers to locate the bodies of the pilot and co-pilot-Lt Col SS Bhatt and Capt Jayant Joshi, respectively. However, 48 hours later, the Army asked the divers to stay back home and in fact requested the Navy to send its team of crack divers. Two helicopters carrying two dozen divers flew from New Delhi and landed near the lake. Despite their best efforts, all their efforts came to a naught. As ill luck would have it, days after the crash, yet another Dhruv chopper developed a snag forcing the pilots to land it about 5 km away from the lake. Two incidents in one week have now sent the Pathankot-based Army Aviation Unit experts back to the drawing boards. DC Sanyam Aggarwal and SSP Surendra Lamba camped at the accident site and supervised the search operations. That was till the time the Army decided to take things into its hands. At the time of writing, the search for the pilots was still on.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/on-cloud-nine-294768
08-08-2021||Keep your mind busy and positive and don't let negative thoughts creep into it||‘Engage mind in healthy activities’||I have a lot of public dealing and couldn’t know my source of infection. Due to reports of oxygen shortage and scarcity of medical essentials leading to deaths, there was some fear among my family members. But we decided to keep ourselves positive during the quarantine period and engaged our selves in various positive activities to avoid depressing thoughts. — Sarabjit Singh“I have a lot of public dealing and couldn’t know my source of infection. Due to reports of oxygen shortage and scarcity of medical essentials leading to deaths, there was some fear among my family members. But we decided to keep ourselves positive during the quarantine period,” he said.“During this period, it is likely that negative thoughts creep in your mind leading to depression but one needs to control his thoughts. My wife and I remained in positive frame of mind by reading books and watching encouraging and entertaining programmes on TV. We didn't watch news channels reporting news related to Covid fatality and chaos. I followed the guidelines, increased fruits intake, took steam and had ‘Kahva’,” he said.Jasbir remained asymptomatic during the period. He said: “Interestingly, the quarantine period turned out to be ‘happy times’ as we spent some quality time together. “Owing to my public life, I have to visit various parts of Punjab such as Mohali and Chandigarh often. During quarantine period, we spent a lot of time together sharing our routine and past experiences,” he quipped.”“I think it is more difficult to deal with the complications that arise after you have recovered. I feel that post-Covid, my memory has reduced and also experienced physical weakness,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/engage-mind-in-healthy-activities-294770
08-08-2021||Amritsar||Students shine in JEE main||Online storytelling eventJapan Foundation, New Delhi, with its headquarters in Tokyo, an institution to carry out international cultural programmes in 24 different countries in collaboration with Bookaroo Trust, New Delhi, organised an online storytelling event, “Nanhi Aawaaz”, in which students of Senor Study II participated. The event was to commemorate the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki 76 years ago. The story of the events in Hiroshima were based on the picture story show by ‘Arthur Binard’ who also made a special appearance during the session, ‘Kamishibai’, the unique Japanese art of storytelling was used by the storyteller, ‘Vasundhara Bahuguna’, to add depth, drama and versatility to the entire story. The translator from the Japanese Foundation, Dr. Kikuchi Tomoko, PhD in Hindi, addressed the students in impeccable Hindi. The impact of the narration of the Hiroshima events could be judged from the entire event’s poignant theme and depth of the message conveyed through the story.Green Champion AwardBBK DAV College for Women is conferred with prestigious Green Champion ‘One District One Green Champion Award’ by Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education(MGNCRE), Department of Digital Education, Ministry of Education, Government of India in recognition of various activities and achievements in the field of water conservation, cleanliness and successful implementation of Swwachhta action plan. This award is given to only one institution per district. Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia received the award at the office of Deputy Commissioner. While receiving the award Principal, Dr Pushpinder Walia said that college has been conducting Sawachhta Pakhwada since 2014, under which an SAP committee has also been constituted to look after activities of cleanliness, water conservation and waste management. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-shine-in-jee-main-294771
08-08-2021||Amritsar||Woman ends life, in-laws booked||Body arrives from DubaiAmritsar: The body of a youth arrived from Dubai at Shri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Chahatbir Singh (24), a native of Sarhali village in Tarn Taran district, died on July 19. Sharing information, Dr SP Singh Oberoi, founder of Sarbatt Da Bhala Charitable Trust, said Chahatbir Singh was the only son of a widowed teacher of Tarn Taran district. He went Dubai in December 2020 hoping for a better future, but died suddenly on July 19. The family members of the victim struggled a lot to bring back the body of Chahatbir to village. Then they contacted Sarbat Da Bhala Trust to bring the body back. Then Oberoi made arrangements to airlift the body. It is worth mentioning that with the efforts of Oberoi the bodies of 246 unfortunate people have so far been handed over to their heirs. TNSTwo vehicle lifters heldTarn Taran: In the first case, the Sadar police have arrested Gurjant Singh, a resident of Piddi village, for stealing a truck, which was parked at a petrol pump in Kad Gill village. Sawinder Singh, owner of the truck, told the police that Gurjant had stolen his truck. ASI Sawinder Singh (Investigating Officer) said a case under Section 379 of the IPC had been registered in this regards. In another case, the Patti (city) police have nabbed Rachhpal Singh Nikku of Cheema Khurd, for stealing a truck. ASI Baljinder Singh (Investigating Officer) said the accused was on way to Jahajgarh (Amritsar) to sell the stolen truck. A case under Sections 379, 411, 468 and 471 of the IPC had been registered against Rachhpal. TNSNSUI gears to woo votersTarn Taran: NSUI state president Dr Akshay Kumar on Saturday visited Tarn Taran to discuss the strategy for Congress’ mission ‘Captain For 2022’. Dr Kumar held a meeting with organisation’s general secretary. Dr Kumar and Arora after the meeting said the state government under the leadership of CM Captain Amarinder Singh had issued several schemes for the welfare of residents. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-ends-life-in-laws-booked-294772
08-08-2021||Amritsar||Will stop SGPC project at Golden Temple Complex: Sikh Sadbhawna Dal||An 11-member jatha of the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal, led by Capt Joginder Singh, was stopped by police personnel from reaching near the under-construction site for the new ‘joda ghar’ and two-wheeler parking stand at Golden Temple Complex on Saturday.The protesters are demanding a halt to all kinds of construction work near the site where the basement of an 18th century heritage building was discovered a couple of weeks ago.Dal president Baldev Singh Wadala said the ultimatum to the district administration ended today. Accusing the district administration of ignoring their pleas, he announced that the agitation would be intensified from tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-stop-sgpc-project-at-golden-temple-complex-sikh-sadbhawna-dal-294505
