09-08-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Make erring MC officials accountable for negligence||Adopt rainwater harvesting systemWe have perhaps accepted surroundings flooded with sewer water as our fate during the monsoon every year. Now, when the monsoon has already arrived one can only hope that the civic authorities ensure that their men and machines reach every waterlogged area without any delay. Can’t say what parameters make a Smart City but the prerequisite of a clean city is its well-functioning sewage system. Outward make-up of city lanes by recarpeting or fixing tiles is fine but what Amritsar needs more is a revamped sewage system. If rainwater harvesting and setting up of sewage treatment plants are taken up as a priority, problems of inadequate/ contaminated water supply will also be solved along with flooding of roads/streets. Some water for irrigation may also be there as a bonus.HL SharmaChoked sewers cause waterloggingThe Pollution Control Board should act swiftly when they find any industrial unit releasing untreated effluents. Even small amount of rain leads to waterlogging due to choked sewer pipes. One can also see heaps of filth on the roadsides. This becomes a nightmare for pedestrians and two-wheeler riders. Politicians and bureaucrats don’t bother as they are to move in their luxury four-wheelers. The only way to come out of this mess is that some local NGO should move the National Green Tribunal and ask for heavy personal penalties to MC officials responsible for it.Harsh JoharToo many cooks spoil the brothJust half-an-hour rain exposes the working of Municipal Corporation (MC) as within this short span whole of old city and parts of civil lines are left inundated. During monsoon, residents don’t commute not due to rains but because of water accumulation on the roads and streets. Moreover, there is nothing new in it, since long it is a routine affair during monsoon. Rather situation is deteriorating with introduction of latest machinery for cleaning and desilting of sewerage lines. Why the MC starts desilting with the arrival of monsoon, why not on regular basis during the whole year. Actually, the authorities concerned are interested in buying machinery or in new projects were they can make money, so such maintenance work does not have any attraction for them. Moreover, it is said too many cooks spoil the dish, to address such problems too many authorities such as the MC, Amritsar Improvement Trust, Amritsar Smart City Ltd. and Amritsar Development Authority are working but without any favourable results.Naresh JoharMake optimum use of taxpayers’ moneyThe civic authorities should be taken to task for their negligence and indifferent attitude towards public issues. Waterlogging in the city is a perennial problem, especially during the monsoon, and the authorities concerned are fully aware of it. Yet, they deliberately turn a deaf ear to the problem. The need of the hour is to make them responsible and accountable for their apathetic and lackadaisical attitude and approach towards what plagues the city. It is their foremost duty to make preparations well before the onset of the monsoon to deal with the recurrent problem for which they should be held liable. Why don’t they make optimum use of the taxes paid by the general public for the redressal of their grievances? Action should be initiated against the erring officials who put the public issues on the back burner. The problem can’t arise if drainage master plans are prepared with short, medium, long-term and periodic strategies to augment storm water infrastructure in the city. Vulnerable and high risk areas should be identified well in time to prepare an effective monsoon action plan for those areas. A nodal authority ought to be formulated, wholly solely responsible for city storm water management. People should not be allowed to dig up roads without the prior permission of a competent authority. The residents should lend support to the municipal corporation to curb such acts as accomulated water becomes a breeding ground for mosquitoes that spread diseases like malaria, dengue, chickengunia etc. Sewers should be cleaned before the monsoon hits the city.Tarsem S BumrahMake erring officials accountableIt’s a familiar story every monsoon, just a few hours of rains and our big cities get inundated. The urban horror story is made worse by the fact that huge amount of money are spent on advertising desilting city drains every year. In fact with Covid related restrictions in place this year, there was hope to do better job of preparing for monsoon rains. But even when monsoon was quite delayed, streets were flooded after just a few spells of heavy rains. Many blame unplanned urbanisation and too much construction for waterlogging, which of course is true but it’s not a problem that can be fixed in a few months. Some improvement is possible by upgrading storm water drain designs. Current drain designs take into account only of one or two years flood levels, this must change so that drains can cater to greater volume of run-off from heavier showers in short bursts. It makes a good sense to make city storm water management a part of larger infrastructure development policies such as Smart City mission. The civic authorities and municipal administration be made accountable for their negligence and lack of serious attitude through the ward councillors. But just leaving this only to the MC, appears to be clearly not working. Councillors can play a very vital part in this regard if they are informed about the problems being faced by the residents of the area. Regular and timely feedback to the Municipal authorities can always yield encouraging dividends.LJ SinghCivic authorities must be taken to taskThe civic authorities need to be blamed for their negligence and indifferent attitude towards public issues. Even a spell of two-hour rain leaves areas of our city inundated causing great hardships to residents. Since the past many years, lack of proper drainage system during the rainy season had led to waterlogging in areas, resulting in big potholes on roads leading to accidents. The apathy of our city is continuing since past many years and certainly time has come that civic authorities should be taken to task for their negligence and indifferent attitude towards public issues.Sanjay ChawlaUnplanned urbanisation reason behind messThe early signs of monsoon season raised the anxiety of residents in some flood-prone areas of the city. It is a pity that city roads get flooded even after a short spell of rain. Although the problem turns acute every passing year, the corporation has been unable to find a solution. The civic body did take up the annual exercise of cleaning up some stretches of the major drains and sewers in the city. But these works taken up in bits and pieces have never been comprehensive enough to tackle the problem. Cities are expanding and engulfing the open areas which were major drainage points or forests in the past. We see this happening in most of the cities in Punjab. So, when there are excessive rains, cities are not able to drain the water and hence many areas get inundated. The Municipal Corporation plays a critical role in the decision making of a city’s master plan and directing its growth with the support of urban planners. Urban planning intends to make a city function efficiently, by marking layouts and zones in a city, designing networks of mobility, water supply, electricity, sanitation and drainage. Sometimes the focus of making efficient cities overshadows conserving its natural resources. To accommodate a growing city’s population or cater to real estate greed the natural repositories are converted into buildings, roads or transport systems. So, these climate and human events superimpose on bad urban planning which has slowly engulfed environmental resources while building more and more.Parampreet KaurAdopt rainwater harvesting systemsVehicles wading through puddles of water that form on the city’s potholed roads, faulty sewerage lines that are not desilted even ahead of the monsoons, the lack of rainwater harvesting systems and inadequate planning and action to regulate the city’s infrastructure, are not new to Amritsar, the city of the Golden Temple and Jallianwala Bagh. Irrespective of its religious and historical significance, the Amritsar Municipal Corporation does little to ensure that the city is well-equipped with adequate civic amenities at all time. The historical sites within the walled city area and the low-lying areas nearby are the worst-affected by their indifference. The condition of the posh areas too isn’t any better especially during the monsoon season. Though the municipal authorities claim to be doing their best for the city, the briefest spell of rain is sufficient to expose the veracity of their proclamations. The story of negligence is decades’ old and is repeated every time it rains in the city. It’s high time that the government took the negligent officials to task for their negligence and indifference towards issues of public interest.Shaheen P ParshadErring officials must be penalisedEvery year we see the visuals of heavily inundated roads during the monsoon season. The Heritage Street, which is a big tourist attraction, was waterlogged a few days back. The same problem is there on many prominent locations around the city. This sends a very bad message to the tourists visiting the city who further spread it through word-of-mouth with their friends and relatives. The erring officials in civic authorities must be penalised heavily for this grave inaction as they are not doing their duties efficiently.Jatinderpal Singh BatthSet up SPV to clean city drainsWaterlogged roads and overflowing sewers have become a common sight every year during the monsoon. Given the unprecedented expansion of the city over the past few years and rising threat of climate change, the civic body should construct underground rainwater storage tanks at critical points to considerably reduce waterlogging. A special purpose vehicle (SPV) should be set up to clean the city’s drains and prevent waterlogging on roads. The city’s municipal corporation should ensure prompt remedial action in case of drainage congestion and must be well-equipped to deal with any eventuality on account of heavy rain. Deploying smart water management tools could also be effective in tackling the problem of waterlogging as these would interpret statistics from water-logged points and provide a holistic picture with robust real-time analytics. In the long-run, building rules and codes must also emphasise on storm water use wherever possible.Akash KumarPunish contractors, erring officialsEvery year, the unpreparedness of the Municipal Corporation (MC) causes untold misery to the public at large for which the MC and contractors are responsible. Awakened media and the public must make both of them accountable for the situations in the monsoon season caused due to their negligence and apathy. The guilty contractors should be fined heavily and blacklisted so that they realise their responsibility. They should be asked to redo the faulty work on their own expenses. The corporation staff cannot be absolved of its responsibility to take quality work from the contractors. Disciplinary action be taken against them if found guilty and according to the charges be suspended, their increments be withheld, made personally responsible for not getting required work on time and deductions made from their salary to compensate for the losses incurred. Corruption is at the base of all the malady and both the parties to it must be charged and punished for it.ANIL KHANNATall claims of MC fall flat every yearQUESTIONIndia’s performance at the Olympics has been best so far as it won highest number of medals ever, clinching the first gold in athletics and finishing on podium in men’s hockey after 41 years. Do you think the governments (Centre and states) are doing enough to support players and what steps should they take to take India to the top-10 in the medal tally at the 2024 Paris Olympics?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (August 13)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/make-erring-mc-officials-accountable-for-negligence-294945
09-08-2021||---||Gangster Rana Kandowalia’s murder: 5 days on, Batala youth held for ‘sheltering’ suspects||Amritsar, August 8Five days after the killing of gangster Ranbir Singh, alias Rana Kandowalia, on the premises of a private hospital, the police today made their first arrest.Nanit Sharma, alias Saurav, a resident of Shakarpura village on the Dera Baba Nanak Road in Batala, was arrested for sheltering the suspects and facilitating treatment of an injured suspect, Happy Shah, alias Sharma.Barring a Haryanvi speaking youth, the police have identified Jagroshan Hundal of Tarn Taran; Mani Rayya and Mandeep Singh, alias Toofan, of Batala; and Shah as the suspects in the case. The police have also nominated six persons for sheltering and harbouring them. Besides Nanit, the others were Laddi Dairywala, Sukhraj Malli, Jagtar Singh, Prabhjot Chatha and Lalli Dairywala, all residents of Batala.“They were booked under Sections 212, 216 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code,” said Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, DCP (Investigations). Nanit would be produced in court where the police would seek his remand for further interrogation. Preliminary interrogation revealed Nanit and Sukhraj Malli were old friends of Toofan, who worked for gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria. Though Bhagwanpuria had been on the run for the past four years, they were in touch with him, he told the police.He claimed Toofan and his accomplices Hundal and Rayya used to meet at his fruit shop. On Tuesday evening, he got a call from Toofan that they had killed Kandowalia, but one of their accomplices Shah was injured in retaliatory fire.He asked him and Malli to make arrangements for his treatment. Malli then contacted Laddi, Chatha and Jagtar, who were known to Toofan, for help. He said they later met them at the Batala bypass, where Shah and Hundal got into the car of Prabhjot, while Toofan sat in the car with Nanit and Malli.The Haryanvi youth, Laddi and Jagtar drove to an undisclosed destination, while they took injured Shah to a private hospital. Later, they helped him safely leave the city, Nanit told the police. The DCP said they were contemplating action against the hospital authorities for failing to inform the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-rana-kandowalias-murder-5-days-on-batala-youth-held-for-sheltering-suspects-294909
09-08-2021||Amritsar||SGPC shelves plan to demolish oldest inn Guru Ram Das Niwas||The standoff between Sikh activists and the SGPC has come to an end after the latter withdrew its plan to raze the oldest inn located in the Golden Temple complex and agreed to preserve the century-old structure that was discovered during the excavation process.Activists under the banner of the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal were up in arms against the SGPC projects for the past four days.Today, after the intervention of administrative officials, a meeting was scheduled between the three representatives of the dal led by Baldev Singh Wadala and SGPC representatives led by chief secretary HS Dhami. Following the meeting, the activists lifted the morcha from Heritage Street.Dhami said 90-year-old Guru Ram Das Niwas in the Golden Temple was in poor shape. “We have withheld the proposal for the time being. A sub-committee has been constituted to monitor the situation. Anything will be done only on the basis of their report.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-shelves-plan-to-demolish-oldest-inn-guru-ram-das-niwas-294912
09-08-2021||---||Preserve excavated Bunga Giania in Golden Temple complex for posterity: Damdami Taksal||Amritsar, August 8Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal claimed that the arc-shaped structure Bunga Giania accidentally discovered in the Golden Temple complex during the excavation at the site of new ‘joda ghar’last month showcased the Taksal’s history.Giani Harnam Singh Khalsa, President, Damdami TaksalThree heads of Damdami Taksal — Giani Sundar Singh, who was baptised by Guru Gobind Singh, his son Giani Gurdas Singh & Giani Sant Singh — were associated with Bunga Giania. The antiquity of the Bunga must be maintained.Giani Harnam Singh Khalsa, president, Damdami Taksal, said three heads of Damdami Taksal were associated with Bunga Giania. They were Giani Sundar Singh, who was baptised by Guru Gobind Singh Ji, his son Giani Gurdas Singh and Giani Sant Singh. He suggested that the antiquity of the discovered Bunga must be maintained for posterity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/preserve-excavated-bunga-giania-in-golden-temple-complex-for-posterity-damdami-taksal-294946
09-08-2021||---||Aam Aadmi Party holds roadshow in West constituency in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 8Workers of the Aam Aadmi Party conducted a roadshow, led by senior leader Rajiv Bhagat, in the Amritsar West constituency to spread the party’s announcement of 300 units of power free to residents.The party leaders claimed that hundreds of young people attended the event and several persons joined the party. The roadshow started from the GND University market and after touring the entire constituency ended at Gawal Mandi Chowk with a procession to the statue of Lord Valmiki.Bhagat said the team was committed to take the policies of the party door-to-door, including free power announcement by Arvind Kejriwal. Apart from the senior leadership, urban president Parminder Singh Sethi, state joint secretary (Trade) Rajinder Palah, co-president Sheetal Juneja, block in-charges Mukhwinder Singh Virdi, Moti Lal, Kulwant Wadali, former youth president Ved Prakash Bablu, among others were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aam-aadmi-party-holds-roadshow-in-west-constituency-in-amritsar-294947
09-08-2021||Amritsar||BJP removes its secretary from post in Amritsar||Protest outside Navjot Singh Sidhu’s houseAmritsar: Employees of the state government have announced to hold a dharna outside the residence of Amritsar East MLA and state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on August 14. They would urge him to restart the old pension scheme. The employees said the old pension scheme was in force till December 31, 2003, so those employees who joined the service after January 1, 2004, would be deprived of its benefits. They said the new pension scheme provided no social security to the employees retired under the new pension scheme, so most of those who joined after December 1, 2003, would not be able to live a life of dignity. Employees’ leader Jatin Sharma said a three-hour protest outside Sidhu’s residence had been planned. A state-level rally in Ludhiana was also planned for August 29. Narinder Singh and Prem Chand of the Employees’ Coordination Committee, said several issues of employees had been pending for a long time. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-removes-its-secretary-from-post-in-amritsar-294948
09-08-2021||---||Two lose cell phones, scooter to miscreants in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 8Three armed persons robbed a man of his scooter and mobile phone while in another incident, a local resident lost his mobile to snatchers in the wee hours of Saturday when he was out on a morning walk.Pawan Kumar, a resident of Gokul Vihar on Batala Road, told the police that on Saturday he was going towards Lilly Resort located on the Amritsar-Attari bypass road and had reached near the Vallah bridge when three unidentified persons came on a bike and hit his scooter. He said he fell on the road and the accused broke into scuffle with him.He said one of them snatched his mobile and the other accused attacked him with a sword. They snatched his scooter and mobile and fled from the spot.Maqboolpura police registered a case under Sections 379-B (2) and 34 of the IPC against unidentified persons in this connection while there was no breakthrough in the case.In the second incident, Ritik Kumar of Sat Kartar Nagar near Khandwala, Chheharta, was out on a morning walk and reached near the Guru Nanak Dev University footover bridge at around 4am, three youths riding a bike snatched his mobile phone and fled towards Chheharta.A case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC was registered by the Cantonment police station. The police said investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-lose-cell-phones-scooter-to-miscreants-in-amritsar-294949
09-08-2021||---||Illegal construction goes on unchecked in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 8The illegal construction of four shops and a commercial building in the walled city is continuing unchecked, a local activist field complains to the Secretary, Local Bodies, in this regard.Rishi Raj, a resident of Bagh Ramanand, wrote to Ajoy Kumar Sinha, Secretary, Department of Local Bodies and claimed that four commercial shops at Chowk Chira near Gate Hakiman and two storey commercial shed situated near Peer Shah Road are being constructed illegally.The complainant alleged that officiating Assistant Town Planner (ATP) of south constituency area and building inspector is not taking departmental action against the violation.The complainant demanded investigation in the case.“These unauthorised constructions are being carried out with political support and the officials of the Town Planning wing often do not take action. I have written to the secretary, Local bodies department and demanded vigilance inquiry of ongoing illegal construction in South constituency”, said Rishi Raj.It is worth mentioning here that despite the ban on construction in walled city areas by the court, a large number of illegal constructions have been carried out in the past. The MTP officials failed to curb the practice.Despite the repeated attempts, Varinder Mohan, head draftsman, did not respond to the phone calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-construction-goes-on-unchecked-in-amritsar-294950
09-08-2021||---||Covid-19: One dead, five test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 8The district reported one death due to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the toll to 1,587. The deceased has been identified as Harjinder Singh (35), a resident of Ram Nagar, Majitha Road.With five positive cases reported on Sunday, the total count of cases in the district had increased to 47,097. All the new positive patients were influenza-like illness cases. The district health authorities have also reported recovery of three patients with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,486. At present, the district has a total of 24 active cases.Meanwhile, a total of 2,872 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Sunday. Of the total 1,715 received the first dose of the vaccine while 1157 received the second dose.Tarn Taran reports 1 deathA death from Patti block due to the coronavirus has been reported though there was no report of positive case in the district on Sunday. The toll has reached 375 and there are 10 active cases in the district. Of these, nine have been isolated at their respective homes. The teams of the Health Department collected 551 sample to be tested for the Covid infection and the reports of 293 was yet to be received. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-one-dead-five-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-294951
09-08-2021||---||Holy City locality residents hold protest against Amritsar administration & colonisers||Amritsar, August 8Residents of Holy City locality staged a protest and gave an ultimatum of 10 days to the district administration to address their issues else they would intensify their protest.They are irked over the move of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), in whichthey have issued notices to them to disconnect their power connection.Residents said following some dispute with the colonisers, the PSPCL provided temporary power connections to residents. Now, instead of confirming the temporary power connections, the PSPCL has sent notices to disconnect the connections.“If our demands are not met, we will besiege the offices of the Deputy Commissioner and the Chief Engineer of PSPCL,” said Gurdev Singh Mahal, one of the office-bearers of the Holy City locality.The residents strongly condemned the colonisers who has not handed over the society to the civic body till date.Holy City Township Association leaders Gurdev Singh Mahal, HS Ghumman, Rajan Mann, Sikandar Singh Gill, Lali Shahbazpuri, Ranjit Singh Rana, Dr Narinderpal Singh Saini and Ramanpreet Singh Bajwa said people were being fooled by the colonisers for the last 10 years. They said this colony was not being handed over to the civic body, which is why the government was not taking any interest in this regard.Ghumman said Congress state president Navjot Singh Sidhu and other leaders were also residing in the same colony, but no one was paying attention to the plight of people. He said for the last four years, people living in the colony had been given temporary connections by the PSPCL and now, instead of confirming these, they have been issued disconnection notices. The move of the PSPCL has created fear and resentment among residents.Mann said it was the fault of the colonisers and people were paying the price. Residents said the colonisers were supplying electricity to the under-construction house at exorbitant rates at their own level. He demanded that the department should take strict action against colonisers and help people.“There is a big scam going on and the government should immediately investigate it. There was no internet facility in the colony and the coloniser was deliberately preventing companies from laying wires. No market facilities are there. The government is providing clean drinking water to people in every village, but residents of this colony have not been provided potable drinking water so far. People are also disturbed by stray dog menace,” said Sikandar Singh Gill, society resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/holy-city-locality-residents-hold-protest-against-amritsar-administration-colonisers-294952
09-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||51 Pakistan nationals in Amritsar running from pillar to post for return||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 8After their visas expired, 51 nationals from Pakistan, including 11 women and 26 children, are running from pillar to post to return to their country and unite with their families.They came here from Rajasthan on Saturday and were made to put up at Bibi Dhanwant Kaur Dharamshala on the Durgiana Temple complex. Durgiana committee is footing the expenses of their boarding and lodging after Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira approached them.A majority of them hail from Sindh province of Pakistan and came here with their families between 2018 and 2020. However, due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, they got stuck here.The DC said these Pakistan nationals gathered outside his residence on Saturday and he asked the Durgiana committee to provide them shelter and their documents would be completed to help them cross over to Pakistan from the Attari-Wagah joint checkpost.He said the Ministry of Home Affairs would be approached to provide them the exit permit and enable them to return to their native places, as they overstayed from the validity of their visas.Baru Mal with his wife Jasmo and sons Akash and Raja had come here on pilgrimage to Haridwar in March 2020. “After a fortnight’s stay in Haridwar, we moved to Jodhpur to stay with a distant relative as the lockdown was declared.” Back home, his father expired and he could not even go to attend the cremation.Similarly, Kiran Mal and his seven members arrived here in 2018, while Wazir came with seven members of his family in 2019. The number of family members of Wazir increased to eight as his wife gave birth to a child during their stay in India. They requested both Indian and Pakistan governments to help them to return to their native places, so that they could lead a normal life with their families.Ramesh Sharma, president of Durgiana committee, said the committee would provide them free lodging, boarding and food and expressed apprehension that many of them may face difficulty in going back as several children were born during their stay here.Indo-Pak ties discussed at Virsa ViharAmritsar: The Folklore Research Academy, Hind-Pak Dosti Manch and South Asian Free Media Association (SAFMA), organised a seminar on ‘Regional political situation and India-Pakistan relations’ at Virsa Vihar on Sunday. The function was presided over by the president of the academy Ramesh Yadav. The event began with observing two-minute silence to remember those who died during the Partition and farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing agitation against farm laws and Covid victims. Sukhdev Singh Sirsa, national general secretary, Progressive Writers’ Union, said there was a big difference between the words and deeds of the rulers of both countries. “Politicians in both countries try to divert the attention of their residents by terming a threat to national interests.” Poonam Singh, editor, Preetlari magazine, said the two countries can be brought closer with the help of their common language. Journalist Satnam Manak said barriers of physical movement for the residents of two countries should be removed. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/51-pakistan-nationals-in-amritsar-running-from-pillar-to-post-for-return-294953
09-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Woman found dead under mysterious circumstances in Tarn Taran village||Tarn Taran, August 8Amrik Kaur (55) was found murdered under mysterious circumstances at Naushehra Pannuan village on the intervening night of August 7-8.Complainant Harbhajan Singh, cousin of the victim, told the police that Karanbir Kaur (adopted by the victim) and an unidentified person murdered Amrik by strangulating her at her house.Sarhali SHO Navdeep Singh (investigating officer) said the victim got married to Zail Singh of Dilavalpur village 35 years ago. The duo started living separately after three years of their marriage. Zail, who served in the CISF, breathed his last four months ago.Amrik had adopted Karanbir, who was daughter of her sister-in-law, 30 years ago. Later, Karanbir married Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Bharowal. As a result, Amrik snapped her ties with Karanbir.After death of Zail, Karanbir started visiting her step mother. She knew that Amrik would get pension benefits, including gratuity.A case under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC against Karanbir and an unidentified person, said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-tarn-taran-village-294954
09-08-2021||---||Man murdered, woman among 4 booked in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 8The Gharinda police have booked four persons, including a woman, for allegedly murdering a man identified as Karandeep Singh (25) of Lahorimal village here on Saturday. The incident occurred on Friday night.Those booked were identified as Jaspinder Singh, Ravinder Singh, Sukhwinder Singh and his wife Rajwant Kaur, all residents of same village. An old dispute over lodging a theft case was the reason behind the tiff.Simranjit Kaur, (22) wife of the deceased, told the police on late Friday evening that the accused barged into her house. They were all armed with bricks and stones. She said immediately after entering the house, Jaspinder Singh shouted and asked his accomplices to teach our family a lesson for lodging a false FIR of theft against them.She said the accused hit Karandeep with bricks and stones due to which he suffered critical head injury. He fell unconscious while the accused fled from the spot. She said injured Karandeep was rushed to a private hospital, but he succumbed on the way.Lovepreet Singh, SHO Gharinda police station, said the accused were absconding after the incident. Raids were on to arrest them, he said. A case under Sections 302, 452 and 34 of the IPC was registered against them.He said an FIR of theft was registered against the accused and they suspected that it was the victim who got the case registered.30-year-old beaten to death in chabal, 5 booked; video goes viralTarn Taran: A former assistant mechanic of a shopkeeper in the border township of Chabal was beaten to death on early Sunday morning on the suspicion of theft. The video of the incident has also gone viral. The deceased had been identified as Sharanjit Singh (30), a resident of Baghiari village. The accused include Bikramjit Singh, Harjit Singh, his son Bhupinder Singh, Inderjit Singh Lali and his brother Jujjbir Singh, all residents of Amritsar. The accused were related to each other and a case under Sections 302, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC was registered against them by the Chabal police. Local DSP Sucha Singh Bal said the deceased was an assistant mechanic with accused Bikramjit Singh, but due to some reason, he left him and started working with some nearby shopkeeper. Bikramjit Singh was blaming the deceased for stealing valuable articles from his shop. In a fit of rage, they caught hold of the deceased on Sunday and started thrashing him black and blue. They beat him up so severely that he became unconscious. The accused took him to a private hospital in the town, but he died on the way to the hospital. The accused Bhupinder Singh has been arrested and others were still at large, the DSP said. The post-mortem was done at the local Civil Hospital. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-murdered-woman-among-4-booked-in-amritsar-294940
09-08-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar grain scam: SAD, AAP seek fair inquiry, guilty punished||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have sought a probe into the alleged grain scam in Amritsar.AAP has demanded a time-bound CBI probe into the scam monitored by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Party MLAs Aman Arora and Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said siphoning of grain worth Rs 16-20 crore in Pungrain godowns in Amritsar district alone, couldn’t be carried out by a single inspector or officer, and without the connivance of officials and politicians.“Therefore, there should be a timely CBI probe into the scam under the supervision of the High Court,” said the leaders. Arora said this was not the first grain scam in the state. He said foodgrain worth crores of rupees had been embezzled in the past but no action was taken.Arora said the state government through its procurement agencies was storing foodgrain for the central granaries through FCI. “In this way, they bring the state into disrepute at the national level,” he added.Meanwhile, in Fatehgarh Sahib, senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to probe the scam and bring to book the big fish, who diverted the grain meant for distribution among the poor of 15 villages of Amritsar district.He warned the SAD would come on the streets if the government tried to hush up the wheat scam like the illicit distillery and sand scams. He said the Congress government and its president were fooling people. He also criticised the government over the law and order. He said it was unfortunate that promising youths of state are being murdered due to enmity, with the police unable to do anything. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-grain-scam-sad-aap-seek-fair-inquiry-guilty-punished-294901
09-08-2021||---||2 suspended for wheat shortage in Amritsar; vigilance probe marked||Chandigarh, August 8Food and Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has ordered strict action against the officials responsible for the shortage of wheat stocks at Jandiala Guru centre in Amritsar. The Assistant Food Supply Officer (AFSO) and DFSO concerned have been placed under suspension and the case has been referred to Vigilance Department.Ashu said the Department of Food and Supplies immediately deputed the Central Vigilance Committee (CVC) from head office to undertake a special verification of Pungrain wheat stocks at Jandiala Guru, after it came to notice that the Inspector concerned, Jasdev Singh, was absconding.He said as per the preliminary report, 1,84,344 bags pertaining to crop year 2018-19, 2020-21 & 2021-22 had been found to be short, the cost of which is approximately Rs 20 crore. The minister said he has taken a serious note of the same and ordered to initiate Departmental proceedings for major penalty against all the staff responsible for the shortage.CVC fears bogus purchase, embezzlement DFSO Amarinder Singh and AFSO Arshdeep Singh at Jandiala Guru have been placed under suspension and departmental proceedings have been ordered. Departmental proceedings have also been initiated against Raj Rishi Mehra, District Food and Supply Controller (DFSC), Amritsar, and his predecessor Jasjit Kaur for lapse and chargesheets are to be issued to both the officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-suspended-for-wheat-shortage-in-amritsar-vigilance-probe-marked-294902
09-08-2021||---||SGPC fumes, claims ‘Amritdhari’ Sikh aspirants for Patwari post ‘harassed’ in Chandigarh||Amritsar, August 8The SGPC has taken stern notice of ‘Amritdhari’ Sikh candidates being forced to remove ‘kirpan’ before taking the examination for patwari post at a college in Sector 32, Chandigarh, on Sunday.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur demanded strict action from the Chandigarh administrator against the officials concerned and also asked the Chief Minister to intervene as such a decision “could never be tolerated in the Punjab capital”.“India is a multi-religious country whose Constitution allows everyone to live according to their own faith. In such a situation, forcing Sikh candidates to remove ‘kirpan’ to sit for the exam has hurt the sentiments of the community,” said Bibi Jagir Kaur.The SGPC president alleged it seemed all this had been done intentionally as after protest by candidates, they were allowed to sit for the test by putting tapes on their ‘kirpans’ to cover them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-fumes-claims-amritdhari-sikh-aspirants-for-patwari-post-harassed-in-chandigarh-294904
09-08-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Rs 20-crore wheat ‘missing’ from 8 Amritsar godowns||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7Over 87,100 quintals of wheat, worth Rs 20 crore, have reportedly gone missing from eight godowns in Jandiala Guru block of Amritsar.Besides, thousands of tonnes of wheat meant for distribution among poor in 15 villages there for the past year and a half, too, has allegedly not reached the intended beneficiaries and is believed to have been embezzled.Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Food & Supplies MinisterAction will be takenI have ordered the strictest possible action against all accused. I have also recommended their dismissal and suspension based on their role.An FIR was registered against Jasdev Singh, an Inspector in the Food and Supply Department, late last night at Jandiala Guru. Now absconding, he is believed to have left the country last week. Jasdev was given the charge of eight godowns in Jandiala Guru, against the norm of an Inspector being in charge of one (and in rare cases two) godowns. He was also not posted out in the past four and a half years. “Surprisingly, his supervisors — the Assistant Food Supplies Officer, District Food Supplies Officer, District Food Supplies Controller and the Deputy Director (Jalandhar Division) — too did not conduct any physical verification of wheat stocks in the eight godowns under Jasdev’s supervision,” confirmed a senior officer. “The role of these officers, for their lack of supervision, will also be examined and action taken against them,” he added.Jasdev’s role came under scanner when he exited the official WhatsApp group and suddenly disappeared on July 31, after a rake of wheat from a godown under his supervision was to be filled and sent to another beneficiary state.“Immediately, teams of officials headed by the chief vigilance officer of the department were constituted and they decided to verify the stocks. It was found that 1,93,343 bags of wheat were missing. We have to inquire whether he sold the missing bags in the open market or he connived with certain commission agents and indulged in bogus billing of wheat (showing stocks were purchased on paper, when no stocks were physically purchased, and money to be given under MSP was siphoned),” a top official investigating the case told The Tribune. Residents of 15 villages in Jandiala Guru had repeatedly complained to Amritsar district officials, alleging that eligible beneficiaries had not received the free wheat under the National Food Security Act, which was also under Jasdev’s supervision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-20-crore-wheat-missing-from-8-amritsar-godowns-294479
