10-08-2021||Amritsar||Webinar on drug awareness||Seminar on New Education PolicyTo deliver first-hand knowledge to schools about the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020 and to assess its parameters, a seminar was organised by Goyal Brothers Prakashan for Sahodaya Schools Complex at Sri Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary Public School, GT Road, Amritsar. The resource person for the seminar was Dr Usha Sharma, Prof Elementary Education, NCERT, Delhi. The seminar was attended by principals and primary teachers of about 64 schools. She apprised the audience that NEP is a comprehensive framework for elementary education to higher education as well as vocational training in both rural and urban India. Dr Usha further talked about FLN in it and introduced the launch of Vidhya Pravesh and NIPUN Bharat in July 2021.Placement drive organisedStudents of Global Group of Colleges is being conducted in full swing as students are being picked up for recruitment by many leading and multi-national companies including Infosys, TCS, Grazitti Interactive, Tata Communications, Piaggio Vehicles, Hanu Software Solutions etc. The highest pay package offered was Rs4 lakh per annum and the average pay package remained just above Rs3lakh for each student. Dr Akashdeep Singh Chandi, Vice Chairman, while congratulating the students, said the institute was committed towards providing career growth opportunities to its students along with academics, so as to make them an asset for the organisations they join after their studies. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-on-drug-awareness-295332
10-08-2021||Amritsar||Patwari Exam: SGPC forms committee to investigate harassment of Gursikh candidates||The SGPC has formed a committee to investigate the issue of forcing Gursikh candidates to remove the kakaars (Sikh religious symbols) before taking the exam of patwari recruitment held by the Punjab Government at a college in Sector 32, Chandigarh, recently.The committee under the leadership of SGPC general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka, included SGPC executive committee members.SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said it was unfortunate that the sentiments of Gursikh candidates were hurt. “The perpetrators of this objectionable act should be severely punished. The SGPC committee will contact the victims and submit a report of the entire episode,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patwari-exam-sgpc-forms-committee-to-investigate-harassment-of-gursikh-candidates-295324
10-08-2021||---||Murder of 9-year-old in Delhi: Farm unions protest against Central Government||Amritsar, August 9Members of various farm unions staged a protest against the brutal rape and murder of a 9-year-old girl in Delhi at Bhandari Bridge on Monday.The farm leaders condemned the incident and demanded strict action against the miscreants.Protesters raised slogans against the Central Government and asked it to take responsibility for deteriorating law and order situation.The farm leaders alleged that such incidents wherein victims were burnt to cover the crime had been reported earlier as well during the incumbent government.Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farm leader, said earlier, a similar incident was reported from Hathras, in Uttar Pradesh.He alleged that in the incident at Nagla village near the Delhi Cantonment, a priest along with four other miscreants gang raped a nine-year-old and then burnt her alive.Farm leaders Balkar Singh Dudala, Satnam Singh Jhander, Jagtar Singh Karampura and Charanjit Singh Dhillon, among others, said farmers would take out marches in villages and towns of the district on August 15 to mark the Independence Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/murder-of-9-year-old-in-delhi-farm-unions-protest-against-central-government-295331
10-08-2021||---||Gangster Rana Kandowalia murder: Police seize DVR||Amritsar, August 9Even as the police have tightened the noose around the killers of notorious gangster Ranbir Singh alias Rana Kandowalia, one of the accused who sheltered and arranged for the treatment of injured gangster, Happy Shah, turned out to be a councillor.Prabhjot Chatha, a Congress councillor from Batala, is now on the run and the police have been conducting raids to arrest him and his other accomplices. The police had arrested one of their accomplices Nanit Sharma, who runs a fruit stall in Batala.Meanwhile, Deep Dhillon, who was brought on production warrant in the case was sent to judicial custody after the expiry of his police remand. The police have also nominated six persons for sheltering and harbouring them. Besides Nanit and Prabhjot Chatha, others were Laddi Dairy wala, Sukhraj Malli, Jagtar Singh and Lalli Dairy wala, all residents of Batala.A police team on Monday seized the digital video recorder (DVR) of the private hospital where injured Shah was provided treatment. When the police team and media gathered at the hospital several armed persons allegedly belonging to Chatha hurled abuses at the media. Later, a Batala DSP reached the spot and handled the situation.Shah was injured in retaliatory fire by Tejbir Singh, an accomplice of Rana Kandowalia. Tejbir had also sustained bullet injuries in the assault allegedly perpetrated by Kandowalia’s rival Jaggu Bhagwanpuria who was currently lodged in Tihar jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-rana-kandowalia-murder-police-seize-dvr-295328
10-08-2021||Amritsar||IIM-Amritsar hosts two-day HR conclave||Indian Institute of Management (IIM)-Amritsar, conducted its sixth annual HR conclave, ‘Yukti’21, on August 7 and 8.Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director, IIM-Amritsar, emphasised adapting and improving according to the industry’s needs.The theme for the first-panel discussion was ‘Reimagining HR in the era of technology’. Akshay Kumar and Krishna Prasad shared their presentation stating how technology has impacted the day-to-day HR practices in organisations. Dr Kiranmai Dutt Pendyala, head-HR, Western Digital India, highlighted how tech adoption began much earlier, but the pandemic accelerated the pace. She said tech was the only solution for large organisations with multiple fields as it not only betters the response time, but also helps strategise better.The theme for the second-panel discussion was ‘Work from everywhere: Breaking away from notions of yesteryear’.Anand S and Shivam Saini, students of IIM-Amritsar, discussed the paradox around a hybrid workplace, which provides more flexibility, but does not entirely fulfil the need for humans.Namratha Roy, a human resource leader, informed how the pandemic has helped align values, trust, purpose and empathy. She talked about how people were finding organisations and managers that can help them find purpose and perspective and 40 per cent were willing to change jobs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-amritsar-hosts-two-day-hr-conclave-295326
10-08-2021||Manmeet Gill||Piped Natural Gas in Amritsar: Private firm accuses BJP councillor’s spouse of obstructing work||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 9A private firm assigned to lay piped natural gas (PNG) pipeline in the city has accused BJP councillor Sandhya Sikka’s husband of obstructing work, manhandling workers and illegally confiscating their machinery.Anuj Sikka, spouse of the councillor, denied the allegations and said he had objected to the damage caused to water and sewer pipes in the area. Sandhya, who is a councillor from ward number 17, is also a Leader of Opposition in the MC.Abhitjit Duggal and Kapil Julka of Accurate Contractors said the work was allocated to Gujarat Gas Company. Duggal said, “ The BJP councillor from ward number 17 and owner of Sikka Gas Agencies is obstructing the work and intimidating workers.”He said as Sikka is into LPG business, he might be having apprehensions that PNG would affect his business. “We have got permission from the Municipal Corporation and paid all fee,” he said. Duggal alleged that during the last three months, machinery was taken away by Sikka’s men on three occasions. “We have filed the police complaints, but still we have not been able to resume work,” he said.When contacted Sikka said, “We had filed a complaint with the MC officials after residents reported supply of contaminated water as pipes were broken by the contractor during drilling process. Pipes were found broken at 18 different places.” He said it took three months to get the water supply pipes repaired.Talking about the allegations of confiscating machinery, Anuj said, “This never happened. These allegations are totally false. I had objected to the faulty drilling and damage caused.” He denied allegations about manhandling or obstructing work. Anuj alleged that when the incident happened, work was being executed by a contractor named Rana. “Later, we found out that the work was sublet illegally,” he said.‘Clash of biz interest’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/piped-natural-gas-in-amritsar-private-firm-accuses-bjp-councillors-spouse-of-obstructing-work-295327
10-08-2021||---||Water ATM dispensers in dire straits in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 9Water ATMs installed at the Heritage Street by the Amritsar Municipal Corporation last year need immediate repair.As machines and its surrounding areas were not being cleaned properly, visitors avoid consuming water from these. Drinking water without a glass is quite inconvenient. Those who try to drink water directly, often waste it.During a visit, it was observed that most taps were non-functional and some machines were lying defunct.This project of the MC was highly appreciated as it fulfilled the requirement of devotees heading towards the Golden Temple.Mahesh, a vendor, who stands near one of the water ATM, said, “No doubt, it is a good initiative of the government, but these machines need proper care. They should be cleaned properly. Awareness should be created among visitors regarding their usage. Some people press the button and waste water. Water is precious and it should be used judiciously.”The MC had installed 10 water ATMs near the Golden Temple last year. Civic body had spent around Rs 1.35 crore on these machines to provide potable water to devotees.The MC officials claimed that a company has been hired for maintenance of the machines.Earlier, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) had made arrangements to provide water at Saragarhi Chowk and Bhai Gurdas Hall. A devotee had also set up a permanent ‘chabeel’ near the Town Hall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/water-atm-dispensers-in-dire-straits-in-amritsar-295325
10-08-2021||---||GREEN FINGERS: This teacher nurses herbal garden at home & school||Amritsar, August 9As a Meerankot Kalan Government Elementary School teacher, Davinder Kaur has been instrumental in setting up herbal garden, dedicated to the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev, at her school.Davinder Kaur I believe that one doesn't have to spend money to create green spaces. I use most of the household items such as a spare bicycle, ladder, broken wooden beds and even chopped pieces of a log into platforms for planters. One with nature, Davinder teaches her students about various plants and has created special learning sessions to make them aware about environment. At home, she has not only created a lush green garden space in her front lawn and backyard, but has also managed to transform the street leading to her house into a double-tree lane.Her garden homes over 300 species of indoor and outdoor plants. “My interest in gardening was developed by my father and later, I took up gardening as a therapeutic exercise. My husband Kanwardeep Singh too has a green thumb and we look after our garden together,” she said. She mostly has plants with medicinal and high oxygen value. Varieties of tulsi, giloy and aloe vera are planted in the front lawn. The backyard garden has fruit-bearing trees such as jamun and lemon and vegetables.She uses waste material such as broken glass and plastic bottles as planters, worn out shoes and clothes to add aesthetics to her green spaces. “I believe that one doesn’t have to spend money to create green spaces. I use most of the household items such as a spare bicycle, ladder, broken wooden beds and even chopped pieces of a log into platforms for planters. I hand painted plastic bottles to use them as fancy planters. Most of my time during the Covid-imposed lockdown was spent in creating beautiful garden décor from waste,” she said. She spends an hour daily to groom her garden.Their shared love for green spaces also encouraged the couple to transform a side street into a double-tree lane. “We planted shady trees, with more oxygen value, to turn the street into a green area. The otherwise a barren patch of land was converted into an eye tonic with enough green trees. We are planning to use more empty plots of land for creating small gardens,” she said. To bring awareness regarding sustainable lifestyle, she gifts a plant or a sapling to every guest as a parting gift.For the beginners, who want to create home gardens, she has a piece of advice. “One should invest in plants that are a rich source of oxygen and are native species as they will require less maintenance. Plants such as turtle vine and bougainvillea can be used for beautification rather than fancy landscaping. Using waste household items too is an innovative and cost-effective way to add visual appeal to a garden,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/green-fingers-this-teacher-nurses-herbal-garden-at-home-school-295323
10-08-2021||Amritsar||Sukhpal Khaira’s effigy burnt in Amritsar||A unit of the Istri Akali Dal held a protest against Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira over derogatory remarks against SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, here on Monday. Assembled at the Bhandari Railway Over Bridge, they raised slogans against Khaira, burnt his effigy and sought an apology from Khaira. Istri Akali Dal senior vice-president Bibi Jaswinder Kaur Sohal said such protests would be replicated across the state. She said Bibi Jagir Kaur is a president of the top most Sikh institution, while Khaira is a proven turncoat, who had lobbied with various parties and managed to join Congress. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sukhpal-khairas-effigy-burnt-in-amritsar-295330
10-08-2021||---||Annie Zaidi's new book ‘Prelude to a Riot': Complexities of riots take centre stage||Amritsar, August 9Majha House hosted a web discussion with award-winning author and documentary filmmaker Annie Zaidi.The talk was centred around Annie’s book ‘Prelude to a Riot'. Introducing the speakers and the session, Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, said Annie Zaidi has many documentaries to her credit and they are all vivid pictures of society.“She does not shy away from the grim realities and her films are both nuanced and layered. One gets to see a realistic picture of society through her eyes,” said Preeti.Talking about the title of the book, Annie said: “Everyone gets to know what happens during a riot; we are made aware of the aftermath of the riot. But why does a riot take place? What causes people to take to streets? What causes riots? These were the questions that haunted me. I wanted to investigate why riots happen. Who instigates who? Hence the title, because the book is about the cause of riots rather than the effect,” she said.She shared with the audience that the book is a fictional account of two families — one Hindu, the other Muslim — living in harmony in a small town in south India.But their peace is threatened by looming religious intolerance, which finally bursts out in riots that destroys the delicate balance of respect and cooperation. “I am deeply influenced by theatre and could not resist bringing in the elements of theatre. That is why, in these pages you will find monologues and soliloquies, which bring to the fore what exactly is going on in the minds of the characters, what they are truly feeling,” Annie said.According to her, politics — be it sexual or caste based, seeps into the framework of any book, “No society exists without politics but what is important to me is that there should be a realistic depiction of both society and politics that one is part of. And if there is fear prevalent in a society, it speaks volumes about the kind of government one has, the kind of politics that is being engineered to keep people divided and fighting on the basis of caste and religion,” she concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/annie-zaidis-new-book-prelude-to-a-riot-complexities-of-riots-take-centre-stage-295322
10-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Hockey nurseries in Amritsar  catching them young||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 9Five players from the district in both men and women national hockey teams is no mean feat!The question most people are asking these days is how come not one or two, but five players are from one district in the national teams? The answer lies in hockey academies catching budding players young and preparing them up for national and international championships.These five players are Shamsher Singh of Attari village, Dilpreet Singh of Butala, Gurjant Singh of Khaliara village and Harmanpreet Singh of Timmowal village. Besides, Gurjit Kaur, a drag flicker from Miadi Kalan village in Ajnala tehsil, who had learnt the nuances of the game from Government School, Kairon village, in Tarn Taran district. Gurjant, Dilpreet and Shamsher were all products of hockey academies.Dilpreet and Shamsher learnt the basics of the game from local Maharaja Ranjit Singh Hockey Academy (MRSHA), which was set up in 2005 by veteran hockey players, lovers and enthusiasts to promote hockey in the region. So far, the academy has trained 700 players. Each year, 60 players between the age group of 12 and 19 years are inducted into the academy and they are given free education, books and uniforms by Spring Dale Senior School. The academy spends between Rs23 lakh and Rs27 lakh annually on players. So far, the academy has produced 150 national players and seven international players, including three Olympians — Shamsher, Dilpreet and Ramandeep Singh, who played in the Rio Olympics in 2016.Academy’s coach Kuljit Singh Bamrah recalled that Dilpreet was with the academy from Classes VI to IX. Shamsher got trained in hockey with the academy when he studied in Class VI and VII.Dilpreet’s father Balwinder Singh, who had played the nationals from 1990 to 1996, said: “My son started playing hockey at Baba Palha Sports Club and Social Welfare Society-run hockey academy at Butala village. The academy produced over 30 national and international players. Of these players, 20 got government jobs due to their performance in hockey.Similarly, Gurjant’s father Baldev Singh said hockey was not played in their village — Khaliara. On learning his interest in hockey, he was admitted to Cheema Hockey Academy, Shahbad village, in Batala in Class V and he learnt the basics for one-and-a-half years.Harmanpreet’s father Sarbjit Singh recalled that a sports coach Joginder Singh Dhillon suggested him to train him in the sport after seeing him playing hockey when he was in Class V. So, he got him admitted to Karam Singh hockey academy in Jalandhar in Class VI.Prepping up game enthusiasts for national, int’l championships||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hockey-nurseries-in-amritsar-catching-them-young-295318
10-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Kin on dharna, allege delay in arrest of murder accused in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 9Bhagwan Valmiki Ekta Sangharsh Dal staged a dharna by keeping the body of Sharanjit Singh (30), an assistant mechanic who was beaten to death over suspicion of theft by his former employer, before the Chabal police station on Monday. The workers protested the delay in the arrest of the accused.Baba Sahib Singh and other leaders condemned the ‘indifferent’ attitude of the police for not arresting the accused.Bikramjit Singh, Harjit Singh, his son Bhupinder Singh, Inderjit Singh Lali and his brother Jujjbir Singh, all residents of Amritsar, were booked under Sections 302, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC by the police. Bhupinder Singh was the only accused who has been arrested so far.The protesters warned that the body would not be cremated unless the accused were arrested. DSP Sucha Singh Bal assured protesters to arrest the accused within 10 days and the dharna was lifted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kin-on-dharna-allege-delay-in-arrest-of-murder-accused-in-tarn-taran-295317
10-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Visiting Himachal Pradesh? Show jab certificate or RT-PCR –ve report||Tarn Taran, August 9Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said there is a possibility that thousands of pilgrims will visit various religious shrines in Himachal Pradesh during the shrawan ashtami navratris, which may lead to huge gatherings.Hence, the Himachal Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority (HPSDMA) has issued guidelines for visitors and imposed certain restrictions in view of the concern regarding the third wave of Covid-19 during the navratris, which are to be celebrated from August 9 to August 17.People intending to visit various temples/shrines during the aforesaid period shall be allowed to enter the state/district borders only if they possess the Covid-19 vaccination certificate (both doses) or RT-PCR negative report — issued not older than 72 hours and from authorised labs.Laying emphasis on ‘No Mask, No Darshan’, pilgrims will have to follow all guidelines including social-distancing norms, hand-washing with proper sanitisation.No casualty, three test positive in districtAmritsar: With three positive cases reported on Monday, the tally increased to 47,100 in the district. The new cases include two influenza-like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient. The Health Department has also reported the recovery of five patients with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,491. At present, the district has a total of 22 active cases. In the ongoing vaccination drive, a total of 12,732 residents were given the injections for Covid-19 on Monday. Of these, 7,983 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 4,749 received the second dose. TNSTarn Taran sees no fresh case, fatalityThe district reported no fresh case or death due to Covid on Monday. The district toll remained 374. The number of active cases in the district is 10, out which nine are under home isolation. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said teams of the Health Department had collected 973 samples to be tested for Covid on Monday and the administration was yet to receive the report of 293 samples from the laboratories. As many as 2,91,836 doses of vaccines have been administered to the beneficiaries till date. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/visiting-himachal-pradesh-show-jab-certificate-or-rt-pcr-%E2%80%93ve-report-295316
10-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Holy city on high alert after seizure of explosives||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 9Following the alert sounded by the Punjab Police after the seizure of improvised explosive device (IED) and hand grenades packed in a tiffin from a border village, the city police have tightened security arrangements in the city.With Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh scheduled to unfurl the National Flag on Independence Day in Amritsar, the police are on their toes. Besides sealing the entry and exit points of the city, the police carried out search operations and flag marches in different areas on Monday.They also issued instructions while appealing to the people to remain vigilant in order to thwart any untoward incident in view of the upcoming Independence Day celebrations.Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal carried out a search operation at the railway station here. The anti-sabotage team and sniffer dogs were pressed into service to search the entire railway station. The police officials also interacted with people and checked their bags. He said the patrolling parties and PCR teams were asked to patrol different areas especially near vital installations and tourist and religious places.“As the festive season has started, there is unusual rush in shopping malls and markets. Therefore, emphasis was also being laid on foot patrol. Vigil is also being maintained on people coming and putting up in hotels, inns, besides PG houses and tenants,” the DCP said.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harjit Singh Dhaliwal along with other police officials carried out the flag march that commenced from Hall Gate area and passed through different roads in Zone Number 1. Similarly, ADCP Sandeep Malik along with the officials conducted a flag march from Novelty Chowk to different areas in the Civil Lines. ADCP Harpal Singh carried out the flag march from Ram Bagh area.CM to dedicate Jallianwala Bagh memorial park to public on August 14 Amritsar: CM Capt Amarinder Singh will formally dedicate the Jallianwala Bagh Centenary Memorial Park, coming up at Ranjit Avenue, in Amritsar, to the public on August 14. This is the second memorial of the 1919 massacre being built on 4,490 square meter land at Anand Park, in addition to the original memorial located 6 km away in the walled city. Prior to CM’s visit scheduled to unfurl the Tricolour to celebrate Independence Day in Amritsar, additional chief secretary, tourism, Sanjay Kumar came here to oversee the preparations and held a meeting with the administrative officials. About the memorial park programme, Sanjay said the kin of martyrs would be specially honoured on the occasion. “This historic site will stand out as a remembrance for the coming generations,” he said. He said no political rally would be conducted on the occasion and officials have been assigned duties. Others present included director, tourism Kamaldeep Kaur Brar; DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira; Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill, additional commissioners Ruhi Dag and Ranbir Singh Mudhal, additional commissioner (MC) Sandeep Rishi, ADCP Sandeep Malik, SDM Rajesh Sharma, SE Varinder Sharma and XEN Jasbir Singh Sodhi. TNSAdvisory for publicDOsDon’tsThe caseThe Amritsar rural police had seized a bag containing double-decker tiffin bomb having IED, hand grenades and RDX, reportedly dropped with the help of drones, from Bachiwind, an international border village. It was dropped on the intervening night of August 7 and August 8. However, the same was recovered on Monday from Daleke-Beharwal village, which is around 2 km from Bachiwind.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/holy-city-on-high-alert-after-seizure-of-explosives-295319
10-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Five hockey stars of Amritsar to offer prayers at Golden Temple before heading home||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 9Five hockey stars of Amritsar, who were part of men’s and women’s national teams, will be given a warm welcome upon their arrival. They are likely to land at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport on August 11.Homes decked upThe five players are Shamsher Singh of Attari village, Dilpreet Singh of Butala village, Gurjant Singh of Khaliara village, Harmanpreet Singh of Timmowal village and Gurjit Kaur, drag flicker from Miadi Kalan village in Ajnala tehsil.Gurjant’s father Baldev Singh said after landing at the airport, the players would head to the Golden Temple to pay obeisance. The SGPC will felicitate them with ‘siropas’ and then they would proceed to their homes.The family members and villagers are gearing up to extend a rousing welcome. The family of Gurjit has got printed invitation cards for near and dear ones to welcome her when she arrives in the village. Dilpreet’s house at Butala village is beautifully decorated with lights to extend a heroic welcome upon the return of their son. Similar preparations are being made at the houses of Shamsher, Harmanpreet and Gurjant.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said a warm welcome would be extended to the local hockey players upon their arrival and the Sports Department was engaged in chalking out the plan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-hockey-stars-of-amritsar-to-offer-prayers-at-golden-temple-before-heading-home-295336
10-08-2021||---||High alert as ‘tiffin bomb’ found in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9A week ahead of the Independence Day celebrations, a high alert has been sounded in Punjab following the recovery of an improvised explosive device (IED) concealed in a tiffin box along with five hand grenades and 100 rounds of 9mm pistol from Daleke village in Lopoke, Amritsar.‘Dropped’ by droneReport suspicious activityPeople must remain vigilant and report any suspicious activity or article lying in trains, buses, eateries, etc. to the police helpline numbers 112 or 181. — Dinkar Gupta, Director General of policeChief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who is slated to hoist the Tricolour in Amritsar, has been flagging the designs of cross-border agencies to foment trouble in the state.DGP Dinkar Gupta, addressing a press conference here today, said following inputs regarding drone activity in the area of border villages, including Daleke, Bachiwind and Shohra, a massive combing operation, led by Amritsar SSP Rural Gulneet Singh, was launched on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.The police team recovered a bag from the fields carrying a double-decker children’s lunch box and other ammunition packed meticulously in soft foam. Preliminary investigations indicated the bag was dropped through a drone, which crossed the border into India, he said. The target of the bomb was yet to be ascertained, said the DGP.Police teams secured the bag and a team of the National Security Guards (NSG) was called in. It confirmed the presence of 2-3 kg of RDX in the tiffin box, which had been fabricated into an IED.“The RDX was placed in the tiffin box in such a sophisticated manner that it has three different mechanisms — switch, magnet and spring — for operational flexibility,” said the DGP, adding further investigations were on.The DGP said a high alert had been sounded across the state. He cautioned people to remain vigilant and report any suspicious article or activity to the police. “Police can be reached at 112 or 181 helpline numbers,” he added.An FIR had been registered under Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act, and 3, 4 and 5 of the Explosive Substances Act at the Lopoke police station in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/high-alert-as-tiffin-bomb-found-in-amritsar-295344
10-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Tiffin bomb: Hunt on for co-plotters; combing ops under way||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 9Following the seizure of a tiffin bomb, hand grenades and RDX from a bag dropped using drones from across the International Border at Bachiwind village, the police were trying to identify the forward links of Pakistan-based anti-national elements for whom the explosives were meant.The police launched a combing operation, led by DSP Gurinderpal Singh Nagara and DSP Gurpartap Singh Sahota besides other officials, after information regarding movement of drones in the border village was received, leading to the recovery of explosives from the riverine area of Daleke- Beharwal village.SSP Gulneet Khuranna said they got a tip off from a former sarpanch of Bachiwind village about the movement of drones. “The dropping was made near the village, located 1.5 km from the border. It seems someone retrieved the bag and later abandoned it in the Daleke-Beharwal village area 2 km from spot,” he said, adding the operation was on to find if more such bags were dropped.The police was investigating the intended target of the explosives as Independence Day celebrations were round the corner. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was slated to unfurl the Tricolour in Amritsar on August 15.“We cannot pinpoint target at the moment. There are a number of military installations in the area. It was a chance recovery. Anybody could be the target,” said the SSP, adding security had been beefed up.Jagga Singh of Bachiwind village first noticed the drone movement and informed the former sarpanch. “I had gone to the fields to switch on the tubewell, when I noticed the drone,” he told. This is perhaps the first time that an improvised explosive device has been found to have been smuggled from across the border.Meanwhile, the NSG defused the IED while Punjab Police took the hand grenades, which would be defused by the bomb disposal squad of Punjab Armed Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tiffin-bomb-hunt-on-for-co-plotters-combing-ops-under-way-295345
10-08-2021||GS Paul||10L lost jobs in tourism sector in Punjab due to Covid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 9Hit hard by the unprecedented circumstances due to Covid pandemic, the tourism industry is still struggling to survive.No recovery till traffic resumesThe industry will not recover till the air, road and rail connectivity resumes fully. — Gursharan Singh, Amritsar tourism officerAs per a study on “India and the Coronavirus Pandemic: Economic Losses for Households Engaged in Tourism and Policies for Recovery” conducted by the Ministry of Tourism, the tourist footfall in India is estimated to have plummeted by as much as 93.3 per cent in the first quarter (Q1) of 2020-21 as compared to the same quarter of the previous year. Though it picked up slightly, a fall of 79.5 per cent in second quarter (Q2) and 64.3 per cent in third quarter (Q3) has still been registered.Consequently, a significant number of jobs were lost in the tourism sector. In 2019-20, tourism had generated around 34.8 million jobs. Of these, 14.5 million jobs during Q1, 5.2 million during Q2 and 1.8 million jobs during Q3 were curtailed when lockdown was imposed.Assistant Professor Harpreet Singh of the Department of Hotel Management and Tourism, GNDU, said in another study conducted for Punjab tourism, an estimated one million jobs, directly or indirectly associated with allied hospitality services, had been lost due to travel restrictions and closure of dining and entertainment places.In Punjab, there are around 5,000 registered hotels and 3,000 unregistered hotels.Punjab Hotel Association president Satish Arora said 20-25 hotels in all districts had closed operations and 70 per cent had lost jobs. He said due to Covid-19, the hospitality industry suffered a monthly loss of around Rs 900 crore and the government, too, suffered a monthly loss of Rs 150 crore in the form of GST revenue.He said following the Covid-19 relaxation, 40 per cent jobs were created between June 15 and July 16, when marriage season was at peak. “At present, when marriage season has ended, only 25 per cent staff can be absorbed and the rest is laid off,” he said.District tourism officer Gursharan Singh said the industry would not recover till the air, road and rail connectivity resumed fully. Barring the Golden Temple, Durgiana Mandir or Ram Tirath, the average footfall at tourist places like Sadda Pind, Punjab War Heroes Memorial, Gobindgarh Fort and Partition Museum, the footfall has dropped significantly. Attari-Wagah Retreat ceremony is barred for spectators since March 2020 and Jallianwala Bagh, too, is closed since February 2020.APS Chatha, president of Amritsar Hotels and Restaurants Association, said there were around 850 hotels, guesthouses and lodges in Amritsar. “Occupancy increased near Golden Temple, but not in civil lines hotels. With hotels getting bankrupt, around 1.5 lakh have lost jobs as per our survey conducted on occupancy and staff strength,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10l-lost-jobs-in-tourism-sector-in-punjab-due-to-covid-pandemic-295355
10-08-2021||Amritsar||Govt's bid to take over SGPC: Akal Takht Jathedar||Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh today said an attempt was being made by the government to overpower the management of the SGPC.The jathedar said on the lines of Takht Hazur Sahib, the government, through its agencies, intended to put the SGPC under a ‘board’ to get its control. Tactics were being adopted to take control of Takht Patna Sahib too, he said. Referring to another issue pertaining to some non-Sikh members wearing ‘kirpan’ in Kurukshetra, the jathedar sought the intervention of the Haryana Government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govts-bid-to-take-over-sgpc-akal-takht-jathedar-295364
