11-08-2021||Amritsar||Gangster Rana Kandowalia murder: Happy Shah nabbed in Amritsar||The police have reportedly arrested Happy Shah, a gangster, involved in the killing of another notorious gangster Rana Kandowalia at a private hospital a week ago. He was also injured in the counter fire by Kandowalia’s accomplices Tejbir Singh.Though the police officials maintained silence over his arrest, sources have confirmed the development. Happy Shah had sustained two bullet injuries and was treated at a private hospital in Batala.Besides Happy Shah, the police had booked notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, Mandeep Singh, alias Toofan; Jagroshan Hundal and Mani Rayya in the case.The police have also nominated six persons for sheltering and harbouring them. Besides Nanit, a fruit stall owner who was arrested by the police, others booked include Prabhjot Chatha, a congress councillor; Laddi Dairy wala; Sukhraj Malli; Jagtar Singh and Lalli Dairy wala, all residents of Batala.A police team had seized digital video recorder of the private hospital on Monday, where the injured gangster Happy Shah was provided treatment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-rana-kandowalia-murder-happy-shah-nabbed-in-amritsar-295819
11-08-2021||Garhshankar||Girl gets 100% scholarship for PhD in US University||Komal Beetan, a student from Beetan village in the Bet area of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, has got 100 per cent scholarship to pursue her PhD in Mississippi Medical University, USA.In the online interview, India’s only aspirant Komal was selected for the scholarship. Her father Balu Ram is an IOC employee and her mother Gurbaksh Kaur died 14 years ago. Komal had received her primary education from Riyat Model School in Beetan village. She did her Class XII from St Soldier’s School, Naya Nangal, and BSMS and JRF from IISER-Mohali.HP’s Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agrihotri and others congratulated Komal and her family. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girl-gets-100-scholarship-for-phd-in-us-university-295817
11-08-2021||---||Animal birth control centre inaugurated in Amritsar's Chheharta||Amritsar, August 10Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi inaugurated an Animal Birth Control Centre at the Gumanpura gaushala in the Chheharta area. A truck-mounted hydraulic lifting vehicle to catch stray animals was also provided to the sterilisation centre.The Mayor said for taking care of stray and sick animals, the Gaushala had been set up by the Municipal Corporation at a cost of Rs 93.74 lakh at Gumanpura. In addition to this, the centre has been set up at Gaushala at a cost of Rs 28.42 lakh in which sterilisation of 5,000 stray dogs would be done by making ward wise schedules soon.As per the schedule, the dog catching teams would visit different areas and catch the stray dogs. Sterilisation/vaccination work will be conducted in the centre. The centre would sterilise about 150 stray dogs per week. In addition to this, a state-of-the-art truck mounted animal catcher vehicle has also been brought on the road at a cost of Rs 15 lakh.Executive Engineer Sunil Mahajan, Health Officer Dr Yogesh Arora, Dr Ankit, Dr Darshan Kashyap, Satish Ballu, Chief Sanitary Inspector JP Babbar, Jagdeep Singh, Nirbhai Singh, Sanitary Inspector Ravinder Kumar, JE Kulwinder Singh and a large number of locals were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/animal-birth-control-centre-inaugurated-in-amritsars-chheharta-295818
11-08-2021||---||Eyeing Assembly poll, Cong ticket aspirant starts campaign in Sujanpur||Sujanpur, August 10Amit Manto, an aspirant for the Congress party ticket, started with his campaign in the Sujanpur Assembly seat on Tuesday by visiting villages and holding meetings with ex-servicemen, who have a substantial vote share.Even during the 2017 poll, the emphasis of all major parties, including the Congress, BJP and AAP, was on this vote bank. Defence personnel hailing from Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Hoshiarpur districts often start living in Sujanpur once they superannuate.Amit Manto, Ticket AspirantIn 2017, I started campaigning late because the party declared my candidature at the last minute. This time, I have started meeting people. I am focusing on the Dhar block, which is one of the most backward block. Water and power supply remains erratic throughout the year. The Congress had fielded Manto in the last election from this seat. BJP is sure to re-nominate the sitting MLA and former Deputy speaker of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha Dinesh Singh Babbu, while AAP is still struggling to find its feet in the area and the SAD has a negligible presence.As if taking a cue, other contenders have planned similar exercises later this week.Manto met the Rajput community leaders and promised to take up their grievances if elected. Like ex-servicemen, the Rajputs, too, have a fair sprinkling of votes following which this community is also much sought after during the elections.“Last time, I started my campaign late because the party declared my candidature at the last minute. This time, I have already started meeting people. I am focusing on the sub-mountainous Dhar block, which is one of the most backward blocks of Punjab. Here, both water and power supply remains erratic throughout the year. Also the condition of roads is pitiable. So backward is this block that government officials refuse to come even after they are posted here. It is time this changes,” said Manto.He also met members of the Ranjit Sagar Dam Oustees’ Associations (RSDOA). For the last three decades, these members have been claiming that the Punjab Government has not provided them with adequate compensation when their agricultural land was acquired in 1992 for the dam. “These people want proper compensation and jobs as well. It is a sensitive issue, but nevertheless I have written to both — Punjab Irrigation Department and the dam officials, to try and find a solution to this vexed problem,” said Manto.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eyeing-assembly-poll-cong-ticket-aspirant-starts-campaign-in-sujanpur-295820
11-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Trouble brews in SAD over halqa in-charge in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 10SAD leader and former member of the Subordinate Service Selection Board’s committee Iqbal Singh Sandhu revolted against the party for nominating former MLA Harmeet Singh Sandhu as a halqa in-charge (mukh sevadar) from Tarn Taran Vidhan Sabha segment.Halqa in-charge can generally be considered possible candidates aheadof the 2022 AssemblyeElections. Harmeet’s name featured in the list of 12 halqa in-charge declared by SAD chief Sukhbir Singh three days ago.Iqbal convened a meeting of his followers on Tuesday to chalk out the next course of action. While attacking his opponent he said he had been working in SAD as a ‘sepoy’ for the past 25 years and never indulged in peddling or fulfilled his personal motives.Former sarpanches and panchayat members were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trouble-brews-in-sad-over-halqa-in-charge-in-tarn-taran-295821
11-08-2021||---||Offline classes set to begin at GNDU, Amritsar from August 16||Amritsar, August 10Several city colleges on Tuesday resumed offline classes for odd and even semesters for postgraduate and undergraduate courses. GNDU has already announced to resume offline classes from August 16 onwards. With the admissions for undergraduate courses underway, the university is set to begin the academic session through the traditional mode of learning. The university has released the schedule for regular offline classes for city colleges.Dr Rajesh Kumar, Principal, DAV CollegeWe are conducting offline exams for odd and even classes and the admissions for the first-year undergraduate courses will close till August 31. We will begin with the session from September 1. We have been getting requests from students, especially those from Gurdaspur and Pathankot, to start offline teaching as studies have suffered due to Covid-19. Meanwhile, Khalsa College too resumed offline classes for agricultural sciences and other selected courses. “The first day attendance was less than 50 per cent, but we are hoping that when we resume offline classes for all courses from August 16 onwards, the attendance will improve. The students are willing to come for offline classes, but the SOPs require them to be fully vaccinated. We have made it mandatory for students to have the Aarogya Setu app. We are getting hostel inquiries, but we have not yet reopened hostels,” said Dr Mehal Singh, principal, Khalsa College.BBK DAV college is conducting online exams for odd and even semesters. Meanwhile, the college is planning to resume offline classes from next week onwards. “The university has released its schedule for offline classes, but it will take a few days to wrap up admission work as the CBSE Class XII results have recently been announced. The college management will decide only after the new admissions wrap up,” said the college spokesperson.DAV college too has informed the students about resumption of offline classes from September 1. “We are conducting offline exams for odd and even classes and the admissions for the first-year undergraduate courses will close till August 31. So, we will begin with our academic session from September 1. We had been getting requests from students, especially those hailing from rural areas of Gurdaspur, Pathankot and other areas, to begin offline teaching as academics have suffered due to the pandemic. We have asked students to ensure that they follow SOPs,” informed Dr Rajesh Kumar, principal, DAV College.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/offline-classes-set-to-begin-at-gndu-amritsar-from-august-16-295816
11-08-2021||Amritsar||Education fair organised in Amritsar||GNDU resultsThe results of MSc (Computer Science) Semester - III, Diploma Course in Computer Maintenance (full time), Semester-I, Diploma in Front Office Operations, Semester-I, B Design (Multimedia), Semester – VII, BA Journalism & Mass Communication, Semester – V of session December 2020 are declared by the Guru Nanak Dev University. The results will be available on University website www.gndu.ac.in, said Prof Manoj Kumar, Professor Incharge (Examinations). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/education-fair-organised-in-amritsar-295825
11-08-2021||Amritsar||Snatching case solved, 3 held in Amritsar||Petrol station employee robbedAmritsar: Three armed men robbed a petrol pump employee of Rs2.5 lakh at gunpoint on Monday night. The victim, a salesman at Dhingra petrol pump, has been identified as Manoj Kumar alias Moju. He was going to deliver cash to the owner at his house near Radha Swami Satsang Bhawan on Mall Road. He said last night he was going to hand over the cash to the pump owner on his bike. When he reached near Dr Daljit Singh Eye hospital, three bike-borne persons hit his motorcycle. He fell down and an unknown person pistol at him, snatched the cash and fled away. The Majitha road police said a case under Sections 379-B (2) and 34 of the IPC was registered against unknown persons and further investigations were under progress. TNS‘Give financial aid to Gurjit’Amritsar: Former health minister and senior BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla has suggested that the state government should give financial award to women Olympics hockey team member Gurjit Kaur. She reasoned that the Haryana Government has announced Rs50 lakh for the team even if it has failed to win a medal. Chawla said the team had performed much better than expected and Gurjit had even scored a goal. She said the player should be honoured for her achievement and given the award in terms of financial help. She said the government should also ensure that such girls get complete help in future, so that they can make the country proud. “Give them financial help and also make full arrangements for their teaching and training in future, so that our team can do even better in the coming years,” she said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snatching-case-solved-3-held-in-amritsar-295823
11-08-2021||---||Amritsar: Indian Academy of Fine Arts restoration plans on hold for now||Amritsar, August 10The restoration lab set up in 2018 by the Indian Academy of Fine Arts that runs the Thakar Singh Art Gallery was established with an aim of restoring and preserving the region’s fine arts heritage.The gallery was one of the creative epicentres during 1928 till 1970s and has a collection of valuable paintings, sculptures and other art works that dates back to pre-Partition period. IAFA had set up the restoration lab with the help of conservation experts and was to begin with conservation work, led by Ahmed Ali, who has worked as a curator for four decades at Salarjung museum in Hyderabad, when the pandemic struck. Ali is an expert in Sikh and Mughal art and had previously worked on restoring 200 art pieces for Khalsa College Museum of Sikh history.Arvinder Chamak, Gen Secy, IAFAWe had trained our team comprising six persons, in conservation techniques. But the pandemic-induced lockdown stretched for almost one-and-a-half years and it hit our plans. Until and unless the inter-state movement resumes without restrictions and the threat of a third wave subsides, IAFA will have to wait to begin with the project.“We had trained our team comprising six persons, in conservation techniques. But the pandemic-induced lockdown stretched for almost one-and-a-half years and it hit our plans. Since the first step in conservation was to create an optimum storage facility for art work, we have kept these art works in a temperature-controlled environment, with a temperature of 28°C and they are framed in bakelite sheets for termite and moisture resistance. The restoration work is a tedious process that requires team work and multiple techniques. We have resumed our activities just recently and are soon planning to begin with restoration as well,” said Arvinder Chamak, general secretary, IAFA.The infrastructural cost of setting up the lab was around Rs10 lakh and IAFA had put aside a budget of Rs5 lakh for restoration. Currently, the lab stores paintings, graphics, lithographs, photographs, sculptures. The lab has 3,429 pieces of art, including 120 paintings that are more than 70-years-old. Chamak said until and unless the inter-state movement resumes without restrictions and the threat of a third wave subsides, IAFA will have to wait to begin with the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-indian-academy-of-fine-arts-restoration-plans-on-hold-for-now-295822
11-08-2021||---||As Assembly elections draw near, staff hit the roads in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 10Ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections scheduled early next year, employees of various departments had been on the warpath against the state government, hoping that with vote bank on mind, the ruling party would accept their demands. Contractual employees, too, had been demanding regularisation.The union leaders said they were trying to make the state government accountable for promises it had made and the ongoing protests were in no way a strategy to blackmail the authorities.Staff of various departments, including health, veterinary, agriculture and ministerial staff, had initiated protests last month after the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission.“Last six months of the government is when not only employees, but even others sections, are hopeful of getting something done. It’s the time when roads and streets are paved. So, it is also the time for staff to get their due,” quipped an employee.Members of associations said as election comes near more people would hit the roads. Ashok Sharma, a member of the Punjab State Pharmacy Officers’ Association, said, “The ruling party had made promises for which employees are fighting before the 2022 Assembly elections. People had voted for them thinking that they would fulfil the promises.”He said during first year of the formation of the government, the incumbent party had claimed that it had inherited empty coffers from the previous government and financial health of the state was poor.“After four-and-a-half years, employees are making the state government accountable,” said Sharma. Punjab State Ministerial Staff Union leader Jagdish Thakur said, “Employees are also voters and they can influence their family members in favour or against the political parties.”Last six months of the government is when not only employees, but even others sections, are hopeful of getting something done. It's the time when roads and streets are paved. So, it is also the time for staff to get their due. An employeeThe ruling party had made promises for which employees are fighting before the 2022 Assembly elections. People had voted for them thinking that they will fulfil the promises. After four-and-a-half years, employees are making the state government accountable. Ashok Sharma, a member of the Punjab State Pharmacy Officers' AssociationEmployees are also voters and they can influence their family members in favour or against the political parties. Jagdish Thakur, Punjab State Ministerial Staff Union leader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-assembly-elections-draw-near-staff-hit-the-roads-in-amritsar-295811
11-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||‘Covid-19 considerably brought down bulk sale of basmati rice’: Arvinder Pal Singh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 10The Covid-19 considerably brought down bulk sale of basmati and prompted families to avoid buying superior quality basmati, thus affecting its sale.Arvinder Pal Singh, a proprietor of ‘Lal Qila’ brand, said, “The Covid-19’s direct impact on sales is visible. Bulk sales evaporated and shrinking income forced families to cut down their kitchen budget by avoiding to buy fine variety of basmati.” Long grain aromatic basmati did not remain first choice of masses, said Arvinder, who has been associated with the business, for the past 34 years.He said the crisis taught us to consolidate small consumer packaging. “Housewives rarely compromise on cost when it comes to healthy and nutritious food for their family members. Thus, its wise to focus on packaging in small quantity.”His grandfather Amar Singh had registered the firm ‘Amar Singh Chawal Wala’ in 1901. “The British used to levy 60 per cent tax and the entire business scenario used to be different altogether,” he said. Later, a young nation offered plethora of opportunities and Arvinder’s father Kartar Singh and uncle Pritam Singh steered the company ahead as per changing circumstances. They had set up a rice mill and floated ‘Lal Qila’ brand in 1963.“I joined the family business in 1986. The same year the company started rice export. Now, we are exporting to 77 countries,” he said.Around 85 per cent to 90 per cent of the basmati procurement is being done from Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur, besides the remaining 10 per cent to 15 per cent was carried out from Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. The company gives employment to 700 persons. The firm has two hi-tech rice mills with a capacity of 535 metric tonne per day, which produce white rice, steamed rice and parboiled rice with state-the-of-art machinery to ensure consistency in every grain. To protect environment, their rice mills use rice husk for producing electricity, which partially fulfil their energy requirement. The company has installed solar plants as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-considerably-brought-down-bulk-sale-of-basmati-rice-arvinder-pal-singh-295824
11-08-2021||---||Class X student positive, govt school closed in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 10Days after schools were reopened for all classes on government orders, a student of Class X from Government High School, Meharbanpur, tested positive for Covid-19.The Health Department had taken multiple samples from the school as part of regular testing procedure. The school premises has been closed and will be sanitised. Offline classes will remain suspended until further orders.The District Education Officer has directed officials to conducted mass testing in all schools as a safety measure and students of the school in Meharbanpur will also undergo mandatory testing for now.“We will consider all options before taking the decision and DEO will also host a meeting to brief the government on the matter. Meanwhile, testing drives will be conducted in all government and private schools in the district and the decision on continuation of offline classes will be reviewed on the basis of ground situation,” said an official from the district education office.Meanwhile, after reports of 20 school students in Ludhiana testing positive for Covid-19, concerns regarding the health safety of students have risen. The schools had reopened for offline classes on August 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/class-x-student-positive-govt-school-closed-in-amritsar-district-295814
11-08-2021||---||Covid-19: Amritsar district reports no death, nine test +ve||Amritsar, August 10With nine positive cases being reported on Tuesday, the district tally increased to 47,109. The new cases include five influenza-like illness cases and four contacts of positive patients. The Health Department has also reported the recovery of five patients, with which the total recovery count increased to 45,496. The district at present has total 26 active cases. In the ongoing vaccination drive, total 6,405 residents were inoculated on Tuesday. Of these, 3,936 received the first dose, while 2,469 received the second dose.1 tests +ve in Tarn TaranA person tested positive, while no casualty was reported in the district on Tuesday. The death tally remains at 375. There are 11 active cases. DC Kulwant Singh said the Health Department collected 1,420 samples to be tested for the coronavirus on Tuesday from different places. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-amritsar-district-reports-no-death-nine-test-ve-295813
11-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Keep record of every visitor, hoteliers told in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 10In view of the state-level Independence Day celebrations in Amritsar, the police have been keeping a close eye on people putting up in hotels, inns and dharamshalas. The hotels and sarais have been asked to inform the police about suspicious elements putting up on their premises.As the rural police recovered an improvised explosive device from a border village on Monday, the police have been on alert. To thwart any untoward incident, they have intensified the checking of vehicles at entry and exit points.Deputy Commissioner of Police, (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal said: “It has come to light that several hotels, inns and dharamshalas are not keeping the record of people staying on their premises. Sometimes, unscrupulous elements stay in these hotels or inns and return after committing crimes.”“The police have issued orders and asked all hotels and inns to mandatorily keep the record of people staying on their premises. If any hotel or inn is found violating the norms by not keeping the record, stern action will be taken against them,” he said.Bhandal said these hotels and inns, especially those located near the Golden Temple and the inter-state bus terminus or railway station would be checked in routine in future. The orders passed by the DCP using his magisterial powers under Section 144 of the CrPC would remain in force till October 9, 2021.I-Day: Tarn Taran DC meets officials Tarn Taran: On Independence Day, Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria would unfurl the national flag in the district-level function to be organised at the Police Lines ground on August 15. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said this here on Tuesday, while presiding over a meeting of officials of different departments regarding the arrangements for the function. He said Covid-19 restrictions would be strictly followed during the function. The full dress rehearsal would be conducted on August 13. He said freedom fighters and their successors and persons with distinction in different fields, too, would be honoured. The DC instructed the officials to beautify the town on the day. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/keep-record-of-every-visitor-hoteliers-told-in-amritsar-295808
11-08-2021||Amritsar||School bus collides with car on Amritsar-Pathankot road, two dead||A J&K couple was killed and their two relatives injured in a mishap, near Sohian village, on the Amritsar-Pathankot road on Tuesday morning.The incident occurred when a private school bus took a sudden turn from a ‘dismantled’ road divider. A sand-laden tipper lost control and hit the bus, which went to the other side of the road and collided with the car of the victims — Narinder Pal Singh and his wife Gurpreet Kaur.Bus driver Ravel Singh of Jethuwal village has been booked and action will be taken against Pinewood School for norms violation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/school-bus-collides-with-car-on-amritsar-pathankot-road-two-dead-295973
11-08-2021||GS Paul||CM to dedicate new Jallianwala memorial to public on August 14||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 10Amid debate over having a ‘parallel’ memorial for the martyrs of the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre in Amritsar, CM Capt Amarinder Singh is all set to dedicate it to the public on August 14.Located 6 km away from the original Jallianwala Bagh Memorial near the Golden Temple, the Rs 3.52-crore memorial christened as “Jallianwala Bagh Centenary Memorial Park” is spread over 4,490 sq m in Ranjit Avenue.BJP leader Shwait Malik, a trustee, Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, said instead of erecting a new memorial, the CM could’ve contribute the money towards the renovation of the original memorial.“How can a memorial be transferred to a fictitious site? The massacre took place at Jallianwala Bagh, not at the Ranjit Avenue park,” he said.Of 492 martyrs, kin of just 29 traced||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cm-to-dedicate-new-jallianwala-memorial-to-public-on-august-14-295971
11-08-2021||Chandigarh||2 more suspended in missing wheat case of Pungrain warehouses in Jandiala Guru||Two more officials have been suspended over the missing wheat stock at Pungrain warehouses in Jandiala Guru of Amritsar district.As per the order issued by Punjab Food and Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Tuesday, Cheri Bhatia, Assistant Food Supply Officer, and Rajinder Bains, Inspector, have been suspended and charge sheeted. Earlier, two officials were suspended in the case.Ashu also directed the top brass of the department to set up an online procedure for physical verification (PV) of warehouses and plinths before the next paddy season and all verifications should be done online. Fixing duties of all officerfor online verification, the minister warned them of disciplinary action if the job is not done on time. Ashu directed the investigation team to submit the report at the earliest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-more-suspended-in-missing-wheat-case-of-pungrain-warehouses-in-jandiala-guru-295939
11-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Day after 'tiffin bomb' seizure, drone sighted at Amritsar border||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 10A day after an improvised explosive device (IED) along with hand grenades were found at a border village here, the Border Security Force today reported drone sighting in the Mullankot border outpost area.The border outpost is a few kilometres from Bachwind village, where the explosives were reportedly dropped by a drone on the intervening night of August 7-8.SSP Gulneet Singh Khurana said a massive search operation was carried out in the border belt today, especially in villages near the Mullankot border outpost, but nothing suspicious was found.The SSP said as the Independence Day celebrations were round the corner, the Punjab Police had been working as the second line of defence by keeping vigil in the border villages to thwart any untoward incident.“We have been working in close coordination with the BSF, which is our first line of defence. Tackling the cross-border movement of unmanned aerial vehicles is the biggest challenge in the present times and we are taking preventive measure,” he said. Sources said officials of the police and BSF today held a meeting to devise ways to handle the challenge posed by the drone movement.“As there was no technical way to counter the problem, emphasis has been laid on identifying and arresting their forward links who come to retrieve the weapons or drug consignments,” sources added.Last month, the State Special Operation Cell had confiscated a consignment of 48 foreign-made weapons, which were also dropped by drones, the investigations revealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-after-tiffin-bomb-seizure-drone-sighted-at-amritsar-border-295924
