12-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Adesh Partap Singh Kairon holding cards close to his chest||Adesh Kairon had represented Patti Vidhan Sabha constituency four times from 1997 to 2017 but lost in the 2017 election to his Congress rival Harminder Singh Gill.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had declared Virsa Singh Valtoha as the possible candidate from Khemkaran constituency months back. Recently, Harmit Singh Sandhu had been nominated as the halqa incharge for Tarn Taran. The party is to declare possible candidates from Patti and Khadoor Sahib.As Adesh Partap Singh Kairon had been representing this constituency for a long period he must be the first choice of the party. Moreover, he is the son-in-law of SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal.Most of the candidates from all political parties have started their activities for the upcoming Assembly elections but Adesh Partap Singh Kairon was conspicuous by his absence in the constituency. He went absent since his defeat except few days when the candidature of Virsa Singh Valtoha was announced. He addressed some gatherings in the area just to oppose the candidature of Valtoha.A few days back, a video had gone viral on the social media regarding Kairon joining some other political party but he had not given any clarification. He was playing holding his cards close to his chest. From the fourth constituency from Khadoor Sahib which was represented by Ranjit Singh Brahampura, who was the patron of the rival SAD (Sanyukt), the SAD is yet to declare candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/adesh-partap-singh-kairon-holding-cards-close-to-his-chest-296613
12-08-2021||Amritsar||‘Govt ignoring minorities, dalits’||The Dal Khalsa has declared to hold a separate ceremony on August 15 to coincide with the I-Day celebrations. The Indian subcontinent was meant to be a multi-ethnic, multi-regional confederation of sovereign entities, said Harpal Singh Cheema. However, with time concerns of minorities, dalits and others are ignored, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-ignoring-minorities-dalits-296287
12-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran Diary: Commuters think twice before taking road from Hari Ram Sheller Wale to Chabal Bypass||Railways urged to restore Amritsar-Khemkaran trainGurmeet Singh, an advocate, had written a letter to the Ministry of Railways requesting for the restoration of train from Amritsar to Khemkaran halted due to Covid-19 for over 1.5 years. He appealed to the ministry to start the construction work of rail track from Patti to Ferozepur in the interest of public, trade and military purpose. He said train services from Amritsar to Khemkaran were suspended due to Covid-19 scare. Employees and businessmen who shuttle from Amritsar, Tarn Taran and other places to Khemkaran always prefer to travel in rail rather than other vehicle. He stressed that with the construction of Patti to Ferozepur rail track would boost the trade and tourism industry.(Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-commuters-think-twice-before-taking-road-from-hari-ram-sheller-wale-to-chabal-bypass-296289
12-08-2021||Amritsar||Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta visits Amritsar, reviews security arrangements in wake of drone activity||In the wake of security concerns after drone activity in the border area, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta visited on Wednesday the city and conducted a meeting with the senior police officials to review the security arrangements here.After the recovery of the tiffin carrying IED explosive from Daleke village of Amritsar, the senior police officials are ensuring tight security arrangements for the Independence Day function. A high alert had already been sounded across the state.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is also scheduled to hoist the Tricolour in the city on August 15. The security agencies are on high alert following the inputs of cross-border drone activities to create trouble in the state. The DGP met the senior police official and reviewed the security arrangements in the city as well as rural areas especially villages alongside the Indo-Pak border. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-dgp-dinkar-gupta-visits-amritsar-reviews-security-arrangements-in-wake-of-drone-activity-296281
12-08-2021||---||Chemists selling drugs sans prescription to face action: Amritsar District Child Protection Officer||Amritsar, August 11The District Child Protection Department has warned chemists against selling paediatric prescription drugs without valid prescription slip of a qualified physician. It has also asked the medical store owners to install CCTV cameras outside and inside the shop.District Child Protection Officer Pawandeep Kaur said instructions have been issued as per the guidelines of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights.Pawandeep Kaur, District Child Protection OfficerMedical store owners to install CCTV cameras outside and inside the shop. Schools should put up billboards to create an awareness about the ban on sale of tobacco, liquor near the institutions.She said it had been noticed that some chemists were selling prohibited medicines, especially steroids to the children without prescription. She added that such medicines have a harmful effect on child’s health.She further added that under Section 77 of the Juvenile Justice Act 2015 and Rule 56 of the same, offering or selling drugs to children is a legal offense punishable with seven years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1 lakh. The officer said selling cigarette or other tobacco products within the 100-yard periphery of an educational institute is a punishable offence.Operating a liquor vend within the 100-yard periphery of an educational institution is also an offence, she added.The district child protection officer said the schools should put up billboards near their entrance to create awareness about the ban on sale of tobacco products and liquor near the institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chemists-selling-drugs-sans-prescription-to-face-action-amritsar-district-child-protection-officer-296275
12-08-2021||---||Residents of Gali Badrao in Amritsar rue slow pace of recarpeting work||Amritsar, August 11Residents of Gali Badrao near Arya Samaj School, inside Hathi gate, are irked over the slow pace of sewer laying work. The residents alleged that the Municipal Corporation (MC) had dug the street six months back to lay sewer lines but work was not completed yet. However, workers of the contractor claimed that some of the residents were not allowed to break concrete slopes constructed outside the gates which led to delay in the work.The MC had been replacing the decades old sewer lines and installing the new sewer line in the area. The sewer line has been installed in Gali Badrao but the street was yet to recarpet.Sumit, a resident, said, “The work is going at a snail’s pace. We request the authorities to recarpet the road. We have to struggle a lot to get the bikes inside houses”.Vijay Kumar, another resident said, “We appreciate the efforts of the area councillor to replace the sewer line but the work should be sped up. There are more than 40 houses in the street where residents are facing inconvenience”.When contacted, Mitanjali Sharma, Councillor, Ward Number 49, said, “The installation of sewer line has been completed. There was some issue with slopes as PWD asked to break the concrete slopes before recarpeting. The street would be recarpeted within a week”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-of-gali-badrao-in-amritsar-rue-slow-pace-of-recarpeting-work-296277
12-08-2021||Amritsar||6th Pay Panel Report: Teachers seek pay parity in Amritsar||Teachers under the banner of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO) held a protest outside Guru Nanak Dev University here on Wednesday. The agitation was held against recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission report.Dr HS Kingra, chief, PFUCTO, said almost every state in India has implemented the pay revision for university and college teachers as per the University Grants Commission except Punjab, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh.“The university and college teachers across the state, have been protesting for their rights, while the state government is paying little attention,” he said.Dr Baljinder Singh Tohra, chief, Government Teachers’ Union, demanded filling up of vacant posts in the government colleges, standard pay scale and terms of service for ad-hoc and contractual teachers.Dr Lakhwinder Singh, president, Guru Nanak Dev University Teachers’ Association, took a serious note of the state government’s decision to delink scale of assistant professors. He said, “It will adversely affect pay package of all those teachers who are working on contract or ad-hoc basis and all those who are in research field.”Agitators also demanded introduction of old pension rules and revocation of new rules. Protesters disapproved the move towards graded autonomy of universities in a bid to end public-funded education system.“This will privatise higher education and profit driven. It’s a concerted attempt to stop government funding to higher education and research in a shameless bid to undermine critical thinking and higher education. By reducing financial aid to higher education centres, the government is creating a blueprint for corporatisation of education, thus depriving vast majority of economically challenged and students from diverse socio-cultural background their fundamental right to education,” said BB Yadav, secretary, GNDUTA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6th-pay-panel-report-teachers-seek-pay-parity-in-amritsar-296274
12-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Two held with 677-gm heroin in Tarn Taran||‘Freedom run’ on August 13Amritsar: The Nehru Yuva Kendra has announced to organise a freedom run from Jallianwala Bagh to Company Bagh on August 13 under the Fit India Freedom Run initiative of the Centre. The run will begin from Jallianwala at 7 am. District Youth Officer Akanksha Mahawaria said they had invited volunteers from various educational institutions and NSS units to participate in the event. She said the campaign was being held across the nation from August 13 to October 2. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-held-with-677-gm-heroin-in-tarn-taran-296279
12-08-2021||---||Gangster Rana Kandowalia murder: Another accomplice of Happy Shah held in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 11The police have confirmed the arrest of one more person involved in the murder of gangster Rana Kandowalia at a private hospital on August 3. Cops had arrested Gurpreet Singh alias Gopi, of Ghagarbhana village, along with Gurminderjeet Singh alias Happy Shah, a resident of Chahal Kalan, in Batala.Earlier, the police had arrested Nanit Sharma of Batala, for providing shelter to the accused after committing the crime.Shah was one of the four assailants, who had attacked Kandowalia. Shah had also received two bullets and was injured in retaliatory firing by Tejbir Singh Teji, an accomplice of Kandowalia.The DCP (Detective), Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, said they had constituted two separate teams after the attack on Kandowalia and initiated the probe.He said acting on a tip-off, Inderjeet Singh, in-charge, Crime Investigation Agency, nabbed Shah. Two of his accomplices Gurpreet and Nanit were also nabbed for sheltering the accused.He said Shah confessed that the plan to murder Kandowalia was prepared by Jaggu Bhagwanpuria and Goldy Brar around a month ago. Bhullar said on the call of Goldy, Monu Dagar, Deepak alias Deepu, and an unidentified person came from Haryana. He said after getting nod from Jaggu, Shah, Jagroshan Singh Hundal, Mani Raya and Mandeep alias Tuffan, planned to attack Kandowalia.Earlier, they had planned to kill Kandowalia at Ranjit Avenue on July 31, but observing the police activity, they stopped for a few days.On August 3, Shah had got injured and Nanit, Sukhraj Mali, Kharkh Singh alias Ladi, Jagtar Singh, Prabjot Chattha and Gurpreet, gave him shelter and ensured him a medical assistance from Johal Hospital in Batala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-rana-kandowalia-murder-another-accomplice-of-happy-shah-held-in-amritsar-296288
12-08-2021||---||Establishment of horticulture institute hits a roadblock in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 11Laxity on the part of the government to issue a Gazette notification regarding the acquisition of selected land for establishing the Post Graduate Institute of Horticulture Research and Education (PGIHRE) has delayed its establishment on the Amritsar-Attari GT Road.Around two years ago, the site selection committee of the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR), New Delhi, had approved 32-acre land in Chhiddan village on the GT Road. Complying with the directions of the state government, Guru Nanak Dev University constituted a Social Impact Assessment (SIA) team of experts and learned professors. The team submitted the SIA report to a committee of experts constituted by the government on April 28, 2021. The committee of experts submitted the report to the authorities concerned on June 30, 2021.Despite the completion of these government formalities, Gazette notification has still not been issued and uploaded on the government portal. The process of acquisition of land will start three months after the issuance of the gazette notification. So, the state government must issue the gazette notification without any delay because the Punjab Assembly elections are due soon and the Code of Conduct may be imposed any time after three months.The PGIHRE was sanctioned by the Central Government in 2015 and expected to shine the fortunes of the farming community, which has been entangled in the vicious cycle of wheat and paddy.Progressive farmers like Kuljit Singh feel that the research work of institute will promote the growth of horticulture sector with technology extension. The scientists of the institute will be helpful in solving the severe problems of post-harvest management and marketing of horticulture produce. Sufficient funds will be sanctioned by the Central Government under the National Horticulture Mission, which would be instrumental in solving the problem of depleting underground water level by promoting micro-irrigation and drip-irrigation.Members of the Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM) have also expressed disappointment over the delay in releasing the notification of acquiring the selected land for establishing PGIHRE in the district, which would provide vital tips and guidance for diversification in horticulture. They said the imposition of the Code of Conduct would further delay its establishment.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said there was no delay on the part of the district administration.Gurinder Singh, Deputy Director, Horticulture Department, said he has already handed over the file to Ajnala SDM for his remarks about the proposed site.No headway in two years||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/establishment-of-horticulture-institute-hits-a-roadblock-in-amritsar-296273
12-08-2021||Amritsar||Covid-19: Schools in Amritsar told to do mandatory mass testing||District Education Department officials held a meeting to take a stock of the situation post-resumption of offline classes at schools. After a government school student tested Covid-positive in the district yesterday, the District Education Officer (DEO) said no new SOPs had been issued and those issued earlier would continue.Meanwhile, the district education department issued clear instructions to the schools, both government and private, to carry out mass testing for its staff and students. The schools have been briefed that staff, who could not get vaccinated on grounds of any illness or due to pregnancy, will have to undergo mandatory testing and submit their report within a time frame of five days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-schools-in-amritsar-told-to-do-mandatory-mass-testing-296278
12-08-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar district’s Covid graph heads north||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 11After a constant decline in Covid-19 positive cases for the past many weeks, the district has started to witness an upward trend.The authorities reported a total of 34 positive cases from August 7. The Health Department has reported an average of 6.8 new cases daily in the last five days.In comparison, 12 days prior to August 7, the authorities had reported an average of 3.6 cases daily. However, during the last five days, the health authorities reported eight cases on August 7, five cases on August 8, three cases on August 9 and nine cases each on August 10 and 11.The state government had ordered reopening of schools in the last week of July and a student of the government school at Meharban tested positive on August 10. The health authorities said tests of other students and staff were under way.A health official said, “It’s too early to say anything, but it can be a beginning of the third way.” He said people should follow safety guidelines and should not become lax.A private schoolteacher on condition of anonymity said, “Parents of more than 70 per cent of the students of my class have declined to allow their wards to attend regular classes.”Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said, “The cases have increased a little in the last few days, but it’s too early to say anything about the arrival of the third wave.”He said the Health Department has already increased the number of beds at the government hospitals.“Earlier, Covid patients were admitted to the Government Medical College. For the first time, we have set up beds at the Civil Hospital, two sub-divisional Civil Hospitals and three community health centres. We have also set up 42 beds for children at the Civil Hospital,” said Dr Charanjit.He said oxygen plants were being set up at the Civil Hospital and sub-divisional hospitals. “We have added 200 more oxygen concentrators to our infrastructure,” he said.Nine fresh cases reportedAmritsar: With nine fresh cases reported on Wednesday, the district tally has climbed up to 47,118. The new cases include six influenza-like illness cases and three contacts of positive patients. The Health Department also reported the recovery of three patients, with which the total count of recovered persons increased to 45,499. The district at present has a total of 32 active cases. Under the ongoing vaccination drive, 5,950 beneficiaries were inoculated on Wednesday. Of these, 4,006 received their first dose of the vaccine, while 1,944 received the second dose. tns2 test +ve in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: With two more persons testing positive for Covid, the number of active cases in the district has gone up to 12. Of these, 10 are under home isolation. The district reported no new casualty today. DC Kulwant Singh said 2,49,461 beneficiaries had been administered 3,06,072 vaccine dozes, including 7,822 persons who were vaccinated today. The DC added that 1,429 samples had been collected to be tested for Covid and the administration was yet to receive the report of 1,093 samples. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-districts-covid-graph-heads-north-296272
12-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Hockey players return to hero’s welcome in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 11Five players from Amritsar who played in the Indian men’s hockey team—which won bronze medal in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics—and a woman hockey player—Gurjit Kaur— were given a hero’s welcome upon reaching their native villages.There was festive mood in villages and houses were decorated with lights and flowers. Family members offered oil as players reached their homes as a goodwill gesture.The entire village came out to greet drag-flicker Gurjit Kaur for her brilliant performance in the Tokyo Olympics. She credited her parents for extending resolute support to her. “As there was no hockey ground in Miadia Kalan village, my parents ensured my admission in a boarding school,” said Gurjit. She called upon the government to set up more academies and Astro Turf in grounds to promote hockey among girls.Harmanpreet Singh, vice-captain of the Indian hockey team, was taken to his home in an open jeep upon his arrival at Timmowal village. Residents showered petals and distributed sweets.Dilpreet’s house at Butala village was decorated with lights and villagers accorded him a hero’s welcome.Holding a Tricolour, Gurjant Singh, entered his home at Khaliara village. The moment he embraced his mother, she broke down. Gurjant’s relatives and his friend performed bhangra.Since uncle of Shamsher had passed away this year, no celebrations were held at his residence in Attari village. A roadshow was organized from the outskirts of the village to his residence. Former cabinet minister Gulzar Singh Ranike and Congress MLA Tarsem Singh DC garlanded him.SGPC announces Rs 1 cr for men’s hockey teamHarley Davidson Brotherhood Club accords warm reception Amritsar: Members of Harley Davidson Brotherhood Club, Amritsar, extended greetings to the Indian hockey team for winning bronze medal in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics after 41 years in their own unique way.The club members escorted the coach ferrying 11 players of the Indian men hockey team and a woman hockey player Gurjit Kaur from Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport to the Golden Temple. As many as 12 riders of the club chose the novel way of welcoming the hockey team and the scene was no less than a treat to behold as formidable riders were following the bus.Prabal Singh Bhullar, a rider, said, “One of our members, Aftab Boparai, a relative of Hardik, who played in the Indian hockey team, suggested us why not to ride along the bus ferrying hockey players to the Golden Temple. The idea was immediately accepted by all riders.”Otherwise members of the club frequently go on adventurous trips to Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu & Kashmir. They have been on long adventurous rides to Lucknow, Agra, Jim Corbett National Park and Mount Abu in Rajasthan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hockey-players-return-to-heros-welcome-in-amritsar-296271
12-08-2021||Amritsar||Sacrilege: Cong ministers, MLAs fail to appear before Akal Takht||After two ministers and three MLAs again failed to appear before Akal Takht today in connection with the 2015 sacrilege case, parallel acting Jathedar Dhian Singh Mand declared to pronounce a “hukamnama” against them on August 20.Mand had summoned ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Bajwa and MLAs Harminder Singh Gill, Kulbir Singh Zira and Kushaldeep Dhillon to explain their stance on “misguiding” activists to end the Bargari morcha. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sacrilege-cong-ministers-mlas-fail-to-appear-before-akal-takht-296365
12-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar: Olympic hockey stars return home to grand welcome||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 11Members of the Olympic bronze-winning hockey team, along with the women team’s dragflicker Gurjit Kaur, were accorded a rousing welcome upon their arrival at Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport here on Wednesday. They were received by former Indian hockey player Pargat Singh, government representatives and other officials.As soon as the players alighted from the plane, ecstatic family members, officials and others garlanded them amid showering of flower petals. Donning colourful traditional Punjabi attire, youngsters presented bhangra to the beats of dhols. Family members of the players could not hold back their emotions on seeing the surcharged environment.The players headed to the Golden Temple to offer prayers. “We are bowled over by the hospitality, love and affection being showered by the entire nation. We all longed to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple after winning the historic Olympic bronze medal for the country,” said Manpreet, hoping hockey will again rule the hearts in the country.Hardik, Gurjit and Harman said they lived away from their families for six months before the Olympics. “Our entire focus was to secure an elusive medal for the country.”Five stars of Amritsar — Shamsher Singh of Attari village, Dilpreet Singh of Butala village, Gurjant Singh of Khaliara village, Harmanpreet Singh of Timmowal village and Gurjit Kaur from Miadia Kalan village — were accorded a warm welcome the moment they reached their native villages. Road shows were carried out and people offered sweets and their family members arranged langar for all villagers.SGPC President Bibi Jagir Kaur felicitated all 11 players of the men hockey team and one member of the women’s hockey team with a siropa and a model of the Golden Temple.Of the cash reward of Rs 1 crore, the SGPC handed over a cheque for Rs 5 lakh each to the players hailing from the state. Indian hockey team general secretary Rajinder Singh was also present during the programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-olympic-hockey-stars-return-home-to-grand-welcome-296338
12-08-2021||---||Golden Temple first stop for 11 men's and women's hockey players in Punjab on return from Olympics||Amritsar, August 11Eleven players of the men's and women's hockey national teams were accorded a rousing welcome upon their arrival at the Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International airport in Amritsar.They first headed to the Golden Temple where they reached at 8,20 am.A resolute Indian men's hockey team rewrote history as they claimed an Olympic medal after 41 years, defeating a plucky Germany 5-4 to win the bronze in an edge-of-the-seat play-off match.Indian women's hockey team signs off 4th at Olympics after a narrow loss.The team too created history surpassing all expectations by entering the semifinals of the Olympics for the first time. They may have lost the bronze medal but they succeeded in winning hearts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/golden-temple-first-stop-for-11-mens-and-womens-hockey-players-in-punjab-on-return-from-olympics-296149
