13-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Pistol, cash stolen in broad daylight in Tarn Taran village||Fake currency racket bustedTarn Taran: The local Sadar police have busted a two-member racket of swindlers indulging in fake currency trade. Gurpreet Singh SP (Investigation) said the police team headed by Sub-Inspector Kewal Singh arrested the accused who were on a motorcycle near Chutala village on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Hardeep Singh of Dashmesh Nagar (Lola), near Tarsikka; and Raman Kumar Sharma of Raipur Kalan in Jandiala Guru area. The accused used to lure innocent people to double their cash within no time and used to take real currency and given them fake notes. The police said the fake currency worth Rs2,01,500 had been recovered from the accused with 73 notes of Rs2,000, 87 notes of Rs500 and 60 notes of Rs200. The police in the initial investigation recovered a printer, scanner, cutter, five bundles of paper and chemical to prepare currency notes among other things. They were produced in local court, from where they were sent for two-day police remand. A case under Section 489 A, B and C of the IPC has been registered against the accused. OCOOAT staff seek regular jobsTarn Taran: Employees of all OOAT centres in the district, under the banner of Government Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Employees Union, closed the doors of the centres for three hours (8 am-11 am) on Thursday, resulting in hardships to patients in taking medicines. The employees lodged their protest in the complex of the Civil Surgeon office here. Rajwinder Singh, district president of the organisation, said they had been demanding regularising of their jobs as they had been workingsince the past seven years on inadequate salary. The union warned that in case their services were not regularised, they would be forced to intensify their agitation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pistol-cash-stolen-in-broad-daylight-in-tarn-taran-village-297054
13-08-2021||---||Property tax: 8 buildings sealed in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 12On the directions of MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi, a team of the Property Tax Department, led by Secretary Daljit Singh, sealed eight commercial buildings of those who failed to deposit property tax in various areas of the city on Wednesday. The action was taken especially against those entities which had not paid property tax for the last several years despite repeated notices from the property tax wing of the civic body. Daljit Singh, Secretary, MC, said, “A total of eight properties were sealed during today’s departmental action, out of which six property owners and tenants paid the tax on the spot. Such actions would be expedited in future to increase the recovery of the property tax department.”He appealed to those city residents, who have not paid the property tax dues yet or underpaid, should deposit it by September 30, 2021, without any delay and avail the rebate.He said the payment of this tax would be made to the MC by Citizen Facilitation Centers located in the zones of the MC. This can be done on any working day in the centres and timely payment could prevent departmental action.Superintendent Davinder Singh Babbar, Inspector Pardeep Bhatti, Mandeep Singh, Paramjit Singh, Ajit Singh, Dheeraj Kumar, department staff and policemen were part of the team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-tax-8-buildings-sealed-in-amritsar-297052
13-08-2021||---||Suicide victim’s kin block Amritsar-Attari highway||Amritsar, August 12Alleging police inaction, the family members of a deaf and dumb girl, who committed suicide, held a demonstration against the Gharinda police and blocked the Amritsar-Attari Road near Chak Mukand village on Thursday.They were demanding the registration of a murder case against victim Simranjit Kaur’s in-laws. They alleged that Simranjit was physically and mental harassed by her in-laws for dowry. She was even thrashed a few days after giving birth to a child, due to which her health condition deteriorated and she died.Nevertheless, the police had already registered a suicide case and her husband Sarvan Singh was arrested.Simranjit had ended her life by hanging with the ceiling fan of the house in Hoshiarnagar village falling under Gharinda police station here on Friday (August 6). The police had booked her husband Sarvan Singh, his father Virsa Singh, mother Balwinder Kaur, brother Gursewak Singh and his wife Rajwinder Kaur in the case for abetting suicide.Kulbir Singh, father of the deceased, alleged that the accused used to harass his daughter for bringing insufficient dowry. He said Simranjit was married to Sarvan around three years ago and had given dowry as per his capacity. He said the accused started harassing and physically assaulting his daughter. A day before the incident, she called him and said she could not bear more and was going to end her life. He alleged that the accused were demanding Rs1 lakh to buy a buffalo.Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP Attari, said the police took the supplementary statements of the victim’s family and their claims were being verified. He said raids were on to nab the remaining accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/suicide-victims-kin-block-amritsar-attari-highway-297051
13-08-2021||---||Rana Kandowalia murder: Police get gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria’s production warrant||Amritsar, August 12Notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria will be brought on production warrant in city after the court granted permission to the local police for the same.Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigations), said a team would soon be despatched to Delhi for completing the formalities and apply in the relevant court bringing him to Amritsar for further interrogation in the murder of his rival and another notorious gangster Ranbir Singh aka Rana Kandowalia at a private hospital over a week ago.Bhagwanpuria was currently lodged in Tihar Jail. He and his associates had allegedly taken the responsibility of killing Kandowalia on the social media. He had also warned other rivals of the same fate.He said police teams have been conducting raids at different places to nab the prime suspects in the murder.Meanwhile, the police have also nabbed another accomplices of Mandeep Singh alias Toofan who had arranged for the doctor for the treatment of Happy Shah. Shah was injured in the counter firing by Kandowalia’s accomplice Tejbir Singh who also suffered bullet injuries.Harminder Singh Sandhu, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Investigations), said Kharak Singh alias Laddi was arrested late yesterday evening. It was found that Mandeep Toofan had talked to Sukhraj Singh on the phone of Nanit. Sukhraj later contacted Kharak Singh who further talked with doctor and arranged for his treatment. Kharak Singh was brought on police remand for further investigations and found some clues about the whereabouts of the prime suspects Jagroshan Hundal, Mani Rayya and Mandeep Toofan.Investigations also revealed that the accused had made the plan for executing Kandowalia. Mani Rayya and Jagroshan was following the movements of Kandowalia. They had tried to kill him in the Hospital on July 31 also, but at that time he was surrounded by this supporters therefore their plan was foiled.The police have arrested four persons in the case till now. Besides Kharak Singh, the police arrested Happy Shah, Nanit and Gurpreet Singh Gopi.Majithia seeks independent probeAmritsar: Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Thursday demanded an independent probe by a sitting judge of the High Court or a CBI inquiry into the medical treatment extended to a gangster. Majithia presented a CCTV video coverage to show how Congress leaders helped gangster Happy Shah was given treatment at Johal Hospital in Batala. He showed video clips of three Congress leaders, including a councillor and local youth in charge, clustered outside the hospital where Kandhowalia was murdered and then two hours later at Johal Hospital along with one of the perpetrators who was injured in the counter firing. Majithia also played video footage which showed gangster Happy Shah being escorted out of Johal Hospital from the back gate after treatment. “The video also showed Happy Shah thanking Dr Johal who was also known for his closeness with gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rana-kandowalia-murder-police-get-gangster-jaggu-bhagwanpurias-production-warrant-297049
13-08-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar district lags in vaccination drive||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 12While the reports indicate a surge in Covid infections, the district has so far managed to administer 8,04,461 doses to the residents. With nearly 15 lakh residents in district who are above 18 years of age and eligible for getting the dose, as per the current government policy, the district would have to give 30 lakh doses in total to immunise all eligible beneficiaries.Going by the present scenario, the district has completed only 27 per cent of the work at hand. The district health officials stated that presently, depending upon the availability of the doses, 4,000 to 9,000 persons are being inoculated daily.Even if the district administration manages to inoculate 9,000 persons daily, it would take 243 days more to meet the immunisation target.A senior official of the department on the condition of anonymity said, “Experts believe that herd immunity can be achieved even if 70-80 per cent of the population is immunised. But to cover 70 per cent of the people, inoculation drive has to be boosted and that can be done only if ample stock of vaccine is available with the health staff.”The officials stated that the supply of the vaccine is beyond their control and so they are doing their best to immunise maximum number of persons. While the shortage of vaccine is an issue in expediting the inoculation drive, trends of vaccine-hesitancy are also a challenge.Field workers of the Health Department, especially in rural areas, stated that due to lack of knowledge, the residents were not coming forward for to get the dose. The Health Department officials stated that the target of 100 per cent immunisation had been achieved in 51 villages of the district so far.District logs 4 fresh Covid casesAmritsar: With four positive cases reported in the district on Thursday, the district tally has climbed up to 47,122. The new cases reported today include three influenza-like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient. No new death due to Covid was reported in the district on Thursday. The health authorities have reported recovery of three patients, with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,502. The district at present has 33 active cases. Meanwhile, 8,300 beneficiaries were inoculated on Thursday. Of these, 5,641 received their first dose, while 2,659 received their second dose of vaccine. TNSTarn Taran sees three casesThe Tarn Taran district reported three fresh cases and no new Covid-related death on Thursday.The district toll stands at 375 for the last one week.At present, the number of active cases is 15 and 11 had been isolated at their respective homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said 2,52,512 citizens had been administered 3,10,392 dozes till today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-lags-in-vaccination-drive-297045
13-08-2021||---||Research scholars of GNDU hold protest in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 12The Research Scholars’ Union of the Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), along with students, took out a protest march from the main entrance of the university against the exploitation and underemployment of teachers in state colleges and universities.Condemning flawed education policies of the successive governments, Jatinderveer Singh, president, Scholar Union, said Punjab has just 47 government colleges and fares low in public education as compared to neighbouring states of Himachal Pradesh and Haryana, though population proportion for higher education is more in Punjab. “From about the past 20 years, there is no regular appointment of teacher in Government Colleges of Punjab. The number of unemployed teachers present a sorry state of affairs in the state,” he said.Gurminder Singh, another research scholar from the GNDU, demanded that along with filling vacancies in government colleges, staff crunch at university constituent colleges of Punjab should also be addressed. “The current state of higher education of Punjab will have most adverse impact on poor section of society. The government promised 16 new colleges to be opened though as existing ones are in shambles. The insensitive and negligent attitude of government towards higher education is for everyone to see,” he said. They also questioned the absence of government education policy and utilization of funds allocated for higher education. “It is due to such indifferent attitude of government towards higher education that PhD scholars are forced to earn their livelihoods by selling stuff on carts. Financially many scholars have to suffer once they complete their doctorate degree as they are hardly employed with handsome salaries after getting fellowships of about Rs 35,000 for five years,” said Jatinderveer.Scholars demanded that government should immediately issue notification for recruitment on vacant posts in colleges and universities of Punjab. Jatinderveer informed that to raise their issues, a delegation of scholars from Guru Nanak Dev University, Punjabi University, Patiala, and Punjab University, Chandigarh, also staged a protest before the DPI office at Chandigarh and submitted their demand application.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/research-scholars-of-gndu-hold-protest-in-amritsar-297042
13-08-2021||The Guru Nanak Stadium is being decked up for the 75th Independence Day celebrations to be held this Sunday||Prepping up for D-Day: Punjab CM to hoist flag at Amritsar's Guru Nanak Stadium||Rehearsing for the paradeAround 200 police personnel along with 50 band and drum players would conduct a march-past on the occasion. The Chief Minister will inspect the parade and take salute as a tradition to celebrate the ceremony.The Punjab Police personnel have been conducting rehearsals for a perfect I-Day celebration. Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill inspected the rehearsal of the parade on Thursday evening.Foolproof arrangements in placeSecurity has been tightened ahead of the state-level Independence Day function, in which the CM will unfurl the Tricolour. After the recovery of IED explosive in a tiffin from Daleke village of Amritsar, the senior police officials are making foolproof arrangements for the Independence Day function. A high alert had already been sounded across the state. The police personnel and para-military forces are being deployed on every corner.Roads being readiedThe roads leading to the Guru Nanak Stadium and Jallianwala Bagh Centenary Memorial Park, where Capt Amarinder would inaugurate the memorial, are being recarpeted. The roads of the Ranjit Avenue, Civil Lines area are also being cleaned manually. The trees and shrubs have also being chopped.Tricoloured gloryThe Guru Nanak stadium is being whitewashed ahead of the I-Day celebrations. Workers are painting the walls, poles and iron grills. The barricades, which have been installed inside the ground, are being painted green, saffron and white to create the effect of a national flag. Tricolored tents are being used to add further effect. The central verges of roads are also being whitewashed.Jallianwala Centenary Memorial ParkPunjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh had laid the foundation stone of the Jallianwala Bagh Centenary Memorial Park, around 6 km away from the Jallianwala Bagh, in Ranjit Avenue, on January 25 this year. The state government spent Rs3.52-crore on the memorial and claimed to construct it in record time. This memorial is dedicated to the centennial year of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and its martyrs, who lost their lives on Baisakhi — April 13, 1919, at the hands of autocratic British rulers. However, the workers are giving a final touch to the park. The government officials claim that the memorial was ready to be dedicated to the public and the CM would inaugurate it on August 14.Architectural concept: The memorial consists of five white stone pillars rising upwards. These pillars symbolise the spirit of martyrs rising towards the sky. Different heights of the five pillars correspond to various age groups of martyrs: children, teenagers, youth, middle aged and the old. They also signify five fingers of the hand and cohesive power of martyrs, who sacrificed their lives for the nation. White colour of the stone is a symbol of purity of their sacrifice.The central black stone on a circular platform, from where these pillars rise, symbolise the empty space and the void created by the sacrifice of these martyrs. Soil of various villages, to which these martyrs belonged, has been brought to fill up the space below the sacred platform as a befitting tribute to them.Martyrs’ walls: The walls clad in black and grey granite stone surround the platform with the names of martyrs craved on these. The names of martyrs from the official list of 492 martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh massacre have been carved on the walls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prepping-up-for-d-day-punjab-cm-to-hoist-flag-at-amritsars-guru-nanak-stadium-297041
13-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Foolproof arrangements in place for I-Day function in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 12Owing to the state-level Independence Day function and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s visit to Amritsar to unfurl the national flag, the Punjab Police are leaving no stone unturned in making foolproof security arrangements.Following the seizure of improvised explosive device (IED) sneaked by some anti-national forces with the help of a drone, the police have beefed up security at religious places and deras falling in the city as well as in the rural belt of Amritsar besides other vital installations and places.Deputy Commissioner of Police (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal said extra police forces have been summoned from other districts along with commandoes, armed police and anti-sabotage teams to thwart any untoward incident in the holy city.“In view of the recent developments (seizure of IED), the police have been on its toes and no stone will be left unturned to provide foolproof security,” he said.Not only the city police, the rural police have also beefed up security at religious deras and other vital installations including railway stations such as Attari railway station, Beas and Tangra. Besides, an SP-rank official has been deputed to have regular patrolling in border villages to thwart the plans of anti-national forces.Gulneet Singh Khuranna, Senior Superintendent of Police, Amritsar rural, said we will not let anyone destroy the peaceful atmosphere. He said 24-hour checkpoints have been installed in all entry and exit points and vehicles were being searched thoroughly. The police officials have been briefed at all levels about the security measures. They were asked to remain on field and roads.Flag marches, search operations heldPolice teams conducted search operations at the ISBT besides conducting flag marches in different parts of the city. Police officials were seen making announcements regarding informing the police if any suspicious or abandoned things, especially tiffins, toys or briefcases, were found. Police teams of Chowki Kot Mit Singh carried out flag marches at Kot Mit Singh, Bhai Manjh Singh Road, Ganga Ji Nagar, Khalsa Nagar and Sri Guru Arjan Dev Nagar. Similarly, the Maqboolpura police carried out search operation a prominent shopping mall located on the main GT Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/foolproof-arrangements-in-place-for-i-day-function-in-amritsar-297040
13-08-2021||Amritsar||Faulty PPAs will be scrapped in upcoming session: Navjot Singh Sidhu||PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu today reiterated his stand to streamline the electricity supply by cancelling the power purchase agreements (PPAs) that were executed during the term of the SAD-BJP government.Will contest from AmritsarSidhu made it clear he would contest from Amritsar only. He said: “Patiala is my janambhumi, but Amritsar is my karambhumi”To meet urban area MLAs todayHe has called a meeting of legislators, including the ministers, representing the urban Assembly segments, on FridayAfter inaugurating development works worth Rs 42 crore in the Amritsar East constituency, Sidhu said he chose to sit home rather than compromise on the state’s welfare.“I promise that in the upcoming Vidhan Sabha session, the power pacts made during the Akali government will be annulled. The consumers who are paying Rs 10-12 per unit of power, will get it at Rs 3-5 per unit,” he said.Sidhu had earlier also recommended to get rid of the faulty PPAs by bringing a new legislation to fix rates as per the National Power Exchange with no fixed charges.On the newly enacted three farm laws by the Centre, Sidhu said these legislations were unconstitutional and illegal and would be nullified in Punjab. “We will form our own law in the Vidhan Sabha so that the federal structure of the state is not affected in the garb of trade and commerce,” he said.Others present on the occasion included MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria and Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/faulty-ppas-will-be-scrapped-in-upcoming-session-navjot-singh-sidhu-296771
