14-08-2021||Amritsar||BSF organises Fit India run in Amritsar||Border Security Force organised ‘Fit India Freedom Run 2.0’ at the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post in Amritsar on Friday. The freedom run was a part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav and was organised at many places across India to mark the 75th year of Independence. Union Minister Anurag Thakur administered the pledge on web from New Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bsf-organises-fit-india-run-in-amritsar-297180
14-08-2021||Amritsar||Vaccination drive organised in Amritsar||CBSE toppers honouredSenior Study II felicitated meritorious students of Classes X & XII in school premises on Wedneday. “Our students with their diligence, optimism and will to win have again set the benchmark for many to follow. Their outstanding performance is evident from the innumerable laurels brought to the school,” said principal Upasana Mehra. Hargun Preet Singh, who scored 99.8 per cent, bagged the first position in the school in Class X CBSE result 2021 and is also among the state toppers. Gagandeep Kaur of Class XII commerce stream got the highest score of 99.6 per cent in the school. She is the school topper of CBSE Class XII 2021 and is second in Punjab. In medical stream, Ayush Aggarwal had the highest with 97.6 per cent while in non-medical, Vaibhav Sobti scored the highest with 97.4 per cent. Vaibhav Sobti recently scored a 99.77 percentile in JEE mains – 2021 as well. Ram Rakha Mal Kapoor trust has initiated a merit award for the Senior Study II students in the name of their mother Uma Kapoor. The Kapoor family gave a cheque for Rs 5,000/- each to all four toppers of this year. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vaccination-drive-organised-in-amritsar-297186
14-08-2021||Round one of the battle of wits between Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and three-time ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri for the control of Batala city has been won by the latter. Ever since the minister fell out of favour with the CM Capt Amarinder Singh||Gurdaspur Diary: Ashwani Sekhri gains upper hand||Drone scare in KalanaurLast week, a drone fell in a village of Kalanaur subdivision. This development raised the hackles of the cops. A day earlier, a tiffin bomb containing 2 kg of RDX had fallen in the neighbouring Amritsar district. Gurdaspur SSP Nanak Singh was presiding over a high-level meeting of his officers when he got a phone call informing him of “a flying machine hovering in the sky in Kalanaur.” He immediately reached the spot and had a tough time containing the surging crowd eager to have a glimpse of the “flying machine.” Once the cops managed to make their way near the drone a collective sigh of relief went up the air. The tricolour had been painted on the drone’s tail and this was enough to remind the police that it had not come from Pakistan. Five minutes later, Nanak Singh was informed that the drone belonged to the Jammu base of the Air Force. A day later, the SSP had a joint meeting with Army and BSF officials on how to tackle such situations that may emerge in the future.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-diary-ashwani-sekhri-gains-upper-hand-297188
14-08-2021||---||Jaspal Bhatti Awards: Club awards ‘cultural’ artistes for their works||Amritsar, August 13The Idiot Club in city hosted Jaspal Bhatti Award Show today. President of the club actor Rajinder Rikhi said Punjabi singer Sukhwinder Sukhi was honoured with an award for his non-vulgar and cultural Punjabi singing, while Doordarshan Kendra Jalandhar’s Puneet Sehgal received an award for the best art promoter, Dr Lakhwinder Singh Johal received the Pen Rich Award for writing, theatre artist Vijay Sharma received the Best Actor Award and Dr Ruchi Jain bagged the Best Health Services Award. Sandeep Jeet Patila was given the Best Comedy Satirist Award, Latika Arora was given the Outstanding Achiever Award, Sandhya Gupta was given an award for social activism, Randeep Singh Kohli’s Barkat Welfare Society got the Best NGO Award.PTC Punjabi Voice of Punjab Chhota Champ-2 finalist Khyati Mehra performed at the event along with Sukhwinder Sukhi and Dhawani Mehra. Rikhi said the past one-and-half year had been exhausting for everyone. “The Idiot Club aims to spread laughter and positivity through creative means. We have been organising these awards annually, barring last year due to the pandemic. We will continue to serve the society by following late Jaspal Bhatti’s footsteps .”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jaspal-bhatti-awards-club-awards-cultural-artistes-for-their-works-297190
14-08-2021||Our Correspondent||OOAT staff to observe August 15 as ‘Slavery Day’ in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 13Members of the Government Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Employees’ Union have decided to observe August 15 as ‘Slavery Day’.On Friday also, they closed the gates of de-addiction centres for three hours in protest for the third day and organised a protest in front of the Civil Surgeon’s office here.The organisation have warned that they would close the centres for the entire day on Saturday and Sunday.Rajwinder Singh and other leaders condemned the state government for not regularising their services though they had been working for more than seven years in the institution of the state government with meagre salaries. The leaders said they had been stressing on their genuine demands for the last three years, but the government was not ready to give them a satisfactory reply. The de-addiction centres were closed from 8 am to 11 am on Friday also. This led to long queues of patients at the government run de-addict centres in scorching heat. Patients had to wait for hours for their turn. There are 14 Out Patient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) centres and two rehabilitation centres, from where as many 20,000 registered patients are taking medicines.Threaten to close centres for 2 daysThe protesters warned that they would close the centres for the entire day on Saturday and Sunday. Rajwinder Singh and other leaders condemned the government for not regularising their services though they had been working for more than seven years in the state government with meagre salaries. The leaders said they had been stressing on their genuine demands for the last three years, but the government was not ready to give them a satisfactory reply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ooat-staff-to-observe-august-15-as-slavery-day-in-tarn-taran-297191
14-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Punjab Govt employees stage protest over demands in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 13Employees of the state government held a protest against the government here on Friday. The agitating employees organised rallies, united marches and burnt effigies of the state government and the Finance Minister.Under the banner of the Punjab UT Mulazam and Pensioners’ Sanjha Front, teachers, employees of Powercom, roadways, municipal council and other departments gathered at the local Gandhi Municipal Park and organised a rally. Addressing on the occasion, leaders of different organisations demanded the removal of the discrepancies in the Sixth Pay Commission report, regularising the services of the contractual employees working with the state government departments for years. They also raised the demands of the retired employees.Members of the Revenue Patwar Union, Punjab, and the Kanoongo Association organised a dharna in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) and laid stress on fulfilling their demands.Sarabjit Singh Sandhu, district president of the organisation, was among others who addressed on the occasion. The organisation had been demanding the filling of the vacant posts of patwaris, fixing of the two-year probation period rather than three, etc. Members of the union burnt an effigy of the state government.Meanwhile, the district unit of the Khetibadi Sub-Inspectors’ Association, Punjab, on the fifth day of its agitation held a dharna under the leadership of its district president Talwinder Singh here on Friday. While addressing on the occasion, Talwinder condemned the state government for not removing the anomaly in the pay scale in the sixth pay commission report. They demanded the same pay scale as was being given to veterinary inspectors The organisation burnt an effigy of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-govt-employees-stage-protest-over-demands-in-tarn-taran-297179
14-08-2021||Amritsar||Man held for raping woman in Amritsar||2 attend bhog with weaponsAmritsar: The police have reportedly nabbed two persons, identified as Harpreet Singh of Kala Afghana village and Husandeep Singh of Ramdass, and seized two illegal weapons and cartridges from them. They were held from Kandowal village, where the bhog ceremony of notorious gangster Rana Kandowalia was underway. Though the police were tight-lipped over the incident, sources confirmed their arrest, adding that the probe was still in the preliminary stage. The police are also learnt to have seized Pakistan SIMs from them but official confirmation is awaited. “Their interrogation is still underway. Their motive behind carrying weapons at a bhog ceremony was yet to the ascertained,” said sources. Ranbir Singh, aka Rana Kandowalia, was shot dead by a rival gangster at a private hospital in Amritsar, where he had gone to meet his relative who was in the ICU. Another notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, lodged in the Tihar Jail, had taken the responsibility of the murder. Besides Bhagwanpuria, the police had booked Mandeep Toofan, Jagroshan Hundal, Happy Shah and Mani Rayya for the incident. Later, six more persons were booked for sheltering and harbouring them. So far, four persons had been arrested in the case. TNS26 DAV College students get jobsAmritsar: Under a placement drive, 26 students of the DAV College’s Computer Department have been selected in Infosys and TCS. Thirteen college students would join Infosys and remaining thirteen students would join TCS. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-for-raping-woman-in-amritsar-297189
14-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Non-resumption of passenger trains a cause for concern for daily commuters in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 13The Railways is not resuming operation of passenger trains, which connect the holy city to satellite towns in its vicinity and this has perturbed daily passengers.Connectivity to these satellite towns such as Dera Baba Nanak, Khemkaran and Tarn Taran among others offer travel at moderate price.A bulk of the passengers were college-going students, followed by salesmen and small traders, who used to depend on this means of transport for a quick, comfortable and cheap ride.High on demand, the Amritsar-Pathankot route used to witness daily plying of at least five pair of trains before March 2020. Now, the department is operating just two pair of trains on the route. Despite doubling its tariff, its demand remains high. Naveen Batra, a frequent passenger, said: “The tariff per ticket was increased to Rs55 from Rs22. He said it was a blow to the lower middle and middle income families, who used to travel through trains.”Similarly, the Amritsar-Patti-Tarn Taran-Khemkaran, Amritsar-Attari, Amritsar-Fatehgarh Churriyan-Dera Baba Nanak trains have not been operationalised so far. “Almost all activities have been unlocked paving the way for normalisation of life, but the Railways has not spared a thought for passenger trains,” he said.Surinder Mehta, a trader, said these passenger trains offer wholesale traders and distributors an opportunity to connect with shopkeepers from these small towns and villages. In the absence of trains, they were constrained to rely on buses. “It not only increased our travel expense, but also added uncertainty to our business trips as frequent strikes halted bus movement in the last two months,” he said.Railways officials said a communique was recently received from the head office to start at least one train in those sections, where no train is being operated at present. They said the Ferozepur Division, under which the Amritsar Railway station falls, is likely to shoot a proposal to operate trains on these sections, which include the aforementioned sections to the Baroda House. They hoped that the trains would start plying in these sections within a week.Platform tickets down from Rs50 to Rs10The Railways has reduced the tariff of platform tickets from Rs50 to Rs10, offering some respite to those coming to pick and drop off passengers at the railway station. It also resumed the disbursal of general tickets in selected passenger trains, which were stopped to check overcrowding in trains. Officials said these two measures were taken to maintain social distancing in train compartments and railway platforms. The Railways took the decision as the Covid infection cases have subsided substantially. Two prominent passenger trains unreserved are Amritsar-Pathankot (Raavi) and Amritsar-Nangal Dam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/non-resumption-of-passenger-trains-a-cause-for-concern-for-daily-commuters-in-amritsar-297174
14-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Now, travel from Gheo Mandi near Golden Temple to Rajasansi airport in a Metro bus||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 13Good news for air passengers as a Metro bus will soon take you directly to the airport.The extended route of Metro bus, being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System, is expected to be implemented soon. The Punjab Metro Bus Society has made preparations in this regard and its trial run was also held on Friday.The Metro bus would start operating between Gheo Mandi (near Golden Temple) and Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport route. The BRTS officials claimed that the trial run was successful and the route would be formally inaugurated on Monday. It is being expected that Gurjet Singh Aujla, Member Parliament Amritsar, would flag off the Metro bus on the new route on Monday.The proposal to extend the route was supposed to start in January or February, but following the second Covid-19 wave, it was delayed. Moreover, during lockdown, the number of passengers also reduced to quite an extent.Harpreet Singh Gill, CEO BRTS, said: “The first trial run was conducted with seven buses on Friday. It was successful and now we will formally launch the project on Monday.”MLA (North) Sunil Dutti, who made efforts to extend the route, said a proposal was prepared several months ago, but due to Covid-19, we didn’t implement it. The tourist movement had also dipped. This new route from Gheo Mandi to airport will cater tourists from Golden Temple to the airport.The BRTS authorities has set seven stoppages on the route. The stoppages need a podium to open the central door of the bus. In the absence of the podiums, passengers have to use the front door to board and alight the bus.“We have taken the permit from the authorities concerned to run the Metro bus on the route. The bus will enter the airport premises and take passengers from the parking lot. It would be convenient for air passengers to reach the Golden Temple without any inconvenience,” Gill said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-travel-from-gheo-mandi-near-golden-temple-to-rajasansi-airport-in-a-metro-bus-297173
14-08-2021||Amritsar||Akal Takht pronounces ‘tankhah’ to four management members of Uttarakhand's Gurdwara Sri Nanakmatta||Akal Takht officiating jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has pronounced ‘tankhah’ (religious punishment) to four managing committee members of Gurdwara Sri Nanakmatta Sahib in Uttarakhand on charges of violating the Sikh ‘rehat maryada’ (code of conduct). One among them was declared a ‘tankhaiah’ (guilty of religious misconduct) after he entered into an altercation.Also read: Gurdwara Sri Nanak Mata panel resigns over ‘violations’ while ‘welcoming’ newly elected Uttarakhand CMAfter discussions at Akal Takht, gurdwara committee president Sewa Singh, general secretary Dhanna Singh and Dera Kar Sewa Wale Baba Tarsem Singh have been directed to listen to early morning ‘katha’, clean up footwear of devotees, wash dishes and mop the floor for 15 days as punishment at the Nanakmatta gurdwara. Another gurdwara committee member Jaswinder Singh Gill was declared a ‘tankhaiah’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akal-takht-pronounces-tankhah-to-four-management-members-of-uttarakhands-gurdwara-sri-nanakmatta-297338
14-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Independence Day: Full dress rehearsal held amid strict vigil in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 13The district administration and Punjab Police on Friday carried out a full dress rehearsal for the state-level 75th Independence Day celebrations at the Guru Nanak Stadium where CM Capt Amarinder Singh will hoist the national flag.DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira along with Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill took salute from the march-past on Friday. The DC said all preparations have been made for the occasion. Before the full dress rehearsal, the entire area was thoroughly searched. Sniffer dogs were pressed into service.“There will be limited gathering during this Independence Day celebration due to Covid restrictions. No cultural programme would be held. Arrangements have been made keeping all Covid protocols in mind,” he said, adding that after unfurling of the flag and national anthem, a march-past would be carried out by around 200 cops along with 50 band and drum players. Later, the CM will honour the state awardee for their services in different fields.The CP said the police had made tight security arrangements in view of the recovery of IED and hand grenades from a border village.On Friday also, a hand grenade was recovered from a pile of garbage in the D-block of posh Ranjit Avenue area, which was later diffused in an open space in Manawala area. He said search operations were being carried out in sensitive and crowded areas and the police were taking every information regarding suspicious things very seriously.Ahead of the Independence Day celebrations, full dress rehearsal was held at the local Police Lines ground on Friday. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale unfurled the national flag, while Jagjit Singh Walia, Baljit Singh Dhillon (SPs) besides other civil and police officers were present. DSP Varinder Singh Khosa was the parade commander and Sub-Inspector Sone was the second-in-command. The contingents of the Police, women police and Home Guards jawans led by SI Jagdeep Singh, ASI Salwinder Singh, SI Baljit Kaur and SI Sohan Singh, respectively, led the parties in the march-past. — OCDSP Nagra nominated for Chief Minister’s medalAmritsar: Deputy Superintendent of Police Gurinderpal Singh Nagra has been nominated for Chief Minister’s medal for outstanding devotion at duty. He has been currently deputed as DSP (detective) with the Amritsar rural police. According to an order released by Anurag Agarwal, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Home Affairs and Justice, the award would be conferred during the state-level Independence Day function being held in Amritsar. Nagra was instrumental in busting the inter-state arms racket and recovering huge quantity of illegal weapons from Madhya Pradesh besides arresting suppliers in Punjab. He was also part of the team that recovered the tiffin bomb, five hand grenades and RDX which were dropped by drones from Pakistan side recently. He was also part of the team that busted illegal manufacturing of Tramadol and recovered huge quantity of the banned drug worth Rs15 crore from a firm in Paonta Sahib in Himachal Pradesh. Before joining as DSP Amritsar rural, he remained associated with the State Special Operation Cell and seized a huge quantity of heroin besides arms and nabbing drug smugglers. Among others from Amritsar who would be conferred with the award include ASI Amandeep Singh and Constable Daljit Kumar of SSOC, ASI Jagdeep Singh and Constable Jagjit Singh of the Counter Intelligence wing. On the occasion, former Vallah police station SHO Sanjiv Kumar and Head Constable Sukhjinder Kaur of the city police would be awarded with commendation certificates. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/independence-day-full-dress-rehearsal-held-amid-strict-vigil-in-amritsar-297177
14-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Couple found brutally murdered at their farmhouse in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 13A couple living at a farmhouse in Chamba Khurd village falling under the Goindwal Sahib police station was found brutally murdered here this morning. The incident took place on Thursday night.The couple has been identified as Harbhajan Singh (55) and his wife Paramjit Kaur (50). The incident came to light when Nishan Singh of the same village went to the farmhouse to deliver milk to the couple in the morning.As per information, the bodies were lying in a pool of blood in the open courtyard of the house. The killers attacked the couple with a sharp-edged weapon several times as many parts of their bodies, including private ones, had injury marks.The bodies were lying half naked. The television was on and it seemed that the incident occurred between 10-11 pm. All rooms were untouched by the killers.Inspector Navndeep Singh, SHO, Goindwal Sahib, was the first to reach the spot and collected evidence from the spot.Satinder Kumar Chadda, DSP, Goindwal Sahib, said the number of killers seemed to be more than one. The DSP said some persons living nearby told him that the couple had no personal enmity with anybody and the police were working on several theories.As the son of the couple was residing in Manila and their daughter was married in Mehta (Amritsar) area, so the couple was living alone in the big double-storeyed house.Besides, there was no report of any article missing, so the police were of the view that personal enmity could be the reason behind the murder.Son lives in Manila, daughter married in mehta||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/couple-found-brutally-murdered-at-their-farmhouse-in-tarn-taran-297184
14-08-2021||---||Spurt in Covid cases as 19 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 13A sudden spike in positive cases has sent alarm bells ringing, as 19 patients tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.The 19 positive persons include eight students from Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Ajnala border sub-division. Swinging into action the Education Department ordered shutting down of the school for 14 days. Besides its 200 students will also undergo tests.The district tally now stands at 47,141. The cases include nine influenza-like illness cases and 10 contacts of positive patients. Similarly, the count of active cases rose to 50 in the district.For the spurt, officials of the department held people responsible. Most of the people on roads and public places have adopted a complacent attitude towards Covid-19 and utter disregard to its guidelines such as wearing masks, carrying sanitisers and maintaining social distancing. They suggested that people must comply with these basic guidelines to protect themselves from being infected. Fortuitously, no casualty was reported. With the recovery of two patients, the recovery count has also improved to 45,504.In the ongoing vaccination drive, 17,218 people from different categories were inoculated in the district on Friday. Of these, 17,125 received the doses at government-run centres, while 93 at private vaccination centres. So far, 8,21,679 people have received the jab. The Health Department has vaccinated 15,299 healthcare workers, 17,562 frontline workers and 51,901 citizens above 45 years of age with both doses.Active cases reduce to 11 in Tarn TaranThe district reported no fresh Covid-linked death or case on Friday. The toll remained at 375, while the number of active cases reduced to 11, out of which nine are under home isolation. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the teams of the Health Department collected 976 samples from various places and the administration was yet to receive the report of 841 samples. As many as 7,144 beneficiaries were inoculated today. So far, 2,57,383 persons had been administered 3,17,536 dozes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spurt-in-covid-cases-as-19-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-297192
14-08-2021||Amritsar||8 girls test +ve for Covid-19, Ajnala school shut for 2 weeks||Three days after a student from a government school in Meharbanpur tested Covid-19 positive, eight students of Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Ajnala today contracted the virus.The health department had taken multiple samples from the school as part of regular testing procedure out of which eight girls tested positive. As per guidelines, the DEO has ordered the school to remain closed for 14 days and offline classes would remain suspended until further orders.Ajnala SMO Dr Om Prakash said students had been quarantined at their homes. “The health department is keeping tabs on infected students. Students who have come in contact with those infected are also being tested. A letter has been sent to the education department,” he said.The health department will now further test 200 students from the school for contact tracing. District Education Department officials said mass testing was being done in all schools. — TNSGuv lauds docs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/8-girls-test-ve-for-covid-19-ajnala-school-shut-for-2-weeks-297307
14-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Safai workers find grenade in trash in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 13Safai karamcharies of the Municipal Corporation found a hand grenade in a pile of dry leaves outside a house in the posh Ranjit Avenue here today.They informed the police, who immediately reached the spot and covered the grenade with sand bags to avoid any major loss if it accidentally exploded. Later, a bomb disposal squad also reached the spot.Senior police officials, including Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill and Deputy Commissioner of Police Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, also rushed to the spot after being informed.Police Commissioner Dr Gill said the police had been carrying out search operations in all parts of the city and vital locations, while patrolling was also intensified in view of Independence Day celebrations. “We are not taking any information lightly and all suspicious things are being investigated by experts,” he said.Later in the afternoon, the hand grenade was defused by the bomb disposal squad at an open place in Manawala area. The police investigations were on to identify the person who threw or left it in the garbage pile and the motive behind it.The police are already on high alert following the recovery of a “tiffin bomb” and hand grenades in a border village four days ago. As the state-level Independence Day celebrations are also scheduled to be held in Amritsar, the police have been carrying out search operations in the area.CM Capt Amarinder Singh would hoist the national flag at Guru Nanak Stadium here to mark the occasion. He would also inaugurate Jallianwala Bagh memorial at Amrit Anand Park in Ranjit Avenue here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/safai-workers-find-grenade-in-trash-in-amritsar-297292
