15-08-2021||---||A day to awaken infinite energy of youth||Amritsar, August 14An online national webinar on the occasion of International Youth Day was organised by the Drama Club of GNDU and Equal Opportunity Partnership Cell for Persons with Disabilities, (EOC-PWD) in collaboration with the Punjab Youth Development Board, Government of Punjab. Drama in-charge of the club, university’s nodal officer for persons with disabilities and Associate Professor of Department of Hindi, Dr Sunil Kumar said the United Nations General Assembly had decided on December 17, 1999, that every year, August 12 will be marked as the International Youth Day.The theme of this year’s International Youth Day is ‘Transforming Food Systems: Youth Innovation for Human and Planetary Health’.Chief guest of the programme and Chairman, Punjab Youth Development Board, Sukhwinder Singh Bindra said the youth needed to adapt themselves to the changing environment and work in the right direction. The webinar had panelists Sonam Kalra, sufi singer and artist; art curator Minali Thakkar and Dr Sukhchain Singh gill, Commissioner of Police, Priyanka Goel, programme head of Phulkari Can Cancer Free Campaign and president of women’s chapter of CTI, Punjab.Commissioner of Police, Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said, “Youth are the engine of the society but channelising their energy is possible only if the foundation of the society is cultured since childhood. The International Youth Day is a day to awaken the infinite energy of youth.”Sonam Kalra, famous Sufi singer and musician, said the youth of India are also a reason for the development of India. “Young people are still struggling for basic facilities as health, education and employment in many third world countries. To solve the problems of the nation, we need to be united and everyone needed to be seen on a equal footing.” Artist Minali N Thakkar said in the era of global epidemic like Covid, the role of youth has increased even more. “We saw many youngsters save thousands of lives by joining various social organisations. Social media relief campaigns were also run. That’s the power of the young brigade.”Meanwhile, VC GNDU, Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, too highlighted several youth club activities undertaken by the GNDU and the university’s bid to expand its academic as well as infrastructure support towards inclusive education and engaging people with disabilities at the forefront of youth-based activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-day-to-awaken-infinite-energy-of-youth-297852
15-08-2021||Amritsar||Hind-Pak Dosti festival organised at Attari-Wagah border||Folklore Research Academy on Saturday organised a special seminar under the annual Hind-Pak Dosti festival to mark the Independence Day celebrations.The academy invited several eminent thinkers, artistes, mediapersons from the region to participate and release a declaration for this year’s Hind-Pak Dosti festival.“On the 75th Independence Day of India and Pakistan, we congratulate the people of both the countries and wish peace in the region and a better future for the people. On the historic occasion, we pay tribute to all patriots who sacrificed their lives for independence from the British Empire. At the same time, we pay tribute to the one million people who were killed in communal violence during the Partition,” said Ramesh Yadav, president, Folklore Research Academy.Yadav said, “Attari-Wagah border should be reopened for trade and public transport. Kartarpur Corridor be reopened keeping in view of the sentiments of the people. A peace monument built during the beautification process in the memory of those who died during the Partition,” he said.Late in the evening, a message of peace and friendship was given by lighting candles at Attari Border by the delegation of Folklore Research Academy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hind-pak-dosti-festival-organised-at-attari-wagah-border-297854
15-08-2021||---||CM opens Sant Prem Singh Murale Wale Chair at GNDU||Amritsar, August 14On the first day of his two-day visit to the district, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday inaugurated prestigious Sant Prem Singh Murale Wale Chair here at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) here. The Chair, set up in memory of the spiritual leader and eminent educationist at a cost of Rs 1 crore contributed by the state government in the current fiscal, will be permanent.The Chair will be headed by a professor along with three research assistants, for which the university has already sent out applications. Dr Sarabjinder Singh has been appointed as the Chairman of the newly established Chair.The CM also inaugurated several other projects that had been in the pipeline, including School of Education to be set up at a cost of Rs 6.10 crore, Department of Mass Communication that has been allotted Rs 2.45 crore, Department of Hotel Management and Tourism to be set up at a grant of Rs 3.30 crore and laid the foundation stone of Golden Jubilee Centre for Entrepreneurship and Innovation to be built at a cost of Rs 3.50 crore. He also laid the foundation stones of a shooting range to be built at a cost of Rs 1.58 crore and new sports hostel for boys and girls at a cost of Rs 12.42 crore.The Sant Prem Singh Murale Wale Chair, he said, would help scholars and researchers undertake extensive research on the life and philosophy of the great saint, who was a pioneer of the practice of imparting formal education at a time when education was not considered important. Lauding the enormous contribution of the Lubana community towards the spread of Sikhism, the Chief Minister said the pivotal role played by the legendary devotees Makhan Shah Lubana and Lakhi Shah Vanjara during the lifetime of ninth Sikh Guru Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib, would continue to inspire Punjabis.Notably, Sant Prem Singh established Guru Gobind Singh Khalsa Lubana School in 1921, and subsequently another school was established in memory of the saint. Even today there are colleges being run by this religious group in Nadala and Begowal towns in Kapurthala district. Sant Prem was elected to the Punjab legislative assembly in 1937 and 1945 and remained a member of the SGPC from 1926 to 1950, playing a pro-active role in the Gurdwara Reforms Movement. After the Partition, he came to Begowal and established a religious group under the name of Sant Bisan Singh. He passed away on June 2, 1950.In his introductory remarks, Minister for Higher Education Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said the chairs established in universities died their own death due to the paucity of funds. However, the CM in his address assured that grant would be increased for such research and revival of established chairs in universities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cm-opens-sant-prem-singh-murale-wale-chair-at-gndu-297855
15-08-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Age no limit to learn new skills||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 14Age is no hindrance for learning new skills, believes advocate Kuljeet Singh Malawali (44), who tried his hands at restoring his motorycle, during the lockdown announced in March last year.Malawali has mastered the art to such an extent that he has also started restoring his 1994-model tractor.“I had been a motorycle enthusiast all my life, but had never tried to repair or service it,” he said adding that his close friend Dr JS Kalsi inspired him to restore the bike. “It’s a 1993 Yamaha bike. It was lying unused for years and in a poor condition. I dismantled each and every part. Parts which needed replacement were replaced. Later, all the parts were reassembled and after months of hard work, it was a new bike altogether,” he said and added that for guidance, he would often call Dr Kalsi for suggestions.Enthusiastic with the outcome, Malawali recently started to repair a gear box of his tractor. “Apart from saving resources and doing quality work with spare parts, working with machines gives me satisfaction,” he said.As the lockdown’s norms have been relaxed, Malawali now has to divide time between his practice, gas agency and agricultural farm. He said after reaching home in the evening, he works with machines for at least one hour.“I had started doing law three years after my marriage. Earlier, I had plans to be a farmer. Law has helped me a lot in life. I believe that if one gets a chance, one must always learn new skills,” said Malawali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/age-no-limit-to-learn-new-skills-297856
15-08-2021||---||Amritsar residents don’t care two hoots despite imminent threat of 3rd wave||Amritsar, August 14Complacency with regard to Covid-safety norms witnessed at market places in the city can result in triggering the spread of infections, especially as the number of cases has already started going up.Man dies, three test positive in districtAmritsar: The health authorities reported one Covid-19 related death in the district on Saturday. With this, the toll has increased to 1,588. The deceased has been identified as Kulwant Singh (57), a resident of Jabowal village, near Baba Bakala. With three positive cases reported today, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,144. The cases include two influenza like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient.The Health Department has also reported recovery of three patients with which the recovery count has increased to 45,507. The district has a total of 49 active cases. In the ongoing vaccination drive, a total of 5,300 residents were inoculated today. Of these, 3,374 received the first dose, while 1,926 received the second jab. TNSWith the number of positive cases constantly declining during the past many weeks until recently, many people have stopped wearing masks and observing social distancing at public places.A visit to the market places reveals that these are brimming with activity as people are obviously oblivious to the threat faced by all if the number of cases continued to increase constantly.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said people must adhere to safety protocols. “It is important that everyone wears masks and sanitises hands. Getting a test done should be considered a responsibility and not a choice,” he said, adding that the spread of infection could be checked with proper safety precautions.Recent developments in the form of increase in daily reported cases have also worried residents, especially school-going children. The district so far has reported nine positive cases from among children who were attending school.Parents are also reassessing their decision to send their wards to school. Jagpreet Singh, a parent, said: “I fail to understand that on the one hand the government claims that the third wave will be more dangerous for children and on the other, the schools were opened.”While many private schools are busy getting the consent of parents for sending children to school, a teacher said: “We did this exercise two days ago. Of 40 children in my class, parents of only four have given consent to send their child to school.” She said in the absence of physical classes, studies have suffered but parents are not ready to risk the health of their children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-dont-care-two-hoots-despite-imminent-threat-of-3rd-wave-297857
15-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Suspects identified, but cops tight-lipped||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 14Days after the recovery of a tiffin bomb, hand grenades and RDX from a border village, the Amritsar (rural) police have reportedly identified several suspects who were to retrieve the explosives from near the International Border.Though the police officials were tight-lipped over the development, cops have rounded up some persons in this connection.Amritsar (rural) Senior Superintendent of Police Gulneet Singh Khuranna said the investigation was still under way and nothing was there to be shared at this moment.Following the seizure of Improvised Explosive Device (IED), around 2-kg RDX and five hand grenades, cops had been probing to identify the forward links of Pakistan- based anti-national elements that sneaked the explosives with the help of drones.The police have got specific input regarding movement of drone near Bachiwind village a week ago. Later, the search operation led to the recovery of explosives from Daleke-Beharwal village, which is situated around 3 km from Bachiwind. The police suspected that someone retrieved the same from Bachwind and later dumped it at the spot. The police have been investigating into the intended target of the explosive material as seizure around the Independence Day has raised security concern. CM Capt Amarinder Singh will hoist the national flag in the city on Sunday.Farmers to protest todayAmritsar: The farmers holding a protest against the three controversial farm laws have decided to burn an effigy of system and protest against ‘incomplete’ independence tomorrow. The farmer leaders claimed that a motorcycle rally from the Attari-Wagha border to Beas would be conducted. Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, stated that an effigy of the corrupt regime would be burnt at the Golden Gate on the occasion. Gurbachan Singh Chabba, Punjab State office secretary of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said the ruling government of the country was celebrating the 75th Independence Day on August 15, but it was incomplete independence. After 1947, the working class of the country and the peasantry were still struggling for complete independence. The district headquarters and organisations, including Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Fazilka, will also hold massive rallies to burn effigies of the corrupt government and hold a road march to demand complete independence. While the country’s hard working peasants have been struggling on the roads of Delhi for eight consecutive months, where nearly 600 people have been martyred, the Union Government is adamant on giving the country’s public and economic resources to corporate houses, said Chabba.“Ghadri Babye and other martyrs had dreamed of an independent India, but it did not come true. Even today the black laws of the British are imposed on the people of the country. The loot of the working class of the country is still going on. A huge convoy of thousands of motorbikes marched on the roads to tell the government that we are not satisfied with incomplete independence,” said Pandher..||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/suspects-identified-but-cops-tight-lipped-297858
15-08-2021||---||Teachers of meritorious schools seek regular jobs||Amritsar, August 14Members of the Meritorious School Teachers’ Union took out a protest march and later sat on a dharna outside the residence of PPC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu here on Saturday.De-addiction centre staff on a warpathTarn Taran: The state government-run de-addiction centres remained closed for the entire day on Saturday as the employees protested holding black flags in their hands. Rajwinder Singh, district president of Drug De-addiction and Rehabilitation Employees’ Union, Punjab, and others addressed the agitating employees at Tharu centre. The leaders condemned the state government for not regularising their services though they had put in more than seven years’ service in the Health Department. He said the organisation had given a call to observe ‘Slavery Day’ on Independence Day, as the state government was hell bent upon ruining their life. He said they were given meagre salary though they work for full day with sincerity. Patients faced a tough time and had to cover long distance to take medicine, as few centres remained opened. Patients of Tharu came to Tarn Taran and that of Bhagupur approached Harike. Those from Miandwind came to Khadoor Sahib centre to take their medicines. There were total 20,000 patients in the district, who are getting treatment at these centres. OCRaising the issue of regularisation of jobs, the teachers, who came from across the state, demanded that the services of teachers of meritorious be regularised.“The government has been procrastinating on the matter of regularisation of the services of teachers in meritorious schools. All teachers are highly qualified, some with multiple PhDs and were recruited through a rigorous process. Despite the fact that the teachers have been working tirelessly to improve academic results of schools, we are left with nothing but false promises. While working on contract, there is no scope for promotion or monetary benefits. It has become tough for teachers to survive,” said Prithpal Singh, protester.Notably, the process of regularisation of teachers in meritorious schools was started in 2019, but it was suspended midway. There are around 240 teachers who were recruited between 2014 and 2018 and are waiting to be regularised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-of-meritorious-schools-seek-regular-jobs-297860
15-08-2021||---||‘Man-made borders simply stopped existing for me’||Amritsar, August 14Sarbpreet Singh, author and poet, talked about his book ‘Story of the Sikhs’ with Beena Sarwar, editor of ‘Aman Ki Asha’ initiative, and Mandira Nayar, senior special correspondent, ‘The Week’, during a web session hosted by Majha House, on Saturday.The session was centred around his book, which brings together stories of three Punjabs—Pakistan, India and overseas.Dr Gurupdesh Singh, member, Majha House said, “It breaks the myth that books reliving history are boring. This is a very readable book. One can tell that a lot of effort has gone into the writing of this book as it contains many lesser-known stories from the lives of Gurus and also is rich with passionate translations of rare poetic verses from various sources.”Sarbpreet said, “Having been raised in Manipur I was not familiar with Gurmukhi, but it was through books by Cunningham, Macauliffe and Khushwant Singh, that I began to understand and appreciate my rich heritage. This book is a synthesis of years of engagement and effort as in order to reach it I even moved through starting a podcast for the Sikhism, which brought me in direct and deep engagement with Granth Sahib.”Beena Sarwar, reviewing the book, said she was especially struck by the first section, which deals with episodes about Guru Nanak Dev and Babur. “When Guru Nanak Dev reached Saidpur, now in Gujranwala, he was imprisoned by soldiers of Babur. Even in prison, Guru Nanak Dev continued to sing hymns. His fame reached Babur, who invited him to his court. Legend has it that Nanak Dev told the Emperor that although his empire would reign for long he should seek the forgiveness of Allah for all the havoc he had wreaked. To me all these tales are about imperialism, about the oppressor and the oppressed. It’s disturbing for me to note how only names change through history, but the oppressive tendency of the ruler remains intact even today.”Nayar said she thinks the Punjabi diaspora is doing so much in spreading the good work of the Sikh Gurus.Sarbpreet also talked about his own journeys across borders in the search of his heritage. “My sojourns across the borders were met with so much love from the people there that it simply overwhelmed me. I am nostalgic about my visits to the shrine of Baba Bulleh Shah where all these man-made borders simply stopped existing for me. I felt they were as meaningless to me as they must have been for Baba Nanak. We must forgo our egos and differences and embrace our common humanism,” said Sarbpreet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-made-borders-simply-stopped-existing-for-me-297861
15-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Independence Day celebrations||Sri Guru Harkrishan Public SchoolAt Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School under the chairmanship of School Principal Ranjit Bhatia students presented patriotic songs, poems and dances. President local committee Chief Khalsa Diwan Harjit Singh and vice president Gurinder Singh were the chief guests on the occasion. Orminder Kaur Principal of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public Senior Secondary, Chabal, took salute while unfurling the National Flag on the occasion. Students presented cultural programme hitting on social evils like drugs, dowry, corruption copying in exam etc.Mamta Niketan SchoolEducational competitions were organised in the local Mamta Niketan School in which all the students participated. Gurcharan Kaur, School Principal while addressing on the occasion highlighted the importance of freedom and also threw light on the role of our beloved freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for the country. OCEfforts to conserve environmentAmritsar: In continuation of its efforts towards environment conservation, NSS units of BBK DAV College for Women organised a tree plantation drive at the college campus. The drive was organised as a part of the Swachhata Pakhwada Scheme, which aims at environment perseverance and safety. Lakhbir Singh, Commandant, 5th India Reserve Battalion, was the chief guest. All volunteers and programme officers of the NSS units of the college took an oath to ensure environmental cleanliness and to contribute at least 100 hours to the campaign. The oath was followed by a rally which was flagged off to spread awareness about environmental cleanliness. Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia said ‘Swachhata Pakhwada’ is an annual event of the college.Faculty induction programmeGuru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) began its online faculty induction programme on Friday. HRDC Director Sudha Jitender and her team organised the programme. This is the first programme of the session 2021-22 and the fifth induction programme for the newly recruited teachers, to be undertaken at the HRDC, GNDU through online mode. The centre had successfully organised 19 programmes last year and this year the University Grants Commission had allocated 21 programmes to the GNDU HRDC. The course has participants from varied subject disciplines. Prof SS Behl, OSD to Vice-Chancellor, inaugurated the programme. Director Jitender ensured full support for the one-month course.‘Revisiting Indian Nat’l Movement’The Department of History, GNDU, organised a webinar on the theme “Revisiting Indian National Movement” dedicated to 75 years of Independence. Prof Amandeep Bal, Head of Department, introduced the participants to the theme and explained how Independence was achieved with the continuous struggle of millions of Indians belonging to various ethnic groups, culture, religious denominations and castes. The first speaker of the webinar, Prof Sucheta Mahajan, from the Centre of Historical Studies, JNU, New Delhi, spoke on the subject of Indian women’s struggle in the Independence. Prof Salil Misra of History Department, Ambedkar University, New Delhi, delineated on three legacies of the Independence viz. making of the nation, democracy and secularism. Prof Shashi Bhushan Upadhya from Indira Gandhi National Open University, New Delhi, gave a detailed account of three sections of the Indian National Army.6 DAV College students get jobsDAV College is continuously providing employment opportunities to its students. Final year and pass out students are being offered job opportunities in various multinational companies through placement drives. The Placement and Training Cell is also playing an important role in this task. Under this, 26 students of the college’s Computer Department have been selected in Infosys and TCS. Thirteen college students will be able to join Infosys and remaining thirteen students will be able to join TCS. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar and Placement Cell in charge Prof Vikram Sharma extended their best wishes to the students and congratulated the department for this achievement. They said employment had been provided to most of the students in the Computer Department and the alumni of the department are also bringing laurels to the college by working in reputed companies of the country and abroad. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/independence-day-celebrations-297870
15-08-2021||Sandip Singh||‘Staying positive  key to fight virus’||“In the age of 42, I am as fit as a young man and spend one hour daily in the ground in the morning and play volleyball in the evening. Since the Covid outbreak, I religiously followed health guidelines and practiced social distancing, but somehow contracted the virus. I always used to wear a mask when out in public places. It was at the cremation ceremony of a known where I suspect that I got infected,” said Singh.“I went for the test when I experienced breathing issues followed by other symptoms such as loss appetite, sense of smell and taste. I isolated myself in a room on the second floor of my house. All in family got worried but I was in high spirits,” added Sandip. He said the services offered by the Health Department during this period were praiseworthy.“I started recovering from the disease after seven days but stayed in isolation for 14 days. On the completion of my compulsory isolation, I went for the Covid test again and tested negative. During my illness, my family supported me a lot. Positivity was my strength. To avoid negative thoughts, I used to watch motivational movies during the isolation period,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/staying-positive-key-to-fight-virus-297871
15-08-2021||Amritsar||Two held in suicide case||Man booked for raping womanAmritsar: A tenant (a married woman) has accused the owner of the house of raping her. Following her complaint, the police have registered a case in this regard against the suspect, identified as Vikrant Singh, of Pheruman Road in Rayya while no arrest has been made so far. The 31-year-old victim originally hailed from Bal Labbe village and was currently residing in the Rayya area. In her complaint, she stated that she along with her husband and a son had been living in a rented accommodation, owned by to Vikrant Singh, since September 2020. She said her husband went to Dubai in February this year. She said after her husband’s departure to Dubai, the accused started harassing her. She said she did not tell anyone about this due to social insult. She said at around 1.30pm on August 2, the accused forcibly took her to his office while her son was sleeping in the house. She alleged the accused removed her clothes and raped her. She said perturbed over this, she shared the incident with her husband and after discussing the matter with him, she filed a complaint with Beas police. The police said following her complaint, a case under Section 376 of the IPC was registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-held-in-suicide-case-297872
15-08-2021||Amritsar||Chair at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, after educationist||Even as CM Capt Amarinder Singh today inaugurated the Sant Prem Singh Murale Wale Chair at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), there are many projects allocated to the university in the past that are running behind schedule.The Chair, set up in the memory of the eminent educationist of his time, will be headed by a professor along with three research assistants.Educationists said even two years after the Union Government allocated the Centre of Interfaith Study to the university, work on it was yet to begin. The Centre had earmarked Rs 493 crore for the facility to commemorate the 550th Parkash Purab of Guru Nanak Dev. On May 3, the CM had formed a panel of VCs to work out examination reforms and review curriculum. It was asked to submit its report within 60 days, but it is yet to do so. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chair-at-guru-nanak-dev-university-amritsar-after-educationist-297641
15-08-2021||---||2nd Jallianwala Bagh memorial unveiled||Amritsar, August 14Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today inaugurated the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial, built at a cost of Rs 3.5 crore and spread over 1.5 acres, at Anand Amrit park in Ranjeet Avenue area, where a hand grenade was found yesterday.Kick-starting his two-day visit to Amritsar, the Chief Minister inaugurated a slew of projects and visited Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) and Government Medical College (GMC).On the eve of 75th Independence Day, the Chief Minister inaugurated the Jallianwala Bagh Centenary Memorial Park in memory of those martyred in the massacre of April 13, 1919.Bears 488 namesOn the need of raising a second memorial to the massacre, Captain Amarinder said earth from villages and localities of 488 martyrs was collected and brought to sanctify the memorial. Although, the then Deputy Commissioner had gone on record to state 1,250 bullets were fired, the CM said, it meant the exact number might have been higher.The Chief Minister said a special team of historians and research scholars had been constituted by the GNDU for carrying out research on martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh and freedom fighters imprisoned at Cellular Jail, Port Blair.Once the research was over, the names of more martyrs might be discovered, he said, adding sufficient space had been kept on the columns of the memorial to incorporate more names in the future.Currently, the names of the officially known 488 martyrs had been inscribed on the black and grey granite stone walls of the memorial.The Chief Minister felicitated 29 family members of the Jallianwala Bagh martyrs and posed for a group photograph with them. He appreciated the mural designed by a Bengali artist, Moloy Ghosh, portraying the massacre.Bears 488 names* A team of historians had been constituted for research on martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh and freedom fighters imprisoned at Port Blair jail* Names of more martyrs, if discovered, would be added to black and grey granite stone walls of the memorial, which currently bear 488 names||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2nd-jallianwala-bagh-memorial-unveiled-297647
15-08-2021||---||Gallantry medal for Amritsar ASI who took bullet nabbing smuggler||Chandigarh, August 14ASI Gursewak Singh from Special Task Force (STF), Border Range, Amritsar, has been awarded with Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG), while ADGP Modernisation Ram Singh and AIG-cum-Staff Officer to DGP, Punjab, Jasdeep Singh would be conferred with President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service (PPMDS) on the 75th Independence Day.The Ministry of Home Affairs announced the names of the Punjab Police officers/officials to be awarded with PMG, PPMDS and Police Medal for Meritorious Service (PMMS).On Sept 9, 2019,ASI Gursewak Singh had suffered a bullet injury in the chest while trying to catch hold of two drug smugglers at Lopoke in Amritsar. He didn’t let go of one of the smugglers who was later arrested and 1 kg heroin and one pistol was seized from his possession.Similarly, five PPS officers — Kapurthala SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh, Ludhiana ADCP-2 Jaskiranjit Singh Teja, PBI DSP Raj Kumar, Bathinda CID unit DSP Parminder Singh and Amritsar Rural DSP (Detective) Gurinderpal Singh are among 13 officers/officials selected for the PMMS. Other awardees are Inspector Kulvir Singh, Inspector Ashok Kumar, Inspector Puran Singh, SI Natha Singh, SI Niranjan Dass, SI Harjit Singh, ASI Onkar Tiwari and ASI Ashok Kumar. DGP Dinkar Gupta, while congratulating the awardees, expressed gratitude to the Ministry of Home Affairs for recognising the services of these officers and boosting the morale of the entire Punjab Police force. He said such recognition encouraged the police force to work with more dedication and devotion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gallantry-medal-for-amritsar-asi-who-took-bullet-nabbing-smuggler-297655
15-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Capt Amarinder Singh's first visit to holy city in over three years||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 14Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s visit to the holy city comes after nearly three and half years. He was last here was during Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s visit, when he paid obeisance at the Golden Temple on February 21, 2018, say party sources.The CM’s visit also brought to fore the ongoing tussle within the senior Congress leadership, with PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who has a residence in the city, and Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa staying away from his events.The PCC chief’s absence from the CM’s programmes in the city, from where the former is an MLA, was a point of discussion among party leaders. Capt Amarinder had attended Sidhu’s installation ceremony as PCC chief in Chandigarh recently.Qadian MLA Fateh Jang Singh Bajwa too did not attend any of the events, but took part in the dinner hosted by MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla at his residence.Raja Sansi MLA and Rehabilitation and Disaster Management Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria was present at Guru Nanak Dev University, where the CM inaugurated a number of projects.Amritsar Central MLA and Cabinet minister OP Soni hosted a tea party at his residence in the evening, where councillors of his central constituency and businessmen met the CM.The CM is likely to take part in the breakfast to be hosted by MLA Raj Kumar at his residence after the conclusion of the national flag hoisting ceremony tomorrow.Sidhu skips eventsPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, an MLA from Amritsar, and Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa stayed away from CM’s events||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/capt-amarinder-singhs-first-visit-to-holy-city-in-over-three-years-297638
15-08-2021||The bright lights of Bollywood||Sunny paaji, Gurdaspur is waiting for you||There are numerous projects like the elevation of the 3.6-km narrow gauge rail track running within the municipal limits of the city, which urgently require Centre’s intervention.Agreed, Deol’s absence to some extent can be attributed to the fact that he was recently admitted in a US hospital for treatment of an ailment. However, now that he is back, as is evident from his recent photographs clicked with the Railway Minister and other dignitaries in New Delhi, residents want him to have a tour of his constituency.Residents led by Ashish Vij, brother of MLA Amit Vij, are asking where are the Central Government funds needed to complete the elevated track project. “The Punjab government was to pay 40 per cent of the total cost while the union government was to come up with the remaining 60 per cent. The Punjab Government is ready with the money but where are the funds Deol had promised that he would get from the Centre? I request the MP to stop taking people for a ride,” he quipped.Ashish also claimed that the setting up of a Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) was need of the hour. “But here too Central intervention is needed. The Qadian-Beas rail link, too, has been scrapped. Had the MP taken an interest, the link could have seen the light of the day. Deol is more interested in getting his photos clicked with New Delhi leaders and subsequently getting them published in Punjab-based newspapers,” added Ashish.There are many like Jagjot Singh Sandhu, the young Batala based RTI activist, who claims he has written numerous letters to the MP urging him to take up the KV issue with the Ministry of Defence. “All my letters have gone in vain,” he said dejectedly.Pathankot MLA Amit Vij maintained that the MP should place in public domain the list of developmental works he has initiated till yet. A BJP worker clarified that post the contentious farm bills, it had become difficult for him to visit his constituency. If that is the case then it will be a long time before the actor makes an appearance because the controversy pertaining to the agriculture laws is not likely to go away soon. If at all Deol does come calling, it will be difficult for Tara Singh of ‘Gadhar-Ek Prem Katha’ fame to tackle the rising anger of his constituents.And till he comes his PA Pankaj Joshi will continue to hold fort. No doubt, Joshi is an efficient and cultured man but the problem is that the residents are not ready to settle down for anything less than having the actor in their midst. After all, everybody loves a celebrity. For an actor it is better to play well rather than not to play at all. Come back, Sunny paaji, Gurdaspur is waiting for you. After all, people made you win by a massive margin of 70,000 votes. Voters have high expectations from you. If you do not fulfil their aspirations, they will be in for a huge letdown.Mr Deol have you ever heard about the famous Pygmalion effect, also known as the Rosenthal law? It states: “Higher expectations lead to an increase in performance and low expectations lead to a decrease in performance.”- by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sunny-paaji-gurdaspur-is-waiting-for-you-297506
