17-08-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Mortal remains of Lt Col Abheet Singh Baath consigned to flames with full military honours||The mortal remains of Lt Col Abheet Singh Baath—pilot of the Rudra helicopter from the Army Aviation Squadron—were consigned to flames with full military honours at his native place, Amritsar, on Tuesday.With teary eyes, people attended his funeral when his 13-year-old son, who is an only child, lit the pyre. He is survived by his aged mother, wife and son, while his brother resides abroad.Earlier, his body was kept at his house in the Adarsh Nagar locality near the Cantonment where relatives, friends and the residents paid homage to the departed soul.Exactly 13 days after the crash of his helicopter that his body was retrieved on August 15. It was on August 3 that he along with Captain Jayant Joshi had taken off from Mamun cantonment on a routine sortie but it had crashed into Jammu and Kashmir’s Ranjit Sagar water reservoir, which is about 25 km long, eight km wide, and more than 500 feet deep. The reservoir falls in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua district and is about 30 km from Pathankot. The body of another pilot is yet to be spotted.The fatal crash ensued one of the longest search operations in recent history in which experts and types of equipment of not only Army, Navy and Air Force but also of NDRF, SDRF, NGOs, state police, dam authority and private firms from across the country were deployed to locate the wreckage and retrieve the bodies.Stretched nearly to a fortnight the search operation saw even heavy machinery being flown into from different parts of the country. For instance, the Navy’s submarine rescue unit was flown into digitally explore the wreckage and the IAF lifted heavy equipment for underwater search from Visakhapatnam. Specialised divers from the Navy and Army’s Special Forces worked in tandem. It was only recently that the agencies involved in the search operation located the wreckage after they employed specialised machines, including multi-beam sonars, side scanners, remotely operated vehicles and underwater manipulators flown in from Chandigarh, Delhi, Mumbai and Kochi, informed sources involved in the search operation. They stated that the operation was challenging due to the near-zero visibility in the reservoir due to the colloidal nature of its water.Wreaths were laid and an army contingent presented the guard of honour at the crematorium. Apart from officials of the district administration, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla and councillor Vikas Soni were present during the cremation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mortal-remains-of-lt-col-abheet-singh-baath-consigned-to-flames-with-full-military-honours-298522
17-08-2021||---||On 75th Independence Day...||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 16Nearly 6,000 cops were deputed for the security arrangements during the state-level Independence Day function held here on Sunday.According to the police, SWAT teams, Punjab Police commandoes, Punjab Armed Police and Rapid Action Force and police from other neighbouring districts, including Tarn Taran, Amritsar rural and Batala, were also deputed for security.The security cover was enhanced following the seizure of a hand grenade from posh Ranjit Avenue D block area a day before the Independence Day. The spot was several kilometre away from Amrit Anand Park, where a Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs’ Memorial was constructed. It was dedicated to the people during a programme on August 15 by the CM.Earlier, a tiffin bomb along with 2-kg RDX and five hand grenades were recovered from Daleke border village. The explosives were smuggled from Pakistan through drones.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said: “The police were on high alert following the recent recoveries and we did not want to leave any stone unturned.”DGP Dinkar Gupta personally supervised the security arrangements for the programme.The Madan Mohan Malviya Road and Taylor Road, where Guru Nanak Dev Stadium is located (where the function was held), were closed for normal traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/on-75th-independence-day-298377
17-08-2021||---||Farmers take out bike rally in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 16A motorcycle rally amid the ongoing protest against the three controversial agriculture-related laws was organised by farmers under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on Sunday.Apart from a march outside Company Bagh, similar events were organised at Majitha, Mehta, Rayya, Kathunangal, Ajnala, Chogawan, Attari, Sarai Amanant Khan and other places. Many farmers carried the Tricolour during the march.Farmer leaders said the participation in all events was inspirational as farmers joined the cause in large numbers. Farmer leaders Baldev Singh Saidpur, Balwinder Singh Dudala, Sawinder Singh Meerakot, Sukhrambir Singh Loharka, Davinder Singh Chattiwind, Dhanwant Singh Khatrae Kalan said despite over 500 deaths during the agitation, farmers were upbeat and committed to continue the fight against the draconian laws.Rattan Singh Randhawa said the participation of farmers at protests going on at Delhi borders would be increased in the coming days as farmers are now free from paddy transplantation work.Farmers organisations protest in Tarn Taran, show resentmentOn the 75th Independence Day, different farmer organisations lodged their strong protest against the three farm laws demanding to repeal these. The agitating farmers also burnt the effigies of the Union Government on the occasion.Hundreds of workers of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, with black flags in their hands marched in the villages of the district and gathered in front of the District Administration Complex (DAC).Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president, Satnam Singh Manochahal, Fateh Singh Piddi, Ranjit Kaur Kallha were among others, who addressed on the occasion.The leaders strongly condemned the alleged indifferent attitude of the Centre. They said we were yet to get freedom from the clutches of imperialism and the corporate sector, which was holding onto a major share of the economy even after 74 years. The leader said there was just one ‘East India Company’ against which our martyrs fought but now, there were hundreds of companies exploiting our countrymen with both hands. The workers of the organisation held a candle march in villages to raise awareness among farmers and other sections of society. farmers and mazdoors burnt effigy of the Union Government in front of the DAC with sloganeering in favour of their demand. The farmers’ organisation affiliated with the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha including the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal), Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, Jamzhoori Kisan Sabha, too, organised a flag march in the area. The workers of the organisations held a rally in front of the local SDM office. The farmers under the banner of Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, held a motorcycle march in the area. Nirvail Singh Daleke and other leaders stressed for the end of pro-imperialism multinational companies, which were exploiting our natural resources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-take-out-bike-rally-in-amritsar-298379
17-08-2021||---||Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria hoists Tricolour in Tarn Taran||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, August 16Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria hoisted the national flag during the district-level 75th Independence Day function at the local Police Lines ground.The minister inspected the march-past and took salute from the contingents of the Punjab Police, women police, Home Guards jawans and others.He highlighted the welfare schemes of the Punjab Government and expressed worries with farmers agitating at the Delhi borders for the last eight months. The minister said agriculture was a state subject but the Union Government had directly interfered by forming three contentious laws that had created disappointment among citizens. He said the entire country was with farmers.“It is a matter of grave concern that hundreds of farmers have lost their lives in the agitation. I express my sympathy with the families of the farmers who have lost their lives and salute them who have sacrificed their lives,” he said.He honoured the families of freedom fighters, distributed tricycles and sewing machines to the needy. He was accompanied by Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri and Ramanjit Singh Sikki, both MLAs, while Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh, SSP Dhruman H Nimbale, ADGP Jatinder Jain, District and Sessions Judge Priya Sood, other civil, police and judicial officials, too, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cabinet-minister-sukhbinder-singh-sarkaria-hoists-tricolour-in-tarn-taran-298380
17-08-2021||---||Amritsar: Contractual staff greet Capt Amarinder Singh with black flags||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 16Several government employee unions held a protest rally on Independence Day greeting CM Capt Amarinder Singh with black flags.The front led by honorarium and contractual employees’ union said the government had not met any demand of the workers in the last four-and-a-half years. They said the government had promised to regularise contractual employees after coming to power. But even after four-and-a-half years, the CM had come up with no such decision.They said the government was not even enforcing the constitutional right to minimum wages for ASHA workers, facilitators and mid-day meal workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-contractual-staff-greet-capt-amarinder-singh-with-black-flags-298381
17-08-2021||---||Amritsar: Land earmarked for Madan Lal Dhingra memorial near his birth place||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 16The Municipal Corporation’s General House earmarked land to raise a memorial in memory of martyr Madan Lal Dhingra near his birth place in the walled city.The memorial will be raised on the MC-owned 4-kanal land. The Amritsar Improvement Trust will fund the memorial. Madan Lal Dhingra Shaheed Smarak Samiti, headed by former health minister Laxmi Kanta Chawla, had been demanding to set up a memorial for the past many years. Welcoming the development, she said now the path has been paved for the setting up of the memorial.Earlier, the state government had issued notification to raise a memorial for Dhingra some months ago and the Municipal Corporation Commissioner was made its project in-charge.Dhingra was born at the house situated inside the Sikandari Gate here on February 18, 1883.The Capt-led government decided to construct a memorial at the ancestral house of the martyr in August 2018. However, it took them close to two years to notify the decision. She said it would be a tribute to the martyr who was executed at the age of 26 in London in 1909.The present generation of Dhingra family had sold out the house nearly a decade ago and the new buyer had demolished the original structure in 2012.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-land-earmarked-for-madan-lal-dhingra-memorial-near-his-birth-place-298382
17-08-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 11 Covid positive cases in last 48 hrs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 16A total of 11 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 48 hours, with which the tally in the district increased to 47,155. Of these, eight were reported on Sunday, while three were reported on Monday.The district health authorities said nine of the 11 cases were influenza-like illness cases, while the remaining two were contacts of positive patients. The district officials also reported a death due to the disease on Sunday, with which the toll increased to 1,589. The deceased has been identified as Roop Chand (23) from Gaunsabad village on Ram Tirath Road. The district at present has a total 51 active cases.3 found +ve in Tarn TaranThe district reported two positive cases on Sunday and one on Monday. No causality was reported hence the toll stands at 375. Now, there are 16 active cases and 12 patients have been isolated at their respective homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said in the vaccination drive against Covid 2,69,010 persons have been given 3,33,114 dozes so far, including 14,197 who were vaccinated on Monday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-11-covid-positive-cases-in-last-48-hrs-298392
17-08-2021||---||New SOPs for staff: Entry to schools, colleges only if fully vaccinated||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 16Keeping in view the Covid-19 situation, latest SOPs and guidelines have been issued with regards to schools and colleges.Already most schools have got their teaching staff fully vaccinated by hosting camps. As far as the safety of students is concerned, all schools are being cautious and if required, we can continue classes in an online mode. We will consider all options according to the situation — Anita Bhalla, Principal, Bhavans SL Public School and secretary Sahodya SchoolAccording to the new guidelines, schools shall continue to open, subject to the condition that only fully vaccinated or Covid-19 recovered teaching/ non-teaching staff will be allowed to be physically present on the premises. If positivity rate of the district increases from 0.2 per cent, then the decision to close primary classes from Class IV and below will be taken accordingly. The option of online learning must be available to students.Similarly, colleges, coaching centres and all other institutes of higher learning shall continue to open subject to the condition that only fully vaccinated or Covid-19 recovered teaching staff or students are allowed to be present.The latest decision comes in the wake of increased positive cases being reported from across the state. Schools in the district have been reopened since two weeks and GNDU has commenced its offline classes from Monday onwards.Anita Bhalla, Principal, Bhavans SL Public School, and secretary, Sahodya School, said: “Already most schools have got their teaching staff fully vaccinated by hosting camps. As far as the health safety of students is concerned, all schools are being cautious and if required, we can continue classes in an online mode. We will consider all options according to the situation.”Meanwhile, the strength in primary classes is still running low as most parents are preferring online classes. Students from senior classes are reporting better attendance than those from pre-primary and primary ones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/new-sops-for-staff-entry-to-schools-colleges-only-if-fully-vaccinated-298396
17-08-2021||On India’s 75th Independence Day||...Partition ghosts are still here to haunt||An address that never faded from his memoryGali Khularawali, Lahori Gate, Gujranwala — Octogenarian Pritam Singh Lamba, one of the survivors of Partition, still remembers the address of his home that he left in haste as a 12-year-old in 1947. “At that time, I did not know why we had to pack everything and leave behind my friends to shift to Amritsar. With time, I could only reminisce as memories were the only thing that we could bring along when we crossed the border on August 14, 1947,” he said. Lamba’s family came to Amritsar on August 14, via Sialkot. His father Mahesha Singh owned a hotel in the famous Lahori Gate area of Gujranawala. “We had a good life there. I studied in Government Primary School, Gujranwala, and later in King George Hindu High School. But everything was lost after the two countries experienced a brutal division,” he said. His family said their goodbye to their life in Gujranwala and travelled to Ramdass in Amritsar. “I was travelling with my father, Mahesha Singh and five brothers, with few other members of our neighborhood. My sister and mother, Chanan Devi, stayed behind along with two servants and few male members of the family. We travelled by train from Gujranwala to Dera Baba Nanak and came to Ramdass, where we rebuilt our lives,” he shared. Remembering the tumultuous journey they undertook on the night of August 14, he said: “Before taking the train, we were eating dinner at a dhaba near the railway station, when we heard two explosions and a stampede occurred. Everyone held each other’s hands as to not get lost in the chaos. Later, when my mother and sister arrived in Amritsar, they had to smuggle some jewellery and valuable items in the utensils.” Years later, when he was working in the Railway as an officer, Lamba went to Gujranwala to visit his ancestral home. “It was not the same. Thoughts still go back in time and I wish everyone who had to face the brutality of Partition somehow find peace and closure,” he said. (As told to Neha Saini)Peace, the only balm to soothe that painHarbhajan Singh Brar, 79, shares his family’s trauma and struggle for re-building their lives after they migrated from Multan in 1947. His family was among the many jathas that left Pakistan following violent clashes after August 15, 1947. “I was born in Chakk 107, a small village in Khanewal tehsil of Multan district. I was just 3 when we migrated from our native village. My Bua ji, who was then a young girl, walked several kilometers while carrying me on her shoulders. As she was exhausted, someone asked her to leave me behind and let the Almighty decide my fate. But she replied: “He is my blood, one day he will stand for me. She crossed the border with courage. Fortunately, all our family members reached safely but left acres of fertile land there. My family struggled for pennies after re-settling post-Partition.” He doesn’t hold any grudges, but the pain is still there. “Instead of observing Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, PM Modi should assure the masses that such incidents should not repeat in future. Moreover, the person, who was born in any other state apart from Punjab, will never be able to understand the pain of Partition victims as Punjab faced the maximum blow during the time.” Brar, who was a sepoy in the Indian Army and fought against Pakistan in the 1965 and 1971 wars, said peace between the two countries is still possible. “I never support jingoism between India and Pakistan and made efforts to reunite Partition victims. If Modi feels pain for the Partition victims, allow them to visit their homes in Pakistan and India.” (As told to Charanjit Singh Teja)Fear, horrors of that fateful night still freshSurjit Singh Kukreja (82), while talking about his memories of Partition, still cannot believe how people who lived together for so long in harmony suddenly started killing each other. The horrendous displacement during the Partition of the country in 1947 left traumatic impressions in their minds. “I was 8 at that time,” said Kukreja. “We were seven children – four brothers and three sisters –who migrated from Ugoke village in Sialkot in Pakistan along with parents. We had to leave in a hurry because of some riots that broke out near our village. The truck we were travelling in met with an accident midway. My brother and I escaped with minor injuries, while two people lost their lives. I can never forget having to spend a freezing cold night near the Ravi,” he said. The next morning their family was transported along with other Hindu, Sikh families in an army truck. “Fear was written large on every face. From a Sialkot refugee camp we were shifted to Dera Baba Nanak in a train amid tight security at night. The trains carrying bodies were a common sight at the time. That memory still sends shivers down my spine,” he said. Now, years later, he feels that any declaration or any other move to ease the pain of the survivors will not make much of a difference. (As told to PK Jaiswar)Memories of Partition must be preservedForced by communal tension, Balak Ram Sehgal fled from his native Awan Dhaewala village in Pakistan with his two children and wife before August 14, 1947. Trying his hand at different jobs to earn a livelihood, he finally settled in Amritsar and found Subhash News Agency. “Until my father died in 2006, he would often talk about the horrors the Partition had caused,” said his son Subhash Sehgal, adding that the Partition must be remembered as a mark of respect for those who lost their lives. “It is the only way to keep the future generations mindful of the fact that communal hatred and killings should be avoided. My father always talked about his native place, but never tried to visit Pakistan. Maybe he never wanted to go through the trauma again by remembering about the life they left behind. My elder brother and sister were toddlers, when he came here,” said Subhash. (As told to Manmeet Singh Gill)A tale of lost childhood and lost livelihoodBau Gurbachan Singh (88) of Gali Mangal Singh Wakil Wali, Tarn Taran, is one of those few people alive, who had seen the horrible incidents of Partition with his own eyes. His family were residents of Barki village (district Lahore) before Partition. His father Chamba Singh was a Tonga puller and used to travel from Barki to Lahore every day. When the news of Partition spread, the Muslim families residing nearby gave them shelter and assured them protection. “Many members particularly women and youngsters of the family left for safer places towards the Indian side. There was terror everywhere as radical elements with sharp weapons in their hands were looting those migrating or leaving their homes. All our belongings were left behind, even cattle and farm animals. We arrived at Khalra village, escorted by our neighbours, who were Muslims,” he said. He said when they reached Tarn Taran, they saw burning houses of the Muslin community. “It was a sight no one can ever forget. We saw things that no one should ever see — death and destruction everywhere. Partition should be a lesson for generations that only peace can be a solution,” said Bau Gurbachan Singh, who retired as an administrative officer from the Education Department. He said the days of Partition were still alive in the minds of victims, who either lost their lovely ones besides losing their livelihood. (As told to Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/partition-ghosts-are-still-here-to-haunt-298397
17-08-2021||---||Finally, a Metro bus straight from Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport to Gheo Mandi near Golden Temple||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 16For the convenience of tourists the Metro bus, being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System, was extended to Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here on Monday. MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, accompanied by Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, flagged off the Metro bus.The metro buses will halt at Airport, Meeran Kot Chownk, Gumtala bypass, Ranjit Avenue, Cantonement, Rani Ka Bagh, Sadar police station, canal office, railway station, Alexandra School, Civil Hospital, ISBT, Ram Talai and Gheo Mandi (Golden Temple).On return from Gheo Mandi, the buses will halt at Ram Talai Chowk, ISBT, Civil Hospital, Hall Gate-Railway station, canal office, Sadar police station, Rani Ka bagh, Cantonement Chowk, Ranjit Avenue, Gumtala bypass, Meeran Kot and Airport.Each passenger would be charged Rs 5 for travelling from airport to Meeran Kot Chowk, Rs 10 from Airport to Rani Ka Bagh and Rs 15 from Airport to Gheo Mandi, which is situated near the Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/finally-a-metro-bus-straight-from-sri-guru-ram-das-jee-international-airport-to-gheo-mandi-near-golden-temple-298398
17-08-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: 16-year-old shot dead, 4 booked||A youth identified as Karandip Singh (16) was shot dead allegedly by his four friends over an old grudge. The accused, identified as Sheru, Vishal, Sunny and Mangal Singh, fled away after admitting him in a private hospital. They were booked following the statement of Ravinder Singh, father of the deceased.The police handed over the body to the family after autopsy. The police said a case has been registered with Kathunangal police and raids were on to nab the suspects.Ravinder Singh told the police that he has two sons, Karandip Singh and Kuldip Singh. He alleged that Mangal Singh was a friend on his son but he used to keep a grudge against him over a dispute. He said today, they came to the house and took him along on the pretext of shooting a video for social media.He said the accused took him to the rooftop of the house of Dheer Singh. He said Sheru reached with a rifle of his uncle Gurmel Singh, an ex-serviceman. He said they shot Karandip dead, took him outside a hospital on the Fatehgarh Churian road and fled. The hospital management informed the police which reached the hospital and started the probe. Later, he was identified as Karandip Singh. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-16-year-old-shot-dead-4-booked-298399
17-08-2021||---||Search continues for 2 missing kids||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, August 16The Goindwal Sahib police have failed to trace the whereabouts of two school students, who went missing from Khadoor Sahib five days back.Princepreet Singh (15), a student of Class IX and Gurmel Singh (13), a student of Class VIII, had gone to Government Secondary School, Khadoor Sahib, but did not return.ASI Manjit Singh said a case under Section 365 of the IPC had been registered. Paramjit Singh, father of Prince, said his son took Rs 3,000 before fleeing. He said both the boys went separately.ASI Manjit Singh said Gurmel Singh had returned from school and after keeping his school bag at his quarter at the Dera, went to the bus stand of the township.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/search-continues-for-2-missing-kids-298400
17-08-2021||Amritsar||Oxygen plant comes up at Amritsar GMC||A new oxygen plant with a capacity to produce a 1,000 litre oxygen in one minute was inaugurated at the Government Medical College here on Monday.I had promised to set up five oxygen plants in Punjab around two months ago. Three including two at Faridkot have already been made operational, while the remaining two will be made operational within next week. Special boosters to enable filling of cylinders have also been installed at each plant. The supply will be directly made to patient's beds, but each of the five plants will have a capacity to fill 300 cylinders every day — Dr SP Singh Oberoi, A philanthropist who runs Sarbat Da BhalaThe project was funded by philanthropic organisation Sarbat Da Bhala run by Dubai-based businessman Dr SP Singh Oberoi. The expenditure on the construction shed for the plant, generator and wiring was made by Lok Sabha member Gurjit Singh Aujla from his discretionary funds.Aujla along with Oberoi were present during the inauguration on Monday. Oberoi said he had promised to set up five oxygen plants in Punjab around two months ago. He said three including two at Faridkot have already been made operational, while the remaining two would be made operational within next week.He said special boosters to enable filling of cylinders have also been installed at each plant. “The supply will be directly made to patient’s beds, but each of the five plants will have a capacity to fill 300 cylinders every day,” he said. Oberoi also promised to provide 1,000 cylinders to the state government in future if a need arises. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/oxygen-plant-comes-up-at-amritsar-gmc-298401
17-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Stone of mother-child ward laid at Civil Hospital in Patti||Tarn Taran, August 16Ashwani Shekhri, Chairman, Punjab Health Systems Corporation, laid the foundation stone of mother-child ward at the Civil Hospital, Patti.Shekhri while addressing gathering on the occasion said that the state government plans to build 13 new mother-child ward across the state to provide better health services to the people. He added that the state government would establish e-clinic at all health centeres in the border area districts from where online health services would be provided by the doctors.Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill said the 30-bedded ward to be constructed in Patti would be built with a cost of Rs 7.5 crore and completed within seven months. He said an oxygen plant too was to be built in Patti which would provide oxygen to 25 beds.DC Kulwant Singh too spoke on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stone-of-mother-child-ward-laid-at-civil-hospital-in-patti-298402
17-08-2021||Amritsar||Industrialists welcome MSME reforms||After a delegation of the local entrepreneurs met CM Capt Amarinder Singh with their demands at the residence of Cabinet Minister OP Soni on Saturday, little did they realise that some of their demands would be met shortly.The CM in his address on the 75th Independence Day announced to facilitate ease of doing business with a new set of whopping 1,150 reforms for the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and said its details would be separately shared by the Department of Investment Promotion.  Announcing a sum of Rs5 crore for the development of area in and around Guru Ki Wadali, the birthplace of Guru Hargobind in the vicinity of the holy city, he assured that sufficient funds for the city’s development would be released. While interacting with MC Councillors, the CM assured them that prompt redressal of their concerns related to the civic amenities and other infrastructure development works would be made. He directed Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu to send a detailed proposal highlighting the development works to be executed on a priority.  Mayor Rintu urged the CM to provide additional Rs50 crore for the overall development of the historic city and sought a reasonable hike in the monthly allowances of councillors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/industrialists-welcome-msme-reforms-298403
17-08-2021||---||Youth killed  in Gharinda||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 16Yuvraj Singh, a resident of Khurmaniya village, under Gharinda police station, was strangled to death by some unidentified persons here on Friday night.The police have registered a murder case and launched further probe.Kulwant Singh, father of the deceased, told the police that Yuvraj went to meet his friends on Friday evening but did not return till late evening. At 10 pm, they called on his phone, which was switched off. In the morning around 7.30 am, Tarsem Singh, member panchayat, informed him that Yuvraj’s body was lying at a villager Satnam Singh’s house.He said when they reached, they found that he was strangled to death. Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP Attari, said the police have got some vital clues in the case and the accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-killed-in-gharinda-298404
17-08-2021||---||44 activists of Dal Khalsa held for staging a protest in Amritsar on Independence Day||Amritsar, August 16As many as 44 activists of Dal Khalsa were arrested for staging a protest on Independence Day. They were planning to hoist a Sikh flag at Independence Day near Town Hall here.Among those rounded up included Kanwarpal Singh Bittu, Harcharan Singh Dhami, Gurpreet Singh, Sarabjit Singh, Gurnam Singh and Sukhjinder Singh. They were later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/44-activists-of-dal-khalsa-held-for-staging-a-protest-in-amritsar-on-independence-day-298405
17-08-2021||Amritsar||SGPC seeks passports for travel to Nankana Sahib||The SGPC has asked those who wished to travel to Nankana Sahib, Pakistan, in November to mark the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, to deposit their passports at the committee’s office by August 25.The occasion would be held at Janam Asthan, Sri Nankana Sahib. SGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said the SGPC would send a jatha to Pakistan to mark the occasion, for which the pilgrims could deposit their passports at the SGPC office. — TNSFeature: Recounting tragedy at Nankana Sahib||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-seeks-passports-for-travel-to-nankana-sahib-298132
17-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to state in Dasehra Amritsar train tragedy case||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice of motion to the state of Punjab on a petition filed in public interest for quashing an order appointing 34 wards/heirs of 2018 Dasehra Amritsar train tragedy victims.Petitioner-NGO Ameliorating India claimed it was done clandestinely through backdoor and hurriedly, despite the grant of Rs 7 lakh as compensation to the kin of each victim. Taking up the petition filed through counsel Lt Col Naresh Ghai, the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli fixed November 23 as the next date of hearing in the matter.Appearing before the Bench, Ghai submitted the Punjab Government on July 25 issued the appointment order by illegally referring to the policy meant for compassionate appointments to the wards of the deceased employees. He added the process was carried out in a hurry to rule out the possibility of challenge to their appointment. “No order has been put on any website,” the Bench was told. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-state-in-dasehra-amritsar-train-tragedy-case-298138
17-08-2021||---||2 held with grenades, pistols in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 16The Punjab Police arrested two suspected militants late last evening, averting a possible terror attack during the 75th Independence Day celebrations here. The two were linked to a UK-based terrorist.The police confiscated two hand grenades, two pistols along with bullets and magazines from their possession in the Gharinda border belt here. This is the third seizure of hand grenades in the district within a week. Earlier, acting a tip-off, the rural police had recovered a “tiffin bomb” along with RDX and five hand grenades at Daleke border village. The arms were apparently dropped by a drone from across the border.Another grenade was found in a garbage pile in the Ranjit Avenue area, a day before the state-level Independence Day event here where Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had unfurled the Tricolour. The CM has already warned of increased terror threat to the border state from Pakistan-based anti-national forces.The two — Amritpal Singh and Sammy of Sultanwind village — were operating on the directions of UK-based terrorist Gurpreet Singh Khalsa.They had been tasked with retrieving a weapons consignment sent from across the border, said DGP Dinkar Gupta today. “The consignment was most likely delivered in the border area around the Attari-Jhabal road a few days ago,” he said, adding Khalsa was also involved in the Shingar Cinema blast case of Ludhiana.He said following intelligence inputs after the seizure of a “tiffin bomb”, the police had increased security at the International Border along Pakistan. Checkpoints were also set up and patrolling was intensified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-with-grenades-pistols-in-amritsar-298145
17-08-2021||---||Won’t tolerate Pak aggression, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Amritsar, August 16Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh unfurled the national flag at Gandhi Ground in Amritsar during the 75th Independence Day on Sunday.The CM conferred state awards on 45 persons for their valuable contribution to the society and dedicated services with a certificate, shawl and a medal. He also handed over appointment letters for government jobs to one family member each of the 34 victims of the tragic Amritsar rail accident at Jaura Phatak.The CM also inspected the parade and took the salute of the march past led by Commander DSP Madhvi Sharma and Second-in- Command DSP Harinder Singh Mann. Calling for extreme vigil against Pakistan, which continued to try to foment trouble, the CM asserted that no aggression or attack on our territory would be tolerated.He condemned the nefarious designs of neighbouring Pakistan from where arms, RDX, grenades, drugs and other forbidden materials were being smuggled through drones. “Still, our police and BSF was quite vigilant to thwart the activities from across the border and maintain peace in the state,” he said.The CM said since his government took over, 47 Pakistan terrorist modules and 347 modules of gangsters had been neutralised, including some key gangsters who had been deported from Armenia, UAE and other countries, with more awaiting deportation.Similarly, 47,510 cases were registered under the NDPS Act in which 61,744, including 216 big fish, were nabbed and over 2-tonne heroin, 30-kg smack and over 200 properties of drug traders and extremists were seized during the existing term, he claimed. He said a memorial dedicated to unsung Punjabis who died in cellular jail would be installed.In Bathinda, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal hoisted the Tricolor during at the Hockey Stadium at Government Rajindra College. He said the government would soon confirm the services of contract workers and the details were being finalised by the government.In Muktsar, contract employees of some government departments showed black flags to Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, when the latter was on his way to Guru Gobind Singh Sports Stadium to hoist the national flag. They also burnt his effigy and blocked the traffic.In Patiala, Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra hoisted the national flag at Raja Bhalindra Singh Sports Complex. He said the government was committed to securing the future of employees and soon "they would get good news".School Education and Public Works Minister Vijay Inder Singla unfurled the national flag at the Sangrur Police Line Stadium and Minister for Forests, Social Justice and Minority Sadhu Singh Dharamsot hoisted the Tricolour at the Barnala District Administrative Complex, while minister Razia Sultana presided over a function in Malerkotla.Islamabad must respect truce pact: BSF Balloons in RoparJobless protest(With inputs from Bathinda, Muktsar, Patiala, Sangrur)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wont-tolerate-pak-aggression-says-capt-amarinder-singh-298146
17-08-2021||New Delhi/Amritsar||300 take refuge in Kabul gurdwara, assured safety||At least 300 Sikhs from Kabul, Ghazni and Jalalabad and a few Hindus are learnt to have taken refuge in Karte Parwan Gurdwara, Kabul. Gurnam Singh, president of the gurdwara committee, talking to The Tribune over the phone, said local Taliban leaders had met representatives of Sikhs and Hindus, asking them not to leave the country. They had asked them to put up a white flag outside the gurdwara to signal the gurdwara was under Taliban protection, another source said.“The Taliban leaders assured protection to our families. We hope they will keep their word,” a wary Gurnam Singh said. The remaining five Sikh shrines and the two Hindu temples in Kabul are closed. Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee chief Manjinder Sirsa said he was in touch with the Kabul gurdwara panel chief. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/300-take-refuge-in-kabul-gurdwara-assured-safety-298101
