18-08-2021||Amritsar||Woman thrashed to death, 5 booked||Afghan-origin Sikh kids’ edu freeAmritsar: Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) has offered free education for the Afghan-origin children who would be evacuated from Afghanistan amid trouble due to the return of Taliban to power. Nirmal Singh, president of CKD, has announced free of cost education to the wards of Sikh refugees, who would come to settle here. He called upon the Narendra Modi-led government to swiftly evacuate Sikh families from uncertain condition prevailing in Afghanistan. He said the reports of Sikh families residing in a gurdwara near Kabul showed the fear being felt at the change of ruling dispensation through violent means. This fear did not even spare their own natives, who were compelled to board a closed plane. He appealed to the government to evacuate the Sikh families to safer places to ensure their safety. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-thrashed-to-death-5-booked-298913
18-08-2021||Amritsar||Independence day celebrations||IIM, AmritsarStudents of IIM Amritsar performed Flash Mob at Attari Border during Independence Day celebrations. It was a fun-filled and enthusiastic evening with the students dancing to the tunes of the patriotic songs and paying tributes to the freedom fighters. The whole event was co-ordinated by the cultural committee of the institute. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar unfurled the flag. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/independence-day-celebrations-298912
18-08-2021||Amritsar||Tributes paid to Madan Lal Dhingra||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tributes-paid-to-madan-lal-dhingra-298911
18-08-2021||---||Employees to resume protests as govt fails to fulfil promise||Amritsar, August 17Having returned to their duties after an assurance from the state government, protesting employees of the different departments are again getting ready to resume their protests from August 20.Leader of the employees union said they had joined back at work as the government had assured to provide a solution till August 13. With no word from the government after the assurance, the employees would be staging district-level rallies and submit memorandums with the elected MLAs and MPs of the ruling party.A leader, Ashok Sharma, said the next course of action would be made public after the district level rallies. He said the unions had believed in the assurance given by the state government and returned to their duties but the government had failed to keep up the promise.The employees of various departments have been protesting after the sixth Punjab Pay Commission report was announced. They stated that with the new pay panel report their salaries would actually decrease instead of getting any actual benefit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/employees-to-resume-protests-as-govt-fails-to-fulfil-promise-298910
18-08-2021||---||Action sought against former sarpanch over casteist remarks||Amritsar, August 17A Congress leader from Majitha constituency, Jasmitar Singh Chogawan, has accused a former sarpanch of Chogawan Mattewal village of using derogatory remarks against dalit party workers.In a press conference here on Tuesday, Jasmitar said if the police failed to register an FIR against the said sarpanch, the party workers would gherao the Mattewal police station. He alleged that the former sarpanch had illegally occupied village land and members of the dalit community and other residents had asked him to vacate the plot.Jasmitar alleged that the former sarpanch passed casteist remarks against the workers and a police complaint was filed against the sarpanch. “The police has taken no action despite several visits of the party workers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/action-sought-against-former-sarpanch-over-casteist-remarks-298909
18-08-2021||---||Partition Horrors Remembrance Day: Chinna hails PM Modi’s announcement||Amritsar, August 17Bharatiya Janata Party leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina on Tuesday hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for declaring August 14 as ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’ from the Red Fort during his Independence Day speech.He said the move was a befitting tribute to all those who lost their lives due to the Partition of the nation in 1947 when thousands lost lives and many more were displaced from their native roots.Chhina said, “This was the largest forced migration of people that has ever happened, which wasn’t because of war or famine”, he said.He said the pangs of the Partition are still etched deep into the memories of the people who lost their beloved ones. “Though independence was an event of celebration for most part of India, it was celebrated in the shape of mourning, tears, separation, exile, crying, bloodshed, abduction, rape, murder”, he said while appealing PM to intervene into the pending issues of rehabilitation as thousands of families who were allotted lands all over India were yet to get their full ownership rights.“These families were running from pillar to post for justice. They will be thankful if your government take some stern decision in this regard to give them their due”, said Chhina who wrote a letter to PM today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/partition-horrors-remembrance-day-chinna-hails-pm-modis-announcement-298908
18-08-2021||---||Properties of drug dealers frozen in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 17The city police have frozen moveable and immovable properties worth Rs 2.91 crores belonging to 10 drug dealers, said Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill in statement issued here on Monday.He said the properties were freezed through Competent Authority and Administrator, NDPS Act, under Section 68F(2) of the NDPS, Act.Properties of smugglers namely Tehal Singh of Partap Avenue, Santokh Singh, Arvinder Singh of Jeobala village in Tarn Taran, Sunil Kumar, his son Kapil Kumar and wife Rajni, of New Pal Avenue, Amarjit Kaur of Tung Pai, Kulwinder Kaur of Indira Colony, Chainchal Singh of Sanjay Gandhi Colony, Vidya of Mulechak Village and Harjinder Kaur of Kale village in Bhikhiwind in Tarn Taran were freezed.Tehal Singh had a residential house in Partap Avenue worth Rs 1.25 crore. He was held by the police with 1-kg heroin. Similarly, Santokh Singh was arrested with 4-kg heroin and Rs 9 lakh of drug proceeds. He had procured a tractor in the name of his relative Bikramjit Singh. Besides a BMW car was seized from his relative Nirvail Singh.The police froze around 17 kanals and 14 marla land in Jeobala village in Tarn Taran worth Rs 30 lakh. Rs 4.5 lakh of drug money was also seized from him. Besides he had procured a 4 kanal and 7 marla land worth Rs 10 lakh in Manochahal village in Tarn Taran.Sunil Kumar and his family’s residential house and a car worth Rs 24.85 lakh was freezed. He was held with 500-gm heroin. The police also froze 250 yard house worth Rs 34.76 lakh of Jasbir Singh which he procured in the name of his mother of Amarjit Kaur.Mandeep Singh’s house worth Rs 3.59 lakhs registered in the name of his mother Kulwinder Kaur was frozen by police. Similarly Chainchal Singh’s residence worth Rs 6.63 was froze by the police. The police also froze 132 yard house of Vidya in Mulechak village. He was mother of Eric Masih who was held with 8-kg heroin.Similarly, Drug peddler Sarvan Singh’s property worth Rs 19.80 lakhs were froze in Kale village which was in the name of his mother Harjinder Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/properties-of-drug-dealers-frozen-in-amritsar-298907
18-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC hopes higher revenue as OTS scheme gets govt’s nod||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 17As the Punjab Cabinet approved One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme for regularisation of unauthorised water supply and sewerage connections and recovery of arrears, the Municipal Corporation, Amritsar, (MCA) authorities are also expecting collection of good revenue and regularisation of thousands of illegal connections.Mahesh Khanna, chairman of sub-committee, water supply and sewerage, said they don’t have accurate data of the illegal connections as no such survey has been conducted in the past. “The one time settlement offer of the government is a golden chance for the residents to regularise their water and sewerage connections. The residents should take advantage of the offer,” said Khanna.Of 1.92L connections, just 42,000 pay billsn At present, the Municipal Corporation is sending water and sewerage bills to around 42,000 connection holders out of the total 1.92 lakh consumers registered with the MC. A large number of connection holders are registered with the MC but the government has waived off the water sewer bills. Around 70,000 consumers are using the services without any consent and without fulfilling the legal provisions which are required for using the services.According to information, there are 2.65 lakh households in the city but only 1.92 lakh water and sewerage connections are registered with the MC. The sources in water and sewerage supply wing of MC claimed that after installation of new water supply lines under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) during past some years, the number of illegal connection has been increased up to 70,000.The residents connect their taps with water supply lines on their own without consent or approval of the civic body. Around 50,000 connections have been illegally connected with the MC’s water and sewer lines during the past some years.At present, the MC is sending water and sewerage bills to around 42,000 connection holders out of the total 1.92 lakh consumers registered with MC. A large number of connection holders are registered with MC but the government has waived off the water sewer bills. Around 70,000 consumers are using the services without any consent and without fulfilling the legal provisions which are required for using the services.“The regularisation of water sewerage connections will not only increase the revenue of MC but also help for policy planning. Now, tubewells often get defunct or fail to fulfill the requirement of the public as they were installed to meet the requirement of number of registered connections. The illegal connections overburdened the tubewells. Before implementation of the canal based surface water project, all the connections should regularise, otherwise the project would not meet the expectations of public”, said a MC official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-hopes-higher-revenue-as-ots-scheme-gets-govts-nod-298906
18-08-2021||---||Teen abducted, three of family booked by Patti city police||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, August 17Three of a family from Jodhpur village have been booked by the Patti city police for abducting a teenaged girl by luring to marry her.The accused had been identified as Harpreet Singh Happy, his brother Lovepreet Singh and mother Kulwant Kaur Kanti.The father of the victim in his complaint to the police said the accused Harpreet Singh, who had a mala fide intention for his daughter, lured her on the pretext of marrying her and abducted her on August 9.The family of the victim tried to locate her but failed. Sub-Inspector Amreek Singh said the accused had been booked under Section 363,366-A and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and further action and been initiated in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teen-abducted-three-of-family-booked-by-patti-city-police-298905
18-08-2021||---||Two arrested for robbing mobile trader in Majitha||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 17The Majitha police have arrested two snatchers, who robbed a mobile phone trader on late August 14 evening, when he was returning home with his nephew.Those arrested were identified as Prabhdeep Singh and Sagar Singh, both residents of Majitha.Complainant Baljinder Singh (45), a resident of Ladhar village, told the police that he runs a mobile phone store in the Rambagh area in the city, while his nephew Gagandeep Singh also works with him in the shop. He said on August 14, after closing down the shop, they reached Jethuwal village through bus. He said from there they walked towards the railway crossing in Ladhar village.He said two bike-borne persons who were armed with sharp weapons stopped them. They threatened and asked to handover whatever they had. He said he identified Prabhdeep Singh, who attacked him with datar, which injured his hand. He said the accused later snatched his purse containing Rs8,000 cash and two mobile phones from them and fled.The police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the Indian Penal Code and later arrested the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-arrested-for-robbing-mobile-trader-in-majitha-298904
18-08-2021||---||Man booked for raping wife’s sister in Ajnala village||Amritsar, August 17A widow was allegedly raped by her brother-in-law (sister’s husband) at Bhakha Tara Singh village in Ajnala here. The incident occurred four days ago and the accused, identified as Randhir Singh, is still at large. Raids are on to nab him, the police said.The victim told the police that she lives with her mother in Ajnala. She said after her elder sister Jaswinder Kaur and her husband Randhir Singh took their share of property two years ago, they were not in talking terms with them. She said on the intervening night of August 13 and August 14, when she and her mother were sleeping, accused Randhir Singh entered the house after jumping over the wall around 1am.She said the accused was armed with an iron rod. She said he bolted the doors from inside. Immediately after entering the room, he attacked them with the rod, due to which they got frightened. He then tied her mother with some adhesive tape and sprayed something on her face. She alleged that the accused later dragged her to another room, where he hit her with some pointed rings and later with the iron rod on her back. She said he forcefully removed her clothes and tied her hands and legs with the adhesive tape. She alleged that the accused made her video and threatened to make it viral in case she told about this to anyone.She said the accused then demanded Rs20,000 from her. As she did not have enough money, she gave him Rs10,000.SI Ramandeep Kaur, Investigating Officer, said a case under Sections 376, 452, 323, 342, 506 and 511 of the IPC was registered against the accused and raids were on to arrest him. Randhir has been on the run and efforts were on to arrest him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-raping-wifes-sister-in-ajnala-village-298903
18-08-2021||---||3 held for murdering youth in Gharinda||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 17The Gharinda police have arrested three persons in connection with the murder of Yuvraj Singh, who was strangled to death in Khurmaniya village on Friday night.Kulwant Singh, father of the deceased told the police that Yuvraj went to meet his friends on Friday evening but did not return till late evening. At 10 pm, they called on his phone, which was switched off. In the morning around 7.30 am, Tarsem Singh, a panchayat member, informed him that Yuvraj’s body was lying in the house of village resident Satnam Singh. He said when they reached, they found him strangled to death.Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP Attari, said the police have arrested Sukhraj Singh of Khasa Bazaar, Rajinder Singh Raja of Khurmaniya and Gurkamalpreet Singh of Bhangali Khurd village.He said preliminary investigations reveal that the accused were friends of the deceased and he had given Rs15,000 to one of the suspects for procuring a mobile phone. He said they also had a quarrel over an affair with a girl. He said the accused were remanded in police custody and further probe was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-held-for-murdering-youth-in-gharinda-298902
18-08-2021||---||Amritsar MC seals 6 shops near Rambagh railway crossing||Amritsar, August 17The shops of defaulting tenants were finally sealed by the estate wing of the Municipal Corporation here on Monday.While taking action against them, a team led by Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh visited near the Rambagh railway crossing and six shops of tenants were sealed. The action was taken against those tenants, who had not paid their dues despite repeated notices issued by the estate wing.“A total of six shops were sealed during departmental action. Simultaneously, another team removed encroachments from the areas of Lawrence Road, Ram Bagh side, Hartej Hospital,” said Singh Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh said as per the directions of the Mayor and Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi such actions would be expedited in future to increase the recovery of the estate wing. He appealed to tenants, who have not yet paid the due rent of their shops, to deposit it at the MC office without any delay and avoid such departmental action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-seals-6-shops-near-rambagh-railway-crossing-298901
18-08-2021||---||Amritsar district reports 4 Covid +ve cases||Amritsar, August 17After four persons tested positive on Tuesday, the district Covid tally increased to 47,159. The new cases include three influenza-like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient.The district Health Department has also reported the recovery of eight patients with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,523. The district, at present, has a total of 43 active cases. Meanwhile, total 4,779 residents were inoculated during the ongoing Covid vaccination drive on Tuesday. Of these, 3,087 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 1,692 received the second dose.Tarn Taran district reports 1 death, two positive casesA person died while two tested positive for Covid in the district on Tuesday. The toll increased to 376. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said in the vaccination camps organised in the district, 3,082 persons were vaccinated on Tuesday. Total 2,71,385 persons have been given 3,36,196 dozes so far. The Deputy Commissioner appealed to all eligible persons to get themselves vaccinated. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-4-covid-ve-cases-298900
18-08-2021||Our Correspondent||935-gm heroin seized, three persons arrested in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 17The patrolling parties of the district police arrested three persons from different places and recovered 935 gram heroin from them.SSP Dhruman H Nimble informed newsmen here on Tuesday that the team of local anti-narcotics cell led by ASI Nirmal Singh arrested Manjit Singh of Sursing village with 450 gram heroin.The SSP said the team of the Patti city police led by Sub-Inspector Amandeep Kaur arrested Aman Kumar of Patti with 260-gram heroin and city police, Tarn Taran, arrested Satwant Singh of Vishnu Garden, New Delhi, with 225-gram heroin.The recovered consignment was worth Rs4.68 crore (approximately) in the international market.The accused were booked under different sections of the NDPS Act by the police station concerned on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/935-gm-heroin-seized-three-persons-arrested-in-tarn-taran-298899
18-08-2021||---||STF confiscates 3.12-kg heroin from Patti||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 17Acting on a tip-off, the Special Task Force has confiscated 3-kg heroin worth Rs15 crore in the international market from across the barbed fence in Patti, Tarn Taran area.In a statement issued here on Tuesday, Kuljit Singh, Assistant Inspector General, said the STF got specific input that Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Jhanjhia Kalan village, under Fatehgarh Churian police station, was involved in drug trafficking from across the International Border.Gurpreet Singh, who now resides in Tur village under Sarhali police station, was currently lodged in Amritsar Central Jail in a similar case. Following this, an STF team led by DSP Sikander Singh brought him on production warrant.His interrogation disclosed about a drug consignment concealed in a tractor battery, which was buried under ground near Kamalpura border village. The drugs were smuggled into the Indian territory by his Pakistan-based accomplices. The information was shared with the Border Security Force authorities and a search operation was launched at the designated place.The STF team recovered the battery having four packets concealed in it. The four packets weighing around 3.120kg of heroin was seized. A fresh case under the NDPS Act has been registered, said AIG Kuljit Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stf-confiscates-3-12-kg-heroin-from-patti-298885
18-08-2021||Chandigarh/Tarn Taran||Ex-minister Anil Joshi to join Akali Dal on Aug 20||Former Cabinet Minister Anil Joshi, who was expelled from the BJP last month, is all set to join the SAD on August 20.Confirming the development, Joshi told The Tribune his decision to join the Akali Dal was unconditional. “I have always served people, so I am joining without asking for any designation or assurance,” he said.Backing farm stir was right stepSupporting the farmers’ stir was a right decision. The laws must be repealed. We must listen to them and redress their grievances. — Anil Joshi, Ex-Cabinet ministerSources say Joshi is likely to be fielded by the SAD from Amritsar North in the Assembly elections slated early next year. Joshi has been elected twice from the seat. Several other leaders are also likely to join the party along with Joshi.Joshi, however, evaded questions about his “sour ties” with the Akali leadership during the SAD-BJP government (2012-17), when he held the portfolio of Local Bodies and Medical Education and Research. “I will speak about all the issues after August 20,” he said.Meanwhile, Joshi today met his supporters in Tarn Taran today and asked them to turn up in large numbers in Amritsar on August 20. There were reports that senior leader of the BSP would also attend the event. In his address, Joshi said: “I am a Punjabi, talk of Punjab and resolve all their problems.” Interestingly, SAD leaders have been using “Punjabi” in place of “Sikhs” in their recent addresses.Joshi reiterated his stand on the three farm laws, saying: “We must listen to them and redress their grievances.” He called his decision to support farmers’ agitation a right step and demanded repeal of the three laws.Joshi was expelled from the BJP last month for publically airing his views regarding the farm laws and criticising the state leadership. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-minister-anil-joshi-to-join-akali-dal-on-aug-20-298608
18-08-2021||---||Now, get tax rebate on SGPC donations||Amritsar, August 17After 37 years, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has been granted income tax exemption under Section 80G, enabling donors to claim rebate for donations in their returns.Sec 80G applicablePilgrims who offer ‘daswand’ (10th part of their income) for services of the SGPC can avail tax rebate under the I-T ActRelief after 37 yearsSGPC chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami, an advocate, said the SGPC had been struggling to get the recognition since 1984. “It was a long-pending demand, which has been fulfilled after several hiccups. Now, pilgrims who offer ‘daswand’ (10th part of their income) for the services of the SGPC can avail tax rebate under the Income Tax Act,” he said.The SGPC had filed an application with the Commissioner of Income Tax, Amritsar, for registration under Section 80G, but it was rejected in 2009 with a perception that the committee was a religious body working for a particular religion (Sikhs).The SGPC challenged the order and filed an appeal before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Amritsar. After 12 years, the case was heard and Judicial Member Laliet Kumar and Accountant Member Dr ML Meena of Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Amritsar, granted exemption under Section 80G in favour of the SGPC.The lawyers — senior advocate Prem Singh, Gunjeet Singh Syal and TS Aurora — convinced the jury that the SGPC was never created for the benefit of the Sikh religious community alone, but was in service of public at large as charitable activities were being provided without discrimination of religion, caste, creed, colour, sex and race.The four doors of gurdwaras (including Darbar Sahib/Golden Temple) open out in four directions to welcome all without any discrimination of class or creed. Similarly, the services of ‘langar’ (cooked food from community kitchen), medical aid and rescue arrangements, free vaccination and oxygen supply during the times of crisis were offered without discrimination, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-get-tax-rebate-on-sgpc-donations-298618
18-08-2021||Amritsar||Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s statue vandalised in Pak||A statue of 19th-century Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh was vandalised at the Lahore Fort in Pakistan today. The suspect is associated with the Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), an Islamic political party in Pakistan. This is the third time that the statue has been vandalised since 2019.MEA slams attackThe Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has lodged a protest with the Pakistan authorities. Talking to The Tribune, its president Satwant Singh said the accused, identified as Rizwan, had been arrested and would be liable to face the course of law.“The Pakistan authorities took prompt action and put him behind bars. Such elements try to vitiate the brotherhood between the Sikhs and Muslims and would never be tolerated,” he said. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur asked the Pakistan government to take exemplary action against the culprit.A 26-second video that went viral online showed Rizwan striking at the statue, breaking its arm, dismantling other parts and pushing the torso down to the ground. This statue was unveiled outside the Sikh Gallery of Lahore Fort on June 27, 2019, on his 180th death anniversary. Pakistan I&B Minister Fawad Chaudhry tweeted: “Shameful. These bunch of illiterates are really dangerous for Pakistan’s image in the world.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/maharaja-ranjit-singhs-statue-vandalised-in-pak-298619
18-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Pilot killed in helicopter crash cremated in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 17The mortal remains of Lt Col Abheet Singh Baath, pilot of the Rudra helicopter from the Army Aviation Squadron, were consigned to flames with full military honours at his native place Amritsar on Tuesday.On August 3, Lt Col Baath, along with Captain Jayant Joshi, had taken off from Mamun Cantonment on a routine sortie but it had crashed into the Ranjit Sagar reservoir, which is around 25 km long, eight km wide and more than 500 ft deep. The reservoir falls in J&K’s Kathua district and is about 30 km from Pathankot. Though 12 days later Lt Col Baath’s body was retrieved from the reservoir on August 15, search for the second pilot still continues.Lt Col Baath is survived by his mother, wife and a 13-year-old son. His brother lives overseas. Earlier, his body was flown in a helicopter from Pathankot to Amritsar Cantonment from where it was taken to his house in the Adarsh Nagar locality where relatives, friends and the residents paid homage to the departed soul. His late father Sarbjit Singh Baath had also served the Army.Col Kuldeep Singh Sandhu (retd), a neighbour of Lt Col Baath, said he was a gallant Army officer who had earned the commendation of the Chief of Army Staff and commendation card for bravery from the GOC of the Northern Command and stood first in most of the aviation courses he had done during the job.Before joining the Army in December 2002, he had studied from local Khalsa College. His body was found in the cabin at 75-metre depth and the entire wreckage of the helicopter was deep down, which is yet to be taken out.The fatal crash ensued one of the longest search operations in the recent history in which experts and equipment of not only Army, Navy and Air Force, but also of NDRF, SDRF, NGOs, state police, dam authority and private firms from across the country were deployed to locate the wreckage and retrieve the bodies.Wreaths were laid and an Army contingent presented the guard of honour at the crematorium. Apart from officials of the district administration, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla and councillor Vikas Soni were present during the cremation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pilot-killed-in-helicopter-crash-cremated-in-amritsar-298621
18-08-2021||---||4 hand grenades, 3 pistols seized in Batala||Tribune News Service Amritsar, August 17 Following the interrogation of two alleged associates of a UK-bsased terrorist group, the Punjab Police today recovered four hand grenades and three pistols along with three magazines and 30 live bullets concealed on the Dhariwal-Batala road near Suchetgarh village in Batala. Patrolling up: DGPThe DGP said vigil and patrolling had been intensified in border villages. Special security checkpoints had been set up near the border villages to check the movement of anti-national elements, he added.Amritpal Singh and Sammy were held on Sunday night with two hand grenades and a pistol along with four magazines and bullets. They are allegedly associates of a UK-based terrorist group led by Gurpreet Singh Khalsa, who is also wanted in the Shingar bomb blast case.DGP Dinkar Gupta, in a statement here today, said the search operation was carried out last night. Repeated seizure of explosives in the border belt raised concerns among the security agencies indicating that these were to be used to disrupt peace in Punjab. The DGP said following the development, the police added Sections 13, 16, 18 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the FIR. Earlier, the police had recovered a tiffin bomb with 2 kg RDX and five hand grenades along with 100 live rounds of 9-mm pistol. Later, a hand grenade was found in a garbage pile at Ranjit Avenue on August 14. The DGP said vigil and patrolling had been intensified in border villages. Special security checkpoints had been set up near the border villages to check the movement of anti-national elements, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-hand-grenades-3-pistols-seized-in-batala-298626
