19-08-2021||---||Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s statue vandalised in Pakistan: Action sought||Amritsar, August 18The Centre should pressurise the Pakistan government to restore the statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh which was vandalised by a few miscreants recently, said senior BJP leader and former health minister Laxmi Kanta Chawla while condemning the act.Chawla said the Indian government should send a delegation to oversee the restoration of the statue and other minority religious places in Pakistan. She said several incidents of attack on gurdwaras and temples have been reported from Pakistan, but PM Imran Khan has taken no action.Sikh body, Chief Khalsa Diwan, too, condemned the incident and demanded strict action from the Pakistan government. CKD president Nirmal Singh and other senior members said the Maharaja’s statue has been vandalised thrice in the past two years.Nirmal Singh said Maharaja Ranjit Singh had ensured equal respect for all religions besides freedom to believe in one’s religion during his reign. Many Muslims had rose to prominence in his role and he made offerings to Muslim shires liberally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/maharaja-ranjit-singhs-statue-vandalised-in-pakistan-action-sought-299256
19-08-2021||---||Canines a nightmare for morning walkers in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 18Despite repeated promises by the local Municipal Corporation to put a leash on stray dog menace, canines continue to trouble the residents, especially those who are out of their homes for an early morning stroll.While many do carry a stick to ward off the dogs, the joggers complained that packs of dogs can be seen sitting along the roads which makes it dreadful for them to walk around freely.“Sometimes, dogs fight among themselves and people feel scared. There should be efforts to check the stray dog population for which sterilisation is the best possible way,” said Rashmi, a visitor to the Company Bagh. Another jogger complained that dog poop is a big problem in public parks and lanes in localities. “Not only the stray dogs but also the pets kept by many in the city, are to blame for unkempt and unhygienic roads,” he said.While the MC authorities stated that a dog sterilisation centre is being constructed at Naraingarh, where it would be possible to sterilise 200 dogs per week, the residents do not see any hope as such claims have proven to be false during the previous years.The MC has proposed to sterilise a total of 5,000 dogs in the city at a cost of Rs 45 lakh. However, its previous attempts in the year 2017 and then again in 2018 had failed miserably. Even its idea to register pet dogs and use the funds collected thus for sterilisation campaigns had failed in implementation. In January this year, a four-and-a-half-year old girl was killed by stray dogs near Gumtala in the MC limits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/canines-a-nightmare-for-morning-walkers-in-amritsar-299255
19-08-2021||Amritsar||Habit-forming drugs recovered in Amritsar||Teacher Fest from Aug 26Amritsar: The Education Department will host a two-day district-level Teacher Fest at Meritorious School from August 26. Subject-wise winners of block-level contests will take part in this district-level fest. The winners will participate in the three-day state-level teachers’ fest to be held from September 1. Both competitions would be organised offline and different committees have been set up for their smooth conduct. Satinderbir Singh, DEO (secondary) said the winner from each subject would be given Rs5,100 for state level, Rs2,100 for district level and Rs501 for block level contest. TNS2,565 saplings planted in 10 daysTarn Taran: Kaar Sewa Sect, Khadoor Sahib, planted 2,565 saplings in four villages of Tarn Taran and Ludhiana districts in the last 10 days (from August 9). Simarjit Singh, in-charge of the drive, said the followers of the sect planted 125 saplings of 50 species on a small piece of land of Joginder Singh of Behla village, while 400 saplings were planted on the 2-kanal land of Sukhwinder Singh UK, of Bania village in Tarn Taran. The sect followers planted over 1,000 saplings on an acre land of Harjot Singh Sekhon of Killa Haans. In Rajoana village, 220 saplings were planted on 1 kanal land of Sukhwinder Singh Sekhon. The followers planted 420 saplings at Gurdwara Atari Sahib and 820 saplings at Rajoana panchayat land. OCSHGs to set up help centresAmritsar: The district administration has exhorted women self-help groups to set up their help centres in villages to create an environment for self-employment. Additional Deputy Commissioner Ranbir Singh Mudhal said such centres can provide services such as pensions, electricity bills, phone recharge, booking of railway and air tickets. He said the administration would provide training for such programmes to members of the self-help groups. Mudhal said a training session for such a group was organised on Wednesday. He said efforts were being made under the Rural Livelihoods Mission to help women in increasing their income. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/habit-forming-drugs-recovered-in-amritsar-299254
19-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||28 years on, abandoned Afghanistan refugees are waiting to get Indian citizenship||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 18A Pashto Sikh family here has been waiting to get the Indian citizenship even after 28 years of their migration from Afghanistan when a civil war broke out there.The family comprised Sardara Singh and Narinder Kaur and their three children. All three of them are now married. However, they have to apply for their visas every year in order to stay here in India.Shurbir Singh, A refugee from afghanistan who migrated to india in 1992The Ministry of Home Affairs’ Foreigners Regional Registration Office demands updated passports to extend our visas. This condition cannot be fulfilled without visiting Afghanistan. Having undergone the pain of being miserable and a refugee, my heart goes out to those Sikh families, who have taken refuge in a gurdwara and are awaiting help to be pulled out.All grown up, Shurbir Singh, who along with his parents, came from Afghanistan in 1992 is irked over the fact that the Ministry of Home Affairs’ Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) demands updated passports to extend their visas.He said this condition cannot be fulfilled without visiting Afghanistan. Now, a parent to two school-going kids, he is trading in tyres, with the help of his younger brother Arvinder Singh.He was then 10 years old when his family had to come here, leaving behind a shop and a house in Jalalabad.Narinder Kaur, Shurbir’s motherWhen most of the non-Muslims are fleeing the war-torn country, how can we go back to Afghanistan for a passport? I urge the Indian government to help the stranded Sikhs to return to their native country. We are being denied a permanent citizenship even after 28 years of our stay here. What happened to the Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens (NRC) that promised citizenship to the minorities of neighbouring countries?Visuals of the Taliban once again taking over Afghanistan revived memories of his childhood spent in Jalalabad. “We did not have enough time to even pack our bag of clothes. An Afghan military truck dropped us at Peshawar and the Pakistan government felicitated our crossover to India.”“Having undergone the pain of being miserable and a refugee, my heart goes out to those Sikh families, who have taken refuge in a gurdwara and are awaiting help to be pulled out,” he said.Coming back to the present situation, he said in the present circumstances, officials of the FRRO were asking him to get the passport updated.His mother Narinder Kaur said originally her family was a Pashto. She said: “When most of the non-Muslims are fleeing the war-torn country, how can we go back to Afghanistan for a passport?” She urged the Indian government to help the stranded Sikhs to return to their native country. She asked what happened to the promises of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) to grant citizenship to the minorities of neighbouring countries. She said they were denied permanent citizenship even after 28 years of their stay here.Despite repeated attempts, the passport office officials could not be contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/28-years-on-abandoned-afghanistan-refugees-are-waiting-to-get-indian-citizenship-299135
19-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||British-era hydropower plant in a shambles in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 18Despite investing lakhs of rupees in the restoration of British-era hydroelectric power generation plant of the holy city, the plant is still lying in a deplorable condition.A visit to the plant revealed that some portions of its tin roof are missing. They might have been blown away by strong winds. Kulwant Singh, a resident of Partap NagarThe power house has become a favourable spot for unscrupulous elements. The civic authorities after investing crores of rupees cannot leave the power house to its old fate. It should be opened for tourists at the earliest and a couple of cops should be deployed to guard it.The Municipal Corporation had placed it under the Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) to showcase it to tourists. The power house situated at the Tara Wala Pul on the Amritsar-Jalandhar GT Road was restored with an investment of Rs 60 lakh under HRIDAY over a year ago.However, the power house, constructed way back in the 1930s, continued to remain unattended resulting in its deterioration.Kulwant Singh, a resident of Partap Nagar, which is close to Tara Wala Pul, said the power house had become a favourable spot of unscrupulous elements. “The civic authorities after investing crores of rupees cannot leave the power house to its old fate. It should be opened for tourists at the earliest and a couple of cops should be deployed to guard it,” he said.It is said that the machinery for generating electricity was brought from Switzerland and the UK but most of these were not preserved due to the nonchalant attitude, he quipped. Despite repeated attempts, MC Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi did not respond.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/british-era-hydropower-plant-in-a-shambles-in-amritsar-299132
19-08-2021||---||Covid-19: Amritsar district reports 5 positive cases||Amritsar, August 18After five positive cases were reported in the district on Wednesday, the tally increased to 47,164. The cases include three influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of positive patients.The district health authorities have also reported the recovery of five patients, with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,528. The district, at present, has a total of 47 active cases.Meanwhile, total 10,713 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Wednesday. Of the total, 7,844 received first dose of the vaccine while 2869 received second dose.No death, case in Tarn TaranNeither any death, nor any positive case was reported in the district on Wednesday. The toll stands at 376 and there are 12 active cases of which 10 have been isolated at their respective homes. As many as 16,098 citizens were vaccinated in different camps organised on Wednesday. Total 2,84,294 persons have been given 3,52,294 jabs so far. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the Health Department teams collected 1,025 samples to be tested Covid-19 infection from different places on Wednesday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-amritsar-district-reports-5-positive-cases-299133
19-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||No takers for Amritsar Municipal Corporation parking lots||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 18It’s been several months, but the Municipal Corporation (MC) is hardly getting any bidder for its parking lots in the city.Reason: Change in payment rules to curb the parking mafia and Covid-induced lockdown.Earlier, bidders used to make a beeline to get the contract for the parking lots and most of them were mostly aides of local politicians, who used to wield their influence to provide the contract to them. However, the Covid-19 outbreak and e- tendering process are also major reasons for less number of bidders turning up, as contractors failed to recover their money during the lockdown and due to low footfall.The Municipal Corporation has marked 24 parking lots in the city, but had invited bids for 12 main parking lots. Earlier, two attempts to allot the parking lots failed due to less number of bidders. The MC then opened the third bid on August 8, but ironically, no one evinced interest in seven parking lots. A parking lot outside Amandeep Hospital is the only lot, where three bidders evinced interest. Otherwise, only one bidder responded to four parking lots each in Bhandari Bridge parking, Guru Nanak Bhawan parking, Macchi Mandi parking and Kairon market parking.Estate Officer Dharminderjeet Singh said: “The technical bid has opened and we found that bidders evinced interest in five parking lots. Now, we will open the financial bid and allot the lots. The process will be completed soon.”MC officials, however, claimed that Covid-19 was one of the main reasons for less number of bidders turning up. Now, the MC has been demanding 50 per cent of the contract amount in advance from successful bidders. Moreover, the contractor has to give bank guarantee of 25 per cent amount and also get the cheque for the remaining 25 per cent.Earlier, the contractor used to pay some amount in advance and start collecting the parking fee. They then started overcharging for parking vehicles and did not pay any amount to the MC. The MC had only one option left and that was to put the name of the contractor in the defaulters’ list but next time, the same contractor used to get the contract on some other aide’s name.Main parking lots||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-takers-for-amritsar-municipal-corporation-parking-lots-299134
19-08-2021||---||Birthday celebration takes ugly turn in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 18A birthday celebration took an ugly turn when a group of youngsters scuffled at a hotel restaurant on Circular Road leading to the death of two persons here on Wednesday evening.The deceased have been identified as Mani Sharma and Vikramjeet Singh, residents of Tarn Taran Road. The suspect who fired the shots has been identified as Mani Dhillon of Sultanwind Road. He was not invited to the party and had accompanied one of his friends.According to the information, around 25 youngsters were attending a birthday party of one Tarunpreet Singh at JK Classic Hotel near Ghala Mala Chowk. A verbal spat between some friends turned ugly, when they reportedly applied cake on each other’s face.The hotel staff said Tarunpreet had organised his birthday party and invited around 25 youngsters to the hotel in the evening. Most of them were from Tarn Taran Road and Sultanwind Road area. Around 6.45 pm, four persons embroiled in a heated argument. Some of them started pacifying them to control the situation. They went out of the restaurant. The hotel staff claimed that one person took out his gun and started firing in the air. Then, he targeted towards Mani and fired a gunshot. Mani fell on the floor and Vikramjeet also got hit with the bullet. The attacker left the spot within no time and others also fled. The hotel staff called the police and Vikramjeet, who was injured, was rushed to a nearby private hospital, where he died while undergoing treatment.A police team led by Assistant Commissioner of Police (ADCP) Sarbjeet Singh Bajwa reached the spot and initiated the investigation. The police collected the CCTV footage from the cameras installed inside the hotel. The police officials assured that the accused would be arrested soon. Some of them have been detained and further probe is on. The families of deceased and injured persons were informed about the incident. The police have identified one of the suspects and the statements were being recorded till the filling of the report.How it all happened||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/birthday-celebration-takes-ugly-turn-in-amritsar-299136
19-08-2021||---||Arms smuggled by Babbar Khalsa International: Cops||Amritsar, August 18Even as the police have been carrying out search operations in the border belt, the authorities said explosives were sneaked into the Indian territory on the directions of the Babbar Khalsa International (BKI).The Punjab Police recently confiscated 11 hand grenades besides a tiffin bomb and 2-kg RDX, which were reportedly smuggled through drones to this side of the border.Concerned over the repeated seizure, the police teams have been contacting residents of border villages, urging them to inform the cops whenever they noticed or heard movement of drones in the area.AMRITSAR SEIZURE.Various security and intelligence agencies have been interrogating two alleged operatives of UK-based terrorist Gurpreet Singh Khalsa, alias Gurpreet, identified as Amritpal Singh and Sammy, who were held on Sunday night with two hand grenades and a pistol. Yesterday, the police recovered four more hand grenades and three pistols along with magazines and live cartridges from Suchetgarh village area in Batala following their interrogation.Sources in the rural police privy to the investigation said it was the BKI that had designated Gurpreet to give logistical support and funding for carrying out such nefarious acts to disturb law and order in Punjab by targeting prominent persons and places.Amritpal came in contact with Gurpreet around four years ago and was allegedly tasked to associate more youths with him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arms-smuggled-by-babbar-khalsa-international-cops-299106
19-08-2021||GS Paul||Former BJP leader Anil Joshi’s entry to put Akalis in Catch-22 situation||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 18With former BJP leader Anil Joshi set to join the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday, the Amritsar (North) Assembly constituency has come in the spotlight. The SAD has already allocated the North seat, which Joshi won twice in the past and is keen to contest again, to its new ally BSP.Akalis would have to take the BSP into confidence and compensate it before deciding upon fielding Joshi from the constituency. Joshi, as Cabinet Minister (2012-17), had done a lot of work in the Assembly segment and was popularly called “Vikas Purush”.Meanwhile, senior BJP leader Master Mohan Lal came to meet Joshi at his residence yesterday but had to return disappointed as he was not there. Mohan Lal said he had come to convince Joshi to review his decision of joining the SAD. Joshi, on the other hand, has already started remobilising support. He said he was all set to join the SAD on August 20.No conditionsI want to contest the Amritsar (North) seat, but I am joining the SAD with no conditions. — Anil Joshi, Ex-cabinet minister“I could not deviate from my stand now. I believe that Punjab’s decisions should be taken in Punjab only and not in New Delhi. Only a regional party like the SAD could do that in my opinion,” he said.Nonetheless, it would be a triangular contest in the North constituency, a Hindu-dominated seat which is occupied by Congress’ Sunil Dutti, who had toppled joshi by around 14,000 votes in the 2017 Assembly elections.Though AAP’s newly inducted member ex-IG Kunwar Vijay Partap didn’t disclose his choice of seat, he is also likely to start his political innings from the North, if the regular meetings he has been conducting are any indication.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/former-bjp-leader-anil-joshis-entry-to-put-akalis-in-catch-22-situation-299097
19-08-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||CBI arrests FCI officer, Amritsar trader for wheat auction scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18The Central Bureau of Investigation has initiated an inquiry into the alleged “manipulation of wheat auction process” in the regional office of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) here. Two persons, including a senior officer of the food agency, have been arrested.It is alleged that the now-arrested officer, Gagan Negi, and an Amritsar-based trader, Ravinder Singh Bunty, were colluding to ensure that the latter gets the maximum percentage of wheat auctioned by the corporation each week in the Open Market Sale Scheme, in return for some gratification. The duo was arrested by the CBI sleuths from near a prominent mall here on Saturday when Bunty was reportedly here to hand over bribe to the officer.‘Demanded Rs 8L from Amritsar trader’Sources in the CBI told The Tribune that the activities of the officer and the trader were “under watch” for quite some time. “The arrested officer was showing undue favour to Bunty to get him FCI tender of Makhu; delaying special procurement of FCI at Patti; and delaying the inspection of Bunty’s business premises by FCI officers in order to give him sufficient time to remove disparity in his accounts,” alleges the FIR filed against the duo.The officer had allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs 2 lakh from the trader on four occasions between June and August, following which Bunty sought to him on August 14. It was at the venue of the meeting that the duo was nabbed.Sources said the trader had allegedly created multiple IDs to participate in e-auction of wheat. “There are allegations that the wheat that the trader was getting in the “manipulated e-auction” was being sold to flour mills in Jammu. It is a matter of investigation whether the small amount of wheat thus obtained by him in auction was a front to sell huge quantities of wheat that was embezzled from wheat stocks of procurement agencies elsewhere, to flour mills in Jammu,” a senior officer in the food department told The Tribune.Sources said the role of other FCI officers was being probed. The duo has been booked for criminal conspiracy and the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cbi-arrests-fci-officer-amritsar-trader-for-wheat-auction-scam-299101
19-08-2021||Amritsar||2 shot dead in Amritsar as altercation over birthday cake smearing takes ugly turn||Two people were shot dead allegedly by a man after an altercation in a birthday party here, police said on Wednesday.The incident took place in a restaurant located at Majitha Road here.A birthday party was given by Tarunpreet Singh, who had invited around 30 friends, said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik.A heated argument took place after some of them started smearing birthday cake on each other.Malik said it took an ugly turn when one of them took out his weapon and opened fire, killing two of them. Mani Suniara and Vikram Singh were taken to a nearby hospital where they were declared brought dead. Five among 30 persons who attended the birthday party have been rounded up for questioning and their two cars have also been seized. An FIR will be registered under relevant sections of the IPC, said police. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-shot-dead-in-amritsar-as-altercation-over-birthday-cake-smearing-takes-ugly-turn-299051
