20-08-2021||---||Double murder outside Amritsar hotel: Prime suspects booked||Amritsar, August 19Even after 24 hours, the police have failed to nab the prime suspects involved in the double murder of two youngsters outside the hotel on Wednesday. A video of the incident has also gone viral on social media.According to the police, different teams were conducting raids to nab them. The police have booked Mani Dhillon, a goldsmith, along with his brother Vikram Singh, both residents of Tarn Taran Road, and 10 unknown persons for the murder.Also read: 2 shot dead in Amritsar as altercation over birthday cake smearing takes ugly turnThe vicitms were identified as Munish Sharma and Vikramjit Singh. Munish’s brother and complainant Pardeep Kumar told the police that he worked at a gym situated on Circular Road.Pardeep said his brother told him that he along with Vikramjit Singh and Taranpreet Singh of Daburji village were going to a hotel located near Ghala Mala Chowk on Majitha Road to attend a birthday party. He also asked him to attend the party after gym.He said around 6.30 pm, he along with Vikramjit’s brother Simran Singh reached outside the hotel. He said they saw the accused thrashing Munish and Vikramjit.He said the accused took out a pistol and shot Munish in the head while Vikramjit sustained bullet injuries in the back. He said Munish died on the spot and Vikramjit succumbed at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik said the dispute happened as the accused rubbed cake on the face of the victims.Initial verbal spat turned violent and the accused shot the victims. He said the police teams were conducting raids and the suspects would be arrested soon.The police have been investigating into the legality of the weapon used in the crime. A case under Section 302, 148 and 149 of the IPC and under the Arms Act has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/double-murder-outside-amritsar-hotel-prime-suspects-booked-299674
20-08-2021||Amritsar||7 test positive in Amritsar district, no death reported||After seven persons tested positive on Thursday, the district tally increased to 47,171. The cases include five influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of positive patients. The district Health Department has also reported the recovery of three patients with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,531. The district, at present, has a total of 51 active cases. The district health authorities said 13,501 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Thursday. Of these, 9,117 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 4,384 received the second dose. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-no-death-reported-299675
20-08-2021||---||Nigerian among 2 held with heroin||Amritsar, August 19The Tarn Taran police have nabbed two drug peddlers, including a Nigerian, and recovered 630-gm heroin from them.They have been identified as Gurmel Singh, alias Gill, of Vishnu Garden Mangal Bazaar, Navyug Block, New Delhi, and Parthic, a Nigerian, who lives in a rented accommodation in Chander Vihar, Vikaspuri, Delhi. The arrest was made after the interrogation of Satwant Singh, alias Sabi, a resident of Baba Bakala, who was arrested by the Tarn Taran police three days ago with 225-gm heroin. He is also currently residing in Vishnu Nagar in New Delhi.During his remand, he told the police that he used to procure drugs from the duo and later supply it in different parts of Punjab. The duo had been living in Delhi on rent for the past couple of years.Gurbaz Singh, SP, PBI, said following the tip-off, the police teams raided the given addresses, but they were not located there. Later, the police teams through Satwant coordinated with the duo and asked them to supply heroin.“The two accomplices said they were in Punjab and could supply the contraband in the Tarn Taran area. Later, a trap was laid and both suspects were arrested,” said Gurbaz, adding that they were produced in court and brought on police remand for further probe.He said investigations were on to ascertain the links of the two drug peddlers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nigerian-among-2-held-with-heroin-299676
20-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran Home Guards jawan ends life, 3 booked||Shamsher Singh (32) (pic), a Home Guards jawan, committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance on Wednesday at his residence loacted in the Police Lines. Those booked for abetment to suicide include Harmit Kaur, wife of the vicitm; Manjit Kaur, mother-in-law; and Rhitik, a paramour of Harmit. The police said the vicitm had got the job under compassionate ground. Sources said his wife forced him to live separately from his parents. The police have arrested Harmit and Manjit while Rhitik is on the run. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-home-guards-jawan-ends-life-3-booked-299677
20-08-2021||---||Sale of tobacco goes on unabated in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 19While the sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products is prohibited within a 100- yard radius of educational institutions, vendors are flouting the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition) Act without any fear of law.Such vends can be seen near most of the educational centres in the city. Residents said the guidelines related to the sale of tobacco products should be strictly implemented.If increased number of cigarette vends is an indicator of consumption of tobacco products, then numerous awareness campaigns launched by the government and the NGOs have failed in their objective.Smoking at public places is a serious issue, but it cannot be checked by one or two departments. It requires huge manpower to check violation in the entire city. —A health officialApart from selling tobacco products near the institutes, , law also prohibits vendors to sell it to minors. However, at many of these vends, minors can be seen selling and purchasing tobacco products.The city was accorded a ‘smoke-free city’ status around nine years ago. As part of the initiative, all the government departments were given challan books to penalise violators at public places.Other than the Health Department and the Police Department, no other government office joined the cause.A health official said, “Smoking at public places is a serious issue, but it cannot be checked by a single or two departments. It requires huge manpower to check violation in the entire city.”As per the guidelines of the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition) Act, sale of tobacco products to minors and sale within the periphery of an educational institution is a criminal offence and offender could be jailed for upto seven years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sale-of-tobacco-goes-on-unabated-in-amritsar-299678
20-08-2021||---||Punjab Govt approves Rs 100 cr for infra projects in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 19In a major boost to development activities in Amritsar, the state government on Thursday approved Rs 100 crore for the city.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu today said the decision was taken during a high-level meeting held at Chandigarh in which he and Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla pushed ahead the agenda for an overall development of the city.Rintu said they had a fruitful meeting with Capt Amarinder Singh’s Chief Principal Secretary Suresh Kumar and senior authorities of the state government.“We are happy that the city will see various development activities and people’s demand has been fulfilled,” said Rintu.During the CM’s visit to Amritsar on the 75th Independence Day, the Mayor had taken up various issues related to public. “The CM had announced that they will release funds for the development of the city. The same has come true,” said Rintu.Funds approved would be used for the construction and relaying of roads, repair of Guru Nank Bhawan, upkeep of various parks, developing green belts, repair of Golden Gate, laying of sewerage, streetlights, water supply, south-eastern project, development and coverage of drainage along the bypass from Gumtala to Ram Tirath Road, including projects in south constituency. “We are thankful to the Chief Minister for providing funds,” he said.Development works to be undertakenFunds wills be used for construction and relaying of roads, repair of Guru Nank Bhawan, upkeep of various parks, developing green belts, repair of Golden Gate, laying of sewerage, streetlights, water supply, south-eastern project, development and coverage of drainage along the bypass from Gumtala to Ram Tirath Road, including projects in south constituency||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-govt-approves-rs-100-cr-for-infra-projects-in-amritsar-299679
20-08-2021||---||Tung Dhab to be made pollution-free: MP Gurjit Singh Aujla||Amritsar, August 19Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla claimed that Tung Dhab, which constantly figures in every discussion due to its pollution level, will be made pollution-free.“After the issue of Tung Dhab was taken up with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh during his visit to the city, Chief Principal Secretary Suresh Kumar held a high-level meet on Thursday. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, officials of the PWD and Local Bodies Department, among others, also participated,” said the Aujla.He said it was decided that all the departments concerned would work as a team and the issue would be resolved within two months.I have raised the issue of Tung Dhab in the Lok Sabha. When the Chief Minister came to my residence, I urged him to address the pollution related issue of Tung Dhab. I hope that a solution is found at the earliest. —Gurjit Singh Aujla, Lok Sabha MPHe said the Chief Principal Secretary also asked the reason for delay and clarified that the Chief Minister wanted to resolve this issue as soon as possible.Aujla said, “I have raised the issue of Tung Dhab in the Lok Sabha. When the Chief Minister came to my residence, I urged him to address the pollution related issue of Tung Dhab. I hope that a solution is found at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tung-dhab-to-be-made-pollution-free-mp-gurjit-singh-aujla-299680
20-08-2021||---||‘No shortage of fertilisers’||Amritsar, August 19Putting an end to rumours regarding the shortage of fertilisers necessary for wheat sowing, the officials of the Agriculture Department said farmers would not face any such problem as the government had made necessary arrangements.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Kuljit Singh Saini advised farmers not to believe in such rumours and indulge in panic buying and storing fertilisers. He said all agriculture inputs as fertilisers, seeds and pesticides would be made available to farmers on time.Dr Saini said farmers should look for signs of any disease or pests in their paddy fields but should not use fungicides or chemicals until the problem is causing a serious damage to plants. He said indiscriminate use of chemicals not only increases input cost but also results in polluting the soil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-shortage-of-fertilisers-299681
20-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Two missing boys traced to Amritsar||Tarn Taran, August 19The two teenaged boys who went missing from Khadoor Sahib on August 12 were finally traced to Harmandir Sahib, Amritsar, on Thursday.The boys have been handed over to their parents by Inspector Navdeep Singh, SHO, Goindwal Sahib police station.ASI Manjit Singh, Investigating Officer, said the boys — Princepreet Singh (15), a student of Class IX and Gurmel Singh (13), a student of Class VIII — went missing from Khadoor Sahib on August 12.They went to Amritsar, from where they reached Delhi by train and took shelter at Sheeshganj Gurdwara. The boys returned to Amritsar on Wednesday and took shelter at Harmandir Sahib. As the Goindwal Sahib police had put the photos of missing boys on social media, the sewadars of Harmandir Sahib found them moving about on the Harmandir Sahib complex and informed the Goindwal Sahib police and the police brought the boys to Goindwal Sahib and were handed over to their parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-missing-boys-traced-to-amritsar-299682
20-08-2021||Our Correspondent||AAP workers protest against city police||Tarn Taran, August 19Aam Aadmi Party’s workers led by Amarjit Singh Sandoa , Roopnagar MLA and Jai Krishan Rodi Garhshankar MLA demonstrated in front of the local city police station on Thursday against registering a criminal case against more than 50 party activistsA case had been registered under Sections 307, 160, 336, 283, of the IPC and 25,27,5,4 59 of the Arms Act after a clash in Muradpur with Congress workers.According to information, AAP volunteers led by Anju Verma, district chief of the women wing of the AAP led by her other associates had gone to Muradpur to deliver guarantee card (free power). The AAP leader called party leader Gurdev Singh Sandhu on the spot, who reached there with his armed workers.The police said the AAP leaders fired on Congress workers while AAP leaders alleged that workers of Congress fired at them and pelted stones.Inspector Jaswant Singh registered the case on his own statement against the AAP leaders.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale called the leaders of the AAP and assured them to register a cross case.Later, the dharna was lifted by the AAP activists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-workers-protest-against-city-police-299683
20-08-2021||A man sailing on two boats||A party with two engines||Former MLA Ashwani Shekhri, a senior Congress leader from Gurdaspur, who is known for his alliance with Capt Amarinder Singh, expressed satisfaction. Shekhri, who is a chairman of Punjab Health Systems Corporation, was in Patti to lay a foundation stone of a Mother-Child Ward at the Civil Hospital recently. Harminder Singh Gill, who represents the Patti constituency, managed the event. While addressing the gathering, Gill said we (Congressmen) we are a train with two engines. “Ours win is sure in the 2022 Assembly elections and we need not worry,” said Shekhri. A person in the gathering said what if the two engines pull the train in diffirent direction, which is the actual ground situation. Gill had faced this type of situation during the 2014 Lok Sabha Elections when he contested from Khadoor Sahib.In 2013, the AICC had appointed Partap Singh Bajwa as chief of the PPCC, and Capt Amarinder had opposed him. Gill left the Capt’s camp and joined Bajwa. In 2014, the Congress had appointed Capt Amarinder as PPCC president, who decided to contest the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from Amritsar. He assured Gill to accompany his cavalcade at the time of filing his nomination papers. Gill waited for hours with his supportes for Capt Amarinder, but he never showed up. At the end, Gill went on to file his nomination with a handful of supporters. This happens with a person who sails in two boats and similar is the situation this time for Congress MLAs.A man of rare qualitiesDr SS Lauhuka is among a few persons who is known across the region due to his public welfare activities. He has been elected as a councillor thrice in Tarn Taran. He is a parton of the Citizen Council , Tarn Taran. This social organisation has been solemnising mass marriages since 1990 every year. He is district chief of the All India Tonkkashtrya Sabha and also of the District Consumers Welfare Forum, which protects the interests of consumers.The district administration had nominated him as the member of certain committees with the police welfare. All these activities are his hobby. He is closely associated with LIC and was recently honoured with gold medal by the the latter for his social services. He always remain ready to help the needy, especially school students and provides them stationery.Endless wait for justiceThe custodial death of Pardeep Singh may be considered to be the rare of the rarest cases in the history of Indian judiciary. Pardeep Singh, a student of Class IX, was beaten to death by Goindwal Sahib police in the custody on December 22, 2001. The police alleged that he was ‘arrested’ with intoxicanting tablets and he died during interrogation. After facing resentment from residents, the police registered a case against cops for custodial death. Later, the case was cancelled for lack of ‘evidence’ and other loopholes. Joginder Kaur, mother of Pardeep, who has no source of income, came out on the road and filed a complaint in the court challenging the police theory. A social organisation ‘Pardeep Katal Kand Action Committee’ was formed with efforts of a Tarn Taran-based social worker, which helped Joginder. After years of hearings, the court had awarded 10-year jail term to Assistant Sub-Inspector Harbhajan Singh. Despite being declared a Proclaimed Offender (PO), Harbhajan, not just went on performing his police duty, but was also promoted as a Sub-Inspector by the Police Department. He retired with all the pension benefits. The voice of the Pardeep Katal Kand Action Committee went unheard. The committee had been demanding compensation for the family of the victim as per the orders of the court and locate the policemen who had been helping the PO all this while. The committee had written to the Deputy Commissioner regarding the same and the latter asked the Khadoor Sahib SDM Khadoor to take necessary action on June 12, 2019. The SDM prepared a report after more than one year and replied to the DC on July 10, 2020 expressing their inability to take action against the erring official. It’s yet to be seen how much more time it will take to deliver the justice to aggrieved family.Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-party-with-two-engines-299687
20-08-2021|| Amritsar||Photography webinar, competition organised by Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, GT Road, Amritsar||Odyssey Int’l Literary FestivalSpring Daleans brought laurels to their school when the school delegation lifted the overall Championship Trophy at the reputed Odyssey International Literary Festival organised virtually by City Montessori School, Lucknow.Spring Dale students won the Junior Championship Trophy as well the Overall Championship Trophy too. The school team won the same event when it was organised in the offline mode in 2019 too. School Principal Rajiv Kumar Sharma shared that the event was one of the most coveted fests where the children from the schools all across the globe rub their shoulders to win the event covering the skills like debate, drama, dance, monologue and poetry. He added that the delegation was trained by a combined effort of the team of teachers from creative arts, performing arts and English faculty of the school which stands as a testimony to the concept of harmonious development of the children while giving a due importance to the curricular and co-curricular aspects of learning.Fit India Freedom Run 2.0BBK DAV College for Women, Amritsar, organised Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 to commemorate 75 years of Independence, “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” by the Department of Physical Education and NCC wing. The run was organised under the guidelines of Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Government of India, with the purpose to encourage people to inculcate the habit of running or any other physical activity under the tag line of “Fitness ki dose, adhaa ghanta roz”. Almost, 30 sportswomen and NCC cadets of the college participated in the run. Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia, appreciated the efforts of sportswomen and NCC cadets of the college for making this run a success. She appealed to students to adopt a healthy lifestyle to face the challenges of pandemic era. Sweety Bala, Head, Department of Physical Education, Lt. Amandeep Kaur (ANO), Rajdeep Kaur were present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/photography-webinar-competition-organised-by-sri-guru-harkrishan-public-school-gt-road-amritsar-299688
20-08-2021||Amritsar||Man booked on rape charge||Two prisoners hurt in clashesAmritsar: Two prisoners were injured in separate incidents, when their fellow inmates attacked them inside the jail premises on Wednesday. Following separate complaints from Amritsar Central Jail authorities, the police have booked three prisoners identified as Shami, alias Raman, alias Kala; Rinku and Mandeep Singh of Brar village. Assistant Superintendent of the jail Amarjit Singh said Shami and Rinku attacked another jail inmate identified as Baldev Singh, alias Deba, with a sharp spoon in barrack number 5. Similarly, Mandeep Singh was booked for allegedly attacking another prisoner Raman Kumar who sustained injury on his eye. The Islamabad police have registered two separate cases under Section 52 of the Prisons Act against them. TNSApply online for admissions nowAmritsar: The online admissions to undergraduate and post-graduate courses in government colleges have started. The Deputy Commissioner said a portal for the same was launched by the government on Thursday. An event to attend the programme virtually was also organised at the District Administrative Complex. Gurpreet Singh Khaira, DC, said using the portal, students would now be able to apply in any government college in the state. He said students would no longer need to buy the prospectus of any college to which they wish to apply. Students would also be able to upload their documents and there would be no need for physical verification of certificates. The Deputy Commissioner said state government’s helpline 1100 would provide all non-emergency services to residents. He said the new services launched by the government were a step towards making of digital Punjab and helping residents immensely during the pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-on-rape-charge-299691
20-08-2021||GS Paul||Soldiers’ valour sculpted at Attari||Tribune News ServiceAttari, August 19Dedicated to India’s 75th Independence Day, an old guard post on the premises of the Attari-Wagah Joint Checkpost (JCP) has been transformed into a masterpiece of art, worth a watch.Chandigarh couple behind projectThe Indian armed forces have a tradition of unflinching loyalty, valour and sacrifice for the sake of the country in the line of duty. This intangible value and concept of Indian warriors was translated into a sculptural technique known as ‘relief’.Based on the theme of the Border Security Force, India’s first line of defence, and giving a special tribute to ‘mahila prehari’ (women solders), Bengaluru-based eminent visual artist and faculty of Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology, Narendra Raghunath, and FICCI FLO Amritsar chairperson Manjot Kaur Dhillon conceptualised and designed the project on paper.Chandigarh-based sculptor couple Gurpreet Singh Dhuri and Gagandeep Kaur Dhuri was commissioned to sculpt the idea. Ultimately, this ordinary four-wall room-like structure ahead of Swarn Jayanti Dwar, took the shape of a special installation having murals of soldiers, including women, denoting the Indian forces who brave adverse conditions in the battlefield. Around it, a beautiful leisure green belt with ornamental plants and trees was developed by the National Highways Authority of India at the JCP.“The women soldiers guard our nation under the same conditions as the men do. So, they should be celebrated together. And what better occasion than the 75th anniversary of our Independence when we pay tribute to our soldiers,” she said.The murals have been made up of fiberglass material. The murals, with fluorescent blue tinge having dark grey background on the wall, look lively on the walls. Gurpreet said, “Though no particular character was portrayed in the project, it was basically focused on the soldiers’ steadfast devotion to duty. Making the sculpture of armed forces in ‘relief’ mode was the first-of-its-kind projects at the Attari border.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/soldiers-valour-sculpted-at-attari-299568
