21-08-2021|| Amritsar||Gujarat Minorities Commission director meets SGPC president||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur met Bibi Paramjit Kaur Chhabra, director of Gujarat Minorities Commission and president of Sikh Foundation Gujarat, to discuss the work being done for the propagation of the Sikh faith in Gujarat.On this occasion Bibi Paramjit Kaur Chhabra invited Bibi Jagir Kaur to visit Gurdwara Guru Nanak Darbar Lakhpat in Kachchh district of Gujarat. She told SGPC president that there was need for holy saroops (scriptures) of Sri Guru Granth Sahib in various Gurdwaras in Gujarat, and sought the arrangements to be made to arrange the same. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gujarat-minorities-commission-director-meets-sgpc-president-299993
21-08-2021||---||1,267 farmers from Amritsar district get debt relief of Rs 1.98 crore||Amritsar, August 20The Punjab Government’s scheme to waive the debt of landless farmers and farm labourers of cooperative societies has launched in the district today. Under this scheme, 1,267 landless farmers and farm laborers of 41 cooperative societies of the district were given debt relief of Rs 1.98 crore.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, during a state-level function at Ropar, has given a debt relief of Rs 520 crore to the landless farmers and farm labourers. Under this, 2.85 lakh farmers of the state have got the benefit.Taking part in a virtual function at the District Administrative Complex here today, Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria lauded this unique initiative and said the debt relief scheme launched by Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was a golden age for the farmers of the state. He said this would alleviate the problems of the farming community.Sarkaria said 1,267 landless farmers and farm laborers of 41 societies in the district have received relief of Rs 1.98 crore. He said 398 farmers of 16 cooperative societies of Ajnala were given Rs 72.88 lakh, 45 farmers of Amritsar East given Rs 4.13 lakh, 38 farmers of Amritsar South got Rs 3.02 lakh and 103 farmers of four societies of Attari received 9.61 lakh. Rs 37.7 lakh to 318 given to farmers of nine societies of Jandiala, Rs 26 lakh to seven farmers of Majitha and Rs 70.79 lakh to 362 farmers of nine cooperative societies of Rajasansi.Tarsem Singh DC, MLA, Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Deputy Commissioner, Dilraj Singh Sarkaria, Chairman, Zila Parishad and Dr Bhupinder Singh jointly handed over the checks to the beneficiaries from each constituency. The farm workers, who were present on the occasion, stated that the initiative taken by the government was commendable and would provide much relief to the labor community most affected by the Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-267-farmers-from-amritsar-district-get-debt-relief-of-rs-1-98-crore-299995
21-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Vidhan Sabha body to monitor status of Smart City projects in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 20The Committee of Punjab Vidhan Sabha Secretariat, constituted regarding the issues of the Local Government, asked senior officials of Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA), Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) and the Smart City to submit documents and status report of various projects being conducted under the Smart City in a meeting called on August 24 in Chandigarh.Manjeet Singh, nodal officer of the Local Government Department, wrote to Commissioner MC, Executive Officer AIT and Superintending Engineer Operation and Maintenance to attend the meeting personally along with the official record.The officials of the Local Government Department stated that the committee would check the status of ongoing projects under the Smart City project in Amritsar. The committee will also review the recently allotted tender of tube-wells by the Municipal Corporation, in the meeting. The status report of recently allotted tenders of Rs 33 crore by Amritsar Improvement Trust will be scrutinised by the Vidhan Sabha Committee on the Local Government issues. Similarly, the committee will also check the status of AIT’s recently allotted Rs 70 crore projects through e- tendering.The officials of the MC and AIT have been asked to present all records related to these projects and tenders. According to the information, there were reports of fake firms, which reportedly succeeded to get work from the MC and AIT by filling tenders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vidhan-sabha-body-to-monitor-status-of-smart-city-projects-in-amritsar-299997
21-08-2021||Our Correspondent||MLA Dharambeer Agnihotri highlights schemes for welfare of students in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 20Students of the local Sri Guru Arjun Dev (SGAD) Government College with outstanding performances in different fields were honoured at a function organised in the college campus on Friday. MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri was the chief guest on the occasion.The chief guest while addressing on the occasion highlighted the schemes of the state government for providing better facilities for the higher education. He called the students away from the coping in the exams to be perfect in their bright future.Dr Harwinder Singh Bhalla, Principal of the college, presented progressing report of the college and demanded grants for the beautification of the college playground. College teacher Dr Karanjit Kaur conducted the stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mla-dharambeer-agnihotri-highlights-schemes-for-welfare-of-students-in-tarn-taran-299989
21-08-2021||---||Renovation of Gurdwara Shaheed Bunga begins in Golden Temple, Amritsar||Amritsar, August 20The renovation of Gurdwara Shaheed Bunga, a memorial of Shaheed Baba Deep Singh located in the Golden Temple was started today after the bhog (culmination) of Sri Akhand Path.Earlier, Bhai Sukhjinder Singh, hazuri raagi of the shrine connected the gathering with gurbani kirtan. Ardas was offered by Bhai Sultan Singh and the holy Hukamnama was recited by additional head granthi of Sachkhand Sri Harmandar Sahib Giani Jagtar Singh Ludhiana.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “There was a long-standing demand of the sangat for the renovation of the holy shrine of Shaheed Baba Deep Singh,” said Bibi Jagir Kaur. She said the family of Colonel (retired) Balbir Singh Sarhali would make a financial contribution to this service being rendered by the SGPC. She said Shaheed Baba Deep Singh had an important place in the history of Sikhs who sacrificed his life to stop the desecration of Golden Temple.SGPC President Bibi Jagir Kaur welcomed the lifting of the ban on wearing kirpan (one of five Kakaars of Sikhs) by Sikh students in schools in New South Wales (NSW), Australia.In the recent past, the NSW government in Australia had banned wearing of kirpan by Sikh children in government schools of the state, which was strongly opposed by the Sikh community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/renovation-of-gurdwara-shaheed-bunga-begins-in-golden-temple-amritsar-299992
21-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran SSP’s wife shares nuggets of information with police job aspirants||Tarn Taran, August 20Shweta H Dhruman, wife of Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman H Nimbale, has been helping out the students preparing for the advertised posts in the Police Department by giving free coaching to the desirous candidates for the past one month here.The aspirants come to gurdwara at the Police Lines everyday in the evening from 3 pm to 5 pm where Shweta Dhruman gives them coaching voluntarily. All this was being done with the efforts of some of the social activists working in the Police Department. As many as 400 boys and girls seek coaching here.She also trains students in building self-confidence and believing in themselves. She also tells them about the ways to work on their concentration levels. She said teaching was her hobby and she used to work for the downtrodden in Gujarat too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-ssps-wife-shares-nuggets-of-information-with-police-job-aspirants-299990
21-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Punjab govt employees stage protest over their demands in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 20Hundreds of the state government employees, under the banner of the Punjab-UT Mulazam and Pensioners Sanjha (Joint Front) organised a protest march and took out a rally in front of the District Administration Complex (DAC) on Friday, stressing on their current demands.The employees of the Deputy Commissioner, SDMs, tehsil offices with ministerial staff of all departments came to the rally en-masse. Employees from the departments such as education, health, irrigation, revenue, finance, etc. also participated in the rally. The women employees too attended the rally in large numbers.Workers of the ASHA, anganwari workers and the helpers of the mid-day-meal workers were among the workers present to express their demands.Sukhpreet Singh Pannu, district president of the front, Sukhwinder Singh Sandhu, Angrej Singh, Karwinder Singh Cheema, Balkar Valtoha, Nachhatar Singh, Gurpreet Gandiwind, Anoop Kaur Balehar, Seema Sohal were among the representatives of the organisations who addressed on the occasion. The recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission were highly condemned by all leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-govt-employees-stage-protest-over-their-demands-in-tarn-taran-299994
21-08-2021||Amritsar||Four booked for snatching in Amritsar||Two vehicle lifters heldAmritsar: The Amritsar rural police have arrested two alleged vehicle lifters identified as Kuldeepak Singh and Gurpreet Singh, both residents of Kajikot village. The police recovered a motorcycle without number and a country- made weapon from their possession. The police said on specific input, a checkpoint was set up, near Chhajalwaddi village. When they were signalled to stop, the duo tried to reverse the bike, but fell down. They were arrested and during their search, the weapon was confiscated. They also could not produce any documents of the bike. TNSYouth held with illegal weaponAmritsar: The Jandiala police have nabbed a youth identified as Manmohit Singh of Taragarh Talawan and recovered a country-made pistol from his possession. According to police, he was nabbed near Dharad village. He was coming on foot when on seeing the police party he tried to flee in the fields. He was arrested and during search an illegal weapon was seized from him. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against Manmohit. TNSOne booked for cruelty to animalAmritsar: Following a complaint by an NGO, the Sadar police have booked Mohit Kumar of Fatehgarh Churian under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. Shalini, a member of the People for Animals, told the police that she got a complaint that the accused had kept a dog on the rooftop of his house and its health condition was worse. She said she along with the police party reached the house and found the dog in terrible condition. She came to know that the accused had brought her only for breeding. She took the dog into her custody and got her treated through the NGO. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-booked-for-snatching-in-amritsar-299999
21-08-2021||---||Covid-19: 15 fresh cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 20The health authorities reported 15 new cases in the district on Friday. With this, the tally reached47,186. The new cases include nine influenza-like illness cases and six contacts of positive patients.The authorities reported no Covid-19 related death today. The Health Department reported recovery of nine patients with which the recovery count has increased to 45,540.At present, the district has a total of 57 active cases.A total of 4,664 residents were vaccinated today. It took the total number of inoculated people in the district to 8,87,178.One case in Tarn TaranThe authorities reported one new Covid-19 case in the district on Friday. No Covid-19 casualty was reported today in the district and the toll stands at 376. The district has 13 active cases were and 11 of them have been isolated at their homes. DC Kulwant Singh said the Health Department collected 1,415 samples today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-15-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-299988
21-08-2021||---||Regular drone movements from Pakistan side keep BSF, Punjab Police on toes||Amritsar, August 20Regular movements of drones from Pakistan side has kept the Border Security Force (BSF) and Punjab police on toes. Search operations have become a regular feature in the border belts following the inputs of movements of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) which were being used by anti-national forces in the neighbouring nation for pumping in explosives and drugs.“We have been receiving information regarding siting or noticing of movement of drones in the border villages on every second or third day,” said the Amritsar rural police, Senior Superintendent of Police, Gulneet Singh Khuranna while talking to The Tribune here on Friday.Following the seizure of hand grenades, tiffin bomb and RDX from the border belt, there has been a high alert along with 90-km border that falls in the Amritsar district. “The Punjab police is working as second line of defence and we are leaving no stone unturned to ensure safety and security of the people,” he said.New plans were being executed to curtail the movement of Indian accomplices of Pakistan based anti-national forces including Khalistani organisations who with the support of ISI was trying to sneak in explosives, arms and ammunition besides heroin to this side of border. During recent meeting with Border Security Force (BSF) authorities we have been giving emphasis to nab their accomplices in this side of border, said SSP.Police remand extendedMeanwhile, the local court today extended the police remand of Amritpal Singh and Sammy by four days. They were recently arrested by the police with hand grenades and pistols on August 15.Amritsar police may bring ISYF operatives on production warrantFollowing the seizure of Tiffin Bomb and arms by the counter intelligence in Kapurthala from two persons, the police may bring them on production warrant for interrogation. “Tiffin bomb and explosives seized in Kapurthala have similarity with those seized from Daleke-Beharwal border villages recently. After the CI completes their investigations and send the duo to jail, we will definitely bring them for interrogation in our case also,” said the SSP.The Punjab Police on Friday busted a major terror module by arresting two alleged key militant operatives of International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF), a banned terror outfit, and recovered a huge cache of live grenades and a tiffin bomb, along with pistols and ammunition from them. They were identified as Gurmukh Singh Brar alias GB, resident of Hardyal Nagar and Gagandeep Singh. The explosives and weapons were allegedly part of larger consignment dropped by drones from across the Indo-Pak border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/regular-drone-movements-from-pakistan-side-keep-bsf-punjab-police-on-toes-299987
21-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria acquitted in 16 cases for ‘lack of proof’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 20Raising a question mark on the investigations carried out by the Punjab Police, notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, has been acquitted in 16 criminal cases allegedly due to the ‘lack of evidence’ till date.One of the major reason is that the witnesses in these cases turn hostile due to fear of the gangsters. They also threaten the complainants who do not pursue the cases further. A senior police officialBhagwanpuria has around 50 cases registered in different police stations, including that of murder, attempt to murder, the Arms Act and the NDPS Act. Of these, 13 cases were registered in Amritsar alone. Ironically, he has been convicted by the court only in one case of the NDPS Act while he has been acquitted in 16 cases.This has raised many eyebrows as to why the investigations carried out by different agencies of the Punjab Police have failed to convince the courts in pronouncing conviction.The police investigation is usually riddled with loopholes and they fail to prove the charges levelled against Bhagwanpuria. In a case related to seizure of 7-kg heroin, he was acquitted by the court. He was framed on the statement of an accused while he was lodged in the jail during the confiscation of the said contraband. Amandeep Singh Pahwa, Bhagwanpuria’s legal counselA senior police official on condition of anonymity said one of the major reason was that the witnesses in these cases turned hostile due to fear of the gangsters. They also threaten the complainants who do not pursue the cases.He has been convicted in only one case of the NDPS Act in which he was pronounced 10 years of rigorous imprisonment in January 2020. He is currently lodged in Tihar Jail. Bhagwanpuria’s legal counsel, Amandeep Singh Pahwa said, “The police investigation is usually riddled with loopholes and they fail to prove the charges levelled against Jaggu. Sometimes, he’s apparently framed for the crime.”“In a case related to seizure of 7-kg heroin, he was acquitted by the court. He was framed on the statement of an accused while he was lodged in the jail during the confiscation of the contraband,” he said. The police had failed to substantiate their claims in the court.Bhagwanpuria is one of the dreaded gangsters of Punjab. Though he was lodged in jail, his name has been figured in many criminal cases in the recent past. Recently, he purportedly took the responsibility of killing another notorious gangster and his rival Ranbir Singh alias Rana Kandowalia at a private hospital on Circular Road. Tejbir Singh, Kandowalia accomplice was also injured in the firing while one of the shooter also sustained injuries.In a social media message, he warned his rivals of similar fate while taking the responsibility of the murder. He was also booked in the Kandowalia’s murder. He would be brought on the production warrant from the Tihar Jail in next couple of days for interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/notorious-gangster-jaggu-bhagwanpuria-acquitted-in-16-cases-for-lack-of-proof-299983
21-08-2021||---||Food Civil Supplies employee lands in soup as video goes viral in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 20Days after bungling of around 87,000 quintals of government wheat from eight godowns in Jandiala Guru allegedly by Inspector Jasdev Singh, the functioning of the Food and Civil Supplies Department has once again come under scanner after a video of an Assistant Food and Supply Officer with a truck of government wheat allegedly parked at a private floor mill went viral.Mohanjit Singh, AFSOThe video seems to be tampered with and I don’t know when it was made. It’s an attempt to malign my image. I will file the complaint and ask my senior officials to conduct a probe.Though the AFSO, Mohanjit Singh, has denied the allegations and said it was an attempt to defame him and that he would file the complaint, besides asking his senior officials to conduct a probe.In the video, a man can be seen repeatedly asking Mohanjit about the presence of truck laden with government wheat inside a private floor mill. However, the AFSO can be seen evading the person and later he ‘fled’ from the mill, located on Loharka road.“The video seems to be tampered with and I don’t know when it was made. It’s an attempt to malign my image,” said Mohanjit.Rishi Raj Mehra, Controller, District Food and Civil Supply, said the video was not ‘reliable’ or authentic and we have not received any complaint in this connection. “If we get any complaint, we will hold a probe in the matter,” he said. We don’t know how old the video is or where it was shot, he said.Earlier, Mohanjit had courted controversy when a woman had accused him of harassment and manhandled him. Later, Parvinder Kaur, was booked by the police.Mohanjit had alleged that it was a conspiracy by his companion in the department who was later suspended.The department had came under scanner after 87,000 quintals of wheat worth Rs 20 crore in eight godowns in Jandiala was found missing. The pilferage came to light when Inspector Jasdev suddenly disappeared. Later, the government had suspended five officials and a charge sheet was filed against 10 officials for the lapse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/food-civil-supplies-employee-lands-in-soup-as-video-goes-viral-in-amritsar-299986
21-08-2021||---||Farmers’ stir: Passengers left stranded at Amritsar railway station||Amritsar, August 20Passengers commuting on trains were left high and dry after the rail traffic came to a halt on Amritsar-Delhi railway line due to the blockade by farmers in Jalandhar cantonment.The Indian Railways informed that movement of trains came to a grinding halt on the busy railway line after 4 pm, however, Shan-E-Punjab and Amritsar to Dibrugarh had already departed from the railway station and had to stop before reaching Jalandhar cantonment.Amritsar-Delhi Shatabdi, which departs at 4:50 pm, Amritsar-Chandigarh Intercity Express, which departs at 5:25 pm, Chattisgarh, which departs at 4:10 pm, Howrah Mail, which departs at 6:25 pm, Frontier, which departs at 7 pm, Amritsar to Haridwar, which departs at 9:25 pm and Amritsar to Jaipur were lined up at the Amritsar railway station.Prabhjot Singh, who had to reach Delhi for a business meet, said his trip stands cancelled and it would cause hiim an immense loss.Train services affectedAmritsar-Delhi Shatabdi, which departs at 4:50 pm, Amritsar-Chandigarh Intercity Express, which departs at 5:25 pm, Chattisgarh, which departs at 4:10 pm, Howrah Mail, which departs at 6:25 pm, Frontier, which departs at 7 pm, Amritsar to Haridwar, which departs at 9:25 pm and Amritsar to Jaipur were lined up at the Amritsar railway station||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-stir-passengers-left-stranded-at-amritsar-railway-station-299985
21-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Mini bus operators block airport road for 7 hours in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 20The commuters heading towards Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport were a harried lot as traffic was disrupted by the Mini Bus Operators’ Association on Friday for more than seven hours.For the convenience of tourists, the authorities had started plying Metro buses between Gheo Mandi and Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, on August 16.Due to the protest, the commuters had to take alternate routes, which were long and uncomfortable.Parampreet Singh, a resident of Batala, said, “I came to see off my relative at the airport, but the road blockade made matters worse for us.”He said they had to take help from locals and they reached the airport just on time after crossing several villages and navigating through link roads.Protesters said the Metro bus service would hurt them financially. They said Metro buses cannot be plied beyond Meerankot Chowk as the Amritsar Municipal Corporation’s jurisdiction ends there.Baldev Singh Babbu, chief, Mini Bus Operators’ Association, said, “This decision has reduced income of 60 mini buses, which ply on this 24-km long stretch between Amritsar and Guru Ka Bagh. On this stretch falls Gheo Mandi and the airport link.”He said a total of 90 buses, including 60 mini buses ( each having seating capacity of 32 passengers) and big buses (each having seating capacity of 52 passengers) ply on this stretch.Babbu said, “Metro buses are comparatively big and can accommodate 60 passengers.”He said they lifted their dharna for some time to give passage to the commuters heading to the airport. He said they lifted the dharna at 2:30 pm following intervention of the administration and the police.ACP (Traffic) Gurmeet Singh reached the spot to pacify the protesters who relented only after their meeting was fixed with Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira.Later, a six-member delegation of the association met with the DC, who assured them that a meeting would be held to discuss their demands.The delegation said if their demands were not met before August 25, then they would be compelled to protest outside the residence of MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, who had flagged off the Metro bus service on this route.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mini-bus-operators-block-airport-road-for-7-hours-in-amritsar-299984
21-08-2021||---||Ex-BJP minister Anil Joshi joins Akali Dal||Chandigarh, August 20In a blow to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a battery of its leaders led by former minister Anil Joshi and former BJP MLA Sukhjit Shahi joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Anil Joshi termed the development as a major boost for Hindu-Sikh unity and sign of an exodus from the BJP, which is facing flak in the state over the farm laws.Badal announced that Joshi had been appointed senior vice-president of the party and would be fielded from the Amritsar-North constituency as the joint SAD-BSP alliance candidate. The seat was allocated to the BSP when its alliance with the SAD was announced earlier.Joshi had earned fame by installing the tallest pillar to hoist the national flag near the Attari border. Known as a firebrand speaker, Joshi had criticised the party over its stubborn attitude on farm laws. The BJP had expelled him last month.Sujanpur municipal committee president Raj Kumar Gupta also joined the SAD. He was appointed the vice-president of the party and would be fielded as the joint SAD-BSP alliance candidate from Sujanpur.Other leaders who were inducted into the SAD today and given key posts include former Dasuya legislator Sukhjit Kaur Shahi, BJP state working committee member Kamal Chatly and former Ludhiana Deputy Mayor RD Sharma. Former BJP youth wing president Mohit Gupta was appointed the general secretary.Terming the induction of senior BJP leaders into the SAD fold as a historic event, the SAD president said, “I will forfeit my life but won’t let peace and communal harmony of Punjab be destroyed at any cost.”Joshi said he was forced to take the extreme step of quitting a party which he had nourished because the BJP turned a blind eye to the genuine demands of farmers. “Even our state leaders misled the central leadership,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-bjp-minister-anil-joshi-joins-akali-dal-299918
