22-08-2021||Our Correspondent
||Tiny tots express love with hand-made rakhis||Tarn Taran, August 21 Students of various schools in the district celebrated Raksha Bandhan festival with fervour and recalled old traditions of Punjab culture on Saturday. Goindwal Sahib Guru Amar Dass Adarsh Institute’s students dressed up for various competitions related to the festival such as rakhi making, card making and thali decoration. Students of every grade participated enthusiastically in these events. Principal Manisha Sood said: “The festival must be celebrated with emotions of respect so that its sanctity remains forever and our generations remain attached to our culture.” Director Jatinderpal Singh Randhawa gave away prizes to position-holder students at the competitions.  Students of Chabal Sri Guru Harkrishan Public Senior Secondary School while celebrating the festival presented a cultural programme. The dignity of a bond between a brother and sister was depicted in the songs and poems presented by the students. Principal Urminder Kaur, in her address, called the students to be more aware of old cultural traditions. Gurcharan Kaur, Principal of local Mamta Niketan School, said the students while celebrating the festival in a one-act-play presented the cultural heritage of Punjab. They also took a pledge of not cheating in the exams, said the principal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tiny-tots-express-love-with-hand-made-rakhis-300550
22-08-2021||---||Three of women’s hockey Olympic team honoured||Amritsar, August 21The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandak Committee (SGPC) on Saturday honoured three Indian women hockey team players from Haryana, who participated in the recent Tokyo Olympics.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur presented Rs 5 lakh cheques each to Navjot Kaur, Navreet Kaur and Rani Rampal. She said though the women hockey team failed to get a medal, their performance was laudable and it had raised the hopes that the team would do better in the next Olympic and world championships.The SGPC president added that the former coach of the three players from Haryana, Baldev Singh was presently training players at a hockey academy run by the SGPC. She said the SGPC had been helping hockey players and other athletes get proper training and guidance at the institutions run by it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-of-womens-hockey-olympic-team-honoured-300551
22-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Students excel in BEd exams||Tarn Taran, August 21Students of Shri Guru Angad Dev College of Education, Khadoor Sahib, proved their mettle in BEd (Semester III). Dr Simarpreet Kaur, principal, Shri Guru Angad Dev College of Education, said Pawandeep Kaur obtained 77.42 per cent and ranked first, Sandeep Kaur and Muskaan ranked second and third with 77 per cent and 76.28 per cent, respectively .The principal said seven students obtained distinction marks while 18 others achieved above 70 per cent. A total of 29 students appeared for the exams. The institution is being managed under the patronship of environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, head, Kar Sewa Sect Khadoor Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-excel-in-bed-exams-300552
22-08-2021||---||Farmers meet arhtiyas, demand smooth procurement of produce||Amritsar, August 21Vegetable growers from the district today met arhtiyas at Vallah sabzi mandi over the issues being faced by farmers in selling their produce. They stated that farmers were being charged fee for their vehicles at the entry point which is against the rules.Vegetable Growers’ Association president Lakhbir Singh Nizampura said: “The biggest issue faced by farmers these days is regarding the purchase procedure of ladyfinger crop.” He said the commission agents do not disclose the purchase price until the produce has already been loaded on trucks. “After the trucks are loaded, the farmers are offered very low prices but are left with no other option to accept it. We have asked the arhtiyas to ensure that the purchase price is disclosed at the time of weighing the produce, after unloading it from farmer’s vehicle,” he said.Another farmer leader Karnail Singh said encroachments inside the market were also a major issue as farmers often get stuck in traffic jams. “If the traffic flow is normal, one can easily get free in an hour but due to traffic, we have to spend hours, which results in loss of working hours at farms.”The farmers also asked the arhtiyas to ensure cleanliness at the market in view of public safety. “The produce from the market reaches masses and if it gets contaminated, this can be a cause of big trouble for many,” said Nirmal Singh.The farmer leaders stated that a national convention would be held at Singhu border on August 26 and 27 in which farmers, workers and trade union leaders from across the nation would participate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-meet-arhtiyas-demand-smooth-procurement-of-produce-300553
22-08-2021||---||This ex-serviceman motivates farmers to adopt DSR technique||Charanjit Singh TejaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 21Gurbinder Singh Bajwa of Sarchur village near Fatehgarh Churian has written a success story by motivating thousands of farmers in the state to adopt directed seeded rice (DSR) during the past few years.Bajwa was one of those farmers, who had associated with the Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, and initiated direct sowing of paddy in 2009. In 2011, Gurbinder had met with an accident and got spinal injury. However, when he resumed farming after some years, he resorted to direct seeding of rice.“In March 2020, when migrant labourers started returning to their homes after Covid outbreak, farmers got worried about sowing activities. I then wrote a blog on Facebook that paddy can be sown without labourers too. I shared DSR techniques there, of which someone prepared a pdf file and circulated on WhatsApp. It got viral and hundreds of farmers used to call me daily for advice. A significant rise in the area under direct seeded rice was also witnessed. The technique also helps in saving water,” said Bajwa.“This year, I have prepared another document to address the challenges of DSR techniques. I have elaborated on the preparation of fields, seeding techniques and weed management. Thousands of farmers have used the technique. I have shared some video messages and farmers from Pakistan and Nepal also connected to get details of the technique. I get so many phone calls every day and am not able to attend them all. Now, I have created a YouTube channel and Facebook page to assist farmers in chemical-free farming and marketing of various crops,” added Bajwa.An ex-Army man, Gurbinder Singh Bajwa, left his job in 1997 to pursue his dream to be an agriculturist. In the following two decades, he set himself as a successful farmer and established a cooperative group of farmers too. The group got registered under the name of Young Progressive Farmers’ Producers Organisation in 2015. Not only this, he also established an Implement Bank, with other farmers, which lends farm tools to others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-ex-serviceman-motivates-farmers-to-adopt-dsr-technique-300554
22-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Teenage girl abducted||A Class IX teenage girl of Government High School, Amishah (Khalra), was abducted by two masked bike-borne persons on her way back home recently. ASI Satnam Singh said on the complaint of the victim’s father had been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teenage-girl-abducted-300555
22-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Now, MC to maintain BRTS infrastructure||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 21Though the Amritsar Municipal Corporation is not willing to operate Metro buses under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) , the maintenance of roads and infrastructure will be a liability of civic body.In a recent meet, the state government sanctioned Rs 25 crore for the maintenance of roads and existing infrastructure. Earlier, it was the responsibility of the Public Works Department (PWD) to maintain the BRTS corridor and roads, which were in pathetic condition.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said poor condition of the BRTS corridors gave a wrong impression to those visiting the holy city. “Residents are not aware that which government body is liable for the maintenance, but they generally blame the MC for deteriorating infrastructure of the BRTS. We have asked the government to provide funds to civic body for the maintenance. Those BRTS lanes, where defect liability period is remaining, will remain with the PWD, while remaining will be maintained by the MC,” said Rintu.Earlier, the MC had cleaned the golden top and walls of the Golden Gate and repaired its lights in February. The Golden Gate is also under the jurisdiction of the PWD. Now, the government has sanctioned funds for the maintenance of the Golden Gate to the MC. The Mayor claimed that civic body would also take care of green belts alongside the BRTS lanes.It’s pertinent to mention that the Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), a wing of the Local Government Department, had taken over the BRTS from the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) in October 2020, but the Amritsar MC was unwilling to operate the Metro bus to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-mc-to-maintain-brts-infrastructure-300556
22-08-2021||---||RTI activist rues substandard wheat supply||Amritsar, August 21Another controversy erupted today when hundreds of bags of wheat in Pungrain godown in Nangali village were found damaged and substandard wheat was allegedly being distributed to ration depots under the Atta-Dal scheme.The incident came to light when an RTI activist Varun Sareen along with media persons reached the godown after getting a tip-off that inferior quality wheat were being filled in the bags to be distributed under the scheme. Thousands of quintals of rotten wheat was allegedly being packed for the public distribution supply.Assistant Food and Civil Supply Officer Mohanjit Singh and custodian in-charge inspector Jagwinder Singh, reached the spot after the issue was raised with the higher authorities but they could not give satisfactory answers to media queries. They said the matter was in the knowledge of the authorities and appropriate action will be taken.Food and Civil Supply Director Abhinav Trikha has also marked a probe to Deputy Director Rajnish Kumar.Sareen alleged that the government wheat, procured during the season, was sold in black to flour mills and the bags were later filled with substandard and inferior quality wheat. He urged the Chief Minister to get the matter probed by the CBI as several unscrupulous elements in connivance with the officials of the department were playing with the lives of people. He also demanded registration of an FIR against the officials concerned for the lapse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rti-activist-rues-substandard-wheat-supply-300557
22-08-2021||---||Farmers’ stir: Rlys cancels 22 trains, passengers stranded||Amritsar, August 21Disruption of trains due to the ongoing farmers’ protest on Jalandhar-Phagwara road over mounting sugarcane dues and low State Advisory Prices (SAP) have left passengers high and dry on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan.The Indian Railways cancelled as many as 22 trains originating from Amritsar for different destinations on Saturday. At least 10 trains bound for the holy city were also cancelled.Major trains which were cancelled today included Amritsar-Chandigarh, Amritsar-Dehradun, Amritsar-Mumbai, Amritsar-Saharsa, Amritsar-New Delhi, Amritsar-Nanded, Amritsar-Lalkuan, Amritsar-Haridwar, Amritsar-Bandra and Amritsar-Jaynagar Express.The authorities said the general public has been asked to plan their travel with caution and they were trying to make passengers aware of the cancellation or trains.The passengers were seen making frantic enquiries at the Amritsar railway station.Varinder Sharma, a resident said, “My sister was to visit us from Delhi on Raksha Bandhan. She had to cancel her plans at the last moment due to the farmers’ agitation.”He said the protesters should take into account the inconvenience caused to others. Such protests should be avoided during festivals as it causes resentment among the general public, he said.Another passenger complained that the Indian Railways had not commenced trains, which were halted during the second wave. “Now, more trains have been cancelled. It will increase passenger rush manifold on other modes of public transport,” he said.A senior Railways official said, “All efforts were made to ensure that halted trains reach their their destinations via diverted routes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-stir-rlys-cancels-22-trains-passengers-stranded-300558
22-08-2021||---||HC stays production warrant of gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria||Amritsar, August 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed production warrant orders of notorious gangster Jagdeep Singh alias Jaggu Bhagwanpuria, who is lodged at the Tihar Jail.Plea in the high courtOn August 10, the Court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class) had issued the production warrant of Bhagwanpuria for August 23. He was to be interrogated for killing another notorious gangster and his rival Rana Kandowalia, who was shot dead by armed assailants at a private hospital on circular road in Amritsar.Kandowalia’s family in their statement to the police had held Bhagwanpuria responsible for the murder along with several other persons.In a message on social media, Bhagwanpuria had claimed the responsibility of Kandowalia’s murder and even warned his rivals of the same fate.Challenging the order in the high court, Bhagwanpuria had claimed that the incident occurred on August 3 while he was at the Tihar Jail. He had expressed ‘extreme apprehension’ to his life and well-being. He feared that the investigating agency could eliminate him in a fake encounter while there was no evidence to link him with the case.The high court in its order issued on Friday stayed the operation of the impugned order till the next date of hearing. However, the court pointed out that the state can interrogate the petitioner (Bhagwanpuria) at the Tihar Jail after obtaining proper warrants from the competent authority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hc-stays-production-warrant-of-gangster-jaggu-bhagwanpuria-300559
22-08-2021||---||4 catch virus in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 21With four positive cases reported on Saturday, the total number of cases in the district has increased to 47,190. All the new cases are influenza like illness cases. The authorities reported no Covid-19 related death in the district today.The Health Department reported recovery of nine patients. With this, the total recovery count has increased to 45,549. The district has a total of 52 active cases.Meanwhile, a total of 15,019 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive today. Of these, 10,672 received their first dose, while 4,347 received the second shot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-catch-virus-in-amritsar-district-300560
22-08-2021||Our Correspondent||No case reported in Tarn Taran district||Tarn Taran, August 21The health authorities reported no positive case and Covid-19 related death in the district on Saturday. A total of 376 residents of the district have lost their lives to the pandemic so far. The district has 13 active cases and 11 of these patients have been isolated at their homes.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the Health Department collected 1,114 samples from different places in the district today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-case-reported-in-tarn-taran-district-300561
22-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||ECHS scam: Another hospital in the dock||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 21Close on the heels of the Defence Ministry disempanelling seven hospitals and a laboratory in Amritsar for their alleged involvement in the Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) scam in which huge amounts of government funds were bungled on the basis of fake medical claims, the police have booked an owner of a private hospital on similar charges.Dr Ranju Nanda of Jeevan Jot Hospital has been booked for fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy following a complaint by Brigadier MD Upadhyay, Station Commander (Headquarters), Amritsar Cantonment.According to information, the ECHS cell of the Amritsar cantonment received a complaint against Jeevan Jot Hospital alleging that the hospital authorities raised fake bill or forged diagnostic reports of beneficiaries (six ex-servicemen). Following this a court of inquiry was ordered. On the recommendations of board of officers, a complaint was forwarded to the police for registration of an FIR against the hospital authorities.Dr Nanda has been accused of showing fake admission of Manjit Kaur, mother of Havildar Dilbagh Singh, from August 30 to September 9, 2019, and again from April 12, 2020 to April 24, 2020.Brig Upadhyay pointed out that the accused was found to be involved in raising false claims on forged diagnostic reports of six ex-servicemen beneficiaries identified as Pargat Singh, Piar Kaur, Kashmir Kaur, Jasbir Kaur, Dharam Singh and Amrik Singh.The Sadar police have registered a case under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC against Dr Nanda.In October 2020, a similar scam surfaced and the Cantonment police had booked 24 persons, including doctors, hospital owners of six private hospitals, besides several ex-servicemen following a complaint by Brig Upadhyay. More than 200-page report was submitted to the police. Around 12 persons were arrested while the remaining procured interim bail from the high court.The hospitals and the lab which were de-empanelled in June included Verma Hospital, Neelkanth Hospital, Life Kare Hospital, Gupta Multi-specialty Hospital, Akashdeep Neuro Trauma and Multi SS Hospital, Madaan Hospital and Nijjar Scan and Diagnostic Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/echs-scam-another-hospital-in-the-dock-300562
22-08-2021||Amritsar||Unauthorised construction on govt land halted||A team of the Estate Wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation led by estate officer Dharminderjeet Singh demolished an under construction illegal structure near Gate Hakima here today.  Estate wing officials said some mischievous persons were trying to occupy the land illegally. On a tip-off, a team of the MC officials reached the spot and the work was halted. Bricks, cement and sand was seized by civic body. The Estate Officer said under the directions of the Mayor and Commissioner, action was being taken against those trying to occupy government land illegally. He appealed to the city residents to not indulge in such activities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unauthorised-construction-on-govt-land-halted-300563
22-08-2021||---||Punjab Police foil major heroin smuggling bid along Indo-Pak border in Amritsar||Chandigarh/Amritsar, August 21In an intelligence-led operation based on specific inputs, the Amritsar Rural Police foiled a major drug smuggling bid by Pakistan-based smugglers on Saturday morning by recovering 39 packets of heroin, weighing 40.81 kg, in the Panjgraian Border Outpost (BOP) area of Amritsar worth about Rs 200 crore in the international market.The above operation was supported by the Border Security Force (BSF) as it was carried out in the border area under the control of the BSF.Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said that following an input that Nirmal Singh alias Sonu Mayer, a notorious smuggler of Gharinda area, was attempting to smuggle heroin through the Indo-Pak Border, SSP Amritsar (Rural) Gulneet Singh Khurana immediately shared the inputs with the BSF. He added that in the meanwhile, a police team comprising DSP Investigation Gurinderpal Singh and DSP Ajnala Vipan Kumar also reached the spot to work with the BSF for nabbing the drug smugglers and seizing the heroin.The DGP said that the joint teams of Punjab Police and BSF successfully seized the huge heroin cache besides recovering 180 gram opium and two plastic pipes (manufactured by Super Punjab Pump, Made in Pakistan). The police have also impounded a motorcycle and a Scooty belonging to the smugglers.“The police have launched a manhunt to arrest Sonu, who is also wanted by the Tarn Taran police in case of 1 kg heroin recovery in 2020,” said SSP Khurana, adding that investigations were on and all the accused persons were likely to be arrested soon.Sharing the modus operandi, SSP Khurana said that the smugglers used Pakistan-made plastic pipes to get the heroin across the border fence in the shape of neatly tied packets of heroin contraband.An FIR under Sections 21, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act, Section 14 of the Foreigners Act and Sections 3, 34, 20 of the Indian Passport Act had been registered at Police Station Ramdas, Amritsar, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-police-foil-major-heroin-smuggling-bid-along-indo-pak-border-in-amritsar-300173
