23-08-2021||Amritsar||Pak national repatriated||Man killed in road accidentTarn Taran: Two motorcycles collided on Tarn Taran–Jandiala Guru road on Saturday near Mallia village. As a result, a person died in the accident. The vicitm has been identified as Lakhbir Singh (42), a resident of Fazalpur. Lakhbir was going to Behla village when he met with the accident. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital in a serious condition where he breathed his last. Kulwinder Singh of Malia, who was driving the other motorcycle, has been booked under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC. Kulwinder fled from the spot after the accident. OCDist reports 7 positive casesTarn Taran: Amritsar: With seven positive cases reported on Sunday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,197. These cases include six influenza-like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient. The Health Department has also reported recovery of four patients with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,553. The district at present has a total of 55 active cases. A total of 1,624 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Sunday. Of these, 1,102 received the first dose of the vaccine, while 522 received the second dose. Meanwhile, Tarn Taran district reported no death due to Covid on Sunday. The death toll is 376. The number of active cases has reduced to 13 while 11 persons have been isolated in their homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the teams of the Health Department collected 529 samples from different places and the report of 333 samples is yet to be received. TNS/OCBike robbed at gunpointTarn Taran: Two-masked men robbed a motorcycle from Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Thakarpura village, on Saturday at gunpoint on Patti road. The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh and Kuldeep Singh Lada, both residents of Kajikot Khurd. The duo managed to fled away with the motorcycle. The victim was heading towards the playground for practice. The accused have been booked under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pak-national-repatriated-300953
23-08-2021||Open House||Increase fund allocation, create stadiums in each district||Give free education to players’ wardsYes, the Central and respective state governments are supporting players. The governments should encourage the players by offering them more rewards, prizes and monetary appreciations if they win medals in 2024 Paris Olympics. Secondly, they should offer players government jobs so that the players are enthused to take maximum medals in the next Olympics. Last but not the least, the governments should provide free education for wards of outstanding players.Sanjay ChawlaAsking for the moonIndia’s performance at the Tokyo Olympics, though, the best of the past ones, puts us in 48th place among the participating nations. It is enough to tell how much our government is doing to support players and games. To take India to the top-10 in the medal tally at the 2024 Paris Olympics is to ask for the moon. Rome was not built in a day. To make Olympian, years of rigorous and scientific training is required with the best coaching techniques with the latest equipment and world-class infrastructure. Can we expect a network of AstroTurfs, swimming pools, gymnasiums, playing grounds/courts in our villages, towns and tribal areas in a couple of years from where most of our present Olympians hail?Hira SharmaPolitics must be rooted out from sports bodies There is an urgent need to invest in sportsMedals won decide the supremacy of any country in the field of sports in Olympics. Indian sportspersons have shown a promise and potential in the recently concluded Olympic Games. The Central Government’s initiative of Khelo India two years ago was a step in the right direction. But it takes years of toil and perspiration in preparation for a stellar performance to bring medals. Our sportspersons show all physical and mental attributes such as perseverance, tenacity, never say die attitude and skills which make an Olympic frame of mind. But there is a dire need to provide infrastructure of the Olympic level, investment and proper incentives to the players to ensure their peak performance. Rigorous and persistent full time training including climatic acclimatisation, proper nutrition and rest, regular honing and testing of skills, talent hunt, recruiting former Olympians as coaches and sports psychologists, creating world class facilities, are the areas which demand state governments’ attention besides allocation in sports budget. We should also stretch interest in sports from school to the level of the college.Anil KhannaQUESTIONWith over 100 trains cancelled and a large number of people stranded in Jammu due to the farmers’ indefinite protest in Jalandhar, shouldn’t the farmers think of alternative ways to air their dissent without making the public suffer?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (August 26)Long-term strategy needed to bag medalsWe should not take short-term measures to increase our medal tally in Olympics but to plan long-term strategy to achieve this goal. Children from schools should be picked up for different games and given proper training and nutritious diets for healthy growth. In the early 60s, then Chief Minister Punjab Partap Singh Kairon established Pandit Moti Lal Nehru School of Sports at Rai in Sonipat district with sports facilities of Olympic standard. He was a great visionary leader but afterwards we never heard of any such sports school anywhere in the country. What to ask about the sports facilities in schools, now even private schools are opening up in congested residential areas. In good old days educational institutions such as Khalsa College were established with numerous grounds for games like hockey and football.Naresh JoharCorporates should contribute to sportsWhatever little we have achieved in sports is due to efforts of Central and State Governments or individual players, who mostly belong to poor families. Not even a single participant in such international games comes from corporate houses. Big corporate never contribute for sports except Cricket which is not an Olympic sport. They liberally donate to political parties to fight elections but never for the cause of sports. On the pattern of corporate social responsibility, a similar mandatory provision should be made for corporate contribution for sports. Secondly, all state governments should take a lesson from Haryana government which gives substantial amount in form of cash rewards for winners of national and international games. This is a great incentive to athletes coming from poor families. It is rightly quoted in an article in the Tribune that Indian sport is powered by the poor. Haryana government provided such facilities to sportspersons. See the results, 24 per cent of country’s athletes in Tokyo Olympic were from Haryana whose population is just 2.1 percent of country’s population.Harsh JoharMaintain existing infrastructureSports came naturally to the Punjabi youth. The government has been formulating various schemes such as Khelo Punjab etc., but they failed to yield desired results. In November, 2011, in the run up to the 2012 Assembly elections, the then deputy CM had laid foundation stone of International-level sports stadium just adjacent to Anand Amrit Park at Ranjit Avenue, Amritsar. In the last 10 years, the site has deteriorated to a garbage dump and no one in the government is ashamed of it. The governments have altogether different priorities and development of sports and sports persons is only up to the level of lip service. Priorities of governance must change. However, individual sportspersons will continue to shine despite lack of support.Abhiraj Singh BajwaEmulate initiatives taken by Odisha govtNo doubt we have done well at the Tokyo Olympics but we can do much better, if we emulate Odisha Government like initiatives at state and national levels. Tokyo has seen India score its biggest ever medal haul of 7 but rank only 48 in the overall tally. To great extent excellent performances of Indian hockey men and women is due to Odisha Government which had set up excellent sporting infrastructure in Bhubaneswar, where top tournaments were held and national teams were sponsored by it. When it comes to hockey, the focus has been on the performance of men’s team, which in the last few decades couldn’t find any place in Olympics. However, their 2020 Tokyo Olympic performance which led to the end of over four decades of drought is praiseworthy. Indian women hockey team’s accomplishment of reaching the Olympic semifinals for the first time by defeating Australia is an important one in its journey.LJS PanesarReal talent exits in small townsIndia had to wait for over four decades to win an Olympic medal in hockey in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. Neeraj Chopra made the nation proud by winning the first gold medal in javelin throw. There are many others in the Indian contingent, who did their best to keep the country’s standard high. Yet, what took so long for the country to bag an Olympic medal in hockey? Though the government knows how to welcome them back home after their remarkable win in the Olympics, India obviously lacks the infrastructure to groom budding talent in different sports. The little that is available in the name of facilities is exclusive to metropolitan cities, though a majority of the country’s sporting talent exists in small towns and rural areas.Shaheen P ParshadPPP reason for good performanceIndia capped off its best-ever performance in the Olympics 2020 with a haul of seven medals, including a gold. Indian Men’s hockey team finally ended their quest to earn an Olympic medal in Tokyo, as the young side claimed a bronze medal, defeating Germany in a tense battle. The manner, in which the players carried themselves on the pitch, shows us that the best of Indian hockey is yet to come. Public/private partnership is responsible for India’s seven medals and India’s medal quest was supported by corporates. The Target Olympic Podium Scheme or TOPS was launched in 2014 under the aegis of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports.Parampreet KaurCreate better facilities in the countryThe best-ever performance by India at this year’s Olympics show that the government has provided good facilities this year vis-a-vis previous years. But the fact is that Neeraj Chopra had to train overseas to win the gold medal in Javelin throw. It is a good thing that the government has invested heavily in his training by providing monetary support. If all these facilities are created in our home country, many more athletes will be able to benefit from it. There was a provision of creating an athletics track in the GNDU, but it could not see the light of day, ultimately affecting the players’ performance.Jatinderpal Singh BatthTap raw talent in rural areasMuch has been said and printed on the unprecedented achievements of our players and athletes, women and men, who represented India at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics concluded recently. They are getting hero’s welcome and a red carpet reception everywhere. Fine. They earned it. They deserve it. However, it cannot be gainsaid that by and large, the sports culture as such is totally absent in our country. You hardly ever see a Hockey or Football ground abuzz with players. There are no inter- class or inter-school matches. Javelin and discus are foreign to our boys. Only some highly informed parents groom their wards for individual sports. Regarding governments, they aspire after medals but usually without a matching economic support. In this connection, much can be learnt from the Odisha Government which had taken up the responsibility of training, feeding and housing our men’s Hockey team. The results are before us. A similar policy should be visible in other states too, if better performance and more medals are expected at Paris, only three years away. All boils down to more grounds, more tracks, more coaches and more recognition. Universities and colleges such as GNDU, Khalsa College, Amritsar, and DAV, Jalandhar, are replete with talent.Mohan Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/increase-fund-allocation-create-stadiums-in-each-district-300952
23-08-2021||---||Bikram Singh Majithia comes in support of cane farmers||Amritsar, August 22Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia today demanded the sugarcane state assured price (SAP) be increased to Rs 380 per quintal, all pending dues of cane growers be released and also asked Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu to ensure its implementation. The SAD leader, who had come here to pay his obeisance at the Gurdwara Baba Bakala Sahib on the occasion of Rakhar Punia.The SAD leader said the Rs 15 per quintal rise in cane SAP was not acceptable to farmers. “We assure cane growers that in case the government does not increase the SAP on sugarcane to Rs 380 per quintal, we will do so once the SAD-BSP alliance government is formed in the state”.Other leaders present on the occasion included Guljar Singh Ranike, Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal, Virsa Singh Valtoha, Harmeet Singh Sandhu, Vir Singh Lopoke, Manjit Manna, Baljit Jalalusma, Amarpal Ajnala, Talbir Gill and Gurpartap Tikka.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bikram-singh-majithia-comes-in-support-of-cane-farmers-300951
23-08-2021||---||Newly-appointed Police Commissioner Vikramjit Duggal joins office in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 22Newly-appointed Police Commissioner Vikramjit Duggal today sought people’s coordination in maintaining law and order in the city. He replaced Sukhchain Singh Gill, who has now taken over as Commissioner of Police in Jalandhar. He held a meeting with senior police officials while formally joining his duty at his office.Police jawans also presented him a guard of honour before he joined his duties.“A citizen should consider himself a cop in the civil dress while the policemen should consider themselves a civilian in police uniform. This would help in having better cooperation and coordination between police and public and deterrent against criminal elements,” he pointed out.On repeated incidents of firing and gang wars, he said, though the government had managed to nail majority of gangsters, remaining would also be behind the bars soon. He said those who took law into their hands would also be dealt with an iron hand.“I am fortunate to serve the holy city twice. First as the SSP Amritsar rural and now as Police Commissioner, Amritsar city,” he said. He said being a major tourist destinations, it has its own challenges including traffic snarls. He said he also tried to address this problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/newly-appointed-police-commissioner-vikramjit-duggal-joins-office-in-amritsar-300950
23-08-2021||Gurbaxpuri||Incessant rain damages crop in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 22The non-stop rain caused remarkable damage to early varieties of paddy and vegetables in different parts of the district on Sunday.The authorities recorded 2mm rainfall in Tarn Taran, 3 mm in Khadoor Sahib and 22mm in Patti.The administration failed to provide information of Gandiwind, Chohla Sahib, Bhikhiwind, Khemkaran, Valtoha and other areas.Chief Agriculture Officer Kuljit Singh Saini said crop on 20 hectares was destroyed in Naushehra Pannuan and 27 hectares in Chohla Sahib. However, farmers challenged the claim of the Agriculture Department and said the crop loss was much higher.Yadwinder Singh of Palasaur village said early paddy variety on his 15 acres was badly damaged.Similar was the position of hundreds of other farmers who take three crops in a year in Khadoor Sahib, Fatehabad, Kang ,Naurangabad and Dinewal. Vegetable crops, too, sufered extensive damage due to the heavy rain today.Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu, a farm leader, urged the authorities to conduct special girdawari to access crop loss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/incessant-rain-damages-crop-in-tarn-taran-300949
23-08-2021||---||National Hand Surgery Day today: ‘Rapid treatment minimises effects of injury’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 22With many people, especially industrial and farm workers, losing or injuring their hand due to accidents while working on machines, need is felt for educating health workers and general public about the treatment options for preventing disability.As the National Hand Surgery Day will be observed on August 23, a private hospital is organising a series of events to spread awareness on the issue.Dr Ravi Mahajan, Chief Plastic, Microvascular and Reconstructive Surgeon at Amandeep Hospital, would be delivering a talk on ‘Management of Hand Injuries’ to hand surgeons of Odisha at a webinar organised by AIIMS, Bhubaneshwar.Dr Mahajan, who is president of the Indian Society for Surgery of Hand (ISSH), said, “Rapid and accurate initial evaluation and treatment can minimise the long-term effects of the injury. Therefore, it is important to spread awareness about the kind of first-aid that must be given to a patient suffering from a hand injury, before he can be treated by a hand surgeon.”He added that those health workers responding at the accidents sites should be trained for controlling blood loss, splinting at the site of accident and the need for immediate medical care. A series of interactive sessions with rural medical officers and industrial workers have also been scheduled in the coming week, he added.Dr Amandeep Kaur, director of the hospital, said, “The role of quality healthcare and competent doctors is crucial to saving the lives of those injured. Any form of disability can deeply impact an individual’s life.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/national-hand-surgery-day-today-rapid-treatment-minimises-effects-of-injury-300948
23-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Seizure of tiffin bomb, hand grenades: ‘Suspect works as a sleeper cell for BKI’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 22Amritpal Singh, an alleged operative of the banned militant outfit Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), came in contact with the UK-based Gurpreet Singh Khalsa, when he went to New Zealand in 2015.This revelation came to light during the interrogation of Amritpal and Sammy, who are currently in the police custody. The duo was arrested by the Amritsar (rural) police on August 15 with two hand grenades and a pistol.A day later, his interrogation had led to the seizure of four hand grenades and three pistols along with magazines and bullets on Dhariwal-Batala road near Suchetghar village in Batala.Senior Superintendent of Police Gulneet Singh Khuranna said Amritpal was working a sleeper cell for the BKI. Khalsa was passing instructions to him. Khalsa, who was the suspect in Shingar bomb blast case in Ludhiana, had fled to the UK after being acquitted by the court.A police official privy to the investigation said Amritpal used to live in Mullanpur in 2015 when he got influenced by the separatist movement. Later, he went to New Zealand, where he came in contact with Khalsa.The police have been looking into Amritpal’s contacts abroad, besides looking at his financial transactions, which may have been used in unlawful activities.Recent seizures have left the security and intelligence agencies perplexed. On August 8, the police had confiscated a tiffin bomb with 2-kg RDX and five hand grenades from Daleke-Beharwal border village, which were dropped by drones. On August 14, a hand grenade was found in a garbage pile in Ranjit Avenue area. On August 15, the police nabbed Amritpal and Sammy with two hand grenades and a pistol and later their interrogation led to seizure of four hand grenades and three pistols.A tiffin bomb was also recovered from Gurnam Singh Brar alias GB, a resident of Hardyal Nagar (Kapurthala), and Gagandeep Singh. The explosives and weapons were allegedly part of larger consignment dropped by drones from across Pakistan-based notorious elements. The police have been trying to find a link between all the recent seizures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seizure-of-tiffin-bomb-hand-grenades-suspect-works-as-a-sleeper-cell-for-bki-300947
23-08-2021||---||Farmers’ stir: 13 trains cancelled from Amritsar Railway station||Amritsar, August 22In the wake of the ongoing ‘rail roko’ agitation near Jalandhar by the farmer unions, the Railways cancelled 13 trains scheduled to be operating on Monday. These trains are 02014 Amritsar to New Delhi, 02026 Amritsar to Nagpur, 02029 New Delhi to Amritsar, 02030 Amritsar to New Delhi, 02053 Howrah to Amritsar, 02054 Amritsar to Howrah, 04068 Amritsar to New Delhi, 04537 Amritsar to Nangal Dam railway station (NLDM), 04538 NLDM to Amritsar, 04561 Chandigarh Railway station (CDG) to Amritsar, 04665 New Delhi to Amritsar, 04666 Amritsar to New Delhi and 04692 Amritsar to Nanded Railway station (NED).Many trains stood cancelled and passengers were a harassed lot in the wake of the railway line blockade.The movement of trains came down to a fraction as only four trains arrived from outside and an equal number of them diverted from the local railway station.Four trains, namely Amritsar to Bandra Terminal, Amritsar to Chhattarpati Shivaji Terminus, Amritsar to Howrah and Amritsar to Mumbai Central were today operated via diverted route from Nakodar. The 09614 Amritsar to Ajmer was short originated from Ludhiana, instead of Amritsar.Those trains which arrived at the Amritsar Railway station were Chhattarpati Shivaji Terminus to Amritsar, Mumbai to Amritsar Golden Temple Mail and Howrah to Amritsar Mail. The 09611 Ajmer to Amritsar was short terminated at the Ludhiana Railway station.Before this railway blockade, the Amritsar Railway station was handling between 30 to 35 pairs of trains daily. This number used to be 65 pairs of trains before March 2020, when the lockdown was imposed in the wake of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-stir-13-trains-cancelled-from-amritsar-railway-station-300946
23-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Dairy farmers in Amritsar seek curb on sale of spurious milk||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 22Ahead of the festive season, dairy farmers have urged the authorities to curb the sale of spurious milk products in the market. They said this step would enable them to fetch good price of milk. The Kisan Mazadoor Sangharsh Committee also submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner in this regard.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazadoor Sangharsh Committee, said, “Sale of adulterated milk and milk product are posing serious challenge to dairy farmers. Farmers work hard, but do not get good price for their milk products. Spurious milk products are being sold without any check in the market. The administration should curb the sale of such products.”Dairy farmers alleged that milk and other products, including khoya, cheese and cream, were being supplied form Uttar Pradesh and Delhi in the state.Raja Singh, a dairy owner at Kotla Gujjran, said, “We buy cattle, make shed, arrange fodder and feed and spend huge amount on suppliments for milch animals. We do not get viable price in the market. In winter, milk shops in city start avoiding us and hardly pay the required price of milk.”Gurbbachan Singh, a farmer from Chabba village, said, “There is a lot of difference between consumption and production of milk. Dairy farmers should get good price because the production of milk is less as compared to demand. However, the rule of economic fails, as spurious milk and milk products fill the demand-supply gap.”Progressive dairy farmer, Preetinder Singh Chaddi, said, “There is no report about synthetic or chemical milk in the district. Milk and cheese is being prepared from milk powder. Supply of khoya is suspicious. Sampling parameters of government are not accurate. When the department concerned collects sample of pure milk, even it also fails test. The gap in production and consumption is too much. Milk sector needs reforms, else dairy farmers will never get adequate price for their produce.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dairy-farmers-in-amritsar-seek-curb-on-sale-of-spurious-milk-300945
23-08-2021||---||No updates from Kabul, Amritsar residents seek repair of defunct AIR tower||Amritsar, August 22A veteran engineer Harjap Singh Aujla has urged the Union Government to promptly complete the partially-built 1,000 feet high All India Radio (AIR) tower in Gharinda, a border village near here.In a communiqué to Anurag Thakur, Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting, he drew his attention to the matter and called upon him to impress upon the Prasar Bharati to complete India’s only 300-metre high FM tower at Gharinda, covering Lahore in Pakistan, and its surrounding areas. The tower is located on the Amritsar-Attari GT Road, which is 13 miles to the west of Amritsar and 23 miles to the east of Lahore.Long waitIn a communiqué to Anurag Thakur, Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting, engineer Harjap Singh Aujla drew his attention to the matterHe called upon him to impress upon the Prasar Bharati to complete India’s only 300-metre high FM tower at Gharinda village, covering Lahore in Pakistan, and its surrounding areasThe tower is located on the Amritsar-Attari GT Road, which is 13 miles to the west of Amritsar and 23 miles to the east of LahoreAfter the Taliban takeover, local people were keen on hearing the news updates from PakistanAfter the Taliban takeover, local people were keen on hearing the news updates from Pakistan.In the letter, he stated that: “Though the work on this tower began in 2006 and it was completed in 2013. Due to a minor tilt in its upper portion, it has not been commissioned till date.”Last year, the tilted portion was demolished but was never rebuilt. It has been left as an eyesore.“This is the only Central Government project, which took 15 years to rebuilt and is still nowhere near commissioning,” he rued.In-charge Aftab Ahmed in New Delhi said due to Covid-19, reconstruction of the AIR tower has been postponed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-updates-from-kabul-amritsar-residents-seek-repair-of-defunct-air-tower-300944
23-08-2021||Amritsar||Heroin haul: Malaysian man among 2 booked in Amritsar||A day after the seizure of 40-kg heroin near the Panjgraian border outpost on the Pakistan border, the police have nominated two persons, including Malaysian resident Jagga, and Lovely, in the case.Jagga was friends with prime suspect Nirmal Singh and had links in Pakistan and Malaysia. The heroin seized yesterday was pushed into the Indian territory on his instructions. Nimral, Lovely and his other unidentified accomplices were to retrieve the consignment from the International Border.Amritsar Rural SSP Gulneet Singh Khuranna said police teams had been raiding suspected hideouts of Nirmal, who along with family members fled the village.According to police sources privy to the investigations, Jagga had contacted Nirmal about the consignment around three months ago and had introduced him to Pakistan accomplices. Nirmal was wanted in connection with the seizure of 1 kg heroin by the Sarai Amanat Khan Police in Tarn Taran. The police have learnt Nirmal had contacts in Pakistan, Malaysia and Singapore and they are trying to identify them. — TNSSent consignment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heroin-haul-malaysian-man-among-2-booked-in-amritsar-300714
