24-08-2021||Amritsar||School burgled at Nizampura||Teen abducted from KhalraTarn Taran: Two bike-born youths abducted a minor girl from Khalra on Saturday. The girl had gone to her school but came back as she suffered from some physical injury. The girl was abducted on her way back by two bike-borne youth. ASI Heera Singh, Investigation Officer from Khalra police station said one of the accused was Sahil, who abducted the girl on the pretext of marrying her. The police said a case has been registered under Sections 363,366-A of the IPC and Sections 7 and 8 of the POCSO Act. ocOne arrested with cartridgesTarn Taran: Goindwal Sahib police arrested Manjit Singh, a resident of Khawaspur village, with a country-made pistol and four cartridges here on Sunday. ASI Manjit Singh, in-charge, Khadoor Sahib police post, said the accused was nabbed from the outskirts of Khadoor Sahib town. The accused had been booked under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. ocCustoms seize 1,894 gm of goldAmritsar: Custom authorities at SGRDI Airport confiscated 1,800 gm of gold from a passenger who arrived in flight number 6E8 451 from Sharjah. The suspect has concealed the gold in his undergarments and trousers. During the search, the custom sleuths recovered gold in paste form. on melting, around 1,600gm of gold worth Rs 78 lakhs were seized. The passenger has been nabbed. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/school-burgled-at-nizampura-301387
24-08-2021||Amritsar||Driti Arora 1st in Bachelor of Design||Funds raised for needy studentsThe past year has been a difficult one for all. Students had to attend online classes because of the pandemic. The studies of many children belonging to the BPL families got affected due to the lack of smartphones which became a necessity for online classes. Tanvi Aggarwal and Aadit Aggarwal, Class XI students of DAV Public School, Amritsar, organised a fundraiser Walkathon to mark the 75th Independence Day celebrations in collaboration with Inner Wheel Club, Amritsar, (South) and Prime Diagnostic ( a complete nuclear medicine diagnostic solution) . The money raised in this fundraiser was used to buy smartphones or to pay school fees for children from eight to ten poor families.Webinar on effective research paperDAV College organised a webinar on effective project proposal Writing and Research Paper publication. The webinar received huge response with a total 200 registered participants from India. Dr BK Tyagi, Scientist F, Vigyan Prasar addressed the audience and said that writing the proposal of a research work in the present era is a challenging task due to the constantly evolving trends in the qualitative research design and the need to incorporate medical advances into the methodology. He stressed that a proposal must be capable of convincing the evaluation committee about the credibility, achievability, practicality and reproducibility (repeatability) of the research design. Principal scientist of CSIR, Dr Kasturi Mandal and Vice Principal, DAV College, Prof Rajneesh Popi added that a researcher must be able to convince other researchers, research funding agencies, educational institutions and supervisors that the research is worth getting approval. “The aim of the researcher should be clearly stated in simple language that describes the research in a way that non-specialists can comprehend, without use of jargons. The proposal must not only demonstrate that it is based on an intelligent understanding of the existing literature but also show that the writer has thought about the time needed to conduct each stage of the research,” said Popi.Online classes start at Global GroupEven as the admissions to various courses are in full swing at the Global Group of Institutes, online classes for ongoing odd semesters began to better prepare the students. In due course of time or till the situation permits the students will be provided online education so that they keep pace with the courses and the timeline prescribed for such courses. Dr Akashdeep Singh Chandi, Vice Chairman of the Group informed that with the aim to prepare students for their upcoming examinations as and when held the online teaching would be of great help to them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/driti-arora-1st-in-bachelor-of-design-301385
24-08-2021||---||Baba Bakala elevated to nagar panchayat||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 23Baba Bakala has been elevated to the nagar panchayat from village panchayat.Cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu informed this after paying obeisance at Baba Bakala gurdwara on the occasion of Rakhar Punia.The Cabinet minister said the government had promised to make Baba Bakala the nagar panchayat. He said the notification was issued in this regard on Saturday.Sidhu also interacted with general public and staff at the Baba Bakala sub-divisional hospital. He said a 20-bed mother and child healthcare centre would be added to the existing hospital. He also announced to set up a new health centre in Rayya.The Cabinet minister also lauded the role of healthcare workers in fighting the pandemic and credited Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for ensuring that all required manpower and infrastructure was made available to people in the state to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/baba-bakala-elevated-to-nagar-panchayat-301364
24-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Residents protest outside police station in Tarn Taran||Residents of Wan Tara Singh village held a dharna in front of Khalra police station to get a case registered against the accused for allegedly murdering a resident of the village.The protesters placed body of the deceased, Karaj Singh (55), outside the police station. He was attacked by residents of the same village on Saturday night. He was brought to a private hospital in a serious condition where doctors declared him brought dead.The accused have been identified as Kulwant Singh and his brother Satnam Singh. The accused had an enmity with the deceased as daughter of Kulwant married Karaj’s son four years ago against their wishes. Kulwant hit Karaj on his head with a stick.The police wanted to lodge a complaint under Section 174 of the CrPC. The protesters forced the police to register case under Section 302 of the IPC and other relevant sections. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-protest-outside-police-station-in-tarn-taran-301363
24-08-2021||Amritsar||‘LED lights, CCTVs on Mall Road in Amritsar soon’||MLA Sunil Dutti announced that LED lights and CCTV cameras would be installed on the Mall Road while addressing members of the Mall Road Welfare Association during its annual general meeting held here on Monday.He said he had got the development projects worth Rs 80 crore completed in the North Assembly constituency during his tenure.The British-era Mall Road falls under the North constituency. Association president Kamal Dalmia called upon the members, most of whom have commercial establishments on the road, to keep the area around their properties clean. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/led-lights-cctvs-on-mall-road-in-amritsar-soon-301362
24-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||4 years on, musical fountains lying defunct; Amritsar civic body passes the buck||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 23The city’s first musical fountains installed at Company Bagh have been lying defunct for the last four years. The previous SAD-BJP government had spent Rs 1 crore on the project, which was inaugurated by then local bodies minister Anil Joshi on March 4, 2016.According to information, the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), had hired a company, which also runs Sun City Amusement Park on the garden, to operate the musical fountains. Joshi during his tenure used to get all the works done through the AIT, thus bypassing the Municipal Corporation (MC).The MC claimed that memorandum of understanding signed during Joshi’s tenure was a major hurdle in maintenance of musical fountains.Morning walkers and visitors criticised the government for first spending crores and then completely ignoring the entire project. The MC had made efforts to call the contractor, responsible for its operation, but to no avail.After the change of the government in 2017, the AIT had reportedly stopped making payments to the firm responsible for operations and maintenance.Sandeep Singh, Executive Engineer (Horticulture), MC, said, “The Municipal Corporation had no role in installation of musical fountains and development of Children Park in the garden as the then government had bypassed the MC House and funds were used through the AIT. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu asked us to get the fountains repaired at the earliest.”The Mayor said, “The SAD-BJP during their tenure had taken several properties of the MC and gave to other government or private bodies. We are streamlining things. Fountains will be made functional soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-years-on-musical-fountains-lying-defunct-amritsar-civic-body-passes-the-buck-301361
24-08-2021||---||Government staff seek old pension scheme||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, August 23The government employees under the banner of the ‘Purani Pension Scheme Bahali Sangharsh Committee’ held a protest and burnt copies of the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority Act -2003.Kulwinder Singh, a members of the organisation, said the New Pension Scheme (NPS) had been attached with stock market which remained unstable.Amandeep Singh Bhullar, a member of the union, said the NPS was totally against the interests of employees.the protesters said such laws were similar to the agri laws. The protesters demanded restoration of the old pension scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-staff-seek-old-pension-scheme-301360
24-08-2021||---||Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, releases science journal||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 23SciRox, the Science Club of Guru Nanak Dev University, released a peer-reviewed quarterly science education journal, Inertia. District Education Officer (SE), S Satinderbir Singh, today released the first issue of Inertia; An Interdisciplinary Science Education Journal in an inaugural function held at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Mall Road.The first issue of the journal consists of messages and articles from eminent personalities, which includes Prof (Dr) Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, Prof Arvind, Vice-Chancellor, Punjabi University Patiala, Prof RC Singh, university honorary professor, GNDU, Dr Somdatta Karak, science communication officer at CSIR-CCMB, Hyderabad, and many more.SciRox, Science Club, GNDU, with a vision that open access provides an equitable way to disseminate scientific ideas started this journal that aims to publish science articles for non-experts so as to promote scientific temperament among people belonging to different age groups, background and demographics. The journal will be published on a quarterly basis and will also invite write ups and contributions from eminent scientific scholars and scientists from the region.Addressing the gathering, university honorary professor, Prof RC Singh said the primary focus of this journal was to popularise science in regional languages and take the message of science to the society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanak-dev-university-amritsar-releases-science-journal-301359
24-08-2021||---||Amritsar: AAP flays false cases against party workers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 23Workers of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday staged a dharna outside the office of Police Commissioner to protest against the alleged false cases registered against party workers at the behest of Congress leaders.The leaders of the party accused Cabinet Minister and Amritsar Central MLA Om Parkash Soni of misusing his position to intimidate AAP workers by getting fake cases registered against them.State Joint Secretary Ashok Talwar said goons of Congress were not allowing their workers to hold camps during which the forms of 300 free electricity units are filled by the residents. He said the Congress leaders were afraid of the policies of AAP.The party leaders stated that Congress workers had thrashed an AAP worker in Tarn Taran few days ago during a camp and later cases were registered against AAP workers. They stated that the party had to hold protest after which Tarn Taran SSP got cross cases registered against Congress workers. The party leaders alleged that majority of politically motivated cases against their workers have been registered in Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts.AAP had given an ultimatum to the police to withdraw all fake FIRs against their workers four days ago. After the protest, the party leaders agreed to end the protest after officials assured them of action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-aap-flays-false-cases-against-party-workers-301358
24-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Bike lifters’ gang busted by Patti police||Tarn Taran, August 23Patti police busted a two-member gang of motorcycle lifters here on Sunday. SSP Upinderjit Singh, who assumed his charge on Saturday, informed here on Monday that one of the gang members, identified as Rajan Singh, alias Bhutta of Patti, was arrested on Sunday from Patti with a stolen motorcycle.During interrogation, the accused revealed the name of his accomplice, Gurlal Singh of Algon Kalan, who was involved in crime. Rajan informed that nine more stolen bikes were kept in Gurlal Singh’s haveli. The police conducted a raid and took all the stolen bikes in their custody. Gurlal Singh was on the run and the police were conducting raids at his possible hideouts.The accused had been booked under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC. The arrested accused, Rajan Singh, was produced in a court which remanded him in two-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bike-lifters-gang-busted-by-patti-police-301357
24-08-2021||---||A colourful expression of patriotism at Amritsar airport!||Amritsar, August 23FICCI FLO’s city chapter in collaboration with artist Smiley Chaudhary, unveiled a mural at the Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport (SGRDI) Airport, dedicated to the 75th Independence Day. Made entirely out of the waste from the fashion industry, using waste fabrics, threads and other organic material, this mural has been designed by Smiley Chaudhary and her team, under the aegis of Manjot Dhillon, Chairperson, FLO, Amritsar.“This quintessential piece of sustainable art boasts India’s rich cultural heritage that works in tandem with the most advanced methods in order to build a nation that takes its glorious past as the stepping stone to a futuristic tomorrow. The waste fabrics and material used from fashion industry is a statement to move towards sustainability in the fashion industry while keeping in mind the post Covid-19 world,” said Smiley. Smiley has created murals from waste material earlier too.Manjot Dhillon, said, “This mural is dedicated to our country and its empowered women who have not left any arena untouched by their limitless potential. I wholeheartedly thank my team members for their invaluable cooperation and contribution in the making of this piece of art that manifests the eternal beauty of a sustainable world.”Referring to the elements that this mural exhibits, Smiley said, “From the ‘bindi’ to the ‘Ashok Chakra’, from defence to sports, from our crops to submarines, from our technology to traditional handlooms, we have tried to celebrate India’s unmatched essence that lies at the very heart of its culture and progressive nature. The mural is a collage of many things that India stands for and symbolises.”Celebrating india’s unmatched essenceMade entirely out of the waste from the fashion industry, using waste fabrics, threads and other organic material, this mural has been designed by Smiley Chaudhary and her team, this quintessential piece of sustainable art boasts India's rich cultural heritage that works in tandem with the most advanced methods in order to build a nation that takes its glorious past as the stepping stone to a futuristic tomorrow. The waste fabrics and material used from fashion industry is a statement to move towards sustainability in the fashion industry while keeping in mind the post Covid-19 world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-colourful-expression-of-patriotism-at-amritsar-airport-301356
24-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Regulatory guidelines for private play schools welcomed by Amritsar residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 23Residents have welcomed the notification of regulatory guidelines for private play schools in the state. They said the new norms would check growth of play schools for children between three and six years.Over the years, growth of crèches in the city has baffled locals. The Department of Social Security, Women and Child Development, issued the notification in this regard on July 30.It approved the implementation of guidelines framed by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) to regulate private play schools in the state, for effective and successful implementation of Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE), including pre-school education in concurrence with the ECCE policy as approved by the Early Childhood Care and Education Council. Varun Khanna, a city-based activist, had campaigned for the need of relevant provisions to regulate quality of instructions and others aspects in play schools.After his pleas to the state government remained unheard, he filed an appeal with the NCPCR, which forwarded his appeal to the Chief Secretary. Khanna said he was happy that finally the government has notified the NCPCR guidelines. NCPCR’s norms implemented||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/regulatory-guidelines-for-private-play-schools-welcomed-by-amritsar-residents-301355
24-08-2021||---||Gagster Rana Kandowalia’s murder in Amritsar: Haryana-based suspect identified||Amritsar, August 23The police have identified the Haryana-based youth who accompanied prime suspects—Mandeep Toofan, Jagroshan Hundal and Mani Rayya—while gunning down Ranbir Singh, alias Rana Kandowalia, at a private hospital in Amritsar.The accused has been identified as Deepak, a resident of Sonipat. The Amritsar police have approached their counterparts in Haryana and sought his antecedents and past criminal record. ACP (Investigations) Harminder Singh said, “We have come to know that Deepak has a criminal record in Haryana, though his involvement has been found for the first time in Punjab.”The police have arrested Happy Shah, one of their accomplices, who was injured in the retaliatory fire by Tejbir Singh, who was with Kandowalia, at the time of incident. Tejbir was also injured in the attack. Shah had taken treatment at a private hospital in Batala before getting nabbed.The police had also nominated six persons who sheltered and arranged treatment for Shah. Congress councillor Parbhjot Singh Chatha was also booked. The police have arrested Nanit Sharma in this regard. Others include Laddi dairy wala, Sukhraj Malli, Jagtar Singh and Lalli dairy wala, all residents of Batala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gagster-rana-kandowalias-murder-in-amritsar-haryana-based-suspect-identified-301354
24-08-2021||---||Senior citizens irked over no concession on tickets||Amritsar, August 23Passengers, especially senior citizens, are irked over the Railways for ignoring their convenience in the wake of Covid restrictions. They complain that the Railways have withheld the concession on tickets for senior citizens, stopped the pantry facility in compartments and despite charging tariff of express train the Amritsar-Pathankot Ravi train like a passenger one stops at all stations.A senior citizen, Ranbir Singh, said: “I travel to Hazur Sahib every year and the concession provided to us used to be a good financial support as sometimes I even go there twice.” This time, upon inquiring he found that the facility was discontinued to avoid rush in compartments due to Covid. He said on the similar grounds, pantry service in trains was also suspended. On return from the pilgrimage, he stated that long route trains without pantry were inconvenient. He demanded that these services should be restored with immediate effect to benefit the passengers.A regular passenger, Rajbir Singh, said the Railways were charging the tariff of an express train for a passenger train. “It stops at all stations and yet it’s called an express train. Charging express tariff for it is not justified,” he said.Officials of the department stated that all these matters pertain to the head office and they were gradually restoring each stalled facility in view of the subsiding Covid wave.Blockade: Railways refunds travellersThe Ferozepur Division of the Railways has commenced refund of those passengers whose trains got cancelled in the wake of the rail blockade by farmers near Jalandhar.Around 12,300 passengers whose trains were scheduled between 4 pm on August 20 till 11 am on August 23 will be refunded Rs 53.65 lakh. Meanwhile, the blockade continued to inconvenience passengers and upset the time table of trains.Only three trains namely Dadar, Frontier and Howrah Mail arrived and departed besides, departure of a special parcel mail on the blocked Amritsar-Delhi rail line via detour on Monday. The Amritsar-Pathankot rail line, which is free from any kind of blockade saw departure and arrival of three trains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/senior-citizens-irked-over-no-concession-on-tickets-301353
24-08-2021||---||Amritsar jewellers stay shut to protest hallmarking norm||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 23Opposed to the new Hallmarking Unique ID (HUID) rule on gold ornaments, city-based jewellers downed the shutters of their outlets and showrooms and held a sit-in here on Monday.The market of gold and silver ornaments in the Guru Bazar area in the walled city remained closed and the shopkeepers under the patronage of different associations held a protest there.Ashwani Kale Shah, a leader of the jewellers, termed the new Hallmarking Unique ID norm as black law. He said they were selling pure material, but the new norm would reduce them to munims (accountants) of the government.Hallmark centres have been opened in around 250 cities out of 856 in the entire country. It meant that the jewellers would have to wait for weeks to get the hallmark number embossed on each piece of jewellery. At the same time, the jewellers would also have to hire more employees to manage the record of numbers.What is UID on ornaments?The purpose of UID is to empower the customers to reach the seller (jeweller) in case substandard gold has been sold to him. UID will be in the form of a number on the ornaments that will be hallmarked. In case a customer has a complaint, the punched UID number will enable the BIS authorities to identify the agency concerned, which certified the purity, besides jewellers. Hallmark centres have been opened in around 250 cities in the entire country. It meant that the jewellers would have to wait for weeks to get the hallmark number embossed on each piece.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-jewellers-stay-shut-to-protest-hallmarking-norm-301352
24-08-2021||---||Erratic supply hits vax drive in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 23Erratic supply of vaccine during the ongoing Covid-19 inoculation drive has become a cause for concern for the administration and beneficiaries ahead of the anticipated third wave.The Health Department on Monday was able to vaccinate only 3,208 beneficiaries due to extreme shortage of jabs.On August 22, the authorities were able to inoculate 1,624 persons. Whereas on August 21, a total of 15,019 residents were jabbed in the district.Those who reached at the Civil Hospital on Monday had to return without getting vaccinated. Residents said the government should arrange sufficient stock.Satish, who visited the Civil Hospital, said, “I visited the hospital today to get jabbed, but staff informed me about non-availability of vaccine. They have asked me to come again.” A health official said, “Gradually, people have started showing interest in getting jabbed. Earlier, health workers had to motivate resident. Now, they are coming forward on their own.”Health officials said they would soon get the stock. They said the state government allocates vaccine to districts as per the usage.Amritsar district reports two positive casesAmritsar: With two positive cases reported on Monday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,199. The new cases are influenza-like illness cases. The Health Department has also reported recovery of 19 cases with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,572. The district at present has a total of 38 active cases. TNSTarn Taran sees no fresh case, casualtyThe district reported one positive case and no causality on Monday. The toll stands at 376 while active cases have reduced to 10. DC Kulwant Singh said the teams of the Health Department had collected 1,174 samples from various places and the report of 977 was yet to be received. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/erratic-supply-hits-vax-drive-in-amritsar-district-301351
24-08-2021||Ruchika M Khanna||Maximum purchase only on paper in Amritsar wheat scam||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 23The main accused in the “missing wheat scam” of Jandiala Guru in Amritsar is believed to have siphoned off crores of rupees given as MSP on wheat that was neither brought to mandis nor purchased. Fake entries for the purchase of 87,100 quintals (1,84,344 bags) of wheat (valued at Rs 20 crore) were made and it was shown to have been transported to godowns in Jandiala Guru.The police and Food Supplies Department, trying to unravel the truth behind the missing wheat from eight godowns, believe the maximum purchase was done only on paper, indicating connivance of sellers, commission agents, auction recorders of the mandi board, agency inspectors and transporters.New stock verification norms soonWhile six persons — arhtiyas from whom the wheat was “purchased”, are being questioned and the records being tallied. The Food and Supply Department has reportedly again written to the Punjab Vigilance Bureau to take over the investigation.The accused Inspector, Jasdev Singh, who is believed to have escaped to Dubai, was allegedly in cahoots with Amritsar-based trader Ravinder Singh Bunty, who was arrested by the CBI recently. Preliminary investigation has shown that the trader, accused of manipulating the e-auction of wheat, would get release orders for small quantities of wheat, but under its garb, huge stockpiles from the eight godowns were being given to him for the sale to private flour mills.As the scam unfolds, Food and Supply Department officials are flummoxed at how the accused Inspector had created his own “fiefdom” in the area by appointing his own security guards at the godowns and wheat was siphoned off easily for three years — 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21 — without any supervision.As a result, the government has chargesheeted the Deputy Director of Jalandhar division, all District and Food Supply Controllors posted at Amritsar since 2018-19, one Food and Supply Officer and three Inspectors for dereliction of duty. Assistant Food and Supply Officer Cherry Bhatia and Inspector Rajinder Bains have been placed under suspension. Bhatia was posted as AFSO at Jandiala from 2018-2020; in March 2021, Bhatia had reported there was no shortage of wheat in all these godowns. Bains had remained posted at these godowns from April 2020-April 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/maximum-purchase-only-on-paper-in-amritsar-wheat-scam-301077
24-08-2021||Chandigarh||Youth body to oppose PM Modi's event at Jallianwala Bagh||The Naujwan Bharat Sabha, a youth organisation, has accused the BJP government at the Centre of violating the sanctity of the Jallianwala Bagh monument by turned it into a “picnic spot”.In a press release, the organisation said they would not only boycott Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s function, wherein he will virtually unveil the monument on August 28, but also prevent BJP leaders from attending it.Sabha president Roopinder Singh Chaunda said showing solidarity with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, they would not allow BJP leaders from holding rallies in the state. Chaunda said several monuments pertaining to the freedom movement were in a dilapidated condition. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-body-to-oppose-pm-modis-event-at-jallianwala-bagh-300710
24-08-2021||GS Paul||Fully vaccinated pilgrims can visit Kartarpur, clarifies Pak||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 22The National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC) of Pakistan has issued a notification clarifying that the movement of Indian Sikh pilgrims to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, through the corridor, was not restricted from Pakistan’s side.In the backdrop, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai, while replying to Congress MP Gurjit Singh Aujila’s query on the Kartarpur corridor, had stated in the Lok Sabha that the Pakistan National Command and Operations Centre had banned all travel from India, citing the surge in Covid-19 cases since April 2021.Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Satwant Singh said the matter was taken up with the Pakistan Government, following which the NCOC issued a clarification and Covid-19 guidelines to be adopted by the pilgrims on the occasion of death anniversary of Guru Nanak at Gurdwara Kartarpur, the final resting place of the Guru. The event falls on September 22 and the PSGPC has scheduled programmes between September 20 and 22.The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Pakistan and PSGPC have been told to ensure not more than 300 pilgrims were present at a time at the gurdwara.The corridor, which allows for visitors from India to cross the border without a visa to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Kartarpur, has been closed by India since March 15 as part of measures to stop the spread of Covid. While Pakistan opened it on October 2, 2020, India is yet to take a decision.Amid appeals from the Indian side to reopen the corridor, the PSGPC has extended a special invitation to the SGPC, CM Capt Amarinder Singh and PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu to lead a ‘jatha’ for the occasion.Only fully vaccinated individuals, possessing a valid certificate, will be allowed to enter Pakistan through the corridor or the Attari-Wagah border. Also, a negative RT-PCR test report, minimum 72 hours prior to crossing over the border, would be mandatory for all.Negative RT-PCR report also must||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fully-vaccinated-pilgrims-can-visit-kartarpur-clarifies-pak-300709
24-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Lab set up at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar to test UAE-bound passengers||Tribune News Service2Amritsar, August 19The authorities at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in compliance with the UAE government guidelines have set up a lab at the airport to conduct the Covid-19 PCR rapid test of passengers travelling to Dubai.The official twitter handle of SGGRDJI Airport confirmed the development.Passengers for Dubai can avail the facility of Covid-19 PCR rapid test at the airport from Thursday onwards.The cost of the test for those going to UAE has been fixed at Rs3,300. The new directives of the UAE government stipulate that passengers must undergo the Covid-19 PCR rapid test four hours before their departure. The passenger would be able to board the flight only after the report of this test. Following this, the authorities of SGRDI Airport provided the facility inside the airport premises.Sameep Singh Gumtala, convener, Fly Amritsar Initiative, said it is a good move.“Moreover, the cost of the test is Rs3,300, which is less than the Delhi airport. Following the availability of this test at the airport, IndiGo, SpiceJet and Air India have resumed direct flights from Amritsar to Dubai and Sharjah. A large number of people had been demanding to start the testing facility at the airport so that they could take a direct flight from Amritsar to Dubai. This initiative of authorities will facilitate thousands of passengers.”While advising passengers, Sameep Singh said although the ban on entry into the UAE from India has not been completely lifted, all travellers are advised to know beforehand whether they have qualified to enter the country or not.Shri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport Director VK Seth said: “The lab has been set to conduct the Covid-19 PCR rapid test as per the requirement of the airlines flying to the UAE. We have asked passengers to reach six hours before the lab test as UAE requires fresh report of Covid-19 PCR rapid test.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lab-set-up-at-shri-guru-ram-das-jee-international-airport-in-amritsar-to-test-uae-bound-passengers-299673
24-08-2021||---||Belgium-based Sikh body holds religious competition for children||Amritsar, August 14A religious competition was organised for children by Sikh Education, a Belgium-based organisation, in association with the SGPC on Friday. It was dedicated to the 400th Prakash Purb (birth anniversary) of the ninth Sikh master — Guru Teg Bahadur.A function was held at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall at the Golden Temple and it was attended by SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad, general secretary advocate Bhagwant Singh Sialka, SGPC member Bhai Rajinder Singh Mehta. During this function, children recited Sikh history through their poems.Bibi Jagir Kaur said: “The SGPC is constantly working for the flourishing Gurmat (teachings of Sikhs Gurus) in various ways. From time to time, the Dharam Prachar Committee of the SGPC conducts religious competitions for children to impart information on Gurbani, Guru’s history and Sikh Rehat Maryada (code of conduct). It is gratifying that Sikh Education Belgium is doing a commendable job in connecting children with the Sikh heritage,” she said.Sikh Education Belgium endeavoured to sensitise children from different countries about teachings of Gursikhi (Sikh faith as per Gurmat) by conducting regular online competitions.Bibi Harpreet Kaur and Manjinder Singh, head of Sikh Education Belgium, and other representatives of the organisation said they would continue with their efforts to promote Sikhism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/belgium-based-sikh-body-holds-religious-competition-for-children-297853
