25-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Protest against farm laws: Farmer from Tarn Taran dies||Wheelchairs for differently abledTarn Taran: A total of 241 physically challenged persons of the Patti area were given 428 equipment at an event organised in Patti on Tuesday.The function was organised by the District Red Cross Society and the Alimco Company jointly. MLA Harminder Singh Gill, in his address, said the beneficiaries were given motorised bicycles, tricycles, wheel chairs and other equipment.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said in the camps organised in the district, 969 physically challenged persons had registered for being given the required equipment worth Rs 1.78 crore. Similar camps would be organised in Bhikhiwind on August 25 and in Naushehra Pannuan on August 26, said the Deputy Commissioner. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-against-farm-laws-farmer-from-tarn-taran-dies-301870
25-08-2021||Amritsar||Coffee table book ‘A Decade of KCVAS’ released||Vaccination camp organisedSSSS College of Commerce for Women organised a vaccination camp on the college campus. The camp was organised with the help of the Civil Surgeon, Amritsar. The students and their family members and members of the staff were also administered vaccine. As many as 200 persons received the dose of vaccine. Dr Navdeep Kaur, Principal thanked the Civil Surgeon and the team of medical professionals for their co-operation in organising the camp.IIM holds confluence-21IIM, Amritsar, is hosting its first batch of EMBA (Executive MBA) at as a part of their hybrid course. In order to facilitate the cultural and educational exchange between the MBA, MBA-BA, MBA-HR, and the EMBA batches, the institute conducted Confluence’21. The event was a mix of academic and fun activities arranged by the students of MBA-06 for the EMBA batch. Industry Interaction Cell of IIM gave a detailed presentation about the functions of the committee. IIC acts as a bridge between the industry and the students of IIM, Amritsar. The students also performed musical and stand up acts as part of the cultural evening.Navdeep shines in Computer ScienceStudents of PG Department of Computer Science have brought laurels to the DAV College by getting first position in the district in GNDU exams. Navdeep Kaur of MSc Computer Science is the district topper by securing 463 marks out of 600. Overall she has been declared seventh in the university. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar felicitated the students and applauded the diligent efforts put in by them in bagging these positions and adding to the glory of the institution. He also congratulated the faculty members of computer department for such a stellar performance of the students in the university exams. He highlighted the fact that this achievement is due to the combined efforts of the students and staff. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/coffee-table-book-a-decade-of-kcvas-released-301869
25-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Striking a balance between technology and environment||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 24Over the years technology used in manufacturing bricks has been undergoing rapid change to reduce emissions.Mukesh Nanda, a brick kiln owner, said since the commissioning of a kiln by his grandfather Tara Chand Nanda in 1967, the technology was changed by many times. His father Lajpat Rai Nanda, who had joined the kiln in 1979, replaced the two moveable chimneys with 65-feet high single fixed chimney in 1982. At the commencement of the kiln there used to be two pieces of metallic chimney with 30-feet high and both of these used to be moveable.After joining the family business on January 15, 1987, he had replaced it with 85-feet high chimney and the next year the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had ordered installation of a 120-feet high chimney. Accordingly, its height was increased.Subsequently, the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology (PSCST) and IIT, Roorkee, had given a new design as per which there used to be a sapling chamber around the chimney. It enabled the heavy particles of smoke to form sediments in the chamber, which used to be cleaned after a month. This shift in technology brought out wonderful results as emission of SPM level decreased to 750 from over 2,000.Now, as per the guidelines of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) he got his kiln fitted with induced high draft zig zag technology. With an investment of nearly Rs 50 lakh in which 10 lakh bricks were used the SPM level came down to 200 and colour of smoke billowing out of 120 feet chimney changed from black to grey. However, the transformation of the technology was not smooth as the number of workers increased from 12 to 16. Their salary also increased. At a kiln, staff was divided in three categories depending upon their monthly wages of Rs 11,000, Rs 12,000 and Rs 15,000. Their monthly emoluments were hiked to Rs 15,000, Rs 20,000 and Rs 25,000.This technology also improved the quality of production and decreased the usage of fuel. Earlier, a lot of brick being produced consisted of 70 percent superior quality and 30 percent inferior. Now, the quantum of superior bricks increased to 80 percent in a lot. Similarly, the consumption of coal also decreased by 10 per cent.After having shifted to new technology at his brick kiln in early 2019, Nanda said the kiln industry is looking at the advent of mechanical production of bricks from overseas. His kiln supply bricks to the markets of Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/striking-a-balance-between-technology-and-environment-301868
25-08-2021||---||Two held with forged air ticket at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport||Amritsar, August 24The police arrested two persons, including a woman, for fraud and trespassing in the Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here today. The accused have been identified as Amandeep Kaur and Jagpreet Singh.Assistant Commissioner of Police Mohan Singh said Amandeep Kaur has fraudulently generated a forged travel ticket which helped accused Jagpreet to enter the airport premises. The airport staff nabbed Jagpreet and during investigation he confessed that Amandeep Kaur helped her to prepare a forged ticket. It can be a serious threat to the security of the international airport, he added.A case has been registered under Sections 419, 420, 447, 471 of the IPC at airport police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-held-with-forged-air-ticket-at-shri-guru-ram-das-jee-international-airport-301867
25-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Without pay for 3 months, pharmacists stage protest in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 24The district unit of the Pharmacists Association, Punjab, organised a protest outside the Civil Surgeon office over non-payment of salaries.Sahib Singh, district president and other leaders of the organisation, said the staff working on contractual basis with the Rural Development and Panchayat Department had been shifted to the Health Department. However, three months have lapsed but the department had not released their salary till date, he added.The protesters threatened to organise a state-level rally in front of the Family Welfare and Health Department on September 2 if the salaries were not paid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/without-pay-for-3-months-pharmacists-stage-protest-in-tarn-taran-301866
25-08-2021|| Amritsar||SGPC tells schools to start day with gurbani||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has directed its school managements to commence the morning meetings in schools with the chanting of gurbani.A meeting of the Education Committee was held at Sri Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana.SGPC chief secretary advocate Harjinder Singh Dhami said as per the decision taken in the Education Committee, all schools have been asked to start the school every morning after reciting the shabad of gurbani.“Besides this, the religious classes would be conducted in schools and colleges once a week”, he said.Dhami asked the heads of all the schools to immediately implement the decision in their respective schools. Those schools which do not have music teachers could take the assistance of dharam parchar committee.He said the SGPC endeavours to connect the children with religion as well as education. The dharam parchar committee of the SGPC conducts religious examinations every year and gives scholarships to the children.In addition, the fee of many amritdhari children was also paid by the SGPC. He said the aim of the organisation was to make the children good citizens by imparting secular as well as religious education to them so that they could work for the betterment of the society. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-tells-schools-to-start-day-with-gurbani-301865
25-08-2021||---||SGPC mulls music academy in memory of Bhai Mardana||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 24A delegation of Kafila-e-Mir All India (regd), Punjab, arrived at the Golden Temple and met Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur.The delegation included several eminent Punjabi singers who submitted a memorandum to her demanding the establishment of a music academy in the memory of Bhai Mardana.She assured the delegation that the SGPC would open a music academy in which students would be taught tanti saaj (stringed instruments) and rabab (a lute-like musical instrument).A staunch devoteeBhai Mardana was the first rabbi kirtania of guru ghar, who had the good fortune to be in the company of Guru Nanak Dev for a long time.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Bibi Jagir Kaur said a hall has already been constructed at Gurdwara Sri Ber Sahib Sultanpur Lodhi in the memory of Bhai Mardana.Bhai Mardana was the first rabbi kirtania of guru ghar, who had the good fortune to be in the company of Guru Nanak Dev for a long time. She told that Bhai Mardana has an important place in Sikh history and Sikhs always remember him with respect.“On the occasion of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev at Gurdwara Sri Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodhi, the celebrations began with a special nagar kirtan from Gurdwara Sri Rababsar Sahib, built in memory of Bhai Mardana, with 550 stringed instruments”, she said.SGPC president said a hall has already been constructed at Gurdwara Sri Ber Sahib Sultanpur Lodhi in the memory of Bhai Mardana.Office-bearers of Kafila-e-Mir All India thanked the president of the SGPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-mulls-music-academy-in-memory-of-bhai-mardana-301864
25-08-2021||Amritsar||23 Amritsar MC staffers found absent||Amritsar Municipal Corporation Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi conducted a raid at 9.30 am at civic body’s office in Ranjit Avenue and found 23 officials and employees absent on Tuesday. The Commissioner checked offices on ground floor, where most of the Municipal Town Planning Wing officials sit. MTP IPS Randhawa, ATP Varinder Mohan, building inspectors Rohini, Rajrani, Madhwai, Sukhwinder Kumar, superintendent Pardeep Kumar, draftsmen Navdeep Kumar and Dinesh Kumar were found absent. Apart from them, secretary Vishal Vadhawan, Gurpreet Singh Bhatia, Hakam Singh, data operators Vishal Kumar and Malkeet Singh were also found absent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/23-amritsar-mc-staffers-found-absent-301863
25-08-2021||---||Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav: Three-day photo expo starts at Town Hall in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 24The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting is organising multiple cultural programmes on the theme of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to mark the 75th year of Independence. Under the same series, a three-day exhibition was inaugurated at Town Hall today by Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Khaira.The exhibition displays photographs from India’s past, its journey of 75 years, depicting its political, social, martial and cultural heritage. Khaira said Punjabis have made a valuable contribution to achieve Independence. “It’s very important to tell the new the generation about our heritage and sacrifices , therefore, we have organised several programmes in which students will participate and get to know about our country,” said Khaira.Gurmeet Singh, Field Publicity Officer, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, who is overseeing the three-day event, said they were organising photo exhibitions and other programmes on this theme across the country. He said this would end in March this year.On Wednesay, Municipal Commissioner Malwinder Singh Jaggi, will visit the Town Hall and flag off a ‘Fit India Freedom Run’ from Guru Nanak Dev University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-three-day-photo-expo-starts-at-town-hall-in-amritsar-301862
25-08-2021||---||Voicing concern for minorities in India, Afghanistan||Amritsar, August 24Majha House hosted eminent panel of speakers, including filmmaker-author Ghazala Wahab, Natasha Badhwar, researcher Dr Indrajeet Singh and author Dr Ori Z Soltes to talk about issues faced by minorities in the backdrop of India’s 75th Independence day celebrations. Discussing the anxieties and hopes of Muslims and Jews in India, and the Hindus and Sikhs in Afghanistan post the Taliban reign there, the speakers talked about their recent experiences and perspective on the subject.The recent Afghanistan crisis was discussed as UK-based researcher Dr Indrajeet Singh elaborated on the history of the war-torn nation.He talked about the present scenario and what the future holds for the Hindus and Sikhs in Afghanistan. “History is witness to the fact that in spite of all the wars and violence and internal strife, there were many leaders who were visionaries and sympathetic people. Dr Najeebullah noted that the safety of Hindus and Sikhs was in jeopardy and he ensured that speedy visas were granted to those wanting to leave the country,” Dr Indrajeet explained.He said even earlier the Taliban had sought to differentiate Hindus and Sikhs from the local people by asking them to wear some yellow cloth to identify them or to hoist yellow flags on their houses. “This diktat was negotiated by the Hindus and Sikhs as they were paying Jaziya to them and they had a saying in matters. This is how the minorities have always lived - by negotiating,” he said. He lauded the role of many film-makers, like Afghan-based Prit Pal Singh, who made documentaries on how they were living in Afghanistan and these were eye-openers for everyone. As resolutions to the current violent situation, Dr Indrajeet said, “The problem of the Durand line should be addressed; muslim scholars should be consulted for women’s rights and education; and ideally a party should consist of liberal people too, who can highlight the issues of the minorities; and therein lies hope.”Ghazala Wahab, while talking about her book, Born a Muslim, said that she had always been aware of the difference between being a muslim in India. “The first time that we, as a Muslim family, became conscious of our difference was during the infamous Rath Yatra and living in Agra did not make things easy for us. One could feel the dynamics of the crowd shifting and changing into a mob, one that was targeting only Muslims. And if we escaped unharmed only because one of the Hindu guys knew our family,” said Ghazala. She was in conversation with Natasha Badhwar, Ghazala said, “Even in the writing of the Constitution one finds that the liberal policies therein have been slowly, surreptitiously changed during later readings and interpretations.”In another session, Dr Ori Z Soltes, renowned academician and author, talked about his book ‘Growing up Jewish in India’. “The book offers an historical account of the primary Jewish communities of India, their synagogues, and unique Indian Jewish customs. And it should be noted that as of today there are only about 5,000 Jews residing in India,” said Soltes. He also drew several parallels between Judaism and Hinduism illustrating his talk with traditional religious paintings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/voicing-concern-for-minorities-in-india-afghanistan-301861
25-08-2021||---||3 test positive in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 24With three fresh Covid cases reported on in the district on Tuesday, the tally has increased to 47,202. The new cases include two influenza-like illness cases and one contact of a positive patient.The district Health Department has also reported the recovery of three patients with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,575. The district, at present, has 38 active cases.Meanwhile, 21,892 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Tuesday.Of the total, 16,371 received the first dose of the vaccine while 5,521 received the second dose.Tarn Taran sees 1 new caseThe district reported one fresh Covid case and no causality on Tuesday.The district toll remained at 376 and the number of active cases has reduced to 11 and nine were under home isolation. A total of 3,09,115 persons had been administered 3,83,535 dozes till date. As many as 17,409 dozes were administered to eligible beneficiaries today.Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said teams of the Health Department had collected 1,147 samples from various places to be tested for Covid and the report of 970 samples was yet to be received.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-301860
25-08-2021||---||Impending 3rd wave may hit festive season||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 24A panel set up by the Centre, in its latest report, warned that a third wave could peak somewhere around October. This warning has worried general public, especially traders and shopkeepers, who rely heavily on festive season for their sales.With Maha Ashtami, Maha Navami, Dasehra and Diwali, lined up in October, traders fear that another lockdown to contain the virus would prove detrimental for their business.“The government will opt for the lockdown again in case the third wave hits during festival season,” said Amanpreet Singh, a shopkeeper.“Who wants the pandemic to affect celebrations,” said Sahibjit Singh, a college student.An expert panel constituted by the National Institute of Disaster Management predicted about the Covid wave and suggested significantly ramping up vaccination pace.Locally, the numbers of daily reported positive cases have already shown a slight increase. The numbers of positive cases reported by the Health Department are usually lower than the actual number of cases as many patients prefer a chest X-ray or CT scan over RT-PCR if symptomatic.Further, as people are still avoiding tests and disclosing their health status, the social and religious gatherings during festivals and shopping before the celebrations could result in spreading the infections.The district health officials stated that to deal with the situation, they would increase the contact tracing limit to 30 persons for every positive case. They stated that a target to test 5,000 people daily has also been set.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said people should take the warning seriously and follow all safety guidelines. He added that the Health Department had been proactive this time and has made extensive arrangements to deal with the third wave. However, it is wise to prevent the disease instead of being lax and fall sick, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/impending-3rd-wave-may-hit-festive-season-301859
25-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Farmers lift blockade on Amritsar-Delhi track, train services yet to be restored||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 24Farmers lifted their blockade on Amritsar-Delhi railway track near Jalandhar on Tuesday evening after the state government hiked state advised price (SAP) of sugarcane by Rs35 per quintal to Rs 360.The blockade of this track crippled the train movement at the Amritsar railway station.The Indian Railways officials today said it would take sometime to restore the normal traffic on this route. Only three trains—Howrah Mail, Amritsar to Jaipur and Dadar— headed for their respective destinations from Amritsar via Nakodar today. Similarly—Frontier and Dadar—arrived via Nakodar.Officials said due to the absence of relevant infrastructure at the Nakodar railway station and single track, enough trains could not be plied on this route.Vendors at the Amritsar railway station rued that their losses multiplied in the last two years. First, it was the lockdown, and then farmers blocked the track near the Jandiala Guru railway station for months together. “We hardly registered any sale in the last five days as less than six pairs of trains were running daily,” said vendors.Ahead of the farmers’ blockade near the Jalandhar railway station, around 30 pairs of trains plied from the Amritsar railway station daily. This number used to be around 65 pairs of trains before March 2020.“These figures cleary indicate how much loss we have suffered so far,” said vendors.Meanwhile, officials at Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT) said flow of passengers has increased considerably in the last couple of days.The ISBT was packed to its capacity today and passengers jostled to aboard buses.Navneet Kaur, a passenger, said, “I booked a train ticket for Delhi, which got cancelled due to the farmers’ agitation. Thus, I decided to travel by bus till Rajpura. From there I will travel by train to reach the final destination.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-lift-blockade-on-amritsar-delhi-track-train-services-yet-to-be-restored-301858
25-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Over 500 ‘illegal’ hotels mushroom near Golden Temple in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 24After taking action against 17 commercial establishments around the Golden Temple on July 24, 2019 on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the Amritsar Municipal Corporation soon went into a deep slumber and failed to act against under construction ‘illegal’ hotels in the walled city.Ironically, most of these illegal hotels have become operational, despite a ban on approval of their building plan by the high court. Sarabjit Singh Verka, who is a petitioner in the case, said around 550 hotels had been constructed around the Golden Temple during the last nine years.“The Supreme Court had given an interim relief to the hoteliers who opposed the MC’s action related to disconnection of their water and sewer connections. However, nobody allowed others to construct new buildings. Last year, we counted 500 buildings and now it’s around 550 approximately.”Verka said hearing in the case slowed down due to the pandemic, but hotel mafia took the advantage of the situation, and increased illegal construction activity around the Golden Temple.On July 24, 2019, the MC and the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited had disconnected water, sewer and power connections, of illegal hotels around the Golden Temple.The high court had stayed operation of the Amritsar Walled City (Recognition of Usage) Act, 2016, and had directed the Deputy Commissioner to disconnect water and electricity supply to unauthorised commercial establishments, including hotels, in and around the Golden Temple corridor. Later, the hoteliers moved the Supreme Court and got a stay against the high court’s orders.Narinder Sharma, Municipal Town Planner, said, “There is hardly any illegal construction reported around the Golden Temple. The illegal hotels were constructed before 2019. We are vigilant about illegal hotel buildings.”Verka claimed that hotels produce a lot of pollution and heat around the Golden Temple. The pollution damages gold plates and fills holy sarover with silt. “Around 500 hotels means 500 kitchens, 2,000 rooms mean 2,000 air-conditioners, and the same number of washrooms. The existing drain in narrow streets around the Golden Temple is not able to tackle this load.”The petitioner said, “Religious and heritage concerns are there. The centuries-old buildings have been demolished to construct hotels. The hotels give space to flesh trade around the most sacred place of the Sikhs. Hotels should be constructed a few miles away from the Golden Temple.”Timeline2010: Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed against 105 illegal hotels around the Golden Temple corridor2012: The Punjab and Haryana High Court directed that no building plan should to be sanctioned till further orders2014: A three-member SIT formed, which finds 125 illegal hotels built after 20122016: Govt enacts the Amritsar Walled City (Recognition of Usage) Act and the MC demands applications to regularise illegal hotels. The MC receives 216 applications2017: It’s found that no hotel fulfils building bylaws. The Local Bodies Department dismisses a senior Town Planner, demotes three ATPs and imposes 50 per cent pension cut on seven building branch officials for ‘overlooking’ violations2017: The government amends the Act and offers one-time settlement2018: On the high court’s directions, the MC initiates a drive to seal the illegal hotels, but owners reopen these2019: The government again seeks applications for one-time settlement. Owners of 352 illegal hotels submit applications2019: The high court stayed operation of the Amritsar Walled City (Recognition of Usage) Act, 2016, and directed the MC to disconnect water and electricity supply to unauthorised commercial establishments, including hotels in and around the Golden Temple corridor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-500-illegal-hotels-mushroom-near-golden-temple-in-amritsar-301857
25-08-2021||GS Paul||Sikh shrines in Afghanistan vulnerable post Taliban takeover||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 24While three copies of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’ have been flown carefully to India from Kabul, efforts need to be made to ensure the sanctity of historic Afghanistan gurdwaras and evacuate the rare century-old holy scriptures enshrined over there to avoid any instance of sacrilege.Fear of desecration loomsIf the Centre doesn’t take steps for the upkeep and sanctity of Sikh shrines, there is every possibility of their desecration in Afghanistan. — Nirmal Singh, CKD ChiefAfghanistan has been a home to many historic gurdwaras across several cities as well as villages. Many of them have been lost in the civil war leading to the exit of most Hindu and Sikh families from the country.Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) president Nirmal Singh said as the circumstances compelled the Sikhs to vacate their native place, the concern was that who will take care of historical Sikh shrines and rare manuscripts left behind? “The CKD is all set to assist in any way. If the Centre doesn’t take steps for the upkeep and maintain sanctity of Sikh shrines, there is every possibility of their desecration,” he said. Former SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh said, “At a time when the people were making desperate efforts to be evacuated from the war-torn Afghanistan, the Afghani-origin Sikhs have sent a global message by showing concern about the safety and sanctity of the holy scriptures.”Dr Roop Singh said one of the most authentic texts which provided information about these gurdwaras was ‘Afghanistan Da Safar’ written by Prof Ganda Singh, who toured Afghanistan on September 2, 1952. Prof Ganda Singh had located around 40 gurdwaras then in Jalalabad, Ghazni, Kabul, Kandahar and Sultanpur.Now, there are seven main gurdwaras in Kabul, five in Kandahar and one each in Ghazni, Jalalabad and Sultanpur. These include the oldest gurdwara Khalsa (Dera Bhai Gurdas) in Shor Bazaar, Kabul. Similarly, at a gurdwara in Ghazni, there are seven old handwritten copies of Guru Granth Sahib and one Dasam Granth. Gurdwara Shri Guru Har Rai Sahib has got two written volumes of Guru Granth Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-shrines-in-afghanistan-vulnerable-post-taliban-takeover-301566
