26-08-2021||Amritsar||Pneumococcal vax introduced in Amritsar hospital||Deworming drive initiatedAmritsar: The Health Department on Wednesday distributed albendazole tablets in schools and anganwadi centres as a part of its deworming drive. Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh gave tablets to students at Government School, Karampura. The medicine would be made available to around 2.10 lakh students at 1,313 government schools and anganwadi centres and three lakh children at 830 private schools in the district. Children aged between 1 and 19 years would be provided the medicine. The health officials said those kids who were unable to get the medicine today would be given the medicine on September 1. The Civil Surgeon said, “Deworming of children is necessary to ensure their better physical growth.” He said schools had asked to educate kids about personal hygiene. TNSDr Dhawan is new deputy directorTarn Taran: Dr Sandeep Dhawan assumed the charge as a Deputy Director (Animal Husbandry) on Wednesday. Earlier, Dr Dhawan was working as the Senior Veterinary Officer, at the Patti Veterinary Hospital. Dr Dhawan was greeted by employees and officials of the department. Dr Dhawan held a meeting with his colleagues and instructed them to provide better services to residents of the district. OCFreedom Run flagged offAmritsar: On the second day of photo exhibition organised at the Town Hall by under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, as a part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, painting and song competitions were held on Wednesday in which school children participated in a large number. Commissioner Municipal Corporation Malwinder Singh Jaggi was the chief guest. In his address, he said that in freedom struggle Punjabis have made sacrifices for which we have to be proud. The NCC cadets from 1st Battalion performed their routine at the event. Earlier in the morning a “Fit India Freedom Run” was also organised. Sandeep Rishi, Assistant Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, flagged off this run from GNDU. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pneumococcal-vax-introduced-in-amritsar-hospital-302299
26-08-2021||There has been no end to the misery of an international athlete honoured by the district administration on the Republic Day. Balbir Singh||Tarn Taran diary: Athlete’s career marred by police atrocities||Common land reclaimed from encroachersFinally, after years of court proceedings, the gram panchayat of Toot village has been able to get the village common land vacated from the encroachers. This has been possible only with the efforts of Raghbir Singh, a former sarpanch of Toot village falling under the Patti subdivision. Raghbir Singh lodged a case in this regard and moved from pillar to post during the past more than seven years to bring the case to the final stage. The state government had assured the residents that all efforts would be made to get the common land vacated as this menace was causing losses worth crores of rupees to the state exchequer. Sandeep Kumar, DDPO said he had instructed the BDPO Patti to get the land be vacated soon. The land was meant for agricultural works but the situation had gone so worse that people were building houses on the common land but there was no check on them. This issue was prevalent in Tharu, Jalalabad, Chohla Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, Harike, Chabal, Khalra and many more areas where hundreds of acres of common land of these villages had been encroached since years.Justice evades border area farmersThe Punjab Border Area Kisan Welfare Society (PBAKWS), a social organisation registered with the state government has not received any satisfactory reply from the district administration regarding an embezzlement of Rs 70 lakh. This amount was a part of the compensation released by the Union Government to be given to the border area farmers for the year of 2017. The compensation for the year 2017 was distributed among the concerned farmers in 2019. Raghbir Singh Bhangala, president of the PBAKWS, said the society had been representing the border farmers who had not been paid the compensation as yet. The district administration had sent the utilisation certificate (UC) to the state government for Rs 70 lakh amount too. The society had been trying its best to seek justice but their complaints fell on deaf ear.— Contributed by Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-diary-athletes-career-marred-by-police-atrocities-302298
26-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Breathing life into drabbest corners||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 25An educationist Divjot Kaur Sandhu has been tending to her plants and flowers for a long time now. The Covid-19 induced lockdown gave her ample time to invest her in gardening. She merrily did so and came out with new concepts such as tray gardening and developing garden as per the cycle of seasons.She has an array of plants, shrubs and vines in her garden and a rooftop garden. In the undergoing monsoon season, she focused on growing various forms of succulents, cacti, Champas, Rajnighanda, Rain Lilly, purple heart, turtle vine, jade, sweet potato, vine, Mexican Petunias, gomphrenas, dwarf hibiscus, moss rose and vincas.For summers, she specifically arranged hardy plants such as palm, adeniums (deserts roses) and placed them along with vines, flowers, sweet potato vine, turtle vine, clematis, various forms of succulents and others on the terrace garden.For the rooftop green space she made painstaking creative efforts to form things out of the waste material so that birds find it a suitable place to live in and rest. Abandoned tyres were coloured and marble slabs were put over them to form tables, steel rods, used in construction, were moulded to form hanging planters, grills were fitted at a corner of the terrace to give a platform look. Polyrasin sheets from the worn out umbrella were used to form nests and bird feeder.A guest faculty at the Guru Nanak Dev University’s All India Services Coaching Centre she did her doctorate in geography, she added trays in her repertoire of plants and pots for which she found space in her balconies. She finds assistance in tending to gardens in her mother-in-law Dalbir Kaur Sandhu. Both of them also take care of two lawns. He garden Plenty of ficus, draceania, palms, Champas, Rajnighanda, rain lilly, Mexican petunias, gomphrenas are found in these two green patches she adores.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/breathing-life-into-drabbest-corners-302297
26-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran: Compensation sought for deceased farmer’s family||Members of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha (JKS) burnt the effigy of local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri and SDM Rajnish Arora on Wednesday in Mari Kamboke village against harassing of the family of a farmer who died while participating in Delhi Morcha.The farmer identified as Surjit Singh, a resident of Cheema Khurd, who was landless died about seven months back while participating in the Delhi Morcha. The family was moving from pillar to post to get the compensation of Rs five lakh and other kind of help as announced by the state government. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-compensation-sought-for-deceased-farmers-family-302296
26-08-2021||Neha Saini||Tragedy struck Amritsar-based doctor turns to art therapy||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, August 25While she struggled to get her life back on track after the tragic accident in December 2019, Dr Anupama Gupta discovered the artist in her. The doctor, who was lauded for her bravery and selfless action as she saved five lives in a highway pile up in 2019, while losing her legs in the aftermath, is now being celebrated as an artist.Read more about Dr Anupama Gupta's tragic accident Unveiling a series of paintings that she made during her one and half year journey of healing her inner and outer wounds, at the art gallery, Dr Anupama seemed overwhelmed, “I still cannot believe that my paintings have been displayed and found appreciation from the people present here,” she said.The exhibition was inaugurated by MLA Sunil Dutti and Vikramjeet Singh Duggal, the Commissioner of Police. The event also saw the launch of a coffee table book Jugalbandi, which is opened down by Dr Anupama’s husband, Dr Raman Gupta, which gives an elaborative and poetic description of Anupama’s paintings. “I was never into painting or took up any creative classes. But after my accident, as I struggled to deal with excruciating physical pain and mental trauma, my daughter Arushi, who is also a doctor, handed me a sketch book and asked me to just draw whatever came to my mind,” she shared.Her work of art begins with miniatures made up of water colours, using metaphors that reflect her own journey of rising from her adversity. Some of the earliest paintings done by her include butterfly motifs, symbolising a power within oneself to rise above any situation and transformation. Another painting, titled ‘Free Soul’, is about longing to be free, to break out of limitations. Some of her paintings of Radha Krishna, Lord Shiva are about the spiritual strength she derived from the divine. “Art has been like a creative meditation for me throughout my recovery. I did face some challenges but eventually started loving it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tragedy-struck-amritsar-based-doctor-turns-to-art-therapy-302295
26-08-2021||---||GNDU Syndicate asks VB sleuths to conduct probe||Amritsar, August 25The Syndicate of GNDU has asked the Vigilance Bureau to conduct a probe into a complaint of the manipulation of marks in the Department of Physiotherapy. GNDU had conducted a preliminary inquiry into the matter of reported tampering of answer sheets and substantial prima facie evidence was found to prove allegations.The preliminary report was put up before the Syndicate in meeting held on August 9, 2021, henceforth, the Syndicate has unanimously recommended that an impartial enquiry should be conducted by a competent investigative agency of the Government of Punjab. “The matter dates back to 2019, when the university authorities found tampering of few answer sheets in the in-house examinations conducted by the Dept of Physiotherapy.The university had then put on hold the reported cases of tampering and initiated the enquiry. We had presented the outcome of the enquiry with proof in the recent Syndicate meeting and it was agreed that the vigilance Bureau would conduct an independent probe into the matter,” said KS Kahlon, registrar, GNDU.He added, “While investigating the answer sheets, we had found massive cuttings, use of white fluid and manipulations. Meanwhile, the candidates whose answer sheets were found to be tampered with passed out, while the process of inquiry was underway. We are now looking for reasons behind such tamperingGNDU launches medical emergency numberTo facilitate the students, staff, residents and other employees of GNDU in case of medical emergency, the university launched an emergency helpline number 7087707052. This number will operate 24x7 to help the university fraternity. Vice Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu launched this helpline number on Wednesday in a brief ceremony at the university in the presence of Prof Hardip Singh, Dean Academic Affairs, Prof Karanjeet Singh Kahlon, Registrar, Prof Sarbjot Singh Behl, OSD, Prof Balwinder Singh, Prof in-charge, health centre, Dr Pawan Sharma, in-charge P&M Health Centre, Dr Harpreet Kaur, in-charge GA health centre.Helpline to operate 24*7An emergency helpline number 7087707052 will operate 24x7 to help the university fraternity. The move has been taken in order to facilitate the students, staff, residents and other employees of the GNDU in case of medical emergency. Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu launched this helpline number on Wednesday in a brief ceremony at the university in the presence of other professors too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-syndicate-asks-vb-sleuths-to-conduct-probe-302294
26-08-2021||Amritsar||Six more catch coronavirus in Amritsar district||With six positive cases reported on Wednesday in the district, the tally of cases reached 47,208. The new cases include five-influenza like illness cases and one contact of a positive case.The Health Department reported recovery of eight patients. With this, the recovery count, has increased to 45,583. The district has 36 active cases.Meanwhile, a total of 10,616 residents were inoculated during the ongoing vaccination drive on Wednesday. Of them, 6,350 received beneficiaries received their first dose, while 4,266 received their second dose.No case, death reported in Tarn Taran districtThe health authorities reported no positive case and Covid-19 related death in the district on Wednesday. The toll stood at 376. The district has eight active cases and of them, seven persons, had been isolated at their homes.The authorities jabbed 3,909 residents at different health centres today.A total of 3,12,219 beneficiaries had been inoculated so far. The Health Department collected 1,407 samples today in the district. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-more-catch-coronavirus-in-amritsar-district-302293
26-08-2021||---||Only one swine flu case reported so far in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 25While cases of common flu and influenza are being reported frequently, the district reported only one case of swine flu this month. The patient, a 13-year-old child, have recovered and discharged from the hospital.The health authorities said they took four samples (swine flu) of suspected patients in the last two weeks and one of them tested positive.The authorities failed to establish the source of infection, but gave flu medicine to 23 family members and relatives of the patient.SymptomsThe symptoms include headache, cough, fever, loss of appetite, aches, fatigue, running nose, sneezing, watery eyes, throat irritation, nausea and vomiting, diarrhoea and pneumonia in people with chronic conditionsDistrict Epidemiologist Dr Navdeep Kaur said, “The department is monitoring the situation, which is under control. There is no need for general public to panic, but in case of any symptoms, one should consult a physician and get tested.” She said swine flu lab at the Government Medical College was conducting tests.As per the state government orders, it’s mandatory for private hospitals to notify the Health Department about a suspected swine-flu patient at their medical institute.The hospital needs to get the test conducted from a recognised lab and a patient can be declared positive case if he/she tested positive for both H1 and N1.In 2019, the authorities had reported at least three deaths and nine swine flu cases. Not a single case was reported in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/only-one-swine-flu-case-reported-so-far-in-amritsar-district-302292
26-08-2021||---||Amritsar: ‘Expedite work on 7.4-km Smart Road’||Amritsar, August 25The Chief Executive Officer Smart City, along with senior MC Councillors and officials, inspected the ongoing work of the Smart Road around the wall city here on Tuesday. Observing slow pace of work, Smart City CEO Malwinder Singh Jaggi asked the officials of the construction firm to develop one kilometre of the Smart Road within a month so that the city residents visualise what facilities would be provided in the 7.4 kilometer Smart Road.During inspection, MC Councillors Vikas Soni and Mahesh Khanna raised the issue of slow pace of work which leads to inconvenience to the residents.Jaggi instructed the officials and company executives to speed up the pace of work and complete one kilometer stretch from Khajana Gate to Lohgarh gate within one month. It should be developed as a pilot project and officials were asked to make sure its time-bound completion.It is worth mentioning that in September 2020, Cabinet Minister OP Soni inaugurated the project under the Smart City Mission in which outer circular road from the 12 gates around the walled city would be developed as a Smart Road. The project cost of the 7.4-km-long circular road would be 125 crore and the work is supposed to be completed in 28 months. However, nothing happened on the ground even after two years.As per the plan, the lights would be installed on the road sides to add to the beautification and a parking lot would also be established to facilitate travellers and streamline the traffic. All electricity wires and other cables would be taken underground, eliminating the need to dig for laying the cable lines in the future. Besides, all electricity poles and transfers would also be removed and replaced with new compact substations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-expedite-work-on-7-4-km-smart-road-302291
26-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Rs 50 cr in Amritsar MC kitty, yet road infra in a shambles||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 25Residents have been complaining about poor condition of roads for long, but the Amritsar Municipal Corporation usually gives them false assurance everytime.Recently, the state government approved Rs 50 crore to the MC for recarpeting main roads and internal stretches. However, residents believe that the development works would not get implemented as the 2022 Assembly polls were around the corner.Condition of roads deteriorated further, especially during monsoon. The MC and the Public Works Department preferred to do the patch work due to rain.Residents said civic body might not be able to complete the recarpeting work.Kuljit Singh, a resident of Malanwali (under MC jurisdiction), has been trying to get the outer road of the village recarpeted. “The tendering process will take time and after issuing the work order, contractors will not work in winter. The project will get stretched to next summer,” he said.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claimed that tenders of most roads were already floated and it would be materialised soon. “We have already spent crores on main roads in the city and all internal streets will be recarpeted within next few months,” said the Mayor.It’s worth mentioning that after the visit of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on August 15, senior officials of the state government held a meet with local authorities last week and sanctioned Rs 100 crore for the city.The MC officials said around half of the amount would be spent on road infrastructure. Roads would be recarpeted, central verges and green belts would be developed with this amount, said an official.Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Majitha road, said, “The MC announced recarpeting of roads before monsoon. No doubt some of the main roads have been recarpeted, but there is no significant improvement on the ground. Even GT Road near Khalsa College is in a pathetic condition. A number of roads have not been recarpeted for the last few years.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-50-cr-in-amritsar-mc-kitty-yet-road-infra-in-a-shambles-302290
26-08-2021||Amritsar||Contractual workers up the ante, demand regular jobs||Members of the PUNBUS Contractual Workers’ Union held a two-hour strike and blocked entry and exit gates of the Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal on Wednesday.The protesters accused Capt Amarinder Singh-led government for being anti-employee and not fulfilling its promises.Kuljit Singh, chief, PUNBUS Contractual Workers’ Union, said it was high time to increase the number of buses and regularise around 7,500 contractual workers in the PUNBUS and PRTC. Even after repeated assurances by the government, the staff has not been regularised, he said.The protesters said they would go on strike on September 6 and would gherao the residence of the Chief Minister on September 7. During the protest, private buses plied. There was negligible impact on the movement of passengers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/contractual-workers-up-the-ante-demand-regular-jobs-302289
26-08-2021||---||Back on track: 10 trains chug out of Amritsar||Amritsar, August 25Restoration of train services gave fresh lease of life to the Amritsar railway station. Vendors, hawkers and porters who were sitting idle for the last couple of days were seen selling articles and negotiating with passengers. A queue of passengers was witnessed outside the enquiry window and tickets booking counters.On August 24, the protesting farmers had lifted their blocklade, from the Amritsar-Delhi railway track. As a result, the Railways restored movement of trains to some extent today.As many as 10 pairs of trains plied today, but six trains remained cancelled. Officials said it would take a couple of days to normalise the entire operation.Trains which headed for their respective destinations include 04688 ASR-SHC Garib Rath, 04666 ASR-New Delhi Inter City, 02053 ASR-Howrah Jan Shatabdi, 01058 ASR- Dadar Mail, 04650 ASR-JYG Express, 04562 ASR- Chandigarh Express, 03006 ASR-Howrah Mail, 02904 ASR-MMCT Golden Temple Mail, 04664 ASR-Dehradun Express and 02030 Amritsar-New Delhi Shatabdi.It’s pertinent to mention that the agitating farmers had lifted their protest from the railway line at 7.30 pm on August 24 and the Railways received the security clearance at 7.50 pm.Divisional Railway Manager inspects railway stationDuring her maiden visit to the city after taking over as the Divisional Railway Manager of the Ferozepur division, Seema Sharma, inspected the Amritsar railway station and railway yard on Wednesday.She stayed for nearly four hours at the railway station and observed working at reservation and booking windows, power cabin, signals, waiting hall, parcel office and other set ups. She interacted with officials at the station and asked for ideas to run the services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/back-on-track-10-trains-chug-out-of-amritsar-302288
26-08-2021||---||14-year-old boy rescued from bed box, four held in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 25The police have rescued a 14-year-old boy from a bed box and nabbed four kidnappers and on Wednesday.The victim has been identified Pintu (14), a resident of New Preet Nagar.The accused have been identified as Raj Kumar alias Chotu (22), Amit (21), Suraj (20) and Krishna (19), all natives of Bihar who resided at Gali Kullu Mill Wali on Batala road.Kailash Chaudhary, elder brother of the victim, said he sells vegetable near Union Bank situated on Batala road.He said on August 23, Pintu had left to join him at his shop on a bicycle around 6 pm, but failed to reach the destination. Kailash and his relatives searched for Pintu the entire night.Kailash told the Mohkampura police that he got a call on August 24 at 9 am and the caller asked to pay Rs 3 lakh as ransom to release his brother.Commissioner of Police Vikramjeet Duggal said they received a complaint around 11 am and constituted separate teams to track the miscreants. He said footage of CCTV cameras and analysing dump data of mobile calls proved helpful in tracing the boy.Duggal said all the accused were from the same locality and they hatched a conspiracy to kidnap a child of a well-off family. He said they took an accommodation on a rent and got a large bed with box (diwan) to hide the child.He said cops traced Pintu and recovered him from the bed box. A country-made pistol was also seized from the possession of the accused.Pintu said three-motorcycle borne men intercepted him near his house and asked him to go along with them. When I refused, the kidnappers put a rope around my neck and took me forcefully, he said and added that they hid him in the bed box.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/14-year-old-boy-rescued-from-bed-box-four-held-in-amritsar-302287
26-08-2021||Chandigarh||State law varsity to come up in Tarn Taran||The government has decided to establish a state university in Tarn Taran district for the development and advancement of legal education.The CM will lay the stone of the university on Friday. An official spokersperson said the aim of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur State University of Law was to disseminate legal knowledge, processes and their role in national development. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/state-law-varsity-to-come-up-in-tarn-taran-302059
