27-08-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: D Sudarvizi is new Joint Commissioner of Police||Photo exhibition concludesAmritsar: A three-day photo exhibition organised in Town Hall by the Field Outreach Bureau under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India, as part of the "Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav" concluded on Thursday. Colonel Rajneesh Sinha of NCC First battalion said such programmes helped youngsters to know about the freedom struggle of the country. The NCC cadets presented patriotic songs on the occasion. Gurmeet Singh, Field Publicity Officer of the bureau, thanked all participants. tnsGNDU suspends Head of the DeptAmritsar: In a follow up to the GNDU Syndicate handing over enquiry into the case of tampering with answer sheets of the in-house exams conducted by Department of Physiotherapy in 2019, the university authorities on Thursday suspended Dr Shyamal Koley, head of the department. GNDU Registrar KS Kahlon said the university had suspected Dr Koley's involvement in the matter and therefore, acted upon it. "We had our suspicion once we began our inquiry." University had found manipulations, use of white fluid, cutting and other discrepancies in a few answer sheets of the final semester examinations of the department in 2019. tns80 get jabbed at court complexTarn Taran: As many as 80 persons, including judges, staff of different courts, advocates and clerks were vaccinated at the fourth vaccination camp organised in the local District Courts Complex on Thursday. Gurbir Singh, civil judge and the secretary of the Legal Services Authority, said District and Sessions Judge Priya Sood presided over the vaccination campaign. Bagicha Singh, Civil Judge (Senior Division), was among the others who were vaccinated on Thursday. ocGranthi Singhs appointedAmritsar: Three newly-appointed Granthi Singhs of the Golden Temple on Thursday took charge of their service as per 'panthic maryada' (conduct) at a special ceremony organised at Akal Takht. Officiating Jathedar of the Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh announced the new appointments, namely Giani Rajdeep Singh, Giani Sultan Singh and Giani Baljit Singh. SGPC chief secretary Advocate Harjinder Singh shared information about the historical background, tradition and service of the Granthi Singh Sahibs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-d-sudarvizi-is-new-joint-commissioner-of-police-302780
27-08-2021||Tracing the footprints of travellers||Slice of history from Tarn Taran||Also read:Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarDens of belief: Akharas of AmritsarThe roughly 2,600-km long Kabul to Kolkata Sadak-e-Azam built by Sher Shah Suri passed through towns as Serai Amanat Khan (colloquially Saran) in Amritsar and Serai Noordin (Nurdi) in Tarn Taran district.During Sher Shah Suri’s brief stint at power after defeating Humayun in 1540, the Mughals strengthened the road, which was finally completed during Akbar’s reign. The remnants of the Kos Minars and serais still exist on the stretch, which is presently known as Attari-Tarn Taran Road.The serais (rest houses) were built during the Mughal period on a distance of roughly 18-20 kilometres and served the purpose of night shelters for traders and officials of the darbar. A Kos Minar (mile stone) was built at roughly 1.8 kilometres each and helped travellers as markers of distance.These minars were also central to the efficient post-delivery system developed by Sher Shah as each one had a rider ready with a horse for relay of horses to deliver post. While most of these Kos Minars have withered, a few have survived the onslaught of time.Of the two serais, Serai Amanat Khan has been under renovation by the Archaeological Survey of India for decades now. Of the Serai Noordin, only a dilapildated gateway and a tomb are remaining.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/slice-of-history-from-tarn-taran-302767
27-08-2021||---||Prof Dharam Singh's book ‘Sadda Sufi Virsa’ brings lesser-known facets of Sufism to fore||Amritsar, August 26Prof Dharam Singh, former head of Punjabi School of Education at the GNDU, who is a recipient of the state award for his contribution to Punjabi language, has come up with his 15th book. Titled ‘Sadda Sufi Virsa’, it is an extensive compilation of the history of Sufism and its impact on the contemporary literature.Dharam Singh, who has a 34-year long career as an educationist and has been at the forefront of research regarding the Punjabi language, says that the book has a special segment dedicated to the lesser known concepts of Sufism such as wilayat, tariqat. “My book has four segments that feature different subjects under the history of Sufism. I talk about the legacy of Sufi scholars that are known as minor poets, often ignored in history but, play a significant role in building and promotion of Sufi tradition in Punjab. Many people know about Baba Bulleh Shah, Baba Farid, but not many know about Syed Akbar Shah or Baba Vajeed, Jaan Mohamad, who were all significant proponents of Sufi literature throughout the history,” he says.Using his research skills, he has dedicated an entire segment to mention Sufi source books, usually written in Urdu or Persian but translated to Punjabi. “There were many noted poets in early 12th century, who brought Sufi literature to this region and introduced many concepts. This literature was later translated in Punjabi. These books were mostly about Sufi mystics,” explains Prof Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prof-dharam-singhs-book-sadda-sufi-virsa-brings-lesser-known-facets-of-sufism-to-fore-302765
27-08-2021||---||Man kills self,  seven booked for abetment to suicide||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 26A man, identified as Amit Kumar of Subhash Colony on Batala Road here, committed suicide allegedly by consuming some poisonous substance here on Tuesday and a case was registered on Wednesday. They got a suicide note from his possession following which the police booked seven persons on the charge of abetment to suicide.Those booked were identified as Prabhjot Singh and Gopi and Surinder, both construction material dealers, Sanjiv Kumar, Parej, Ashu and Vikram. A case under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against them.Sonia, wife of the victim, told the police on Tuesday evening that her husband reached home under the influence of liquor. He told her that he had consumed liquor with Vikram. After this, he got unconscious and was rushed to a private hospital where the doctors declared him dead.Sonia said when she checked the pockets of her husband, she found a suicide note in which he had held the accused responsible for taking the extreme step.She alleged her husband had some monetary dispute with the accused and they subjected him to harassment following which he ended his life.The police said the body was handed over to the family members after an autopsy and further investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-kills-self-seven-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-302764
27-08-2021||---||Amritsar: CBI takes records, seized tramadol tablets into possession||Amritsar, August 26After taking over the probe into the seizure of 12.5 lakh tramadol tablets seized by the drug department, CBI officials took the custody of the banned drugs and the records pertaining to the seizure here on Thursday.The CBI team had been camping in the city for the past two days. On Tuesday, they reached the Civil Surgeon’s office without any intimation regarding the inspection of the record. On Wednesday, they reached the old civil surgeon’s office where the boxes of the seized tramadol were kept. They counted every tablet till late in the evening before taking it into its custody, said an official of the drug department of the health wing.Earlier on August 3, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had handed over the probe into the seizure to the CBI after it felt that “everything was not normal with investigation of NDPS cases in the state”. The CBI sleuths refused to talk to mediapersons or to disclose any details pertaining to the case.In one of the biggest seizures of tramadol from the state, around 12.5 lakh capsules were seized from Ravenbhel Pharmaceuticals, a drug manufacturer in Baba Budha Avenue opposite New Amritsar.The firm had no permission to stock tramadol tablets, which is mandatory as per government instructions. The firm had been involved in the unauthorised sale and purchase of the banned medicine for the last around five months, an official stated after making the seizure. Following the seizure, action was initiated under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act while no case was registered under the NDPS Act.12.5 lakh capsules of tramadol seizedIn one of the biggest seizures of tramadol from the state, around 12.5 lakh capsules were seized from Ravenbhel Pharmaceuticals, a drug manufacturer in Baba Budha Avenue opposite New Amritsar. The firm had no permission to stock tramadol tablets, which is mandatory as per government instructions. The firm had been involved in the unauthorised sale and purchase of the banned medicine for the last around five months. Following the seizure, action was initiated under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act while no case was registered under the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-cbi-takes-records-seized-tramadol-tablets-into-possession-302763
27-08-2021||---||Amritsar district reports six Covid-19 +ve cases, no casualty||Amritsar, August 26With six positive cases reported on Thursday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,214. The new cases include three influenza like illness cases and three contacts of positive patients.The health authorities also reported recovery of three patients with which the recovery count has increased to 45,586. The district has a total of 39 active cases. In the ongoing vaccination drive for Covid-19, a total of 21,213 residents were inoculated on Thursday.Tarn Taran logs two casesTwo more positive cases were reported with no causality in the district on Thursday. The death toll stands at 376. DC Kulwant Singh said 11,916 persons were given jabs at different places today. As many as 3,21,765 persons had been given 3,99,360 doses till today. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-six-covid-19-ve-cases-no-casualty-302757
27-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Punjab CM to open Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur State University of Law today at Kairon||Tarn Taran, August 26CM Amarinder Singh will inaugurate Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur State University of Law at Kairon, a Government College at Shahbazpur, and an Industrial Training Institute at Mannan, (Tarn Taran) virtually on Friday. Residents had been looking forward to it as it is going to be a ground breaking development in the field of higher education.The district is known for rural campuses such as SGAD College, Khadoor Sahib, Baba Buddha College Bir Sahib (Thatha), SGGS Khalsa College Sirhali and GNDU College, Chungh. The urban campuses have been facing neglect. District’s only women’s College (aided) Mata Ganga Girls College, Tarn Taran, has been facing the threat of closure due to the lack of staff and grants-in-aid. The vast playground of the local SGAD Government College is facing the threat of encroachment.Dr Amanpreet Singh Gill, an educationist, said higher education in the district suffered immensely during the militancy. Drug menace was another problem. Study visa exodus was the latest and the hardest blow to already weakened institutions of higher education in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-cm-to-open-sri-guru-tegh-bahadur-state-university-of-law-today-at-kairon-302742
27-08-2021||---||Amritsar MC razes illegal structures||Amritsar, August 26Officials of the estate wing of the municipal corporation demolished pillars constructed alongside the building of Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital near Shaheedan gurdwara here on Thursday.Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh stated that some persons erected pillars on government land near Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital. A team of the MC reached the spot with a ditch machine and some of the pillars were removed.Meanwhile, as some persons associated with a religious body intervened and claimed that the land belonged to them, all pillars could not be removed. The estate wing officials stated that the demarcation of the property would be conducted first and then action taken.Apart from this, the estate wing removed the illegal encroachments from the Heritage Street, Ramtalai Chowk, Sultanwind Gate and Chatiwind Chowk areas and confiscated the goods of the occupants and deposited them in the MC store.The Estate Officer said on the directions of the Mayor and the Commissioner, action was being taken against those persons in the city who were trying to occupy the government land illegally. Inspectors Raj Kumar, Davinder Bhatti, department staff and police personnel were present on the spot. Meanwhile, a team of the estate wing reached Doaba Chowk to remove an illegal pollution checking kiosk on the premises of a petrol pump, but they were forced to return without taking action by a politician associated with the ruling party.Five parking lots to be up for grabs soonAmritsar: After opening the financial bid for the parking lots, the Municipal Corporation has invited five bidders for allotment of parking lots in the city. The parking lots, including those at Amandeep Hospital, Bhandari Bridge, Guru Nanak Bhawan, Macchi Mandi and Kairon Market got successful bidders during the recently completed bidding process. Dharminderjeet Singh, Estate Officer, said, after opening the financial bid, the names of five contractors have been finalised. We have written to the successful bidders to deposit 50 percent contract money, bank guarantee of 25 per cent amount and cheque for the remaining 25 per cent in advance. As soon they will deposit the money, bank guarantee and cheques we will allot the contract. It is the first time that the MC is allotting the parking lots with these conditions. According to MC officials, the parking contractors used to deposit 20 per cent amount in advance and after that they didn't deposit the installments. It is being expected that the parking contractor may not fulfill the conditions of MC as no one willing to pay 50 per cent amount in advance. Meanwhile, the parking lots of the MC are now providing free service to the visitors. The MC is not charging any fee from the parking lots. The MC has marked 24 parking lots in the city, but had invited bids for 12 main parking lots. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-razes-illegal-structures-302740
27-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Wheat scam: Govt shifts probe to Punjab Vigilance Bureau||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 26Weeks after the pilferage of over 87,000 quintals of government wheat, the Punjab Government has marked a probe into the scam to the Punjab Vigilance Bureau from the Amritsar rural police.SSP, Vigilance, Parampal Singh has confirmed the development adding that the rural police have been asked to hand over the records to the VB in this connection.Following the complaint of District Food and Civil Supply Controller Rishi Raj Mehra, the Amritsar rural police have booked custodian inspector Jasdev Singh on charges of fraud (420, IPC) and criminal breach of trust (409, IPC) and other relevant sections of IPC on August 6.How the pilferage came to lightThe incident came to light when the Food Corporation of India was to upload wheat in a special train from the Gehri Mandi railway station and as per norms, it was mandatory for the custodian inspector to remain present with the record. However, he was not present there. When officials called Jasdev, his mobile was switched off. Then the department got the physical verification of the wheat stock done and got to know of the pilferage.Jasdev Singh had already mysteriously disappeared from his house around a week before a case in this regard was registered on August 6. Following this, the head of the vigilance committee of the department had ordered the physical verification of the eight godowns, which were looked after by him.The incident came to light when the Food Corporation of India was to upload wheat in a special train from the Gehri Mandi railway station and as per norms, it was mandatory for the custodian inspector to remain present with the record. However, he was not present there. When officials called Jasdev, his mobile was switched off. Jasdev and his family members mysteriously disappeared from the house last month. Jasdev was the custodian of eight godowns located at Jandiala, Gehri Mandi and Dhire Kot villages.Following this, the department decided to get a physical verification done by its Vigilance Department. The physical verification continued for two days and the department found as many as 87,160 quintals of wheat worth Rs 20 crore missing.According to the complaint submitted to the police, the DFSC said as many as 1,45,787 bags of 50 kg wheat each belonging to Pungrain and 47,556 bags containing 30 kg wheat each (total 1,93,343 bags) were found bungled from the eight godowns. The Food and Civil Supply Department on behalf of Pungrain and the Punjab Government had procured the grains from the grain market.Investigation later revealed that the accused also siphoned off crores of rupees given as the minimum support price on wheat as he allegedly made fake entries for the purchase of 1.84 lakh of bags of wheat which was shown to be transported to godowns in Jandiala Guru. The roles of commission agents, sellers, auction recorders of the mandi board, agency inspectors and transporters were also under the scanner.The department chargesheeted 10 officials, including deputy directors, Jalandhar division, and allege district food and supply controllers posted in Amritsar from 2018 till now. Two officials — Assistant Food and Supply Officer Cherry Bhatia and Inspector Rajinder Bains — have been placed under suspension.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wheat-scam-govt-shifts-probe-to-punjab-vigilance-bureau-302739
27-08-2021||GS Paul||140 Sikh, Hindu pilgrims turned away by Taliban||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 26The Taliban have prevented a contingent of 140 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, slated to arrive from Kabul today on an annual pilgrimage to attend the celebrations of 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur at a Delhi gurdwara, from leaving the country.It is learnt, the group, carrying two sets of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’ and a Hindu deity’s idol, had hired a bus from Gurdwara Karte Parwan in Kabul for the international airport, 10 km away. They all possessed valid visas meant for pilgrimage to India.Guljeet Singh, president of Gurdwara Guru Nanak Sahib, Vikaspuri, New Delhi, said the pilgrims were turned away from the airport by the Taliban after they waited for more than 15 hours. Singh, who is of Afghan origin, said as per the Taliban’s recent dictate, those belonging to Afghanistan would seldom be allowed to leave the country.Had Af passportsThe Taliban checked their documents and turned them away for possessing Afghan passports. —Guljeet Singh, A delhi gurdwara president“Each year, our community organises pilgrimages to India on special occasions. The pilgrimage to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur was planned six months ago. After the suspension of commercial flights due to the political unrest, we had urged the Government of India to facilitate their journey and it was arranged. But the Taliban checked their documents and turned them away for possessing Afghan passports,” he said.Partap Singh, also of Afghan origin and president of Gurdwara Guru Arjan Dev, New Mahavir Nagar, said a ‘kirtan darbar’ was scheduled at the gurdwara for August 29 (Sunday). “Many member of our community from various parts of the world have already arrived to attend the event, but sadly our brothers and sisters from Afghanistan were not allowed to travel,” he said.Puneet Singh, president, Indian World Forum, has urged the Taliban to facilitate an early departure of pilgrims. “The Sikh and Hindu communities have significantly contributed to the development of Afghanistan. They should be granted safe passage,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/140-sikh-hindu-pilgrims-turned-away-by-taliban-302463
27-08-2021||---||US Sikhs seek White House intervention in evacuation of Afghanistan Sikhs, Hindus||Amritsar, August 26US Sikhs have met with White House representative over the issue of evacuation of Afghanistan Sikhs and Hindus.Dr Rajwant Singh, co-founder of the National Sikh Campaign (NSC) and chairman of the Sikh Council on Religion and Education, along with Gurwin Singh Ahuja, co-founder of the NSC, apprised key White House officials of the Sikh community’s concerns about the fallout of the US withdrawal from Afghanistan.Evacuate themWe will like the American troops to assist the Sikhs to be evacuated from the Kabul airport as the Indian Air Force is ready for the task. —Dr Rajwant Singh, National sikh campaign co-founder“We conveyed that the Sikh community will be ready to assist the Biden administration if the Sikhs and Hindus are evacuated to the US. We are thankful to the Indian Government for stepping in and evacuating the first batch of Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan. We would like the American troops to assist the Sikhs to be evacuated from the Kabul airport as the Indian Air Force is ready for the task.”They also reminded the White House officials that the Canadian Government had offered to accept many Sikh refugees from Afghanistan.The US Sikhs were concerned about the impact on the community in the US of the images of gun-wielding Taliban. “Hate groups are ready to exploit these situations to create havoc on racial and religious minorities in the US,” he said.Cite Canada offer to take refugeesThey also reminded the White House officials that the Canadian Government had offered to accept many Sikh refugees from Afghanistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/us-sikhs-seek-white-house-intervention-in-evacuation-of-afghanistan-sikhs-hindus-302464
27-08-2021||---||Cabbie nabbed with 17 kg heroin in Pathankot district||Amritsar, August 26The Amritsar rural police today confiscated 17 kg heroin smuggled from Jammu and Kashmir and arrested taxi driver Ranjit Singh, alias Sonu, a resident of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar area here.DGP Dinkar Gupta said Ranjit was arrested from Madhopur in Pathankot district. He had concealed the contraband in specially created compartments fitted underneath a white Innova car (PB01A6708).The police seized 16 packets containing 16.87kg heroin, which he had picked up from the Naushehra area of Jammu and Kashmir.Drug Smuggled from J&K“Investigations revealed Ranjit had picked up the drug consignment on the instructions of Ranjit Singh, alias Rana, of Patti area, who was currently lodged in the Faridkot jail, and Malkeet Singh, alias Laddu, lodged in the Muktsar jail,” said DGP. Rana was the kingpin of the racket, he added.The police have registered a case under Sections 21, 23, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the Kathunangal police station.Further interrogation was under on to ascertain the forward and backward links of the accused. The police said Rana and Laddu would be brought on production warrant for further investigations in the case.Since January, the Punjab Police had recovered 400 kg heroin, 4 kg smack, 6 kg cocaine, besides 98,000 injections and 1.44 crore intoxicating tablets, said the DGP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cabbie-nabbed-with-17-kg-heroin-in-pathankot-district-302472
