28-08-2021||---||Shoe 'thrown' at Sukhbir Badal after rally in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 28A person threw a shoe at SAD president and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal as he walked off the stage after a political rally organised by former BJP minister Anil Joshi who had joined the party last week. However, the shoe did not hit Sukhbir Badal and fell a distance from him.The police have detained Boota Singh, a resident of Golden Avenue in Amritsar north constituency, previously represented by Anil Joshi. The sources in the police department stated that Boota Singh is physically disabled and cannot walk on his own. He is too feeble, added the source.The police official said the person has been detained after the intimation by local SAD leaders.While talking to The Tribune, Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said a person has been detained. He, however, added that as of now there is no evidence if the incident has occurred or not but a person has been detained for questioning.  Anil Joshi could not be contacted for his comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shoe-thrown-at-sukhbir-badal-after-rally-in-amritsar-303343
28-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Illicit liquor seized; 3 held||Workshop for basmati growersTarn Taran: A workshop was organised here recently regarding encouraging farmers to grow pesticide-residue free Basmati as it was first choice in the International market. The workshop was organised jointly by the Agriculture and Farmer Welfare Department, Punjab, Punjab Rice Millers Association and APEDA. The workshop was attended by farmers and other associate sector businessmen. Ashok Sethi, state president of the Punjab Rice Millers Association, said Punjab was known for growing better quality of basmati with attractive smell. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illicit-liquor-seized-3-held-303202
28-08-2021||Amritsar||DAV College, Amritsar, students visit FM radio station||Women’s Equality Day celebratedWomen’s Equality Day marked was celebrated by women staff of Global Group of Institutes on Thursday. The female staff reminded students and faculty members of the contribution of women in building a global society. Dr Monika Arora of the Department of Management, while co-ordinating the celebrations with women colleagues HODs, principals and other faculty and staff, dwelt on the history and importance of the day. She also spoke at length about exercising the right to vote for which the 19th Amendment of the US Constitution was certified and adopted on this day. She also stressed the need to have equal pay for equal work to women employees working in different capacities. TNSGNDU declares resultsResults of Master in Fine Arts (Applied Art), Semester-IV, certificate course in Chinese (Part Time), Semester-II, certificate course in German (Part Time), Semester-II of Session December 2020 have been declared by GNDU. The results will be available on university website www.gndu.ac.in, informed Prof Manoj Kumar, professor in charge (Examinations). TNSAdmission in vacant seats at GNDUFew seats are lying vacant in Bachelor of Planning (Urban & Regional), Master of Planning (Urban) for Residents of Jammu & Kashmir (Supernumerary Quota)), Master of Planning (Infrastructure) and Master of Planning (Transport) courses at Guru Nanak Dev University for the academic session 2021-22. Dr Kuldip Singh, Head of the Department, said candidates willing to take admission against these vacant seats are directed to apply on the university website www.gnduadmissions.org. Last date to deposit the application fee and online application form is September 9. The counselling will be held online and the admission process will be held on ‘first come first serve basis’. The selected candidate will have to deposit the fee on the spot. TNSLecture on self-study reportDr Rama K, Adviser, National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) on Friday addressed the faculty of Guru Nanak Dev University main campus and regional centres on different aspects to the self-study report (SSR). She stressed that curriculum improvement and enrichment, research, placement and social responsibility were the key concerns of the higher education institutions in nation building. This special programme was organised for the faculty of the university in preparation for the next cycle of NAAC accreditation. The university organised a self-study report (SSR) sensitisation session under the mentorship of Prof (Dr) Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice Chancellor of the university. Dr Rama said maintaining high standards to reflect the internal performance of the institution, good performance of the faculty reflected through the performance of alumni and social accreditation helped the institute in gaining high ranking and status in academic endeavours across the globe. TNSCervical Awareness Session heldGlobal Group of Institutes held a cancer awareness session for its faculty and staff to make them aware of the simple measures that could be adopted to prevent 100 per cent preventable cancer. The session was held at the Global Campus, where a team of experts from Phulkari CAN interacted with the faculty and other staff members. The experts guided them to adopt measures and make lifestyle changes to thwart the threat of cervical cancer by following a simple regime on a daily basis. The cervical awareness session is one amongst a series of various health-related activities taken up by the institute post Covid to enable its faculty and staff to cope with the health-related challenges after the pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-college-amritsar-students-visit-fm-radio-station-303201
28-08-2021||Amritsar||Garbage a menace in Vallah market||Vegetable growers, traders, vendors and visitors are perturbed over the deplorable conditions of the wholesale fruit and vegetable market in the Vallah area situated on the outskirts of the city.Kanwaljit Singh Pahwa, a businessman, said rainwater gets accumulated on roads here and turns into a favourite breeding-ground for mosquitoes. Many shopkeepers fall ill as well. However, it does not bother the authorities who prefer to look the other way.According to Parmjit Singh, a vegetable grower, it is a challenging task to visit the wholesale market, which has deplorable roads and lacks basic amenities. However, the situation deteriorates during the monsoon season. Even a drizzle is enough to turn the area into a pool of water with paths and adjoining area stinking. Rotting vegetables stink more after rain. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/garbage-a-menace-in-vallah-market-303200
28-08-2021||---||Navjot Singh Sidhu promises a model Punjab, flays CM’s policies||Amritsar, August 27PCC president Navjot Singh Sidhu addressed the Trade and Industrial Associations of Amritsar, an organisation represented by 48 traders and industrial bodies at the SG resorts. The programme was organised by Congress MLA Sunil Dutti in his constituency last night.He stated that: “Let me tell you at my loudest neither did I take oath nor I made promises. I will raise a model Punjab which will be there for next two decades.” However, he put a condition that it will be possible only if he was empowered to take decisions.In another attack on the Capt Amarinder Singh government, he said “When his tenure will end, (complete its term), a loan of Rs 3.25 lakh will be added to the exchequer.”On high power utility tariff, he said he knew that the faulty PPAs signed at Rs 17 per unit were responsible for this. He stated that the power utility could be made available at Rs 3.25 per unit to domestic users. Power will be available at Rs three per unit if faulty PPAs will be abrogated. Continuing his attack on the government he said it has been giving only assurances to all job seekers such as ETT passed, contractual employees and others. He promised that the industrial policies would be made by enterpreneurs themselves and not the bureaucrats.Earlier, Ajay Mehra from warp knitting industry said successive governments showed them moon and nothing came out. So, their faith eroded in the government and they discontinued taking part in meetings. He stated that farmers were sitting on roads and they were also ready to do so. Farmers are committing suicides and they were on the verge of doing so.Other industrialists stated that bureaucrats made policies for industrialists which suit them.They drew the attention to the assets owned by bureaucrats which far exceed the wealth of industrialists. They accused Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for giving free hand to bureaucrats during his tenure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-singh-sidhu-promises-a-model-punjab-flays-cms-policies-303199
28-08-2021||---||Amritsar district logs 2 fresh cases of Covid, no casualty||Amritsar, August 27Two more positive cases were reported on Friday, taking the total count to 47,216 in the district. The cases include one case of influenza-like illness and equal number of contacts of positive patient. Similarly, the count of active cases reached at 37 in the district.No casualty was reported and the total number of casualties was at 1,589. With the recovery of four patients, the recovery count has also improved to 45,590.In the ongoing vaccination drive, 9,267 people from different categories were inoculated in the district on Friday. Of these, 9,168 received the doses at government run centers while 99 at private vaccination centers. So far, 9,70,017 people received jabs.Tarn Taran reports one case, no deathThe district had crossed the vaccination figure to four lakh on Friday as 2,777 persons were given jabs at different places in the district today.Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said a total number 4,02,137 Covid doses had been given to 3,23,845 persons till today.The district reported one positive case and no causality today. The persons who died due to Covid pandemic stands at 375. The teams of the health department collected 1,501 samples today from different places. The report of 1,494 is awaited. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-logs-2-fresh-cases-of-covid-no-casualty-303198
28-08-2021||---||Seminar on China, South Asia, South East Asia begins at GNDU||Amritsar, August 27GNDU has organised a two-day conference on the theme “China and South Asia and South East Asia: Implications for India” in collaboration with the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA). The first day of the conference started with an address by Prof Rajesh Kumar, Chairperson of School of Social Sciences, GNDU, who threw light on the fifteen years history and progress of the School of Social Sciences (SSS).The keynote speaker for the day was Prof Srikanth Kondapalli, who highlighted the territorial, historical, economic and military connections of China with South Asia and South East Asia. He explained the key initiatives of China to interact in the region such as BRI, Community of common destiny and go out strategy. The approach of China towards both the region was outlined by him as – “Hexiao Kongda” (Cooperate with small to counter India) for South Asia, and ‘Qianyi Mohva’ (creep silently) for South East Asia. His suggestions for India’s options in the context of China’s growing assertiveness focused on three C’s:- Commerce; Culture; Connectivity.This was followed by the special address by Prof Karori Singh, Emeritus Prof of University of Rajasthan, who considered the improved role of China, since its establishment in 1999 under PLA and CPC, as a 100 years marathon to achieve two objective- update a prosperous society by 2049 and; to end the poverty issues.This is the first offline seminar by GNDU post pandemic and is planned around 30 paper presentations by scholars and academicians from leading universities, which will contribute intellectually enriched pieces in the said theme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seminar-on-china-south-asia-south-east-asia-begins-at-gndu-303197
28-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran: Paddy produce arrives in mandis||Tarn Taran, August 27Paddy began to arrive in the local grain market today and the first farmer to bring it Gurpreet Singh Sonu (27), a resident of Meerpur village.The farmer was greeted by the commission agents who distributed ladoo on his arrival. Gurpreet was honoured with a turban as well.The Mandi Board officials claim that Gurpreet Singh is the first farmer in the state to bring his paddy produce of the season.Gurpreet Singh came to the market today with his 1121 paddy variety called basmati. He was given Rs 2,373 per quintal price in the open bid by private firms on his variety.Gurpreet said he planted paddy with direct system on beds because of which he ended up saving money in planting paddy and water as well.He got more than 25 quintals yield per acre, which was normally about 20 quintals, Singh added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-paddy-produce-arrives-in-mandis-303196
28-08-2021||---||Youths climb atop water tank in Amritsar, demand pending job letters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 27Several youths on Friday climbed atop an overhead water tank in Rambagh area demanding jobs in the Police Department.They claimed they were selected in 2016 but had been waiting for the appointments for the past five years, adding that there were around 1,800 such aspirants.The youths came down in the evening after a meeting was arranged with the Inspector General of Police for September 1.Jagdeep Singh, one of the agitators, said: “We had put forth our problems to CM Capt Amarinder Singh a number of times. We had also met Punjab Pradesh Congress Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu but our demands have fallen on deaf ears. Punjab police have again started the process of new recruitments but those selected in the past are still waiting for jobs.”He added that the Punjab Government had opened the recruitment in the Police Department in 2016 for 7,416 posts. He said over 5,500 joined the department while around 1,800 aspirants were put in the waiting list. “The candidature of around 300 were cancelled due to various reasons while the remaining are still waiting for their joining. Around 1,500 posts are still vacant,” he said.Ironically, several of them worked in the department for several months before they were informed that their joining was put in the waiting list.The agitators said if their demands were not met, they would strengthen the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youths-climb-atop-water-tank-in-amritsar-demand-pending-job-letters-303195
28-08-2021||---||Amritsar's Partition Museum to display oral recounts of traumatic event||Amritsar, August 27Mallika Ahluwalia, founder-trustee of the Partition Museum, recently interviewed US Ambassador to India Atul Keshap for the museum’s audio-archive collection. Keshap recounted his family’s traumatic experiences of the Partition while recording his oral history, stating that his “family’s debt to India is absolutely immense”.Also read: Partition Museum curates online events to allow visitors to sneak a peek into the pages of historyInternational tourism awards: Partition Museum wins Best Wider World Tourism ProjectRelive the pangs of PartitionRenowned artists to participate in Amritsar Partition Museum’s online exhibitionKeshap’s father, Dr Keshap Chandra Sen, originally belonged to Muzaffargarh, near Multan, and ultimately settled in Panipat after the Partition. Atul Keshap mentioned that his father’s family was lucky in comparison to million others, as they managed to reach India safely.“However, under the circumstances that were created during the time, the experience of travelling to Amritsar by train was extremely traumatic. My grandfather basically decided that he would stay where he was as that’s where his job was, that’s where his land was, that’s where his ancestral properties were. It was when push came to shove that they left immediately with almost no notice and fled. My family’s debt to India is absolutely immense and my father was a very proud Indian throughout his entire life,” Keshap said.Dr Sen served as an international civil servant and was posted around the world with the United Nations. Keshap’s mother, Zoe Calvert, had been in the US Foreign Services when she married Dr Sen. Atul Keshap was born in Nigeria and later raised in the US.Atul Keshap recalled that every summer, for about 15 years, his father would bring him and his brothers to India to visit their grandmother in Panipat. He said his family, like many Punjabi refugees, were resilient, adding that they looked forward and worked hard to invest in their lives in India.“Atul Keshap’s interview will become a part of the Partition museum’s oral history gallery and will be displayed at the Partition Museum coming up at Dara Shikoh library in Delhi,” informed Mallika. She also presented her book, “Divided by Partition United by Resilience: 21 Inspirational Stories from 1947”, to Keshap.The other eminent personalities whose oral history accounts are displayed at the Partition Museum in Amritsar include former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, late Milkha Singh and Hero Group’s Munjal family.Apart from the world’s first Partition Museum set up in Amritsar, the Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust has also set up the first Independence and Partition Museum in Kolkata earlier this year and will be now setting up a museum in Delhi as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-partition-museum-to-display-oral-recounts-of-traumatic-event-303194
28-08-2021||---||Two drug peddlers brought on production warrant to Amritsar||Amritsar, August 27Day after the seizure of 16.87 kg of heroin from a taxi driver Ranjit Singh alias Sonu, the police have brought his two accomplices – Ranjit Singh aka Rana and Malkeet Singh alias Laddu - from Faridkot and Sri Mukatsar Sahib jail respectively.During preliminary probe, it was found that Sonu had brought the consignment after hiding in the specially created cavities in his Innova taxi, on the instructions of Rana and Malkeet Singh. According to police, a mobile was also confiscated from Rana from inside the jail following a tip provided by the Amritsar rural police.On Thursday, Amritsar rural police following a tip off, had confiscated around 16.87 kg contraband smuggled from Jammu and Kashmir from Ranjit Singh alias Sonu. He was arrested from Madhopur in Pathankot district.A senior police official privy to the investigations revealed that the mobile phone seized from Rana was taken into custody which was sent to forensic examination.Sources added that the police had got several contacts reportedly of drug peddlers active in Jammu and Kashmir area and from Pakistan from the phone. The police was also looking into the links of the seized drugs with terrorist organisations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-drug-peddlers-brought-on-production-warrant-to-amritsar-303193
28-08-2021||---||Robbers decamp with jewellery worth Rs25 lakh in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 27Around five armed persons robbed a jeweller at gunpoint at Fatehgarh Churian Road on Friday and decamped with Rs 1.25 lakh and jewellery worth Rs 25 lakh.The incident was captured on CCTV cameras where they were seen fleeing on their bikes in just three minutes. In his complaint, the victim, Vishnu, said the armed persons entered the shop at around 3.45 pm and threatened to shoot him. He added that the robbers had removed the digital video recorder of the shop but forgot to take it with them before fleeing. Lal Chand, owner of the shop was not present at the shop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-decamp-with-jewellery-worth-rs25-lakh-in-amritsar-303192
28-08-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar: Double murder case solved, three arrested||The city police have finally nabbed three suspects wanted in a double murder case in which two youths were shot dead outside a hotel on Majitha Road on August 18.Those arrested included Manpreet Singh, aka Mani Dhillon, and his brother Vikram Singh, both residents of Tarn Taran Road here, and Manpreet Singh Manu of Sultanwind village. The police also recovered a licenced pistol along with four bullets from the possession of Mani Dhillon.Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal in a press conference here on Friday said the weapon belonged to his father which he took with him while attending the birthday party of a friend. The police have booked around 10 unidentified persons for the murder. A CCTV grab of the incident had gone viral on social media a day after the incident.Munish Sharma and his friend Vikramjit Singh were shot dead by the accused following a dispute occurred over a minor altercation following the rubbing of the cake on the face. Munish’s brother and complainant Pardeep Kumar had told the police that his brother along with Vikramjit Singh and Taranpreet Singh of Daburji village were going to a hotel located near the Ghala Mala chowk on Majitha Road to attend a birthday party. He also invited him to come.He said at around 6.30pm, he along with Vikramjit’s brother Simran Singh reached outside the hotel and saw the accused thrashing Munish and Vikramjit Singh who were trying to save themselves. He said in the meantime, the accused took out a pistol and shot Munish in the head while Vikramjit sustained bullet injuries in the back. He said Munish died on the spot while Vikramjit succumbed to his injuries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-double-murder-case-solved-three-arrested-303190
28-08-2021||---||Anti-encroachment drive continues on Day 2 in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 27The Estate Wing of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation continued their anti-encroachment drive on the second consecutive day today and removed encroachments on city roads.Estate Officer Dharminderjit Singh said around five major encroachments were removed from city roads and belongings of the encroachers were seized and deposited in the stores of the MC.The permanent illegal encroachments in the corridors on Madan Mohan Malviya Road were removed during the drive. The Estate Officer stated that illegally erected barricades in the corridors were also demolished.Shopkeepers were instructed to keep their goods inside their shops and not to use the verandas for their own use. The officer appealed to the city dwellers not to occupy government land, sidewalks, footpath outside shops and verandas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/anti-encroachment-drive-continues-on-day-2-in-amritsar-303189
28-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Mobile app to keep a check on crooks in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 27In order to nail the criminals and notorious elements involved in snatchings, robberies and vehicle lifting, the city police have embarked upon ‘Smart Nakas’. The cops deputed at these nakas would be equipped with mobiles apps to catch vehicle thieves and robbers.Dr Sudervizhi, Joint Commissioner of police, Amritsar, said at least two smart nakas would be organised in each police station area. These would be shifting nakas which would be held at different places on different times, she said, while adding that this would make it more efficient in nailing criminal elements. “The criminals are using technology to their advantage and carrying out crimes and online frauds. Therefore, it requires us to use technology to nail them,” said Sudervizhi.Giving details, she said, every naka would have technical teams to help the police force of the concerned police station. She said these teams with the help of mobile apps could ascertain whether a vehicle was stolen one or wanted in some crime. “The pictures of the suspicious elements would be clicked and put on the PAIS App to ascertain whether he would have a criminal record or not. If he has then appropriate action would initiated,” she said.Yesterday, Joint Police Commissioner along with Assistant Commissioner of Police Manpreet Kaur Shimer and Ranjit Avenue police held a naka near Vishal Megamart in Ranjit Avenue. During the naka a number of vehicles were stopped and checked. The police also managed to recover two stolen motorcyclesIt is evident to mention here that posh locality of Ranjit Avenue became a hot bed for the snatchers and criminals. The area witnessed a number of carjacking and robberies on gun point. In past three days, traders were robbed by armed people in late night instances in different parts of the city while snatchings have become an order of the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mobile-app-to-keep-a-check-on-crooks-in-amritsar-303188
28-08-2021||---||UID number mandatory to pay property tax in Amritsar now||Amritsar, August 27The unique identification (UID) numbers provided by the Central Commercial Industry of India (CCII) to properties in the city is now mandatory to mention for the payment of property tax at the Citizen Facilitation Centres (CFCs) of the municipal corporation. During 2018-19, the CCII had installed the UID number plates on the properties.However, a large number of residents do not have the UID number of their properties and they face inconvenience when computer operators at the window of CFC centres refuse to get their tax. Officials of the property tax wing claim that they have provided staff at the head office and zonal offices to locate the UID number of properties of taxpayers. The residents should come along with UID details of their property.Daljeet Singh, Nodal Officer at property tax wing (of the MC), said, “The UID number of property is mandatory for all the taxpayers. It links the properties with our system and we can check the details of any property with a single click. The CCII had installed unique identification (UID) plates at most of the properties in the city. Some of the residents did not keep the number plates and are now unable to locate them. We have deployed three computer operators at the head office and one each in the divisional offices to search the UID number of properties.” Earlier, MapmyIndia had conducted a survey and identified 2.50 lakh properties in the city in 2014. Later, the CCII had installed the UID plates on the properties during 2018-19.Why do we need itDaljeet Singh, Nodal Officer at property tax wing (of the MC), said, “The UID number of property is mandatory for all taxpayers. It links the properties with our system and we can check the details of any property with a single click. The CCII has installed unique identification (UID) plates at most of the properties in the city. Some of the residents did not keep the number plates and are now unable to locate them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/uid-number-mandatory-to-pay-property-tax-in-amritsar-now-303187
28-08-2021||GS Paul||Jallianwala Bagh memorial opens today after year of renovation||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 27After missing many deadlines, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to inaugurate the renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial on August 28 through videoconferencing.The renovation work for the first phase worth Rs 19.36 crore was carried out by the Ministry of Culture under the supervision of the Archaeological Survey of India. The memorial has been lying closed since February 15, 2020.Since it is located in close to the Golden Temple, which witnesses millions of visitors, the visiting hours will be extended to ensure that people have ample time to visit the memorial after sunset.Twentynine kin of Jallianwala martyrs have been invited to the event. A state-of-the-art light and sound show has been set up in the open presenting the fusion of audio-visual technology to showcase the Jallianwala Bagh massacre of April 13, 1919, that marked the turning point in India’s freedom struggle.Four museum galleries have been created to showcase the historical events that unfolded in Punjab during the period, including projection mapping, 3D representation, and art and sculptural installations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-memorial-opens-today-after-year-of-renovation-302895
28-08-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal and Ajay Joshi||Endless agony for parents of missing Army pilot Capt Jayant Joshi||Tribune news ServicePathankot, August 27Twentyfive days have passed since Capt Jayant Joshi went missing after his chopper Rudra, an Advanced Light Helicopter, crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam lake. His parents Harish and Jeevan Tara Joshi are still waiting for elite Navy divers to fish out his body and hand it over to them.Officers recall Jayant being a boy brimming with youthful exuberance. He was an officer who could do no wrong, personally or professionally.On August 25, divers retrieved the body of Lt Col AS Batth from the depths of the reservoir. However, there is no trace of Jayant even after the Army pressed into service the state-of-the art diving equipment.Search seems to have lost wayThere seems to be no end in sight. The search seems to have lost direction. With every passing day, our son’s body is rotting and decaying in water. No compassion and respect is being shown to the soldier. —Parents of Capt Jayant JoshiAll efforts being madeAll possible methods continue to be deployed by the Army and Air Force. These include the use of hi-tech equipment, including multi-beam sonar, side scanners and remotely operating vehicles. —OfficialsThe agony, anguish and angst of the Joshis is being directed towards the officers handling the search operations.“There seems to be no end in sight. The search seems to have lost direction. With every passing day, our son’s body is rotting and decaying in water. No compassion and respect is being shown to the soldier,” they claimed.However, officials say, “All possible methods continue to be deployed by the Army and Air Force. These include the use of hi-tech equipment, including multi-beam sonar, side scanners and remotely operating vehicles.”On the day one of the search, the district administration and police sent in divers. However, they were amateurs forcing the Air Force to call professional divers from the Navy.With no periodic updates on the operation, Joshi’s kin have been left high and dry. Misinformation often fills voids of information. This is precisely what happened as rumours of all kinds started doing the rounds forcing Pathankot Senior Superintendent of Police Surendra Lamba to warn people engaged in malicious gossip.Jayant was a student of the prestigious Army Public School, Dhaula Kuan, New Delhi. Later he completed his graduation in electrical engineering. He was commissioned in the 9th Sikh Light Infantry in 2017 and two years later joined the Pathankot based 254th Army Aviation Squadron.The family is distraught. Every dawn brings with it hope. By dusk this very hope slips into oblivion. “We are holding on to hope and belief that our son will be in our midst soon. For us, hope is being able to see that there is light despite all darkness,” said Jeevan Tara.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/endless-agony-for-parents-of-missing-army-pilot-capt-jayant-joshi-302896
28-08-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM lays stone of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur State University of Law at Tarn Taran||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-cm-lays-stone-of-sri-guru-teg-bahadur-state-university-of-law-at-tarn-taran-302912
