29-08-2021||---||Farmers’ protests hit road traffic, commuters suffer||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 28Tourists had a harrowing experience as major roads leading to the Golden Temple were blocked by activists of various organisations here on Saturday.Activists of the Naujwan Bharat Sabha, the Kirti Kisan Union and different farmer organisations blocked entry points to the main roads—Hall Gate and Gheo Mandi Chowk—leading to the Golden Temple and the Jallianwala Bagh.Prime Minister Narendra Modi was scheduled to unveil the renovated Jallianwala Bagh martyrs’ memorial this evening, but the agitating farmers and youth organisations held a sit-in at the entry points of these roads, resulting in choking of these thoroughfares.Abhishek, a tourist from West Bengal, said he along with his family was heading to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. “The moment our battery-operated auto reached the Hall Gate, we were shocked to find the road blocked. Police personnel standing guard there guided us to gain access to the Sikh shrine from the Gheo Mandi Chowk. Being outsiders, we did not understand their words, but the auto driver immediately drove us to the said intersection. To our utter surprise, a protest was under progress there as well.Harpreet Singh, another tourist from the NCR, said after finding both main access roads to the Golden Temple blocked, he picked up his bag and started walking. “I have been coming here since my childhood days and know the arterial roads to reach Harmandar Sahib. Moreover, as I was alone, I faced minimum hassles. Those with families, especially children and elderly people, really suffered a lot.”Tourists could be seen walking on the roads to somehow reach the shrine. They were seen asking local residents about alternate roads. Tourists coming in four-wheelers could not reach the parking lot situated on the Heritage Street. This resulted in traffic spilling over to nearby streets. Traffic congestion resulted in slow movement of vehicles.To prevent tourists from going further, the police had placed barricades to keep a watch on the protesting farmers at Gheo Mandi which further impeded the movement.There was a large deployment of policemen on the Heritage Road to thwart any attempt of activists of different organisations, including farmers, to squat in front of the Jallianwala Bagh. This further impeded the movement of tourists on the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protests-hit-road-traffic-commuters-suffer-303639
29-08-2021||---||ASI among three booked for fraud||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 28An ASI was among three persons booked for duping two persons of Rs7 lakh on the pretext of sending them to Australia.Those booked were identified as ASI Puran Singh, Manpreet Singh and Sunil Kumar, a resident of New Delhi. They were booked following a preliminary probe conducted by Assistant Superintendent of Police Abhimanyu Rana in the case.In his complaint to the police in February 23, 2021, Balwinder Singh of Chatiwind Lahel village told the police that he along with Jagdish Singh, a resident of Bhai Manjh Singh Road Kot Mit Singh were cheated by the three of Rs7 lakh. They assured them to send them to Australia. The police have registered a case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 13 of the Punjab Travel Professionals Act, 2014, in this regard.The police authorities said further probe was on in the case and that no arrest has been made so far.Man duped of Rs26 lakh, two travel agents heldTarn Taran: The Verowal police have arrested two travel agents for duping a person of Rs26 lakh. The accused have been identified as Rajan Grower and Vipul Grower. The victim, Talwinder Singh of Verowal Bawian, in his complaint to the police said the accused lured to send him to the US and took Rs 26 lakh between December 2018 and August 2019. He said the accused refused to return him Rs 26 lakh. The accused have been booked under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-among-three-booked-for-fraud-303640
29-08-2021||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar mass suicide: Tainted DSP Hardev Singh Boparai dismissed||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 28Punjab Government has dismissed the services of tainted DSP Hardev Singh Boparai who was convicted by the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge last year in connection with mass suicide case in which five members of a family had ended their lives in 2004.It took nearly one and half year for the Punjab Police to terminate his services. The order regarding his dismissal was released on August 18 which reached Amritsar rural police on Saturday. SP Headquarter, Amandeep Kaur confirmed the development while adding that the same has been noted to Amritsar central jail authorities.Boparai was convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 465, 471, 120-B, 119, 201 and 217 of the IPC in February 2020. The orders reportedly read that he was allegedly harassing a family for money which forced the members to commit suicide. Therefore, his services have been terminated under Section 311 (2) (B) of the Indian Constitution and under 13 of Punjab Civil Services (punishment and appeal) rules 1970 from immediate effect.Besides Boparai, the court of Additional Session Judge had convicted former DIG Kultar Singh and several relatives of the deceased. DIG was sentenced to eight years of imprisonment while DSP was handed down a four-year prison term. The court had also sentenced Hardeep’s sister Parminder Kaur, her husband Palwinder Pal Singh, Hardeep’s uncle Mohinder Singh and his daughter-in-law Subreen Kaur to eight years in jail for driving the five members to end their lives.Hardeep Singh, a resident of Chowk Karori locality in walled city here, his wife Romi, mother Jaswant Kaur, and children Simran and Ismeet, had committed suicide by consuming poison on October 31, 2004.The family had left a suicide note scribbled on a wall of their house besides posting a letter to their acquaintance, accusing four of their relatives and the then SSP Kultar Singh of forcing them to take the extreme step. Hardeep was allegedly being blackmailed by his relatives and Kultar Singh for having committed a crime. In 2009, Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) activist Sarabjit Singh Verka brought the matter to the court, seeking justice for the victims, while alleging that the police were not investigating the case due to involvement of senior cops despite three inquiries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mass-suicide-tainted-dsp-hardev-singh-boparai-dismissed-303641
29-08-2021||---||10 booked for sheltering gangsters||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, August 28Ten persons of different villages from Patti area were booked for giving shelter to infamous gangsters who had shot dead two persons in Patti town three months ago. One was injured in the incident.A fallout of gang rivalryThe killing was the result of inter-gang rivalry with Lakhbir Singh, alias Landa of Harike, who is settled in Canada now. He was the mastermind behind the killing. Malkiat Singh Laddu of Patti, Paramjit Singh of Harike and Manpreet Singh of Manochahal Kalan involved in the killing were arrested after four days of the incident. The other accused Daya Singh, alias Preet Shekhon, and Jarmanjit Singh, alias Nikka Khaduria, of Chamba Khurd were arrested later by the Amritsar police. The deceased were identified as Amandeep Singh, alias Fauji, and Prabhdeep Singh, alias Pooran, of Patti. Shamsher Singh, their associate, was injured. The Patti city police had registered a case under Sections 302 and 307 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54, 59 of the Arms Act.The killing was the result of inter-gang rivalry with Lakhbir Singh, alias Landa of Harike, who is settled in Canada now. He was the master mind behind the killing.Malkiat Singh Laddu of Patti, Paramjit Singh of Harike and Manpreet Singh of Manochahal Kalan involved in the killing were arrested after four days of the incident. The other accused Daya Singh, alias Preet Shekhon, and Jarmanjit Singh, alias Nikka Khaduria, of Chamba Khurd were arrested later by the Amritsar police.The district police brought them on production warrants a few days ago to investigate the Patti double murder case.Baljinder Singh DSP (Investigation) said during probe, Daya Singh and Jarmanjit Singh revealed that as many as 10 persons of the area used to provide them shelter to avoid arrest.The DSP said the accused who had been giving them shelter have been identified as Naranjan Singh of Harike, Gurlal Singh, Gurjant Singh both of Bainka, Manjit Singh Gabbar of Sankattra, Man Singh of Kalia, Harpreet Singh Happy, Gursewak Singh, Harman Singh all three of Naushehrta Pannuan, Gurlal Singh of Kamalpur and Rajwinder Singh of Talwandi Mehar Singh village.The accused have been booked under Sections 212 and 216 of the IPC by the Patti city police. No one has been arrested so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-booked-for-sheltering-gangsters-303642
29-08-2021||---||5 test +ve in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 28With five new cases reported on Saturday, the total count of cases, in the district increased to 47,221. The new cases include two-influenza like illness cases and three contacts of positive patients.The health authorities reported recovery of five patients with which the recovery count increased to 45,595. The district has 37 active cases.In the ongoing vaccination drive, a total of 1,889 residents were inoculated, on Saturday. Of these 1,063 residents received their first dose while 826 received their second dose.Doc shares tips on cardiac procedures Amritsar, August 28Covid has shifted the focus on health and well-being of heart patients, said Dr Arun Chopra, Senior Interventional Cardiologist and Director Cardiology at Fortis Escorts Hospital, while stressing the need for better awareness of the underlying issues and treatment options among the public.Dr Chopra said medical technologies were ever advancing and physicians now advise cardiac procedures that are less invasive, less traumatic and reduce the chances of reoccurrence of cardiac problems. Stent deployment done under the guidance of Intravascular Ultrasound (IVUS) ensures optimal result even in the most complex cases and results in better patient outcome, he said.Dr Chopra said, “Intravascular Ultrasound (IVUS) allows us to see a coronary artery from the inside-out. This unique view provides us with critical clinical information that is not possible with routine imaging methods, such as coronary angiography, performed in the cath lab, or even non-invasive CT scans.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-303645
29-08-2021||---||Man loses scooter, Rs 17K cash to miscreants||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 28 Four car-borne persons robbed a local resident of his scooter and cash near Guru Nanak Dev University here on late Thursday evening. The victim, identified as Rajiv Kumar Paur of Gate Khazana area, along with Ajit Nanda of Shaheed Udham Singh Colony was going to Chheharta for some work when the incident took place.Rajiv told the police that as they were going to Chheharta, a car was going ahead of them. Suddenly, the car stopped in the middle of the road and due to this, their scooter hit the bumper of the car. He said the four occupants of the car came out and asked whether they were alright. He said later they let them go. The same unidentified persons stopped them near GNDU and snatched their scooter having Rs 17,000 cash in the dickey. The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B, 341 and 34, IPC, against the unidentified persons and further investigation was under progress to identify them. The police said CCTVs in the area were being analysed for the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-loses-scooter-rs-17k-cash-to-miscreants-303646
29-08-2021||---||‘Urdu poetry a voice of dissent’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 28The Majha House hosted Saif Mahmood and Mohsin Sayeed, two-eminent Urdu writers and poets, to talk about Urdu poetry and its relevance in these troubled times.The duo talked about Urdu poetry and its role and presence in the times of hate, with reference to political and social divisions. One persistent fallacy that we must do away with is that Urdu poetry is just about love, wine and romance. If we cast a deep look at the variety of poetry that we have in the language we will discover that Urdu poetry addresses almost all malaise of life in every phase of time. Whether it was standing against the establishment or lodging any protest, Urdu poetry has always been the voice of dissent. — Saif Mahmood, a writer & author of 'Beloved Delhi: A Mughal city and her greatest poets'Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, said, “Urdu has always been regarded as the language of love and Urdu poetry provides succour and solace from hate. We all need a cohesive force to bring us together irrespective of our differences.”Mahmood, considered an astonishing repository of Urdu poetry, is a writer and author of ‘Beloved Delhi: A Mughal city and her greatest poets’. Sayeed, is a writer and commentator of the series, ‘The Pink tree in Karachi and Lahore’.Calling Urdu poetry the medium of protest and dissent against divisive forces, Mahmood said, “One persistent fallacy that we must do away with is that Urdu poetry is just about love, wine and romance. If we cast a deep look at the variety of poetry that we have in the language we will discover that Urdu poetry addresses almost all malaise of life in every phase of time. Whether it was standing against the establishment or lodging any protest, Urdu poetry has always been the voice of dissent.” He cited Ahmad Faraz’s poem, ‘Mohaasra’, written in rebellion against the political order warning the poets of protest. “The poem is a harsh indictment of the tyrannical rule of Zia Ul Haq and his military regime. He did not bow down to the dictator and went on fearlessly to recite this very nazm at a mushaira after which he was arrested. Like him, Faiz Ahmad Faiz also fearlessly wrote against the powers. And in spite of the thundering tones and the violent imagery of their poems, there is always a ray of hope therein which inspire people to dream of a better future,” he said.Mahmood stressed that this protest is not something new and modern as many are led to believe; it has been going on since the times of Mir, Ghalib and Sauda. He further added that the protest we were talking about isn’t only against religion or the state; it’s also against parochial views about sexuality. “Mir has written many ghazals, which may be termed obscene today, but they have distinct undertones of homosexuality. Even poets like Khusro, Hasrat and Haali, wrote extensively about infanticide and sexual abuse. Thus, these poets, regarded primarily as love poets, can also be regarded rightly as feminist poets. Even latter-day poets, including Zehra Nigaah, composed many hard hitting poems in protest against violence against women. Poems like ‘Gul badshah’ and ‘Main bach gayi maan’ were written years ago, yet they remain relevant even today,” said Mahmood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/urdu-poetry-a-voice-of-dissent-303647
29-08-2021||Tarn Taran||One held with 190-gm heroin||Rebel SAD leader appointed gen secyTarn Taran: Iqbal Singh Sandhu (see pic), Akali leader and former member of the Subordinate Service Selection Board, has been appointed as a general secretary by SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday. A few days ago, Iqbal had expressed resentment over nominating former MLA Harmeet Singh Sandhu, as an in-charge of Tarn Taran segment. Today, Badal along with senior party leaders, reached at the residence of Iqbal to pacify him. Badal called Iqbal a dedicated ‘sipahi’ of the party. Senior SAD leaders, including Bikram Singh Majithia, district chief Virsa Singh Valtoha and former MLA Harmeet Singh, were present on the occasion. OCYouth Congress leader fired atAmritsar: Youth Congress general secretary Akashdeep Singh escaped unhurt after four-bike borne persons fired at him while he was travelling in his vehicle in Majitha on August 27. Akashdeep, a resident of Ward number 12, said around 7.30 pm he was going to drop his friend Lajwant Singh and Sidharth Vidwan near a Suvidha Kendra, Majitha, where they had parked their scooter. Akashdeep said he was travelling in his MUV when four persons travelling on two motorcycles came from behind and fired at his vehicle. He said the accused also fired into air and later fled away from the spot. He said the accused had their faces covered and he could not identify them. Majitha Deputy Superintendent of Police Abhimanyu Rana said a case under Sections 307 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered in this connection. TnS1 arrested with pistol, cartridgesTarn Taran: The police arrested one person with a country-made pistol and four cartridges from the town on Friday. Tarn Taran SSP Opinderjit Singh said the accused had been identified as Rishi Kumar of the local Guru-Ka-Khooh locality while his associate Akashdep Singh, a resident of Taragarh Talawan (Amritsar), fled from the spot. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused by the police. OCtheatre resumes with ‘Saukan’Amritsar: Punjab Natshala kicked off its theatre scene with ‘Saukan’, a play based on the complex and emotionally charged relationship between a mother and son. It was performed at the department of theatre, Khalsa College. Written by Balwant Gargi, the play was directed by Emmanuel Singh, who said the revival of live performance brings hope for those associated with the performing art industry. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-190-gm-heroin-303648
29-08-2021||Ravi Dhaliwal||Batala Improvement Trust chief’s son held for Rs 90 crore GST fraud||Tribune News ServiceBatala, August 28Congress politicians were left red-faced after Shiva Sareen, son of the newly appointed chairman of Batala Improvement Trust (IT) Pawan Kumar Pamma, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Jalandhar today for his involvement in a Rs 90 crore GST fraud.The development has upset political dynamics of the Assembly seat as Pawan Pamma is known to be a long-time loyalist of Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa. His appointment as the chairman was made a few days ago on the recommendations of Bajwa. The MP was to be the chief guest at his installation ceremony which was slated to be held on August 31. Elaborate arrangements were being made by Pamma and his loyalists for the event.Three powerful Congress politicians, including Partap Bajwa, are eying this Assembly seat. The two others are Cabinet Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and three time ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri. Tript is the sitting MLA from the neighbouring seat of Fatehgarh Churian. He controlled all the administrative and police affairs of the area till the spat between Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu spilled out in the open. Tript is a Sidhu supporter.Today’s arrest of Shiva means the appointment of his father now hangs by a thread. Sources say in an election year, the PPCC chief and the CM would not like to have “the father of a tainted son” as the IT chief.As news of Shiva’s arrest reached the city, deliberations among leaders started on the name of the next chairman. The IT chairmanship is considered to be a plum posting as Batala is the sixth biggest city of Punjab. Sources say Bajwa will try hard to get Pamma’s appointment through but there are several others who want a new chief to take over. Bajwa’s detractors have already started piling pressure on state leaders to ensure a new man is appointed. The MP had displayed his political prowess recently by making Pamma the chairman despite the fact that there were still days to go before the term of incumbent chief Kasturi Lal Seth was slated to end. Bajwa had also appointed another supporter Gurinder Singh Chikoo as the chairman of the Batala Market Committee. Sources say he had proved that he was a force to reckon in the area by appointing two of his loyalists on plum posts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/batala-improvement-trust-chiefs-son-held-for-rs-90-crore-gst-fraud-303481
29-08-2021||---||Ministers must quit if no trust in Punjab CM: Akalis||Amritsar, August 28Elect a government which can bring peace and development, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said this while addressing a rally organised by expelled BJP leader Anil Joshi, who recently joined the Akali Dal.The former deputy CM also promised to beautify the entire walled city on the pattern of Heritage Street, if voted to power. He also criticised the lathicharge on farmers in Haryana and demanded action against police officers.Sukhbir said approximately Rs 4,000 crore was spent in the holy city during the 10 years of the SAD government. Criticising Navjot Singh Sidhu, he said, “Sidhu was the Local Bodies Minister but he has not started a single project in Amritsar.”Sukhbir said a mega solar power project at the cost of Rs 25,000 crore would be set up in Punjab to provide promised free and cheap electricity to people. After a demand raised by Anil Joshi, Sukhbir also promised a world-class multi-sports stadium in the city.Senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia challenged Congress ministers Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Randhawa, and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa to resign from the government if they did not have faith in the Chief Minister. He said the SAD would bring a no-confidence motion against the government.Shoe hurled at party chief after rallyA man hurled a shoe at Sukhbir Singh Badal as he walked off the stage after the rally. The shoe, however, did not hit him. The police have detained Boota Singh of the Amritsar north constituency. Sources in the police department said Boota Singh was physically disabled and “feeble-minded”. Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal confirmed the man had been detained. He, however, said there was no evidence yet whether the incident took place.‘Capt should resign on moral grounds’Mohali: Former Lok Sabha member and senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra on Saturday asked CM Capt Amarinder Singh to resign from the post on moral grounds as he no longer enjoyed the full support of Congress MLAs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ministers-must-quit-if-no-trust-in-punjab-cm-akalis-303353
29-08-2021||Amritsar||Farmers lathicharged after sit-in; many hurt in Amritsar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually inaugurated the restored historic memorial amidst a mild lathicharge on protesting activists of youth and farmer organisations outside the venue.While appreciating the restoration of the memorial, family members of the martyrs expressed disappointment at the PM not coming in person for the unveiling ceremony. “Neither the PM nor a senior BJP leader attended the ceremony in person,” they said. BJP leaders chose to attend the programme virtually.Unprecedented security was in place on the heritage alley leading to the memorial and major intersections — Hall Gate and Gheo Mandi Chowk — in the city.Activists of the Naujwan Bharat Sabha, Kirti Kisan Union and other farmer organisations squatted outside the Bagh before being removed by the police. They then staged a sit-in at the Hall Gate and Gheo Mandi Chowk.A group of protesters even entered the Golden Temple complex and left half an hour before the commencement of the virtual programme.The protesters clashed with the police to gain access to the venue, leading to the use of mild lathi-charge. Some protesters sustained injuries as the police huddled them in a bus and took them away. Manga Azad, general secretary, Naujwan Bharat Sabha, claimed the police rounded up around 100 persons after both sides were involved in jostling.In the morning, farmers and youth organisations held a sit-in outside the Bagh to prevent BJP leaders from attending the ceremony. Their leaders demanded repeal of the three agriculture laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-lathicharged-after-sit-in-many-hurt-in-amritsar-303349
29-08-2021||Chandigarh||Jallianwala Bagh: Memorial to fallen protesters opens in new avatar||Describing the newly renovated Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial as a tribute to the martyrs and a symbol of inspiration for the youth, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today said the monument must serve as a reminder for the future generations about the right of people to peaceful democratic protest.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief MinisterTestament to barbaric actIt is a symbol of non-violent freedom struggle. It is also a testament to one of the most barbaric acts of violence perpetrated on peacefully assembled people.In what was apparently an oblique reference to the ongoing agitation of the peacefully protesting farmers, the Chief Minister said the ‘smarak’, along with the Jallianwala Bagh centenary memorial recently dedicated to the people by the state government, should serve to remind leaders of the inalienable right of Indians to hold peaceful democratic protests, which could not be stifled, as the British also learnt from the Jallianwala Bagh incident.“The ‘smarak’ and the centenary memorial “seek to pay tribute to the great martyrs so that history may always remember their sacrifice and our present and future generations can draw inspiration from their patriotism,” said the Chief Minister, in his brief remarks before PM Narendra Modi virtually dedicated the national memorial to the nation through the remote.Captain Amarinder also requested the Prime Minister that the Government of India should make efforts to bring back the personal effects, i.e. pistol and diary of Shaheed Udham Singh, who avenged the injustice of this massacre, from the UK. He said he had written to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in this regard.The event was attended, among others, by several Union ministers, Governor, Leader of the Opposition and Jallianwala Bagh trustees, besides several MPs and MLAs. Families of the Jallianwala massacre martyrs were also present.The occasion was marked by a two-minute silence in the memory of the martyrs, following the sounding of the bugle. Describing the memorial as “an everlasting symbol of non-violent and peaceful struggle for the freedom of India”, the Chief Minister said “at another level, it also stands testament to one of the most barbaric acts of violence and state oppression perpetrated on a group of peacefully assembled people”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-memorial-to-fallen-protesters-opens-in-new-avatar-303347
29-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Jallianwala Bagh: Embossed figures, new-look well & more||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 28The historic Jallianwala Bagh, housing the national martyrs’ memorial, which was thrown open to public after over one and a half years of renovation, has been beautified at a cost of Rs 20 crore by the Ministry of Culture with accent on aesthetics.During the renovation period, the Bagh underwent massive changes. Both walls of the narrow street, from where the British Indian troops led by General Dyer had gained access to the Bagh on April 13, 1919, are now teeming with embossed human figures, depicting varied culture through their attires.The entrance to the Bagh, where a fountain stood, now has a huge piece of granite bearing the flame carving symbolising the martyrs’ memorial.Sheds have been installed on the walls bearing the bullet marks, while glass panels have been put up on the historic well, where hundreds fell to their death to escape bullets. The façade of the well has been redone with small bricks (locally known as Nanakshahi) replacing the plaster walls. The other features include a permanent sound and light show besides an open theatre.The public garden has been landscaped with with native plantation. The steel grills around it have been replaced with wooden ones. On the outside, booths with ticket windows have been set up.Heritage experts, however, feel the original character of the Bagh has been lost with repeat beautification drives. “The original character can now only be seen in old pictures, journals, newspapers, documentaries and movies. Present and future generations will have difficulty in relating with the past,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-embossed-figures-new-look-well-more-303348
