30-08-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Right to protest should not encroach on others’ rights||Govt should not rush bills in ParliamentBroadly speaking, there are two opinions about the state of democracy in our country. First — India is too much of a democracy. People start agitation just at the drop of a hat. Secondly — there is too little democracy in our country because when laws are made through ordinances or without discussions then the aggrieved party is left with no alternative but to agitate. Second opinion sounds better than first. Our governments have funds to pay hefty pension to MPs and MLAs on the basis of number of terms they serve in state legislatures or and Parliament but an ordinary government employee is denied his monthly salary due to shortage of funds. In the present case, farm laws were implemented through ordinances without citing any emergency. Then said Bills were passed in both the Houses of Parliament without any debate or discussion. Why the Bills were not referred to standing committee where suggestion/ objections from ordinary citizens are sought. Real democracy is when ordinary citizen participate in the law-making process. The Central Government has fixed MSP for 23 farm products but hardly 2-3 items are procured on this rate. Why there is no central agency to get MSP implemented in letter and spirit? The Central Government should pay its immediate attention to all the issues of farmers.Naresh JoharStop politics over farmers’ protestsAlthough the right to protest is guaranteed by our Constitution, farmers’ protests have made the life of common people miserable. It has become quite evident that politics over farmers is being played by the political parties. War of words on Twitter between Capt Amarinder Singh and Sukhbir Badal on farmers’ issue is nothing but a show of political rivalry and power play. Every protest by farmers is just an opportunity for the Opposition leaders to indulge in politics. The general public will heave a sigh of relief, if the genuine demands of protesters are considered at the earliest instead of wait and watch attitude. It may end the frequent blockades of bridges, road and rail tracks by protesters as protests add to the sufferings of citizens. Though the peaceful protests for getting their grievances addressed is a democratic right, but such protests and agitations must be held at the offices of the authorities concerned. By causing the long unending inconveniences to the public, these protesters behave like people’s enemy, as they end up just punishing the public. Bridges in the cities and the highways is the first target of all protesters, the blockages on the bridges and connected roads cause untold miseries to the common public, which are compelled to show no sympathy for the protesters cause which loses people’s sympathy. Although it may appear to be harsh but there is no other way but to arrest the leaders after giving them the option of dharna or jail by the police so that some good senses prevail upon them. All have the right to protest but they shouldn’t so unreasonable and oblivious to the hardships to the general public by blocking the bridges, roads and rails.PL SinghThink of alternative ways to air dissentIn my opinion the farmers should think of alternative ways to air their dissent without making the public suffer. Farmers have the right to protest which is a part of the right to free speech but free speech should not be taken for granted to affect the right to free movement and right to life. It should in no way hold the state to ransom causing untold misery and inconvenience to the general public. Over 100 trains were affected due to the agitation by sugarcane farmers in the state seeking a hike in the state advised price (SAP) when they blocked Jalandhar- Phagwara highway and rail tracks. They stood there cheek by jowl unmindful of the hardships caused to the hoi polloi which had nothing to do with their grievances. Fortunately, better sense prevailed and the stir has been called off through negotiations. However, there are many ways to register protest and to air dissent. Refusal to pay debts or interest, boycott of elections, renouncing honours, seeking imprisonment and holding hunger fasts are the samples of diverse and vibrant world of peaceful protests. Marches, parades, religious processions, motorcades, protest meetings and boycott of government departments, agencies and other bodies can be deployed to convey the message home. A protest is a public expression of objection, disapproval or dissent towards an idea, action of the government. It can take many different forms other than blocking the railway tracks so as not to disrupt the normal life and not to make the public suffer. The card of non-cooperation and withdrawal of bank deposits can be played judiciously to get the maximum mileage out of it. Negotiations are the best way to solve the knotty problems. The purpose of the protest will be defeated if the protesters continue to block road and rail without getting engaged in talks and discussions.Tarsem S BumrahObstructing movement of trains illegalThe farmers have been sprawling on the highways and the railway tracks to lodge their protest. They have every right to do so as it is their fundamental right. But they must be told that their right ends when it begins to encroach upon the right of others. To protest in order to mitigate their own suffering they cannot make others to suffer and deny them their right to free movement. Thousands of train passengers are facing the brunt of their protest, which they are carrying out in an illegal manner and they must know that obstructing free movement of trains is unlawful and punishable under the law. If government is taking a soft stand on the issue, it does not mean they should behave irresponsibly and inconvenience their fellow countrymen, callously. Their blatant action has also resulted in financial loss to the people as well as the state government. The economy of the state regresses every day by the obstruction of traffic. The government needs to earmark specific prominent spots for holding protests which do not pose any hindrance in the movement of public and the vehicular traffic and adhere to the legal provisions in implementing them against the violators.Anil KhannaAdopt Gandhian way of protestFarmers’ agitation is already overstretched and the general public is bearing the brunt of the blockade. The government must bring a law to ensure hassle free movement of public and goods. As rail roko and road blocks tend to increase the public inconvenience, it should be the least preferred mode of protest to get the grievances addressed. Law does not permit to hold agitation on spaces of public utility and even the SC has issued guidelines on the issue. In view of the SC’s observations and the hardships faced by general public, leaders of farm agitation should dispense with the ‘blockade strategy’ to ease public inconvenience in larger interest. Instead of stopping rail and road transport, farmers should adopt the Gandhian way of protest to get public support without causing loss to national exchequer and damages to state assets. The best is to hold weekly protest after sun set to ease public inconvenience without disrupting day routine. Authority should earmark protest sites with limited participation of protesters so that normal services are not hampered.Anil VinayakMaking public suffer is unjustifiedPunjab farmers have been protesting against the farm laws for almost a year through road blockades, staging protests on the rail routes and other ways to make their voice heard. Though they have the right to protest against what they deem could be detrimental to farming and the interests of the agrarian community in the country, protesting in ways that make the public suffer is certainly unjustified. It is high time that the farmers came up with more effective, alternative ways to air their dissent as the existing methods that disturb people’s daily routines, could turn the public opinion against them.Shaheen P ParshadUse other means to voice dissentCommuters are not responsible for the issues farmers are facing. So, the farmers must address their grievances to the concerned people such as bureaucrats and politicians. The good news is that the farmers’ blockade has now been lifted after the government has increased the SAP (state assured price) by Rs50 to Rs360 per quintal. The problems of farmers are genuine and they must be resolved, but at the same time they must think about the hardships being faced by people due to breakdown of transport and use other means to voice their dissent.Jatinderpal Singh BatthWhy should the public sufferThe strategy of protesting on railway tracks gathers the attention of almost the entire state. However, the general public bears the brunt of such a step. Blocking the trains hits the transportation services which in turn hit businesses and people are not able to travel to their business or trading centres, resulting in decreased collection of revenue. Such blockades immediately put the government on the back foot.Sukhamrit SinghSadly, there is no other way to protest! QUESTIONAn expert panel has predicted that the third Covid-19 wave will hit the country anytime between September and October coinciding with the festival season in India, which witnesses a huge rush at public places. What steps the district administration must take in advance to make people aware of this impending threat?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 2)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/right-to-protest-should-not-encroach-on-others-rights-303890
30-08-2021||Amritsar||BBK DAV Principal Dr Pushpinder Walia honoured||National Sports Day observedDAV Public School, Lawrence Road, Amritsar, observed National Sports Day on its premises. A special assembly was organised by the teachers to commemorate the birth anniversary of the hockey wizard, Major Dhyan Chand. The assembly began by seeking the blessings of Almighty. Teachers highlighted the significance of the day and remembered the great player and urged the students to take inspiration from the eventful life of the distinguished sports personality. They also mentioned about the importance of sports and games in one’s life, which helps one to be physically active and healthy. They also talked about the famous sports personalities with special reference to the players who won medals in the Tokyo Olympics and brought laurels to the country. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bbk-dav-principal-dr-pushpinder-walia-honoured-303893
30-08-2021||Amritsar||‘Opt for ADR for speedy dispute resolution’||Around 2,000 pending cases of the district and subdivisional courts at Baba Bakala and Ajnala have been identified by the District Legal Services Authority which would be taken up in the next Lok Adalat to be held on September 11, said DLSA secretary Pushpinder Singh. Additionally, 1,819 pre-litigative cases of the BSNL and 120 cancellation reports of power theft would also be taken. The DLSA secretary said banks have also been asked to file money recovery cases in the Lok Adalat. He said the purpose is to provide speedy and economical justice to litigants besides decreasing court workload.Chairman, DLSA, Harpreet Kaur Randhawa said lok Adalats organised by the legal services authorities are an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) mode wherein pre-litigative and pending cases in courts are disposed on the basis of amicable settlement without any expense on the part of litigants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/opt-for-adr-for-speedy-dispute-resolution-303892
30-08-2021||---||Carjacking at gunpoint, 2 booked in Amritsar||Amritsar,, August 29In yet another incident, several armed persons robbed a car from Pankaj Kumar, a resident of Krishna Nagar area, late on Friday evening.The police have registered a case against unidentified persons and launched further investigation.Pankaj told the police that on Friday at 9.15 pm, he was going towards Celebration Mall parking on his white Renault Duster car PB-02-AR-0123 from Kitchlew Chowk. He said as he reached near the PWD rest house, he got a call on his mobile. He stopped the car to answer the call. He said two unidentified persons came and pointed a pistol at him and threatened to shoot him. They snatched the car and fled away.The police have registered a case under Section 379-B (2) of the IPC against unidentified miscreants. The police said the CCTV cameras in the areas nearby were being analysed to find some clues. Till now, there has been no breakthrough.Six booked for robbing jewellerMeanwhile, the Division B police have booked six persons for allegedly robbing a goldsmith. Though the incident occurred on August 7, a complaint was lodged yesterday. According to the victim Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Uttar Pradesh who resides in Sarvarpura area on Sultanwind Road, the accused had decamped with gold worth several lakhs after pointing a pistol and sharp weapons.Among those booked are Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, of Kot Harnam Das; Raja, Sajan, Gogga, Rohit, all residents of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar and Shera of Mandir Wala Bazaar. They were booked under Section 395 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act. The police said the accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacking-at-gunpoint-2-booked-in-amritsar-303887
30-08-2021||Amritsar||Teen held with illegal weapon in Amritsar||Sikh militancy: Aid soughtAmritsar: Members of the Punjab Terrorist Victims (migrants) Sangharsh Samiti held a protest at Company Bagh on Sunday demanding financial assistance for the families affected by the Sikh militancy. BR Hastir, chairman of the samiti, demanded that the affected families be given a financial assistance of Rs3.5 lakh each. He said those who were forced to migrate should be given an assistance of Rs2 lakh. Hastir said the pension of the dependents of those killed should be increased from Rs5,000 to Rs10,000 per month. TNSOne held from border areaTarn Taran: An Oridda resident was taken in custody by the patrolling party of the 52nd BSF Battalion Khemkaran on Saturday for moving in the prohibited area near the Indo-Pak border. The accused has been identified as Husain (45), who was handed over to the Khemkaran police. ASI Major Singh said Husain seemed mentally unstable. A case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered, cops said. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teen-held-with-illegal-weapon-in-amritsar-303891
30-08-2021||---||Fraud: Powercom JE, 2 others booked in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 29The Beas police have booked a Powercom Junior Engineer among three persons for allegedly installing a tubewell on fake documents.They have been identified as Madan Lal (JE); Dalbir Singh, son of Balkar Singh; and Dalbir Singh son of Saroop Singh, both residents of Wazir Bhullar village.Though the tubewell connection was issued around 15 years ago, a complaint was lodged with the police recently, after the Powercom authorities failed to take any action in this regard, alleged complainant Baljit Singh, a resident of Baba Sawan Singh Nagar, Dolenangal village. He told the police that Dalbir Singh, son of Balkar Singh, did not have any land on his name. Therefore, Dalbir Singh, son of Saroop Singh, allegedly forged documents on the former’s name and got a tubewell issued, which he got installed on his land. The complainant alleged that this happened in the connivance of Junior Engineer Madan Lal.Ironically, Baljit Singh alleged that the Powercom authorities neither took any action nor imposed any fine on the accused who used the illegal connection for 15 years.On his complaint, the police have registered a case under Sections 420, 199, 200 and 120-B of the IPC against the suspects following preliminary probe and further investigations were on, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fraud-powercom-je-2-others-booked-in-amritsar-303883
30-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Farmers like him provide mushrooms round the year||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 29Mandeep Singh Randhawa, a farmer from Dhardeo village in Tarsika block, has set an example by setting up an air-conditioned mushroom farm for all season supply at his village.There are only a few farmers in the state who have set up such high-tech farms and mushroom-processing units.Mandeep Singh Randhawa, a Mushroom farmer from Dhardeo village in Tarsika blockAfter installing an AC plant, now we produce mushrooms round-the-year. Mushrooms are a perishable commodity and we can't store these for long. So, a cold storage has also been prepared. When we don't get a good price in the market, we process it. Mushroom pickles are so much in demand that we are unable to meet it at times.For this achievement, Mandeep shares credit with his mother Harjinder Kaur who started mushroom farming in 1989 to meet her daily household expenses.“My mother took training from the Punjab Agricultural University and started a small farm at home. It was my first training school. Later, I took professional training from the Directorate of Mushroom Research Solan (HP). Then, I adopted high-tech techniques of mushroom growing, set up a processing unit and established our own mushroom sale counter,” said Randhawa.After getting training from Solan, Randhawa set up his own compost plant by taking subsidy from the state government. Then, he set up a high-tech Randhawa Mushroom Farm on the main Batala-Jalandhar Highway, near Buttar Seviyan. Madeep constructed an air-conditioned growing section with 12 chambers and steel racks.“After installing an AC plant, now we produce mushrooms round the year. Mushrooms are a perishable commodity and we can’t store these for long. So, a cold storage has also been prepared. When we don’t get a good price in the market, we process it. Mushroom pickles are so much in demand that we are unable to meet it at times,” said Mandeep.“Before the Covid-19 outbreak, we used to sell our 70 per cent produce on the sale counter, but now, the demand has reduced to 40 per cent. The pandemic hit agribusiness too. Value addition of the product has saved us otherwise it was hard to meet the expenses,” he said.Mandeep had been awarded by the Indian Council of Agriculture Research for growing maximum types of mushrooms in his fields. Being a member of the State Mushroom Development Board, Randhawa arranged visits of experts from the Netherlands in 2018. “I have explored a lot in this business and want fellow farmers to adopt mushroom farming at a small level,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-like-him-provide-mushrooms-round-the-year-303879
30-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Minor thrashed for eating fallen mango in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 29Gurdev Singh of nearby Doburji village was booked by the police for severely beating up a minor boy of the village who had eaten a mango that fell naturally from the tree planted on the common land a month ago.SSP Opinderjit Singh Ghuman on Sunday confirmed the accused had been booked under Sections 323 and 34 of the IPC, Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act and under relevant sections of the SC/ST Act, 1989, by the city police on Saturday.The accused had not only beaten up the victim, who belonged to the Scheduled Caste, but also passed casteist remarks against him. The accused made a video of the incident and put that on social media to defame the family.Parwinder Singh, a local social activist, brought the matter to the notice of the District Child Protection Officer (DCPO). The officer called the victim child and his parents to his office and recorded their statement. The officer also sent the case to the office of the SSP for further action.Local DSP Sucha Singh Bal was deputed as the investigating officer to collect all the relevant facts. The DSP sent the investigation report to the SSP who ordered to register a case.The police said the victim had just eaten the mango that fell on the earth and farmer Gurdev Singh whose land was near the tree planted on the common land severely thrashed the boy. The police were trying to identify the involvement of other accused in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-thrashed-for-eating-fallen-mango-in-tarn-taran-303880
30-08-2021||---||Metro ridership increases in Amritsar, after slashing fare||Amritsar, August 29After extending the route from Golden Temple and revising the fare, the Metro bus being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) witnessed an increase in the footfall of passengers. Officials claimed that the ridership has increased from 29,000 per day to 37,000 within a month after the revision of fare.Harpreet Singh Gill, CEO, Punjab Bus Metro Society, Amritsar, said: “The number of passengers increased after slashing the fare. Earlier, around 30,000 passengers used the service daily and it further dipped to 25,000 on weekends. Now, we recorded 39,000 rides in a day last week. On an average, 37,000 passengers ride the Metro bus daily and the number is increasing.”The BRTS authorities have been planning to display the new fare slabs of Rs5 and Rs10 on the Metro station to make the common man aware of it.“We will advertise the new fare slabs on Metro stations, so that people who are not aware about the slashing of fares, can also get avail the service,” said Gill.The Metro bus started operating between Gheo Mandi (near Golden Temple) and Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport route from August 15.However, the numbers of passengers are quite less as the service is not popular on the new route yet. On the rural route, passengers had this perception that the AC bus was for the airport passengers only. The BRTS authorities will also plan to display boards on the Airport Road about the service.On July 29, the fare of the Metro bus was revised by the state Transport Department. It was a long-pending demand of commuters and residents to make the bus fare rational. The fare had been fixed in two slabs — Rs5 and Rs10. The free bus service was being provided to students up to Class XII.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/metro-ridership-increases-in-amritsar-after-slashing-fare-303881
30-08-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||‘Smart Bazaars’ in Amritsar, a distant dream?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 29After tall claims to set up ‘Smart Bazaars’ under street-vending projects, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has failed to implement it even after four years. Recently, the state government approved the proposals of the MC about the locations of street-vending zones and non-vending zones. However, the MC officials have not made any effort to implement the plan so far.According to the information, the state government had approved 37 locations to set up street-vending zones, where the MC would develop Smart Bazaars and provide all other facilities such as toilets, washrooms and drinking water. Moreover, the government has considered 115 non-vending zones in the city. Most of the roundabouts, which are highly crowded and hubs of vendors, are considered non-vending zones. The MC has to remove vendors from these zones, which is a challenging task for them.With the Assembly elections being just round the corner, political representatives in the House will not opt to annoy vendors.Earlier in January 2019, the MC had inaugurated the Smart Bazaars under the street-vending zone project near the bus stand with pomp and show, but failed to implement it on even a single location in the city. The MC had hired a private firm in 2016 for the implementation of the project. The private firm left the project mid-way. It had conducted a survey in 2016-17 and found that there were 16,253 vendors in the city.Dharminderjeet Singh, MC Estate Officer, said: “The General House of the MC had sent the proposal about the locations of street-vending zones last year. The government approved the plan recently. We have conducted meetings to chalk out the plan to implement the project. Initially, we will make vendors aware of the benefits of Smart Bazaar in street-vending zones and non-vending zones.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-bazaars-in-amritsar-a-distant-dream-303882
30-08-2021||---||Covid-19: 6 test +ve in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 29With six positive cases reported on Sunday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,227. The new cases include four influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of positive patients.The district health authorities have also reported recovery of seven patients, with which the total recovery count has increased to 45,602. The district has 37 active cases at present.In the ongoing vaccination drive, only 274 residents were inoculated on Sunday. Of these, 104 received the first dose, while 170 got their second dose.Tarn Taran reports one Covid deathA Covid-infected patient succumbed to the virus in the district on Sunday taking the toll to 377. There was no report of Covid positive case on Sunday. The number of active cases has reduced to nine and seven of them have been isolated at their respective homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the Health Department teams collected 716 samples to be tested Covid-19 infection. The district administration had no information regarding the vaccination drive. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-6-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-303894
30-08-2021||---||Farmers block roads in Amritsar, against cane-charge in Haryana||Amritsar, August 29Activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) on Saturday blocked vehicular traffic on the elevated road and the Bhandari railway overbridge (ROB) in the city to protest against cane charging of protesting farmers in Haryana.They squatted on the ROB and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Holding flags of the BKU, they raised slogans against Khattar for using power against the peaceful protesting farmers. The sit-in, which commenced at 10 am, concluded at 2.30 pm. They also raised slogans of unity between farmers of Punjab and Haryana.Karnail Singh Nangali, a farmer leader, said the farmers of two neighbouring states had been staging a peaceful protest for the past over nine months. However, the government was resorting to violent measures to suppress the movement.However, blocking of the two vital roads passing through the city caused traffic chaos. It resulted in traffic jam and commuters were greatly inconvenienced. A large proportion among the commuters was of young candidates who were heading to attempt written tests for recruitment in cooperative bank and in jail as warden. The examination centres for these jobs were opened at various government schools. They were harassed while on the way to their examination centres.Jatinder Singh, a resident of the GT Road, said his examination centre was at Government Senior Secondary School, Bhaiyan Da Shivala. “Though being a local on the way I had to face traffic jams and bottlenecks. I hardly managed to reach the centre.” He claimed that many candidates, especially those coming from remote areas and villages, did not make it to the centre or reached quite late.Being a weekend, the proportion of local people was less in traffic, but the number of floating population like tourists and candidates was highest. They found it extremely tough to move from one part to another in the city.Burn effigies of khattar Government in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Farmers and labourers organised protests at different places in the area on Sunday against the brutal cane-charging by the Haryana Police on agitating farmers. The protesting farmers blocked roads, staged dharnas and burnt the effigies of the Union and the Khattar governments. The workers of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committees, Punjab, staged dharnas on the National Highway 54 near Rasulpur, Thathia Mahantan, Shakri, Doburji and at the crossing of Chabal village. The agitated farmers blocked traffic for hours together. Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, Dhanna Singh Lalughuman were among others who addressed on the occasion. The leaders alleged that the Union and the BJP-led state governments were adopting all types of tactics to defame and destabilise the farmers’ agitation, which was going on with great enthusiasm at the Delhi borders even after nine months. The members of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal), Jamhoori Kisan Sabha and other organisations, too, lodged their protest in different villages of the district and burnt effigies of the Union and the Haryana governments. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-block-roads-in-amritsar-against-cane-charge-in-haryana-303885
30-08-2021||Amritsar||Giving freebies tall order for next govt: Ex-FM Parminder Singh Dhindsa||Former Finance Minister and senior SAD (Sanyukt) leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa has asserted no political party could extend freebies after coming to power in the state keeping in view its dismal financial condition.Don’t be misledThe voter should not fall prey to freebies as the next government will have to take stern steps to correct economy. Even continuing existing subsidies will be a big ask. — Parminder Singh Dhindsa, Ex-FMHe stated this in response to queries over the AAP, SAD and BJP promising the electorate power sops in the state once coming to power.Addressing mediapersons here today, he said the Capt Amarinder Singh government had resorted to heavy borrowing over the past two years and the debt had reached four to five per cent of the GDP, which was “unserviceable”. “To service debt will be a gigantic task as the current financial condition was grim and I do not see any way out,” he remarked.The next year’s financial condition will further aggravate with the discontinuation of the GST compensation. “It means the GST revenue will fall by nearly 40 per cent,” he said. On the AAP offering power at surprisingly low rates, he said there was no comparison between Delhi and Punjab. “Unlike Punjab, Delhi is free from debt, it does not offer subsidy like Punjab is extending to farmers and many of its departments are being taken care of by the Union Government.”On faulty power agreements reached by the erstwhile SAD government in which he was a Cabinet minister, Dhindsa said he could not be blamed as he was a PWD minister and those agreements were signed by the knowledge of CM’s Office and the then Power minister.On his party colleague Sewa Singh Sekhwan joining the AAP, he said it was a surprise move. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/giving-freebies-tall-order-for-next-govt-ex-fm-parminder-singh-dhindsa-303911
30-08-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Jallianwala Bagh martyrs’ kin to boycott govt events||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 29A day after PM Narendra Modi virtually inaugurated the renovated martyrs’ memorial here, the Jallianwala Bagh Freedom Fighters Foundation announced boycott of all future programmes of the state and central governments pertaining to the Bagh.Key demandsOur demands include giving tamar pattar, certificate and other facilities being provided to families of freedom fighters. — Sunil Kapoor, Freedom fighters’ bodyFoundation chief Sunil Kapoor said the decision was taken as the PM failed to announce any move to recognise them as the next of kin of freedom fighters.Kapoor claimed over two years ago, he had written to the PM, Home Minister and President seeking tamar pattar, certificate and facilities for the families. “The letter was then forwarded by the President to the Home Ministry for further action, a copy of which was also sent to me,” he recalled. Subsequently, a letter was sent by the PMO to the state government for further action, but it remained unanswered, he added.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-martyrs-kin-to-boycott-govt-events-303914
