31-08-2021||New Delhi||‘Insult to martyrs’, Rahul Gandhi slams govt’s Jallianwala Bagh memorial revamp||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday termed the government’s revamp of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial as an “insult to martyrs”, saying only a person who did not know the meaning of martyrdom could inflict such an insult.The former Congress chief's attack came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday dedicated to the nation the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial.During the event, Modi also digitally inaugurated the museum galleries at the memorial. The event also showcased the multiple development initiatives undertaken by the government to upgrade the complex.Tagging a report on the social media outrage over the revamp, Gandhi tweeted, "Only a person who does not know the meaning of martyrdom can inflict such an insult on the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh."  "I am the son of a martyr. I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "We are against this indecent cruelty."In another tweet, Gandhi said those who didn't struggle for freedom could not understand those who did. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/insult-to-martyrs-rahul-gandhi-slams-govts-jallianwala-bagh-memorial-revamp-304567
31-08-2021||In this season of heightened political activity||Gurdaspur Diary: Greed is the raison d’être of all crime||Delegation of veterinary inspectors meets SecyLast week, a delegation of the Punjab State Veterinary Inspectors Association, led by its president Bhupinder Singh Sachar, secretary Jaswinder Singh and press secretary Krishan Chand Mahajan met the Secretary (Department Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries) in Chandigarh and apprised him of their long standing demands. These included the posting of 87 inspectors in tehsils and the issuance of orders pertaining to the promotion of district veterinary inspectors. The delegation was a happy lot as according to Krishan Chand Mahajan, “The Secretary called up Director of the Department of Animal Husbandry HS Kahlon in our presence and asked him to consider all our demands.” The delegation members later profusely thanked the Secretary.This CID inspector does city proudPunjab Police Inspector Ashok Kumar (pic) recently made the city proud after being conferred upon with the prestigious President Police Medal for meritorious services. Kumar, a post graduate in Police Administration, is posted in the Punjab Police’s CID unit in Gurdaspur. “I give all the credit to my senior officers. The award means a lot to me. It brings happiness along with a kind of fear. It brings fear because it means that I have to work with more responsibility.” All the best Inspector.— Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-diary-greed-is-the-raison-d%C3%AAtre-of-all-crime-304292
31-08-2021||Tarn Taran||Hub of Learning meeting||Janmashtami celebrationsAmritsar: Janmashtami was celebrated at Shri Ram Ashram Public School with fervour. Students participated in various activities enthusiastically and shared their videos, dressed as Radha and Lord Krishna. Tiny tots of UKG and Class-1 dressed as Radha and Krishna presented diverse ‘Leelas’ of Shri Krishna by their scintillating dance performance. Students of Classes VI to VIII recited ‘Gita Shalokas’ and exhorted the students to embody the strengths and qualities of Lord Krishna. The involvement of children in the flamboyant celebration, while staying at home was worth applauding. Principal of the school, Vinodita Sankhyan blessed all the students on the auspicious day and wished that this day would bring peace and prosperity in the difficult times of the pandemic. “The sole objective of Shri Krishna’s birth and to celebrate Janmashtami is to protect the Earth from the evil,” she said in her message.St Soldier Elite Convent SchoolSt Soldier Elite Convent School, Jandiala Guru, students marked Janamasthmi by presenting cultural performances as Lord Krishna and Radha. Children with playpen, LKG, UKG participated in the fancy dress competition while Sant Baba Parmanand Ji was present as the chief guest. He introduced the history of Janmashtami to the children and appreciated the performance of the children. Principal Amarpreet Kaur appreciated the efforts of students and encouraged them to know about the traditions behind Indian festivals.Virtual literary forum heldThe Millennium School, Amritsar, successfully culminated a two- day long virtual literary forum, ‘The Millennium Challenge’ 2021 wherein the virtual platform became abuzz with excitement of participants from 22 schools across the country. This Literary Forum comprised a debate on the motion ‘OTT Platforms need creative freedom and not censorship’, a Speech-cum-PowerPoint Presentation on the topics: ‘Media Influencers are the new Trendsetters and Technology is impacting the human mind for the Better and Poetry Recitation on the topic: ‘Life behind the Screen: Missing the Fun and Frolic of physical school’. The panel of judges consisted of renowned academicians, theatre artists as well as people from the mass media fraternity. The Rolling trophy for debate was bagged by Delhi Public School Chandigarh, while trophy for the speech-cum-presentation was bagged by The Millennium School, Kurukshetra, and for poetry, the trophy went to both The Excelsum High School, Amritsar, and The Millennium School, Indore.DAV College holds webinarPG Department of Computer Science, DAV College, Amritsar, organised a webinar on ‘Security and survival in Hyper connectivity world’ under star college scheme of DBT, Government of India. Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar said the promise of enhanced connectivity was the backbone of business innovation as it empowers business leaders to broaden their ambitions towards new products and solutions. “Now everything is becoming a computer, and computers are increasingly connected to and affect one another in ways that provide exponential opportunities for personal convenience and market leverage. This dynamic also provides governments and militaries around the world with unique opportunities to gain advantage against their adversaries or potential adversaries. As we become more and more dependent on this interconnected system of machines and software, we are simultaneously being put at increasing risk from a personal, societal, national and international perspective. This risk comes from the inherent technical vulnerabilities that an increasing number of cyber threats and organisations are exploiting for a variety of purposes. These threat entities include the categories of criminal, espionage, military, activist and terrorist. We must prepare ourselves to effectively secure and counter against such threats,” said Dr Maninder Singh, head, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala, and key note speaker in webinar. TNSAs we become more and more dependent on this interconnected system of machines and softwares, we are being put at increasing risk from a personal, societal, national and int’l perspective Dr Maninder Singh, head, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, Patiala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hub-of-learning-meeting-304290
31-08-2021||---||Poets share thoughts on Simarjit Simar's book 'Housle Di Udaan'||Amritsar, August 30Janwadi Lekhak Sangh and Kahani Manch, Amritsar, in association with Nari Chetna Manch organised a special session to discuss the recently published book of Punjabi writer Simarjit Simar — Housle Di Udaan.The session was convened by poet Dev Dard. Talking about the premise of the book, Deep Devinder Singh said, “Although the world has made innumerable progress and become smaller in terms of connectivity, the circle of society has become narrower. The stories in the book are the hallmarks of these narrow circles, the limitations we have imposed in our thoughts, mindsets and the stereotypes we refuse to part ways with.”The book is a compilation of short stories that the author has written through hi own experiences and observations of society. It deals with themes of feminism, women and equal rights, dowry, social inequality etc.Prof Madhu Sharma and Dr Hira Singh, while reading from the book, said the storyteller speaks of human concerns while writing the stories of old times.“The book creates a deep dialogue between the author and the reader. Its important to connect with readers when writing about everyday issues to enable them to for an opinion and think about that intended change,” said Dr Hira.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poets-share-thoughts-on-simarjit-simars-book-housle-di-udaan-304286
31-08-2021||Our Correspondent||Employees’ leader gets warm send-off||Tarn Taran, August 30Employees, farmers, trade union members and other organisations highly condemned the Union and state governments for their repressive policies during a function organised on the superannuation of Balkar Valtoha, state leader of the employees, here on Monday.Balkar Singh Valtoha, state general secretary of Government School Teachers’ Union (GSTU), Punjab, retired on Monday after putting in 27 years of service in the Education Department. He was a lecturer at Government Secondary School, Gandiwind.Besides teachers, employees of the Roadways, Powercom and other departments participated in the function.Jagdish Singh Chahal, state convener of the PSSF and the Punjab UT Mulazam and Pensioners’ Joint Front; Surinder Singh Puri, state president GSTU; Jaswant Singh Rai, state president SLA, were among others who addressed on the occasion.The leaders applauded the courage shown by Valtoha against the victimisation of the state government while fighting for the rights of teachers.The leaders condemned the recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission report. The organisation expressed solidarity with the agitating farmers and condemned the Haryana Government for brutally cane-charging farmers on Saturday. They called all sections of society to unite against the wrong policies of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/employees-leader-gets-warm-send-off-304284
31-08-2021||---||Over 2K attend session on diabetic foot care in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 30Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences in association with Indian Podiatry Association (IPA) conducted a continuous medical education (CME) session for physicians regarding diabetic foot care on Monday.The online event was attended by over 2,000 persons from the country while many attended the conference physically on the campus. New treatment options to save diabetic patients from foot and leg amputation were discussed in detail during the session. The IPA also launched its Punjab chapter on this occasion.Dr Daljit Singh, Vice-Chancellor, SGRD University, said chances of limp amputation in diabetic patients are high and newer technology and research is of great importance for the medical practitioners to treat patients.Dr Manjit Singh Uppal, Director Principal, discussed the importance of orthopedic Surgery and its role in diabetic foot care. He applauded the organisers for their all-out efforts to make the event a grand success.Dr Sudershan Kapoor said diabetic foot care includes screening of diabetic neuropathy, providing proper footwear for diabetic patients, treatment for nail problems, surgical management of complicated diabetic foot and prevention of unnecessary amputations because of diabetes. He said that an estimated 15 per cent of diabetic patients develop foot ulcers and many of them to face amputation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-2k-attend-session-on-diabetic-foot-care-in-amritsar-304287
31-08-2021||---||Regional artists’ work embellishes Amritsar art centre||Amritsar, August 30The annual edition of the state-level art exhibition was inaugurated at Art Gallery by Indian Academy of Fine Arts. The exhibition received entries from 211 artists across the region, with 367 art works, including paintings, sculptures, graphics, digital art and mix media works, sent for participation.The exhibition displayed 109 art works in several categories including amateur artists and students of fine arts. Noted sculptor Narinder Singh was the convenor of the exhibition.Arvinder Chamak, general secretary, IAFA, said, “We usually host the art exhibition in March every year, but it got delayed due to pandemic. This year, we anticipated that the lockdown and warning of a third wave of pandemic, might hit the exhibition. However, we managed to get a good response from participating artists, who sent their art works despite logistical challenges.”The inaugural day also saw prizes being awarded to artists in different categories. In senior artist category, city-based artist Kanwaljit Kaur received the first prize for her painting while Mohali-based artist Kuldeep Singh got the second prize. In amateur/student artist category, Harman Singh Virdi from Jalandhar got the first prize while Prabhjot Kaur from Jallandhar got second prize. Artists from Pathankot, Mohali, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Banur, Hoshiarpur and remotest districts of Punjab have participated in the exhibition.“The state art exhibition was started to encourage artists from Punjab and give a platform to aspiring artists, who were working in traditional as well as contemporary genre. Every year the number of entries we receive increases, only exception being last year, when due to pandemic, we had received 147 entries. But this year the numbers have been encouraging for us as well as artists,” said Chamak. The exhibition will continue till September 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/regional-artists-work-embellishes-amritsar-art-centre-304285
31-08-2021||Amritsar||One arrested for snatching in Amirtsar||Brother-in-law, Woman end lifeAmritsar: A woman and her brother-in-law committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance. The woman (28), a mother of two children, had illicit relations with her younger brother-in-law. On Monday, they called a relative and told that they had consumed poison. They told their relatives that they could not bear the social stigma and therefore took the extreme step. Later, they were found lying unconscious near the Baba Budha Sahib area. The family members went to the spot and rushed them to a private hospital on the Batala Road, where they died in the morning. ASI Jatinder Kumar said both victims were residents of Chawinda Devi village. They eloped on August 13. The ASI said the police have started inquest proceedings in the case and handed over the bodies after post-mortem. TNSMobile recovered from jail inmateAmritsar: A mobile phone was recovered from a prisoner identified as Sharif Mohammad, alias Siya, of Dhianpur village. He was lodged in the de-addiction centre of the jail. Bahadur Singh, Assistant Superintendent of Police (Jail) said during checking of the de-addiction centre, they recovered a keypad phone from him. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-arrested-for-snatching-in-amirtsar-304289
31-08-2021||---||Gang of robbers busted, 5 held in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 30With the arrest of five persons, the city police claimed to have busted a gang of muggers involved in robberies at gunpoint in Amritsar.Those arrested were identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, and Akashdeep Singh, alias Raja, of Kot Harnam Das; Mandeep Singh, alias Sajan, and Harpreet Singh Sabi of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar and Maninder Singh, alias Rohit, of New Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar.Their three accomplices Shera and Robin of Mandir Wala Bazaar and Goga of New Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar were yet to be arrested.The police have recovered gold ornaments weighing 44.5gm, a datar, two toy pistols and a bike from them. The police said raids were on to nab other accomplices.Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (investigations), along with other police officials said the accused robbed a goldsmith earlier this month. According to the victim Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, who resides in Sarvarpura area on Sultanwind Road, the accused decamped with gold weighing 358gm worth several lakhs at gunpoint. A case under Section 395 of the IPC and Section 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against them. They were held from a tubewell room in Shaheed Udham Singh area. They were produced in court and brought on police remand for further probe.During interrogation, they confessed to have robbed two grocery stores recently. On August 21, they looted Rs10,000 from a grocery store on Tarn Taran Road and Rs50,000 from another grocery store at Daburji bus stop on August 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-robbers-busted-5-held-in-amritsar-304279
31-08-2021||---||Inspector booked by Sultanwind police, accuses SHO of being biased||Amritsar, August 30Jagbir Singh, an inspector-rank officer, on Monday accused the Station House Officer of Sultanwind police station of bias, after his video went viral in which he was seen hitting a couple of persons, including circle president of Shiromani Akali Dal Manpreet Singh Mahal, with bricks leaving them injured.Inspector Jagbir Singh, a resident of Darshan Avenue, posted in LudhianaMy daughter, who is a cricket and tennis player, got injured and I was taking her to a doctor in my car on August 27. Manpreet Mahal, his brother Harpreet Singh and a friend Kuldeep Singh parked their car in the middle of the road. I signalled them to give passage, but they, in an inebriated condition, started arguing and scuffled with me. I repeatedly asked them not to indulge in this as I was with my daughter. However, they started thrashing me.Addressing the mediapersons here on Monday, he alleged that it was Manpreet Mahal and his two accomplices, who attacked him when he was going with his daughter for her treatment.The police have filed a cross case against both parties. “Whatever action was taken has been done on merit,” said Perneet Singh, SHO, Sultanwind police station.Jagbir Singh, a resident of Darshan Avenue, currently posted in Ludhiana, alleged that his daughter, who is a cricket and tennis player, got injured and he was taking her to a doctor in his car on August 27. He said Manpreet Mahal, his brother Harpreet Singh and a friend Kuldeep Singh parked their car in the middle of the road. He said though he signalled them to give passage, the accused, who were in an inebriated condition, started arguing and scuffled with him.“I repeatedly asked them not to indulge in this as I was with my daughter. However, they started thrashing me,” he said, adding that he first took his daughter to safety and asked her to call the police control room for help. When the accused did not stop, he had to retaliate.He said the accused made a portion of the CCTV grab viral on social media making him look like an accused, while the Sultanwind police did not bother to verify the claims and get the matter investigated properly. He said he and his daughter faced harassment at the police station.Perneet Dhillon, SHO, said the allegations made against the police are baseless and action was taken on merit following the instruction of senior police officials. He said a video of Jagbir hitting complainants with bricks went viral and reached senior police authorities who asked him to take necessary action. He said as the police were yet to get the MLR of Manpreet and other victims, they registered an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC. Later, on the statement of Jagbir, a cross-case was also filed. He said further probe was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/inspector-booked-by-sultanwind-police-accuses-sho-of-being-biased-304283
31-08-2021||---||Security beefed up in Amritsar, as festive season begins||Amritsar, August 30With the onset of the festival season with Janmashtami on Monday, the Punjab Police have beefed up security to thwart any untoward incident. The police have also urged the people to remain vigilant as anti-national forces across the international border are constantly trying to disrupt the peaceful atmosphere in the state.Repeated seizures of tiffin bombs, hand grenades and illegal weapons smuggled from Pakistan from time to time keep the security and intelligence agencies cautious.Parminder Singh Bhandal, DCP, Law and OrderPatrolling parties and the PCR teams will remain on roads till late night on Janmashtami. Security has been tightened around religious places and other vital locations.According to the police, five teams of the Armed Reserve Police, two teams of commandoes, besides city police SWAT and anti-sabotage teams were deputed for security purpose. In view of Janmashtami today, the police carried out search operations at the railway station, hotels, inns and sarais to detect suspected elements. Police Commissioner Vikram Jeet Duggal said following the seizure of explosives in the border belt and from Jalandhar, the police were already on alert. We had maintained a heightened security at shrines to thwart any untoward incident. “We are leaving no stone unturned and have urged the public to remain vigilant and inform the police at helpline numbers 112 and 181 in case they found some abandoned or suspicious things,” he said.A senior police official wishing not to be named said Gurmukh Singh Rode, who was nabbed by the Punjab Police recently, reportedly told the police that he had delivered three tiffin bombs, but he did not know about its whereabouts and the persons who took the delivery. Though the police have started a search operation, these bombs have not yet been recovered.DCP, Law and Order, Parminder Singh Bhandal said police officials and SHOs had been directed to conduct regular patrolling. “Today also, patrolling parties and PCR teams would remain on roads till late night. Security has been tightened around religious places and other vital locations,” he said.SSP, Amritsar rural police, Gulneet Singh Khuranna said a close watch was being kept on notorious elements while security had been beefed up at vital locations and religious places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/security-beefed-up-in-amritsar-as-festive-season-begins-304282
31-08-2021||---||Now, direct flight between Amritsar & Birmingham from September 3||Amritsar, August 30Good news for air travellers as Air India’s direct flight between Amritsar and Birmingham is set to start from September 3.On August 8, UK moved India to amber (medium-risk) list from the red (high-alert) list after relaxing restrictions on passengers arriving from India.As per the Air India’s website, the flight AI117 will take off from Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport every Friday at 3 pm and arrive at Birmingham the same day. The return flight AI118 will then depart from Birmingham next day (on Saturday) and reach Amritsar on Sunday morning at 7:35 am. Air India will use its Boeing 787 Dreamliner on this route.Global convener of FlyAmritsar Initiative Sameep Singh Gumtala, in a release, lauded the move of the national career and said it showed the importance being gained by the local airport in global aviation.He said Air India on August 16 also resumed one weekly direct flight to London’s Heathrow airport from Amritsar. This direct connectivity with UK has once again started the perishable cargo movement from the airport. According to a tweet by the airport authorities, 6,270 kg perishable cargo (baby corn and mango pickle) was exported on the first flight to Heathrow on August 17 and 9,133 kg on August 24 flight that included sporting goods.Welcoming connectivity with both London and Birmingham, Yogesh Karma, who is also a member of the Airport Advisory Committee (AAC), said the popularity and resumption of these flights provide export opportunity for farmers and businessmen alike. He said Punjab’s hinterland connection to the Midlands is a decade-old demand and our national carrier fulfilled it.Councillor Charan Kanwal Singh Sekhon, chairman, SEVA Trust, UK, who has been campaigning for direct flights to UK, also expressed happiness at the resumption of flight to Birmingham. This will shorten travel time for thousands of Punjabis in cities around Birmingham as earlier the only option for them was to travel to London’s Heathrow airport from Delhi, he said.All set||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-direct-flight-between-amritsar-birmingham-from-september-3-304291
31-08-2021||---||Covid-19 vaccine shortage surfaces again in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 30The irregular supply of Covid-19 vaccines in the district is troubling residents for the last four days, as they are unable to get the jabs.After partially resuming supply, the Health Department inoculated 4,750 beneficiaries on Monday.The district had inoculated 1,889 residents on August 28 and only 274 on August 29. However, on the days during which the Health Department had ample doses in stock, daily inoculation figures had even crossed the 20,000 mark.Residents complained that there was no way they could know whether injections would be available on a particular day and they have no other option but to visit the hospital or centre to find out the day’s status.“I am visiting the Radha Swami Satsang Ghar for the last three days and I get the same reply every day — come tomorrow,” said Pawan, a local resident, adding that people have to waste time and energy to get the injections.Another resident said the day injections are available, people start queuing up along the outer wall of the satsang bhawan before 6 am. “Late-comers are often asked to go back as injections are available in limited supply only,” said another resident.Residents demanded that in view of the threat of the third Covid wave, sufficient number of injections should be made available to local hospitals and vaccination centres. They said with experts speculating a third wave somewhere in September and October, there was no time left to get the jabs.The district health authorities said the injections to the districts were distributed by the state government after receiving the supply from the Centre. “Usually, the vaccination drive goes on smoothly, but in case the state government has not received the injections from the Centre, it causes shortage and people have to face inconvenience,” said an official.District logs two positive cases, no deathAmritsar: With two positive cases reported on Monday, the total count of cases in the district has increased to 47,229. The new cases are influenza-like illness cases. The health authorities have reported recovery of 11 patients with which the recovery count has improved to 45,613. The district at present has a total of 27 active cases. Meanwhile a total of 4,750 residents were given injections for Covid-19 on Monday. Of these 3,762 residents got the first dose of the vaccine while 988 received the second. TNSNo case, casualty in Tarn TaranNeither any positive case nor any causality was reported due to Covid in the district on today. A total number of 377 persons have lost their lives till date and the number of active cases got reduced to seven. Five persons have been isolated in their respective homes. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the teams of the Health Department collected 682 samples from different places for Covid testing. A total of 4,08,670 doses of Covid have been administered to 3,29,025 persons till Monday while 5,695 were given the jabs today. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-vaccine-shortage-surfaces-again-in-amritsar-304280
31-08-2021||GS Paul||South seat: Capt Amarinder, Navjot Sidhu loyalists face off in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 30The Congress seems to be divided between Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu camps when it comes to allocation of tickets for the ensuing 2022 Assembly poll.Amritsar-South constituency is presently represented by Inderbir Singh Bolaria, a close confidante of Sidhu. Now, Congress leader and former MLA Harjinder Singh Thekedar, who is a staunch supporter of Capt Amarinder, has thrown his hat in the ring.He has already intensified activities in the constituency, especially after the CM’s recent visit to the holy city on the state-level occasion of 75th Independence Day held in Amritsar. Amid the feud between CM and Sidhu, Thekedar had openly shown his solidarity with Capt Amarinder.Associated with the Congress since 1978, Thekedar is confident the party would show faith in him this time. He also hinted that in case of any resistance on his claim, he would not refrain from contesting independently. “I am 100 per cent contesting the 2022 poll from the South constituency, with or without a platform,” he said.On the other hand, Bolaria, who, as a sitting MLA of the SAD-BJP combine, had switched his loyalty towards the Congress in December 2016 and was successful in procuring the ticket for the 2017 elections, said, “We have started a fight to save Punjab and Congress. People like Thekedar are irrelevant and hold no importance. Such people never end up becoming leaders as they will be limited to just petty politics. There are larger issues of Punjab to be addressed,” he said. Bolaria said the ticket would be decided only on merit.Reacting, Thekedar said the natives of the area were not happy as they were devoid of basic civic facilities. “Ask the thousands of families living near the Bhagtanwala dumping ground which has made their lives hell. Except for false assurances, there was no one to take up their problems at an appropriate platform,” he said.Thekedar, who served as an MLA from 2002 to 2007 from the South segment, was lately appointed as the chairman of the Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/south-seat-capt-amarinder-navjot-sidhu-loyalists-face-off-in-amritsar-304245
