01-05-2021||Calcutta||Police to guard government vaccination centres from May 1||Police will be present outside government vaccination centres from May 1 to manage queues. Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra on Friday instructed all police stations to prevent law and order problems and panic at vaccination centres, said a police officer. Metro reported on Friday that the state health secretary had written to the Calcutta police commissioner on Thursday saying the “peaceful ambience” at vaccination centres “is turning tense” because of the “ignited demand for vaccination” and requested police presence at those sites. Hundreds of Calcuttans are queuing up for hours every day at government vaccination centres but only a few are getting the jab as the supply runs low. That at times triggers panic and discontent among potential recipients, often resulting in agitation. Apart from hospitals, Covid jabs are being administered at more than 150 clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Over the past two days, several law and order problems were reported from the city resulting from shortage of doses. The police fear the problem would further intensify from Saturday as people aged between 18 and 44 may turn up for vaccination. “Till now people of age 45 years or older are eligible for vaccines…. Across the country people above 18 years will become eligible for the shot on May 1. Though in Bengal, vaccination of people between 18 and 44 years will start on May 5, there is a high possibility that many will start queuing from May 1,” said an officer in the south division. Police officers said that if need be, they would announce through loudhailers unavailability of doses. “We will also try to coordinate with the local administrators and civic officials to estimate the number of doses that will be available at each centre on a particular day so that we can start making announcements accordingly,” said an officer in a central Calcutta police station. The police said in the majority of the places where vaccines were administered, people were queuing up from early morning or the night before. By the time the centres open, a hundred people have joined the queue. “Only the first few people are getting the jab because of low availability of doses. And they get to know only in the morning. This creates a lot of confusion and discontent,” said an officer of the rank of assistant commissioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-05-2021||Calcutta||City may get rain, thunderstorms between May 2 and 6||The city is likely to get rain and thunderstorms between May 2 and 6, a Met official said, raising hopes of a brief respite from a prolonged heat spell. The city has had just a single squall and not a single Nor’wester in April, making the start of summer uncomfortably hot. A trough of low pressure is likely to trigger the rain and thunderstorms. “Under the influence of the system, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas experienced gusts of wind on Friday night. The intensity of the winds will go up in the coming days,” said a Met official. “A cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh has led to the formation of a trough of low pressure…. The system is moving towards Bengal and will draw significant moisture from the Bay. As a result, enhanced thunderstorm activity is likely over Bengal during May 2-6,” read a statement issued by the Met department on Friday evening. The rain is likely to be accompanied by gusts of wind blowing at over 50kmph, the statement said. “Normally, the period between end-March and the middle of June is known as the period of Nor’westers. There are about eight to nine Nor'westers every season. But this year it has been unusually dry,” said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-05-2021||Calcutta||State government-owned building to be converted into Covid facility||Uttirna, a state government-owned six-storey building with an open-air theatre on Alipore Road, will be converted into a facility where Covid patients who have recovered from critical illness will be treated with medicines and oxygen till their condition stabilises. The health department decided on Friday that Covid patients at Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital will be shifted to Uttirna after they recover from severe illness as part of the “step down” treatment protocol. “There will be arrangements for continuous oxygen supply. A team of doctors and nurses from SSKM Hospital will visit these patients twice a day,” said an official of the health department. The cultural complex —which has guest rooms, dormitories and a 10,000sq ft office space — now functions as a safe home for Covid-19 patients under the supervision of Covid Care Network, an organisation of health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from the coronavirus disease. On Friday, 30 asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid patients were under observation at Uttirna. Five patients were shifted to hospital after their condition deteriorated. “Uttirna can accommodate 250 patients, following their recovery from serious illness. Once their conditions stabilise with medicines and oxygen, they will be shifted to safe rooms where they will stay for a few more days before returning home,” said a senior official of the health department. “Work on creating an oxygen supply station at Uttirna will start this week and be completed by May 7. The second and third floors of the building will house the safe home. The remaining floors will be set aside for patients from Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital,” said Satyarup Siddhanta, of Covid Care Network. Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital, a Covid treatment facility, has been readied to treat critical patients who have complaints of multi-organ dysfunction following coronavirus infection. Health department officials on Friday requested the heads of all departments at SSKM to draw up teams of doctors and nurses who will visit the patients at Uttirna. Besides creating more facilities, the health department has asked the superintendents of all medical colleges and hospitals, particularly the ones in Calcutta, to ensure no patient with severe breathing distress is refused treatment. There have been complaints that some hospitals have been refusing patients with breathing distress because they could not produce a Covid test result. “The hospitals have been told that if there aren’t any beds in the Covid wards, these patients will have to be admitted to SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) wards and made to undergo the rapid antigen test (for Covid),” said G.K. Dhali, the head of the department of gastroenterology at SSKM Hospital and the state’s coordinator for management and containment of Covid-19 cases.  “If a hospital is unable to provide a bed to such a patient, it will refer the patient to another hospital where there is a confirmed bed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-05-2021||Calcutta||ICSE council asks schools to provide average marks of IX and X||The ICSE council has asked schools to provide the average marks of subjects scored by the 2021 Class X candidates in Classes IX and X school exams. The council has cancelled the ICSE (Class X) board exam and has initiated the process of “collating and collecting data” for ICSE 2021 candidates On Thursday, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) sent a circular to the heads of schools with candidates for the ICSE examination. “...the CISCE is in the process of collating and collecting data, which will be required from all our schools. Therefore, you are requested to provide the following information of the candidates registered & confirmed for the ICSE Year 2021 Examination: 1. The average marks of papers/subjects scored by the concerned candidates in the examinations conducted by the school at Class IX level for the academic year 2019-20. (In percentage form/out of 100) 2. The average marks of papers/subjects scored by the concerned candidates in the examinations conducted by the school at Class X level for the academic year 2020-21. (In percentage form/out of 100),” said Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the CISCE, in the circular. In the circular, the council has also mentioned that the average marks of papers/subjects have to be submitted online, “through the internal assessment module on the careers portal”. Schools have been asked to submit the consolidated mark sheets of Class IX and X from the school records to corroborate the marks given on the careers portal, the council said. The documents have to be authenticated, and then stamped, dated and signed by the head of the school, it added. The internal assessment module has been activated from April 30. Schools have to upload the consolidated mark sheets by May 15. In states where there is “a total lockdown,” the schools must submit the data by May 22. For any candidate who took a transfer from one ICSE school to another, the average marks of Class IX or the Class IX report card of the candidate has to be sourced from the previous school. “Any delay in the submission of the above information will subsequently affect the processing and cause a delay in the declaration of the ICSE Year 2021 results,” Arathoon has said in the circular. The council had cancelled the ICSE examination on April 19 given the “worsening situation of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country”. Several school heads said they would collate the data next week after internal meetings. All schools could conduct in-person exams for Class IX before the institutions closed in March 2020 because of the pandemic. For Class X, the schools had to take online examinations. Many schools could not conduct full length papers for the students. On February 12, the state government allowed schools to reopen for in-person classes. Following which some schools conducted pre-boards on the campus while others continued with the online exams or gave students the option to choose between online and offline exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private healthcare facilities keep vaccination on hold||Thousands of people queued up outside Covid vaccination centres in the city on Friday. Many had their second doses scheduled in the next four-five days. They queued up on Friday fearing that doses would become even scarcer later. Private hospitals have had to return all their vaccine stock to the government. They will have to procure fresh stocks from the manufacturers at new rates from May 1. The change has led to a situation where private facilities may not have any doses to offer at least for the next few days. Metro tried to find answers to questions that are haunting potential vaccine recipients. Will private hospitals continue to administer Covid vaccines Saturday onwards? No, private healthcare facilities are left with no doses after Friday as they had to return all their stock to the state health department at the end of the day’s vaccination session. The Centre has announced that private Covid vaccination centres will have to procure doses directly from the manufacturers from May 1. All private healthcare facilities have kept Covid vaccination on hold. I have my second dose scheduled in the next few days? What if private hospitals do not resume vaccination by then? Officials of most private hospitals asked all recipients who have their second doses scheduled in the next few days to wait. The recipients were advised to contact the hospitals after a couple of days at least. Once doses are available again, the private hospitals will restart inoculation. “We have suspended vaccination on Saturday and Sunday. We hope some clarity will emerge by then about when we will get doses. We will be able to make any commitment only after we are sure about getting vaccines,” said Rupak Barua, the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. I am in the 18-44 age group? When can I get my vaccine at a private hospital? Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced that vaccination for the 18-44 age group will start on May 5. Officials of private hospitals said they hoped they would get clarity by then and will inform potential recipients accordingly. I am above 45 years, but yet to take the first dose. What do I do? Like those who are scheduled to get their second dose, those above 45 willing to get the first dose at a private hospital have to wait till the hospitals resume inoculation. They can, however, visit a government-run vaccination centre. Is it true that all vaccination centres are giving priority to second dose recipients?  Yes. “As the supply is irregular, we will prioritise second dose recipients,” said a state government official. Why are private hospitals suddenly unable to vaccinate? The Centre has announced that from May 1 all private hospitals have to procure their doses directly from the vaccine manufacturers. But several private hospitals have said they have not received any commitment from the manufacturers about when they will be able to supply doses to them. Since they do not have any stock left, the private hospitals have been forced to stop vaccination for the time being. At a meeting with the state health department, officials of several private hospitals have requested the department to procure vaccines from the manufacturers on their behalf. The state has written to the Centre asking if it can do so. Officials of some private hospitals said they did not expect any development on procurement of vaccines for private hospitals till the Assembly election results are announced on Sunday. Will government-run hospitals continue inoculation during this time? Yes, government hospitals and two health clinics in each of the 16 boroughs of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will inoculate on Saturday. No vaccination session will be held at most government-run Covid vaccination centres on Sunday. I took my first dose at a private facility. Can I take my second dose at a government facility? Yes. Will the doses remain free for everyone at government-run Covid vaccination centres from May? An official at SSKM Hospital who is managing the vaccination at the hospital said they had not yet received any instruction from the state health department on whether people in the 18-44 age group would be vaccinated for free. Those who are 45 or older will not have to pay for the shot, the official said. However, it is likely that government-run centres will continue to vaccinate everyone for free. If I wait for a few days and take my second dose at a private facility, what will be the price of the dose? The Serum Institute of India has announced that it will sell each dose of Covishield to private hospitals at Rs 600. Bharat Biotech has announced that it will sell each dose of Covaxin at Rs 1,200 to private units. The price of each dose at private hospitals will be over and above the rate charged by the respective manufacturers. Has the government set any cap on how much a private healthcare facility can charge above the cost price of the vaccine? No.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-05-2021||Calcutta||Doctors and nurses catch Covid despite being fully vaccinated||A number of doctors and nurses have contracted Covid despite being fully vaccinated against the disease, a trend that will only intensify the crisis in Covid management unless corrective measures are immediately taken. Public health experts and hospital officials said unless a pool of doctors from all fields is created, the crisis of medical personnel would be as severe as that of Covid beds. At all three hospitals of the AMRI group in Calcutta, about 70 healthcare personnel, including junior doctors and nurses, are down with Covid. At Peerless Hospital, at least four senior doctors, including two critical care specialists, have been infected with the coronavirus despite taking both jabs. Several other hospitals are facing the problem, too. “If we can't expand the pool of doctors and nurses, then the existing number of Covid beds will actually come down because there won’t be enough people to treat patients,” said Devi Shetty, the founder and chairman of Narayana Health. “There are 1.4 lakh doctors who have finished their internships and are preparing for examinations for courses like MD and MS. Similarly, around two lakh nurses across India have completed their training and are now preparing for the examinations. If this fresh workforce is incorporated in the Covid healthcare system by offering incentives of marks in exams, the problem can be solved,” said Shetty. He also feels there should be a mobile team of doctors and nurses under one central agency. The team will move to places where the incidence of Covid is high. Narayana Health’s flagship unit in Calcutta, the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, is approaching doctors from various disciplines to join Covid treatment following the rise in the number of beds for patients suffering from the disease. “As the number of Covid patients swells in the hospital, it is imperative on the part of the unit to expand the team of consultants taking care of the patients…. Consultants from cardiology, anesthesia, neurology, pulmonology, internal and emergency medicine have joined hands in the mission of fighting the pandemic,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health. Doctors treating Covid patients said their workload was mounting by the day. Physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya used to have around 20 patients admitted under him during the peak of the epidemic last year. On Friday, he had 29 patients admitted under him and the number is going up. “Hospitals are increasing the number of Covid beds, but this is leading to a shortage of trained critical care doctors. If doctors working in general wards were trained under a senior doctor in the critical care unit, then this shortage could have been managed. If the senior doctor gets infected by the virus, then the junior doctor could have managed. But now, because of lack of such planning, the crisis is being felt,” said Bhattacharya. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said consultants from other fields might refuse to treat Covid patients and the hospital could not force them to do so as they are not full-time employees. “The Medical Council of India should come out with an advisory that all doctors should treat Covid patients if required  Otherwise, the increasing pressure on the existing team of doctors would lead to their losing patience and energy and that will affect the treatment,” said Mitra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
01-05-2021||Calcutta||Higher secondary examinations will be held as scheduled in June||The higher secondary examinations will be held as scheduled in June, the state council of HS education said in a notice to the heads of all institutions on Friday. Unlike other years, the candidates will write their papers at their respective schools, the council has said. The council has cancelled the annual examinations of Class XI and the heads of all institutions have been requested to promote all students to Class XII. “...the Higher Secondary examination will be conducted as per schedule published earlier,” read a notice issued on Friday by the president of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, Mahua Das. The examination is scheduled from June 15 till July 2. “The Covid situation will be closely monitored and any further decision or change in this regard will be informed beforehand to all,” Das said in the notice. “For Higher Secondary Examination 2021, the HS examinees will appear for the examination at their own Institution (Home Venue) and please note that, the examination timings will be 12 noon to 3.15pm in place of 10am to 1.15pm.” Usually, higher secondary candidates of one school write their papers at a different school. The Class XI annual examinations, for which the council sends question papers, are held in the second half on the days the HS exams are held. Since the Class XI exams have been cancelled, the timings for Class XII exams could be changed, the head of an institution said. The council in the notice has said that the topics in the reduced syllabus of Class XI should be completed within the “first quarter of Class XII”. “Since college admission is largely dependent on the Class XII marks, the board is trying to conduct the school-leaving exams,” the head of another school said. The CBSE and ICSE council both have deferred their Class XII board exams, which were to be held in May, because of the pandemic. The new dates will be announced once the authorities review the situation in the first week of June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
01-05-2021||Calcutta||Former IIT students seek action against associate professor for verbally abusing students ||Over 1,000 former students of several IITs have written to the IIT Kharagpur director seeking strong action against an associate professor of social science and humanities who allegedly verbally abused students from disadvantaged categories during an online class last week. The letter mailed to the IIT Kharagpur director, V.K. Tewari, on Thursday evening said: “We, the alumni of IITs, are disgusted and shocked by professor (the name of the teacher) abusive behaviour towards her student in English class, many of whom belong to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Horrifying videos of her abuse may be seen here (a Twitter link) where she is heard shouting expletives at and humiliating her students.” Repeated calls and text messages to director Tewari and the accused teacher went unanswered. The alumni have said the institute must take strong punitive action against the teacher. Apart from former students from the country’s oldest IIT, alumni from the IITs in Mumbai, Madras, Kanpur, Guwahati, Delhi, Gandhinagar, Roorkee, Varanasi, Dhanbad, Indore have signed the letter. “IITs are always notoriously hostile to Dalit, Adivasi and backward caste students. It is evident from the video that (the teacher’s name) is a habitual offender and believes her casteism and abuse will go uncensured. We cannot allow this,” they have written. The teacher was allegedly caught on video verbally abusing some students and their parents apparently for not standing up when the national anthem was being played during an online class last week. In a purported video she allegedly called the students “bloody b*******”. IIT Kharagpur alumnus Rahul Banerjee, who works with Chhattisgarh’s Bhil Adivasis and Dalits and is a signatory to the letter, told Metro that even when he was studying BTech in the ‘80s, he sensed “a lack of empathy among the teachers and students towards those coming from disadvantaged categories”. “I remember taking classes for these underprivileged students as they sometimes could not cope with the course. IITs have always lacked an inclusive approach that could help these underprivileged students to mainstream themselves. In fact, the preparatory course was devised by the IITs to fill the void. But now in the preparatory course itself these students are being dehumanised,” said Banerjee, who graduated in 1983. “Why does the national anthem have to be played at all during a class?” he asked. Indrajit Dutta, who graduated from IIT Kharagpur in 1977 and was in the same batch as director Tewari, said: “This casteist approach existed among students and teachers throughout. But it was not so glaring as it is now.... What has happened is shameful,” said Dutta, a signatory. Complaints of casteist abuse towards students have arisen from IIT Bombay and IIT Madras as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
01-05-2021||Calcutta||Residents fail to get Covid-19 vaccines after waiting for hours in Salt Lake||Hundreds of people from Rajarhat, Salt Lake, Baguiati, Dum Dum and other places who had gone to two vaccination centres run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on Friday did not get the Covid shot as neither had any doses. Many who had gone to the Salt Lake sub-divisional hospital near City Centre, too, did not get the shot because they had run out of doses. At all three centres, arguments among those who waited for hours to receive the shot and hospital authorities broke out because the officials could not say when they would receive a supply of vaccine doses. The gates of the hospital opened around 10am and the authorities asked the people to wait till doses arrived. Soham Chakraborty, who had gone to the vaccine centre with his mother, said he had queued up at 3.30am to ensure that she got the jab. After waiting for over eight hours, no hospital official was there to tell them when the process would start, he said. “There was a huge crowd and sometime after midday, we started looking for officials. Then someone came from inside the building and said there were no doses,” said Chakraborty. The situation was similar at a Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation-run vaccine centre in Narayanpur. An official of the civic body’s health department said they had no option but to keep operations suspended as both centres had not received their daily quota of vaccines. “We could not announce earlier that vaccination would be suspended as we did not get any information that we will not get any vaccines,” the official said. Many had turned up at Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital as well. Preyashi Sahu, who had gone with her parents for their first dose, said that they waited for hours but did not get the shots. They asked the officials what the matter was. “They told us that it will not be possible to administer vaccines today and asked us to leave,” she said. An official of the hospital said that they could only administer a few second doses on Friday. “We waited to get the vaccine supply but when we did not, we put up a notice informing everyone that no first doses will be administered on Friday. However, by then a large crowd had gathered,” said the official. Bengal on Friday recorded 17,411 new infections, 96 deaths and 12,885 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to 1.13 lakh. Of the 89 deaths, 28 were reported from Calcutta and 20 from North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta recorded 3,924 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,932.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-67
01-05-2021||Business||AstraZeneca records vaccine sales worth $275m ||AstraZeneca said its Covid-19 vaccine sales were $275 million in the first-quarter and it is on track to deliver 200 million doses a month from April, as better-than-expected results and a second half growth forecast boosted its shares. Chief executive Pascal Soriot again defended the vaccine rollout on Friday, saying that Anglo-Swedish drugmaker had not overpromised on its ability to supply shots, as he defended big cuts in deliveries that prompted a EU lawsuit. AstraZeneca, which has said it will not make a profit from the shot during the pandemic, was reporting financial details of sales of the vaccine it developed with Oxford University for the first time. It said the revenue included delivery of about 68 million doses, adding that European sales were $224 million, emerging markets $43 million and $8 million in the rest of the world. Sales of $275 million for 68 million doses equates to a price tag of around $4 per shot. Walmart support Walmart on Friday said it is mobilising its global resources to extend support to Covid-19 relief efforts in the country. Walmart, the Walmart Foundation, Flipkart and PhonePe, along with Walmart’s global technology and sourcing hubs, are collaborating to counter oxygen shortages, support the national vaccination drive and donate to organisations making a difference in communities. This includes a Rs 14.82-crore donation from the Walmart Foundation to support NGOs. Social media tools Facebook said it is partnering the Indian government to roll out a vaccine finder tool on its mobile app in India. In this tool, vaccine centre locations and their hours of operations have been provided by the ministry of health and family welfare. Twitter has set up a Covid-19 SOS page that offers information about those offering or seeking immediate help. Uber initiative Uber has unveiled a Rs 18.5-crore plan to get 150,000 drivers on its platform vaccinated over the next six months. Car, auto and Moto drivers on its platform showing valid vaccination certificates would be eligible for a payment of Rs 400 for each of their two shots. HSBC aid HSBC India has pledged financial support of Rs 75 crore for Covid-19 relief efforts in India  through on-ground non-profit agencies. Boeing assistance Boeing has announced a $10-million emergency assistance package for India, which will be directed towards organisations providing relief, including medical supplies. Paytm order Paytm has placed an order for 21,000 oxygen concentrators which will be made available from the first week of May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
01-05-2021||Business||Yes Bank posts higher-than-expected loss for quarter ended March 31||Yes Bank on Friday posted a higher-than-expected loss for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. The private sector lender reported a net loss of Rs 3,787.75 crore against a loss of Rs 3,668.33 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts had expected Yes Bank to suffer a net loss of Rs 500-1,000 crore. The widening of losses came on the back of a steep fall in its core net interest income (NII-interest earned minus interest expended) which declined to Rs 987 crore from Rs 2,560 crore in the preceding three months and Rs 1,274 crore in the same period of the previous year. Moreover, provisions also rose to Rs 5,240 crore, a sequential jump of 138 per cent over Rs 2,199 crore and a 7.5 per cent rise over Rs 4,872 crore in the year-ago period. While gross non performing assets (NPAs) in absolute terms fell to Rs 28,609.53 crore from Rs 32,877.59 crore in the same period of the previous year, the percentage of gross NPAs during the quarter stood at 15.41 per cent against 16.80 per cent. Marico net FMCG firm Marico Ltd on Friday reported a 14.07 per cent increase in its consolidated net profit at Rs 227 crore for the March 2021 quarter, helped by a double-digit volume growth in the domestic market. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 199 crore in the year-ago quarter. Revenue from operations of the Mumbai-based firm was up 34.49 per cent at Rs 2,012 crore during the quarter under review against Rs 1,496 crore in the year-ago period. SBI General Insurance Private non-life insurer SBI General Insurance on Friday said its net profit grew 32 per cent to Rs 544 crore in the fiscal ended March 3, 2021. The gross written premium rose 22 per cent to Rs 8,312 crore during the fiscal from Rs 6,840 crore in 2019-20. During the year, its solvency ratio stood at 2 against 2.27 in the previous fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
01-05-2021||Business||Core sector expands to a 32-month high of 6.8 per cent in March||The low base provided the feel good factor to the core sector, which expanded to a 32-month high of 6.8 per cent in March. However, for the full fiscal 2020-21, the core sector contracted 7 per cent compared with a subdued 0.4 per cent expansion in 2019-20. “The eight core sector output rose to a 32-month high of 6.8 per cent in March 2021 chiefly on account of a negative base of (-) 8.5 per cent in the corresponding month of the previous year. Therefore, one needs to read the core sector growth number with caution,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings. In February, output had fallen at the fastest pace in six months, contracting 3.8 per  cent. According to data released by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade, coal (-21.9 per cent), crude oil (-3.1 per cent), refinery products (-0.7 per cent) and fertilisers (-5 per cent) saw contraction. Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra, said, “The low base of the lockdown would push up the year-on-year expansion of the core industries. However, we have observed a slackening in sequential momentum in April 2021 in electricity demand, vehicle registrations and generation of GST e-way bills, revealing the impact of the recent surge in Covid infections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
01-05-2021||Business||Finance ministry to give additional Rs 15,000 crore to states as interest-free 50-year loan to spend on capital projects ||The finance ministry has said it will give an additional Rs 15,000 crore to the states as interest-free 50-year loan to spend on capital projects in the current fiscal. The Scheme for Special Assistance to States for Capital Expenditure for 2021-22 also includes incentives to states for monetising/recycling of infrastructure assets and disinvestment of the state public sector enterprises (SPSEs). The scheme has three parts, including linkage of asset monetisation with funds released by the Centre. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra, said, “Higher capital spending by the Centre and the state governments remains one of the upsides to the GDP growth expected in fiscal 2021-22. The additional funding under the interest-free loan to states for capex is welcome, despite its modest outlay.” “The novel aspect this time is that it nudges states to go in for sale of assets. Monetisation of assets unlocks their value, eliminates their holding cost and enables scarce public funds to be deployed to new projects, thus speeding up the implementation of the National Infrastructure Pipeline. It will be interesting to see how states fare on this count as some of them have been talking of such sales in the past but have not taken affirmative action in a significant way,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings. Part one of the scheme relates to the North East and hill stóates and an amount of Rs 2,600 crore has been earmarked for this. Part two is for the states not included in part one. An amount of Rs 7,400 crore has been earmarked for this part. Part three of the scheme provides incentives to states for monetisation/recycling of infrastructure assets and disinvestment of state public sector enterprises. About Rs 5,000 crore has been allocated for this part of the scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
01-05-2021||Business||Wipro revises IT services revenue outlook to 8-10 per cent sequential growth||Wipro on Friday revised upwards its IT services revenue outlook to 8-10 per cent sequential growth in the June 2021 quarter. This comes after the completion of its  $1.45-billion buyout of Capco. Earlier this month, while announcing the results for the March quarter of 2021, Wipro had said that it expects to clock a sequential growth of 2-4 per cent in its IT services revenues in the June quarter. However, this did not include revenues from the Capco and Ampion acquisitions. In March, the Bangalore-based firm had announced the acquisition of Capco in a $1.45-billion deal. In a communication to the bourses on Friday, the company said the Capco acquisition was completed on April 29, 2021. Therefore, it has now decided to include revenues from Capco, thereby leading to the upward revision in revenue guidance for the June quarter. “We expect revenue from our IT services business to be in the range of $2,324-2,367 million,” Wipro said. The company added that this updated forecast does not include revenues from the Ampion acquisition. Wipro is set to acquire Ampion, an Australia-based provider of cybersecurity and engineering services, for $117 million. This deal is expected to close this quarter. Wipro had posted revenues of $2,152.4 million in its IT services business in the fourth quarter of 2020-21. Though Wipro has lagged behind its peers such as TCS and Infosys, analysts remain cautiously optimistic about its prospects. “A simplified operating model, leadership augmentation and Capco acquisition show Wipro’s growth aspiration and its resolve to take big bets. However, tangible results hinge on strong execution. Considering a poor execution track record, we prefer to wait for clear signs of improvement in operating metrics,’’ analysts at Emkay have said in a note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
01-05-2021||Business||HDFC Bank announces wide-ranging organisational changes||Seven months after Sashi Jagdishan took over as its chief executive and managing director, HDFC Bank on Friday announced wide-ranging organisational changes. The bank has been reorganised into three pillars of ‘business verticals’, ‘delivery channels’ and, ‘technology and digital’. The lender has made a slew of changes in the senior leadership roles as well, with current group head for corporate banking Rahul Shukla being entrusted with the commercial banking (MSME) and rural vertical. “We are creating engines of growth with top tier talent backed by technology and digital transformation to capitalise on opportunities that will accrue in the coming time,” Jagdishan said. “I am sure this structure will create the necessary strategic and execution agility that we need to serve our customers across India, retail, commercial (MSME) and corporate segments,” Jagdishan added. ‘Business verticals’ will include corporate, retail and private banking, government and institutional banking, retail assets and payments. The bank is increasing its focus on commercial banking. Under ‘delivery verticals’, facets such as branch banking, tele-service/sales (including virtual relationship manager or VRM channel), sales channels aligned with the business verticals and digital marketing are being included. All the businesses and delivery channels will be backed by the ‘technology and digital’ vertical as the core backbone. Executive director Kaizad Bharucha will continue to drive wholesale banking, including corporate banking group, capital and commodities markets group and financial institutions. Parag Rao, the group head for payments business, will now drive the technology transformation and digital agenda, besides continuing to be responsible for the payments vertical.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
01-05-2021||Business|| Reliance posts 129 per cent jump in net profits for the fourth quarter||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) on Friday beat Street estimates by posting a 129 per cent jump in net profits for the fourth quarter ended March 31, following a strong performance by the oil-to-chemical (O2C) and retail divisions. Consolidated net profit came in at Rs 14,995 crore compared with Rs 6,546 crore a year ago. The sharp jump in its bottomline, however, should be seen in the context of a low base last year since the onset of the pandemic had led to a lockdown, which not only affected its domestic business but exports as well. This was reflected in its revenues which stood at Rs 172,095 crore — a rise of almost 13.6 per cent over Rs 151,461 crore in the year-ago period. Analysts had expected RIL to post net profits in the region of Rs 14,800 crore. In the fourth quarter, consolidated net profit attributable to shareholders was Rs 13,227 crore against Rs 6,348 crore a year ago. Annual numbers For the year ended March 31, 2021, RIL recorded consolidated revenues of Rs 539,238 crore, which was lower than Rs 659,997 crore in the previous fiscal as its businesses were affected by the country-wide lockdown, particularly during the first half. The decrease in revenue was primarily because of lower volumes and realisation across key products in the O2C segment. Its retail business also reported a lower revenue because of the pandemic. The year saw segment revenues for the O2C business declining by 29 per cent to Rs 320,008 crore from Rs 451,335 crore. RIL added that during the year, its exports also decreased by 28.2 per cent to Rs 145,143 crore from Rs 202,205 crore in 2019-20. While RIL has been in the news for divesting some of its shale gas assets, the year also saw an impairment of its assets at Rs 15,691 crore. O2C leads in Q4 As expected, its O2C business led from the front, buoyed by firm crude oil prices during the quarter. The segment revenues showed a robust growth of 21 per cent over the preceding quarter to Rs 101,080 while the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (Ebitda) margins were steady at 11.3 per cent. RIL said the growth was primarily on account of higher realisation across product portfolios and higher volumes. Strong average Brent crude price because of weather-related supply disruption and continued supply cuts by Opec plus helped the numbers. Digital performance While RIL’s digital services business has been a key anchor of its strong performance over the last several quarters, rival Bharti Airtel has been giving a tough fight to Jio in terms of subscriber additions. During the quarter, Jio Platforms Ltd (JPL) put up a mixed show with net profits rising a muted 0.5 per cent sequentially to Rs 3,508 crore from Rs 3,489 crore. The average revenue per user (ARPU) trailed analysts’ expectations as it fell to Rs 138.2 from Rs 151 in the preceding three months. The Street had pencilled in a drop in its ARPU as the industry did away with the interconnect user charge. Another reason for the fall was the lower number of days during the quarter. During the period, JPL saw its revenues falling 6.1 per cent to Rs 18,278 crore from Rs 19,475 crore in the third quarter. Robust retail The retail business also benefited from the pent-up demand during the quarter. Revenues from operations rose 25 per cent sequentially to Rs 41,296 crore from Rs 33,018 crore, while EBITDA showed a rise of 17 per cent to Rs 3617 crore. Net profit of Reliance Retail rose 45 per cent to Rs 2,247 crore over the year-ago period. Net cash company RIL officials said the company continues to have a strong balancesheet and it remains a net cash company. Its cash and cash equivalents stood at Rs 254,019 crore as on March 31, 2021. This was higher than the outstanding debt of Rs 251,811 crore. It may be recalled that RIL became a net debt-free company last year after raising more than Rs 1.50 trillion in Jio Platforms and a rights issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-65
01-05-2021||India||Serum chief flies to UK to escape 'threats' from CMs, corporates biggies||Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, Serum Institute of India flew to Britain just before it banned travellers from India and says he plans an extended stay because of the threats he’s getting from chief ministers and other powerful Indian corporate leaders. “Threats is an understatement,” Poonawalla told the Times, London, adding, “The level of expectation and aggression is really unprecedented. It’s overwhelming. Everyone feels they should get the vaccine. They can’t understand why anyone else should get it before them.” Poonawalla, who recently received Y-level Government security, told The Times that the calls begin cordially but the tone usually changed dramatically when he told the callers that it wouldn’t be possible to jump the queue. “They are saying if you don’t give us the vaccine it’s not going to be good….It’s not foul language. It’s the tone. It’s the implication of what they might do if I don’t comply. It’s taking control. It’s coming over and basically surrounding the place and not letting us do anything unless we give in to their demands.” Poonawalla told The Times that he planned to stay on in Britain for some time, “because I don’t want to go back to that situation.” He added: “Everything falls on my shoulders but I can’t do it alone…I don’t want to be in a situation where you are just trying to do your job, and just because you can’t supply the needs of X, Y or Z you really don’t want to guess what they are going to do.” In March British newspapers reported that Poonawalla was paying $69,000 a week to rent a sprawling 25,000sq ft house in London’s smart Mayfair district. The newspapers said it was the most expensive rental deal in London in recent times.  His wife and children travelled to Britain some time ago. In remarks that are bound to cause alarm, Poonawalla also said his trip to Britain is partly business and that he may look at starting vaccine production outside India. He refused to comment further on his plans but added, “There’s going to be an announcement soon.” Lord Udny-Lister, a former senior aide of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson visited the Serum Institute in March. Poonawalla admits he thought the worst might be over in December as the number of Covid cases began to fall. “I thought, ‘We’ve done out bit. We’d struggled through 2020 to get everything ready. I thought I could put my feet up and take a vacation, but it’s been the exact opposite. It’s been chaotic.” Poonawalla refused to comment on the Kumbh Mela and election rallies and added that, “I don’t think even God could have forecast it was going to get this bad.” He says: “We are really gasping for all the help we can get.” He insisted that he supported India’s ban on exports even though it has put him in a fix and left him unable to keep commitments. Serum Institute has hired around a thousand new employees and is operating its facilities for 20 hours daily, the maximum possible, he says. Also, Serum Institute will be starting production of Novavax next week but it will only be possible to produce a third of what was originally planned because of a US ban on vaccine-related products.  He also insisted that Serum Institute’s vaccines were the cheapest in the world. Poonawalla said that when the pandemic began he was proud to be the man of the moment and felt, “a proud sense and feeling that people were depending on me, and I was doing my best to save and protect the nation and the world.” However, he’s now very disheartened by the criticism he’s getting. He says, the company is not being, “appreciated and supported, but instead, “we are being vilified and blamed”. The Serum Institute chief said he hoped that when the history books are being written he will be judged more favourably. “That’s what calms me down,” he says, adding: “We have done the best we can without cutting corners or doing anything wrong or profiteering. I’ll wait for history to judge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||Delhi lockdown extended by another week, says Kejriwal||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced an extension of the ongoing lockdown in the national capital by another week. "Lockdown in Delhi is being extended by one week," Kejriwal said in a tweet. The ongoing lockdown that was scheduled to conclude at 5 am on May 3, now stands extended for another week. This is the second extension of the lockdown in the national capital amid a huge surge of Covid-19 cases. Kejriwal had announced the first lockdown in Delhi last Sunday. Coronavirus still continues to wreak havoc in the city. Public opinion is that lockdowns should increase. So it is being extended for one week,” he had said while imposing it. Delhi on Friday recorded 375 deaths due to the coronavirus and 27,047 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 32.69 per cent, a bulletin issued by the health department said. The cumulative case count stands at 11,49,333, of which over 10.33 lakh have recovered. The death toll due to the viral disease stands at 16,147, the bulletin said. Delhi's active caseload is now nearly one lakh - more than double the previous high of around 44,000 recorded in mid-November last year, NDTV said in a report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||First consignment of Sputnik V lands in India from Russia||India on Saturday received the first consignment of Russia's SputnikV Covid-19 vaccine, according to the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC). The CBIC in a tweet said that Hyderabad customs expedited the clearance of the Covid-19 vaccine imported from Russia. "Hyderabad Customs, @cgstcushyd facilitated expeditious clearance of #SputnikV Vaccine imported from Russia, the CBIC tweeted. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in a tweet said: "Appropriate timely response @cgstcushyd. Need of the hour." The government last month allowed the emergency use of imported vaccines to curb the spread of coronavirus infection and waived customs duty on their imports. It has also allowed citizens over the age of 18 years to receive Covid-19 vaccinations beginning May 1. On August 11, 2020, Russia became the world's first country to register a coronavirus vaccine, dubbed as SputnikV. Following that, in September, Dr. Reddy's Laboratories and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of SputnikV, which is developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. Dr. Reddy's Laboratories has already received approval from the Indian drug regulator for the restricted emergency use of the Covid-19 vaccine SputnikV. Currently, India is administering two Covid vaccines. While the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine Covishield is being manufactured by the Serum Institute, the indigenously developed Covaxin is being manufactured by Bharat Biotech. India reported a record over 4.01 lakh new Covid infections and 3,523 deaths on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||12 patients die gasping for air as Delhi hospital runs out of oxygen||Twelve patients at Delhi's Batra Hospital, including a senior doctor, died on Saturday and at least two other hospitals reported precipitous drops in their oxygen stocks, as the Delhi High Court stepped in and directed the Centre to provide the city with oxygen today itself or face contempt.  With the death of the 12 patients in the south Delhi hospital -- which announced at 12.30 pm that it had run out of oxygen -- the number of hospital patients who have lost their lives in the deepening crisis in the last eight days has gone up to 57.  Water has gone above the head. Now we mean business. Enough is enough, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said and asked the Centre to supply 490 metric tonnes of allocated oxygen to the national capital on Saturday itself or face contempt.  Do you mean we will shut our eyes to people dying in Delhi? the bench asked when the Centre's counsel said the oxygen crisis is also before the Supreme Court, which will make its order public on Saturday.  It also declined the Centre's request to defer the order - till Monday or for half-an-hour. The tough-talking court said the Centre has made an allocation of 490 metric tonnes of oxygen to Delhi and stated, You fulfill it .  As the court heard the case, time was running out for other critically ill patients in Batra and other places.  Batra first reported the deaths of eight, and revised the toll to 12 by evening.  We are trying to resuscitate five other critical patients, Dr S C L Gupta, medical director of Batra hospital, told PTI earlier in the day.  Six of the patients who died were admitted to the ICU, he said. Among those who died due to the lack of oxygen were Dr R K Himthani, head of the gastroenterology department who had been admitted to the hospital for the last 15-20 days.  He said the government had sent out SOS messages about oxygen shortage on Saturday. The hospital had informed authorities about lack of oxygen in the morning when only 2,500 litres left.  Then, at around 12.30 pm, hospital authorities claimed they had run out of oxygen. The tanker arrived at 1.35 pm.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal expressed his anguish on Twitter.  Describing the news as very painful, he said, " Their lives could have been saved -- by giving them oxygen on time. Delhi should get its quota of oxygen. Can''t see our people dying like this.  Delhi, he said in his Twitter post in Hindi, needs 976 tonnes of oxygen but received only 312 tonnes on Friday. How will Delhi breathe in such less oxygen?" he asked following news of the deaths in Batra.  On April 23, 25 sickest patients died at the Ganga Ram hospital. The next day, 20 died at Jaipur Golden Hospital as the frantic hunt for oxygen continued while COVID-19 cases surged.  Just over a week later, the crisis played out in other healthcare facilities in the national capital with hospitals flagging their dwindling stocks.  Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj stopped taking admissions due to oxygen shortage. The hospital has four hours of oxygen left, sources told PTI on Saturday afternoon. According to the Delhi Corona app, the hospital has 106 Covid patients.  Sehgal Neo hospital in Meera Bagh also sent out an SOS message on Twitter about its dwindling oxygen stocks.  "We request urgent assistance in getting #SOSoxygen. We are running out of our backup supply, and have been waiting for a supply since early morning. We have 90 patients on O2 & 13 in ICU," the hospital said in a tweet around 12.40 pm.  On Friday, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said not for a single day has Delhi been able to receive the allocated quantity of 490 MT of oxygen.  On Friday, the city recorded 375 deaths due to COVID-19 and 27,047 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 32.69 per cent. It was the ninth consecutive day of Delhi recording 300 coronavirus-related deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||Eight Covid patients die at Delhi's Batra hospital due to oxygen shortage||Eight COVID-19 patients, including the HOD of gastroenterology department, of Batra Hospital in Delhi died due to oxygen shortage, officials said on Saturday. "We are trying to revive five other critical patients," said Dr S C L Gupta. Hospitals across the national capital had sent out SOS messages last week about depleting supplies of oxygen. The Delhi government has maintained that the city is not getting its allocated quantity of the life-saving gas. The hospital told the Delhi High Court that it was out of oxygen supply for about an hour. Batra Hospital told the court, "We didn't get oxygen on time. We ran out of oxygen at 12 noon. We got oxygen at 1:35 pm. We have lost lives, including one of our own doctors," reported India Today. "We ran our operation for almost an hour without oxygen supply," said Dr. SCL Gupta, Medical Director of Batra Hospital. In an SOS message, the Batra Hospital had earlier said, "Oxygen will last for another 10 minutes. 326 patients are admitted at this hospital." Later Delhi minister Raghav Chaddha said, "Our SOS cryogenic tanker carrying Liquid Medical Oxygen is reaching Batra Hospital within 5 minutes. Their regular supplier of oxygen has defaulted yet again due to alleged 'lack of oxygen supplies' and is being pulled up." The oxygen was later supplied to the hospital, but the hospital said by that time 8 patients had already died. Meanwhile, the NKS Super Specialty Hospital also told the high court that they are in a dire situation. 'Hospitals should set up oxygen plants' The Delhi High Court on Saturday said hospitals should learn from their experiences regarding oxygen scarcity during the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic and set up plants for generating the life-saving gas. The bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said for commercial considerations, some hospitals reduce capital expenditures on things like oxygen plants which are essential in a hospital, especially the big ones. "Oxygen plants are essential. It is irresponsible not to have them," the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||Centre to HC: states, UTs told about Covid norms in March||The Centre has told the Delhi High Court that it had in March this year asked all state governments and union territories (UTs) to ensure compliance of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour in all gatherings. The submission by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has come in response to a plea seeking to debar campaigners and candidates from campaigning in the assembly elections for repeatedly violating the mandatory guidelines, including wearing of masks, issued by the Election Commission (EC) and the Centre in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The petition by Vikram Singh, the former DGP of Uttar Pradesh and also the chairman of think tank Centre for Accountability and Systemic Change (CASC), has contended that despite the orders and guidelines of the Centre and EC, "election campaigning is going on in full swing, without any regard to the COVID-19 regulations". In the affidavit filed through central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia, the MHA has said that it has always made provisions in the guidelines issued to states and UTs under the Disaster Management Act 2005 for enforcement of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and strict adherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs). The ministry has also said that it issued the 'Guidelines for Effective Control of COVID-19' on March 23 emphasizing that states and UTs "should strictly enforce test-track-treat protocol, COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and prescribed SOPs on various activities like opening of schools, hotels, eateries, shopping malls, gyms, etc." "Further, states and UTs, based on their assessment of the situation may impose local restrictions at district/sub-district and cities/ward level," the ministry has said. Singh, represented by advocate Virag Gupta, had told the court that while announcing the elections, the EC in its notification mandated that every person shall wear a face mask during every election related activity , but the same were "flouted with impunity" by the political parties, their leaders and campaigners during the rallies, public meetings and roadshows conducted during the ongoing pandemic. He, subsequently, moved two more applications, through advocate Gaurav Pathak, seeking directions to the EC to take action like imposing penalty and lodging FIRs against "star campaigners" and leaders of all political parties for allegedly violating COVID-19 norms during the assembly polls in West Bengal and for ensuring that masks are worn mandatorily by everyone involved in poll campaigns during the ongoing elections in various states and union territories. Singh, in one of his applications, has also sought directions to the EC to widely publicise the guidelines issued by it and the ministry. The "unhindered and uncared-for all out campaigning" has resulted in the rise in coronavirus cases in that state where the positivity rate has gone up from 5 per cent to 24 per cent, Singh has contended in one of his applications. It has further contended that "the lackadaisical action of ECI in implementing its own guidelines and non-cancellation of permission given for roadshows and rallies is evident from the number of campaigners catching COVID". "The Election Commission had guidelines for conduct of general elections/bye-elections during COVID-19 published in August 2020, but failed to implement the same," Singh has said and sought prosecution of ECI officials "who failed to enforce their own mandatory COVID guidelines". The assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Puducherry were held in various phases. The polls started on March 27 and concluded on April 29. Singh has claimed that there is an "indirect discrimination" against the general public as fines are collected from them for violating COVID-19 norms, but no action is taken against politicians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||Evolve political consensus on a national policy to tackle Covid, Sonia urges Centre||With India battling a Covid-19 surge, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday urged the Centre to evolve a political consensus on a national policy to tackle the spread of the pandemic. In a video message, she said it is time for the central and state governments to wake up and fulfil their duties. Gandhi also said Covid-19 jabs should be provided free of cost to all citizens and sought compulsory licensing to ramp up vaccine production to speed up the country's inoculation drive. "I urge the central government to evolve a national policy to deal with the Covid crisis in the country and bring about a political consensus over it," the Congress president said. "This is the time for central and state governments to wake up and fulfil their duties," she said. Gandhi urged the Centre to deposit Rs 6,000 in the account of every poor family to help them tide over the current crisis. She also called for increasing testing and checking the black marketing of essential life-saving drugs. Gandhi said the Congress party will stand with the Centre in the fight against the pandemic and appealed to all Indians to unite in these testing times. India's daily Covid-19 cases reached a record high of 4,01,993 on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 1,91,64,969. The death toll climbed to 2,11,853 with 3,523 fresh fatalities, according to Union health ministry data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||India crosses 4-Lakh mark in daily Covid cases||India's daily coronavirus tally crossed the grim milestone of four lakh, while the death toll rose to 2,11,853 with 3,523 fresh fatalities, according to date updated by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. The infection tally rose to 1,91,64,969 with 4,01,993 new cases, while the active cases crossed the 32-lakh mark, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases stood at 32,68,710, accounting for 17.06 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 81.84 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,56,84,406, while the case fatality rate stands 1.11 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 28,83,37,385 samples have been tested up to April 30, of which 19,45,299 were done on Friday. The 3,523 new fatalities include 828 from Maharashtra, 375 from Delhi, 332 from Uttar Pradesh, 269 from Chhattisgarh, 217 from Karnataka, 173 from Gujarat, 155 from Rajasthan, 122 from Uttarakhand and 120 from Jharkhand, 113 each from Punjab and Tamil Nadu. A total of 2,11,853 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 68,813 from Maharashtra, 16,147 from Delhi ,15,523 from Karnataka, 14,046 from Tamil Nadu, 12,570 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,344 from West Bengal, 9,022 from Punjab and 8,581 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||18 patients die as fire engulfs Covid hospital at Gujarat's Bharuch||At least 18 coronavirus patients died after a fire broke out at a hospital in Gujarat's Bharuch in the early hours on Saturday. Gut-wrenching visuals of the tragedy showed remains of some patients roasted alive on stretchers and beds. There were around 50 other patients at the four- storeyed Welfare Hospital when the fire broke out in the COVID-19 ward at 1 am. They were rescued by locals and firefighters, an official said. "As per information at 6.30 am, the death toll in the tragedy stood at 18. Immediately after the fire, we had confirmation of 12 deaths," a police official told PTI. There were chaotic scenes outside the Welfare Hospital as authorities tried to calm the agitated kin of the victims. Inside the hospital, the scenes were even grimmer as gut-wrenching visuals of the tragedy showed remains of some patients roasted alive on stretchers and beds. The 12 patients in the COVID-19 ward died due to the fire and resultant smoke, Bharuch SP Rajendrasinh Chudasama said. It is not clear if the remaining six also died in the Welfare hospital or while being shifted to other hospitals. "The fire was so intense that the ICU ward was almost burnt to the ground. All the equipment inside, including the ventilators and the fridge used to store the medicines and also the beds, were turned to ashes," an eyewitness said. Some patients were charred beyond recognition and relatives found it difficult to identify their bodies. The blaring of the ambulances and fire tenders could be heard in the hospital's vicinity as dozens of such vehicles rushed to the hospital to douse the fire and also to shift the patients who survived the blaze to other hospitals. People were seen desperately trying to find out if their near and dear ones were safe inside the hospital. Along with the rescue teams, many residents were seen volunteering to rescue the patients and shift them to ambulances so that they could be taken to nearby hospitals. Several vehicles of the district police also reached the spot to ensure that law and order remain under control. A relative of a patient who was shifted to the civil hospital here was seen searching for the case file in a heap of waste dumped after the fire. She said she was looking for the case file so that doctors at the hospital where he was taken could begin his treatment immediately. The COVID-19 designated hospital is situated on the Bharuch-Jambusar highway, around 190 km from the state capital Ahmedabad and is being run by a trust.  The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the official said. The fire was controlled within an hour and around 50 patients were rescued by locals as well as firefighters, a fire official said. They were shifted to nearby hospitals, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||No, the State has failed. We all have failed: Delhi HC||Reuters picture shows a woman who fainted at a crematorium in New Delhi after seeing the body of a relative who died of Covid on Friday. Anguish was voiced in Delhi High Court, too, during the day when a bench was informed of the death of another Covid patient whose family had been pleading for an ICU bed for the past three days. While the proceedings were on, a relative of the patient had urged the court to request the authorities to arrange for an ICU bed as the vital signs of the patient, who was in an emergency ward, were low. However, within minutes, the relative informed the bench that the patient had died, adding: “I have failed, my brother-in-law has expired, so no more efforts are needed.” The bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli then said: “No, the State has failed. We all have failed. We have been informed that the patient has expired. We may record our complete helplessness in the situation. We can only say that the State has failed to protect the right to life of people guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.” The bench, which has been conducting proceedings on the oxygen crisis, heard the matter for over four hours. Bihar chief secretary Arun Kumar Singh died of Covid-19 at a private hospital in Patna on Friday. Singh, a 1985 batch IAS officer, was to retire in August.  He was appointed chief secretary in February this year. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who received the news during a cabinet meeting, condoled his death||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-174
01-05-2021||India||Covid: SC echoes Manmohan Singh's recommendation||April 18, 2021: I believe this is the time to invoke the compulsory licensing provisions in the law, so that a number of companies are able to produce the vaccines under a licence. Manmohan Singh in a letter to Narendra Modi April 19, 2021: History shall be kinder to you Dr Manmohan Singh ji if your offer of ‘constructive cooperation’ and valuable advice was followed by your (Congress) leaders as well in such extraordinary times. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in a tweet after writing to Singh April 30, 2021: Has the central government considered exercising its power under Section 92 of the Patents Act, 1970, which enables compulsory licensing of patents in a public health emergency? The Supreme Court to the Modi government May 10, 2021: The next date of hearing when the Modi government is expected to come up with an answer. Prime Minister Modi has yet to extend the courtesy of personally replying to his predecessor who had graciously suggested multiple steps to mitigate the Covid crisis. Instead, Modi deployed his health minister to send Manmohan an acid-dripping and discourteous letter. Twelve days later and a day after Manmohan went home from hospital after recovering from Covid, the highest court of the land mooted exactly what the former Prime Minister had recommended in his letter but was ignored by his successor. Section 92 of the Patents Act, cited by the Supreme Court on Friday, empowers the Centre to grant compulsory licences “in respect of any patent in force in circumstances of national emergency or in circumstances of extreme urgency or in case of public non-commercial use”. Such licences will allow more companies to make the Covid vaccines. Right now, only two companies — the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — are making the Covid vaccines in India. A bench headed by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and including Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat asked several other questions vexing the country but not yet answered by Modi. Some of the questions asked and observations made by the court: ⚫ What happens to the marginalised people and SC/ST population living in far flung areas? Should they be left to the mercy of private vaccine manufacturers and hospitals? ⚫ The government must think of providing free vaccination to all citizens. ⚫ Manufacturers are charging you (the Centre) Rs 150 but Rs 300 or Rs 400 from states. Why should we as a nation pay this? The (total) price difference becomes Rs 30,000 crore to Rs 40,000 crore. Even when we have paid for this. We are not directing it but you should look into it. ⚫ It cannot be left to the private manufacturers to decide how much quantity be given to which state. Instead, the Centre should procure all the vaccines and give it to the states as it is done in national immunisation programmes. ⚫ For vaccination, how will the Centre ensure registration of those who are illiterate or don’t have access to the Internet, considering registration on CoWIN app is mandatory? ⚫ How do the Centre and the states intend to vaccinate workers at the cremation and burial grounds? ⚫ Has the finance ministry made any previous grants/ sanctions to Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India (the makers of the Covaxin and Covishield vaccines, respectively) in the past, like the current infusion of Rs 1,500 crore and Rs 3,000 crore, respectively? If yes, what is the exact break-up, as against the total cost of development and production of the two vaccines? On Friday, former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Grateful that the Supreme Court has raised the two issues that the Congress had first raised 15 days ago: vaccine prices and compulsory licensing to manufacture vaccines. The government brushed aside the Congress. The PM did not even acknowledge the letter of the former PM. The health minister was rude in addition to being incompetent. Let us see how the government responds to the Supreme Court’s concerns and questions.” This sentiment was expressed forcefully during the course of a conversation the Congress arranged with two key functionaries who steered India’s vaccination drives in the eighties and the nineties — Sam Pitroda and Jairam Ramesh. Ramesh said: “The political atmosphere wasn’t toxic at that time. In spite of brute majority, the then Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, gave a clear instruction to reach out to the Opposition, to make everybody part of the mission. Now the Opposition is talking about constructive cooperation but the government does petty politics.” “Manmohan Singh wrote a sober letter to the Prime Minister giving specific suggestions and got a vituperative, abusive reply from the health minister (Harsh Vardhan). To Singh’s two-page letter, there was a three-and-a-half page personalised attack on him.” “There is no alternative to compulsory licensing, more companies have to be involved in the production of vaccines. Israel invoked compulsory licensing. We have to commandeer all our national resources and vaccinate the maximum number of people. This is not the time to think of market economics — we are dealing with the question of life and death. Even the US government funded the Moderna vaccine,” Ramesh added. Pitroda weighed in: “There is a need for consolidation of all production facilities. It is a national emergency. Not a private-government question. We have to run it like a national emergency production line. Allow the private players their profit but fix a national price. Not one price for the Centre, one for the states, another for private. “Create a national team of domain experts who should brief daily at a fixed time. The government has no credibility; people have no confidence in their talk. Let the talking be done by professionals. You can’t tell the people to wear mask and hold massive rallies.” Pitroda, who led several technology missions launched during Rajiv’s time, said: “I can’t imagine our country is going through an oxygen shortage. The government had one year to plan but they gave false promises, wrong narrative. We talk of becoming a superpower and we have become a laughing stock in the world. “The people of India have put up with a lot of nonsense. But they will rise, no other country has the kind of resilience that India has. The government should apologise and start doing the right things.” Ramesh said during the talk moderated by Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera that BJP chief J.P. Nadda had sought his advice some time ago. Ramesh said he told Nadda: “You need a credible viewpoint. Put together a group and let them take the nation into confidence. When Dr Anthony Fauci (chief medical adviser to the US government) talks, people listen. Dr Randeep Guleria (the AIIMS director) is a credible voice. Get some outstanding professionals to brief the nation.” Ramesh contended that the collapse of the State was the most worrying aspect of the crisis and lamented: “The State machinery is in denial. You can’t respond unless you recognise what is the problem. I hope the international ridicule that this government has been subjected to over the past three-four days may trigger some meaningful action. “It is awful; I feel ashamed to see how India is being described. I feel diminished, angry. Hope the system will respond to the criticism instead of sending rebuttals.” Expressing outrage at the claim that nothing had been done in the 70 years before Narendra Modi took charge, Ramesh and Pitroda recalled what a gigantic task had been achieved by India in immunising its children and pregnant women and how it was achieved through a consensual approach, with openness and conversation. They said the government had reached out to the scientific community, which had been divided on oral vaccination for polio, 70-80 experts had been called for discussion and civil society and NGOs were also involved. “There was no communication system, no social media. Our team travelled to every state to give briefings to the chief ministers, elected representatives and local media. The Opposition-ruled states were far more cooperative because we didn’t treat them as enemies,” Ramesh said. “We hear slogans like ‘Make in India’ today but it took lots of planning and efforts to make India the centre of vaccines and pharmaceutical productions. Beginning with the Indian Patents Act, 1970, setting up of the Technology Development Board and the Department of Biotechnology were the triggers for the creation of a slew of Indian companies.” Recalling that India inoculated 25 million children every year with four vaccines, Ramesh said: “We didn’t have cold chain equipment. There were mishaps and deaths. But we didn’t hush up. We listened to complaints, admitted mistakes and opened the exercise for social and external audit (by Unicef). We didn’t shut doors on critics.” Additional reporting by our legal correspondent and PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
01-05-2021||India||Covid: Retired professor refuses jab to protest Modi's photo on certificate||A 74-year-old retired professor has refused to take the Covid vaccine in protest at the vaccination certificates carrying Narendra Modi’s picture and has urged Opposition chief ministers to remove the Prime Minister’s image before issuing the slips. Chamanlal, former dean of the school of languages at Panjab University, Chandigarh, said that when the British colonialists issued their demeaning compensation certificates to the families of the Jallianwala Bagh victims, even they had not put their pictures on the documents. Another retired professor, Kancha Ilaiah, demanded that all the vaccination certificates be reissued without Modi’s picture and termed the current practice “unhealthy in a democracy”. Only in poll-bound states such as Bengal do the certificates issued at the vaccination centres not carry Modi’s picture. Chamanlal wrote an open letter to Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday, urging him and his counterparts in other Opposition-ruled states to have Modi’s picture deleted before the certificates are issued at state government facilities. “In no other country of the world the vaccination certificate, if any, carries the photograph of any political leader, even (those) in power,” the letter says. “At best the certificate might be carrying the signature (of the) medical officer of the area.... In India, we the hapless citizens are condemned to get the photograph of a leader... whose policies and criminal negligence is the cause of the worst explosion of corona(virus) deaths, especially in the second wave of Covid-19.” Chamanlal suggested in an interview to The Telegraph that the government’s wilful neglect of preparedness made the human cost of the Covid resurgence comparable to British Indian forces’ massacre of hundreds of unarmed protesters at Jallianwala Bagh in 1919. To add to the culpability, he alleged, the Prime Minister was indulging in a sort of “self-glorification that was not seen even among the British colonialists”. Chamanlal cited the certificates that the then lieutenant governor of Punjab, Michael O’Dwyer, had issued to the Jallianwala Bagh victims’ families mentioning the payment of compensation of a few hundred rupees. “But O’Dwyer did not use his picture on the certificate. What is happening now is worse than what the British did in 1919,” Chamanlal told this newspaper. Ilaiah, who retired from the Maulana Azad National Urdu University, Hyderabad, said the display of the Prime Minister’s picture on the vaccination certificates had set a bad precedent. “If some university or the other now decides to use his picture on the degrees it awards to students, will that be allowed?” he said. “This is unhealthy in a democracy. The vaccine certificates should be issued again without Modi’s picture.” Chamanlal has written to Amarinder that the Punjab farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders against the new farm laws are being harassed and the Centre is trying to evict them citing the Covid crisis. He has written that the Punjab government, which supports the farmers’ agitation, should protest the Centre’s actions and remove Modi’s picture while printing the vaccination certificates. He told this newspaper that the Punjab government had written back to him saying the chief minister had forwarded his letter to the state health secretary. Chamanlal alleged that while Modi did not prepare the country for the second wave of the pandemic, he built “comforts and facilities for himself”, alluding to allegations that the government had bought aeroplanes amid the pandemic for the Prime Minister’s travel. “All Opposition and society cried to spend this money on health services, building hospitals, infrastructure, but of no avail. Prime Minister was concerned more about building comforts and facilities for himself at the cost of people’s lives,” his letter says. It accuses the Modi government of weakening public universities and autonomous institutions and mentions the crackdown on JNU in 2016 over the alleged chanting of “anti-national” slogans. It castigates Modi for taking unilateral decisions that have caused great suffering to the public, such as the demonetisation, and questions the opacity around the PM CARES Fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
01-05-2021||India||Covid: States wary as jumbo  jab phase begins from May 1||India’s expanded Covid-19 vaccination campaign, open for all adults from May 1, is set to start with a lower-than-expected momentum amid limited vaccine supplies and appeals from some states asking people not to rush for jabs. Authorities in at least five states — Delhi, Karnataka, Goa, Punjab and Rajasthan — have said they are still awaiting stocks to enable them to start vaccinating the 18-to-45-year population group. And private hospitals have said they’re waiting to gain access to the online vaccination system. On Friday, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh cited a shortage of vaccines to defer vaccinations for the 18-to-45-year group and announced that vaccinations at private health facilities would remain suspended on Saturday. Amarinder said that since all private health facilities had to return their unused vaccines to the Centre by Friday evening, these facilities would have no vaccines to administer on Saturday even for the 45-and-above age group. Punjab, Amarinder said, had received 200,000 doses but that was not sufficient to meet even two days’ requirement for inoculating those aged 45 or more. Punjab had on April 26 ordered 3 million doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India, Pune, but was told that “the availability of the vaccine will be known only in four weeks’ time”, the chief minister’s office said in a media statement. In Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government would soon announce the vaccination campaign but added that it was still waiting for more vaccine doses to arrive. He asked citizens not to queue at vaccination centres before the announcement. “I request everyone not to rush,” Kejriwal said. “The vaccines have not reached us yet. But we’re in touch with the companies and hope the vaccines will be delivered in a day or two.” Kejriwal said Delhi had ordered 6.7 million doses each of Covishield and Covaxin for the next three months. “We are trying our best to vaccinate the population in Delhi within the next three months,” Kejriwal said. “We have formulated a plan, and even the infrastructure needed for this is in place. Now it will depend on the two companies how swiftly they give us the vaccines.” Experts and industry executives have predicted vaccine shortages in the early weeks of the campaign’s new phase, which has more than doubled the number of potential beneficiaries from around 350 million to nearly 900 million without immediate provisions for the extra doses. India’s current production capacity is between 80 million and 90 million doses a month: 70 million doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute and 10 to 20 million doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. Both companies have announced plans to ramp up production in the coming weeks. In the new phase, private hospitals can directly procure doses from the manufacturers. An Apollo Hospitals executive said the group had already procured doses to support vaccination in seven cities — Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Kochi, Delhi, Hyderabad and Mumbai — for about a week. “But we need to have access to the online platform to link our hospitals with those who have registered themselves for the vaccines,” the executive told The Telegraph over the phone from Hyderabad. The vaccine makers have said their priorities are the central government, which will get 50 per cent of the doses, then the state governments and finally the private hospitals, which will get only small proportions of the doses manufactured. Covishield carries a price tag of Rs 300 for state governments and Rs 600 for private hospitals, while Covaxin will cost Rs 400 for state governments and Rs 1,200 for private hospitals. The Apollo executive said the cost for the beneficiaries would follow government guidelines. Uttar Pradesh said on Friday that it would start vaccinating the 18-to-45 group from May 1 in districts with more than 9,000 active Covid-19 cases. These include Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Allahabad, Varanasi, Meerut and Bareilly, the state government said on Twitter. Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma said on Friday that the state would use an available 300,000 extra doses to start vaccinating the 35-to-45-year group from May 1 in nine cities. He said Rajasthan needed around 70 million doses to cover the 18-to-45 age group and had ordered 30 million doses, but was told by the Serum Institute on Thursday that it would for now receive 300,000 doses. “Given our large population of beneficiaries, how do we distribute 300,000 doses? Who do we give doses to and who do we leave out?” Sharma said. In Karnataka, health minister K. Sudhakar urged people between 18 and 45 through a television channel to “refrain from going to hospitals on Saturday, thinking they’ll get vaccines”, as the state is waiting for extra doses to arrive. The nationwide vaccination campaign has administered more than 154 million doses since its start on January 16, first for healthcare and frontline workers, then for everyone aged 60 or older, and then for those aged 45 or above. Only about 28 million people (or 2 per cent of India’s population) have received the two vaccine doses required for protection. The health ministry had initially resisted calls from the states and sections of doctors to open up the campaign for all adults, citing India’s limited supply of vaccines. Health experts believe the decision to allow the state governments and private hospitals to vaccinate the 18-to-45 group reflects a plan to shift the responsibility of vaccinating all adults to the states and the private sector without making provisions for the doses required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
01-05-2021||India||SC warns of contempt if authorities target citizens for complaining on social media ||The Supreme Court on Friday warned police and other authorities of contempt proceedings if they target citizens for complaining on social media about shortages, such as those of beds and hospitals. Airing of grievances represents “a free flow of information” that would help tackle the Covid-19 crisis more effectively, the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said. The court’s warning comes amid reports that relatives of several Covid patients who appealed for oxygen or medicines on social media have been arrested in Uttar Pradesh on the charge of spreading “rumours” or “panic” following a crackdown ordered by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “We don’t want any clampdown on information. We will treat it as a contempt of court if such grievances are considered for action,” Justice Chandrachud said. “So, let a strong message go out to all the states and the DGPs (directors-general of police) of the states not to take action against citizens for social media posts about shortage of beds, Covid care centres and hospitals, etc, during the pandemic. Clampdown of information is contrary to basic precepts.” Conviction for contempt can lead to a jail term of up to six months. The court’s oral warning came during daylong, inconclusive suo motu proceedings relating to the Covid situation. “I flag this issue at the outset. We want to make it very clear that if citizens communicate their grievance on social media and Internet then it cannot be said it’s wrong information,” Justice Chandrachud told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who was representing the Centre, and senior counsel appearing for various states. “If any action is taken against such posts by citizens in distress, we will haul the police up for contempt.” Mehta said he agreed fully. “By (allowing) free flow of information on the deficiencies and needs during this humanitarian crisis on social media platforms, we will be in a better position to tackle the problem,” the bench said. Justice Chandrachud recalled that a free flow of information had helped the government tackle the 1970 famine effectively while a clampdown during the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic had poor consequences. On Wednesday, a public interest plea was moved in Allahabad High Court seeking protection from arrest for relatives of Covid patients who appeal for oxygen or medicines on social media and for members of citizens’ volunteer groups who help them. Petitioner Saket Gokhale, a social activist, alleged that such people were being arrested in Uttar Pradesh and that family members of Covid patients were now afraid to seek help. Adityanath, who denies any oxygen or medicine shortage in Uttar Pradesh, has ordered a crackdown on hospitals and individuals who “spread panic”. Citizens across the country have taken to social media to complain about the shortages afflicting the treatment of Covid patients and the authorities’ shoddy pandemic management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
01-05-2021||India||Covid: Experts warn against oxygen DIY attempts||Doctors and scientists in India are warning of the dire hazards of trying to make medical oxygen at home as the country faces a shortage of the gas in its Covid-19 battle and various videos and tips on DIY methods do the rounds on social media. Google Trends data showed searches for the phrase “how to make oxygen at home” peaked on April 25 as the crisis worsened, while YouTube videos detailing such processes have amassed hundreds of thousands of views. Videos showing how to make oxygen through methods like electrolysis are increasing in number. “There is a scientifically proven method to produce medical oxygen through concentrators. Any other means to try making the gas at home involves many risks like chances of toxic gases being inhaled and explosions,” A Ravikumar, secretary of the Indian Medical Association for the southern state of Tamil Nadu, told Reuters. Tarun Bhatnagar, a scientist at the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology in Chennai, called the attempts to make homemade oxygen “untested and unreliable methods”. “Such an approach could even be deleterious if it leads to delays in seeking appropriate healthcare,” he told Reuters. With India scrambling to find supplies of oxygen, many hospitals are turning away patients for lack of the gas. That has led to purported coronavirus cures circulating on social media, such as videos showing men inhaling steam from pressure cookers or kettles “to kill Covid infection”. The health ministry was not immediately available for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
01-05-2021||India||Soli Sorabjee passes away after a battle with Covid-19||Soli Sorabjee, eminent jurist who had been the country’s highest law officer and appeared in cases that had far-reaching impact on the Constitution, governance and free speech, passed away on Friday morning after a battle with Covid-19. He was 91. Sorabjee is survived by his wife, a daughter and two sons. Sorabjee had till recently been active not only in the legal arena but also used to pen articles for media houses on complicated legal matters. Sorabjee had been attorney-general of India from 1989 to 1990 and thereafter from 1998 to 2004. Then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee  often consulted him on important national issues. Born in a Parsi family in 1930, Sorabjee, who began legal practice in 1953, had appeared in several important cases such as the Keshavananda Bharati matter in which a 13-judge bench had enunciated the “basic structure” theory of the Constitution that forbade changes to the important facets of the document. He had also been part of the S.R. Bommai case in which it was laid down that the imposition of President’s rule is subject to judicial review and a state cannot be brought under central rule unless “…a situation has arisen where the government of a state cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution”. Sorabjee had in 2015 forcefully argued before the Supreme Court against Section 66A of the IT Act on behalf of law student Shreya Singhal and succeeded in getting the impugned provision quashed as unconstitutional. Before being struck down, Section 66A provided unbridled powers to the authorities to arrest any person for posting on the Internet any material deemed offensive, indecent or inconvenient or could cause public disorder. A person convicted under the Act was liable for imprisonment for up to three years. Sorabjee had been appointed by the United Nations as a special rapporteur for Nigeria in 1997 to report on the human rights situation in the country and later became a member and then the chairman of the UN Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights from 1998 to 2004. He was also a member of the United Nations Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities. Sorabjee had served as a member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague from 2000 to 2006. Sorabjee had led India’s fight at the International Court of Justice (ICJ) when Pakistan sought compensation from India for downing of their naval patrol aircraft Atlantic in 1999 just after the Kargil war. The ICJ at the Hague had ruled in India’s favour after taking note of submissions of Sorabjee and dismissed Pakistan’s claim for compensation, saying it had no jurisdiction over the matter. Sorabjee had also appeared and worked for the Citizen’s Justice Committee, which represented anti-Sikh riots victims. Sorabjee was known to be soft, suave and humble. He was always accessible to the media and was forthcoming with his views on various issues. Even if a rookie reporter with no prior acquaintance sought his views on the corridors of courts, Sorabjee always obliged with his trademark smile. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana expressed deep sadness over Sorabjee’s death and recalled that he had made immeasurable contributions in enriching the global jurisprudence of human rights and fundamental rights during his nearly 68-year-long career. “The matters that he had argued before the courts and the judgments that he could secure; the books, essays, papers of international repute and the newspaper articles that he had authored; the independent opinions he could tender to the government in his capacity as the attorney-general — they all stand testimony to his deep commitment to democratic values. He not only lived up to the mandate of attorney-general as enshrined in the Constitution, but also raised the bar in the discharge of his constitutional duties,” Justice Ramana said. CJI Ramana said that being a champion of “freedom of press”, Sorabjee had effectively used the media as a platform to elucidate the nuances of complicated legal issues on an almost daily basis till recently, literally giving lessons in law to millions of common people who otherwise could not have followed what was happening in the judicial world. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
01-05-2021||India||Covid: Karnataka defers jabs for people between 18 and 44 years of age ||Karnataka’s BJP government has deferred Covid-19 vaccination for the people between 18 and 44 years of age until fresh stocks of the doses arrive. Karnataka health minister K. Sudhakar on Friday said those who become eligible for Covid-19 jabs on May 1 would have to wait for some time since the state did not have sufficient stock of vaccines. “We are requesting people of Karnataka, especially those above 18 and up to 44 years, to refrain from going to hospitals thinking that you may be vaccinated tomorrow (Saturday). We will definitely update them after receiving confirmation from the Serum Institute of India (SII),” he said. Chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa had on Thursday confirmed the severe shortage of vaccines in the state. “The Centre has so far given us 99.40 lakh doses of vaccine and 93.50 lakh have already been administered. Only 5.9 lakh doses are available,” he had said. The vaccine shortage has affected a large number of senior citizens in the state who are waiting for their second dose. Even large private hospitals, which were set to launch the vaccination programme for 18 to 44-year-olds from May 1, have postponed the plan. “We are in for huge confusion since we have no idea how many vials we will get,” Dr K.Harish, associate dean of Ramaiah Medical College Hospital told The Telegraph on Friday. “The supply has been very erratic for over 15 days. Although, we have set aside a large area for vaccination that can handle 1,500-2,000 people a day, we have been getting only very few vials. On some days we get 20, on others we get nothing putting us on the receiving end as people shout at us,” Harish said. The hospital has been talking to both the Serum Institute of India that makes Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in India, and Bharat Biotech that makes Covaxin. “Ideally we need at least 50 vials of each of these vaccines since there is a huge demand from those coming in for their second dose,” he said. While private hospitals hitherto charged Rs 250 for a dose, Harish said the changed vaccine regime would escalate the prices. “We just want to break even and not make any profits on vaccines. But still we have to add Rs 100 to Rs 200 for deploying manpower and syringes,” he said, alluding to how the SII and Bharat Biotech have priced the vaccines at Rs 600 and Rs 1,200 per dose, respectively, for private players. While the price for the Centre is Rs 150 for a dose, that for the state governments is Rs 300 for Covishield and Rs 400 for Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
01-05-2021||India||Rape accused lynched in Balasore district||A rape accused was lynched by an irate mob at Singhakhunta in Balasore district on Thursday night. The deceased has been identified as Basant Singh. Police sources said Singh, 35, had sneaked into the house of a married woman in the village when none of the family members were present. Finding her alone Singh allegedly raped her. The screams of the woman brought local people rushing to the spot. They nabbed the accused who was tied to a tree and thrashed severely. He died on the spot. Police have lodged a case and begun an inquiry. “Investigation is on. We have arrested the husband of the victim,” police inspector Madhusmita Mohanty told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
01-05-2021||India||Woman immolates self over Covid fear in Puri district||An octogenarian woman, who was suffering from fever for a few days, allegedly committed suicide by setting herself on fire at a village in Puri district of Odisha on Thursday night. Police suspect she took the extreme step as she feared that she had been infected by the coronavirus and hence was being shunned by the people in her neighbourhood. The incident occurred at Jainabad village under Nimapara Notified Area Council (NAC) in Puri district. Inspector Upendra Pradhan of Nimapara police station told The Telegraph: “The woman was living alone and was under severe mental stress. All her three daughters are married and there was nobody to take care of her in the village. She had a fever for the past few days. Perhaps she thought that she had been infected with Covid-19 and took the extreme step.” However, her test report revealed she was Covid-negative. “Based on the test report, we carried out her cremation,” the officer said. Local sources said after Shailabala ran a temperature, local people and relatives, who used to give her food and look after her, started to keep distance from her. No one came to look after her, they said. “After she got a fever she had got her Covid test done and was living in self-isolation. But people continued to keep distance from her. She was unable to arrange two meals a day. She had been under severe mental trauma and finally took the extreme step,” said local journalist Purna Chandra Mohapatra. Local MLA and minister Samir Ranjan Dash told this newspaper: “People had thought she was a Covid-19 patient. That’s the reason they started avoiding her. Out of mental trauma, she took the extreme step. People are living in a state of panic in semi-urban and rural areas.” The number of deaths due to the disease has been increasing in the state. Odisha witnessed 14 deaths due to the virus on Friday, the highest number of daily casualties in the state. The total number of deaths in the state has touched 2,043. The total number of Covid-19 cases surged to 444,194 with 8,681 fresh cases registered during the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, the Odisha government has stepped up efforts to enforce Covid guidelines. It has closed down a number of institutions and even the Nandankanan zoo for visitors till May 15. The Cuttack district administration on Friday announced that all the shops will be shut after 2pm in Cuttack city and in Puri shops will be closed after 6pm. A number of major markets in capital Bhubaneswar have already been closed down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
01-05-2021||India||Covid: ‘Grotesque’ game amid mass pyres||As plumes of smoke rose from cremation grounds, where bodies were arriving faster than they could be burned, teams of professional cricket players squared off under the lights of a cavernous stadium named after India’s Prime Minister, Narendra Modi. The jarring scenes unfolded on Thursday in Ahmedabad, the capital of Modi’s home state of Gujarat and a hot spot in India’s spiralling coronavirus outbreak. For decades, cricket and its charismatic stars have commanded exalted status in India, where the once-genteel colonial game attracts its biggest and most passionate fan base. Now, public anger is growing at the sport’s marquee international product, the Indian Premier League (IPL), which is playing matches in a “bio-bubble” without spectators that has drawn criticism for diverting resources from the country’s wider coronavirus fight. “There is a lack of empathy for dead bodies lying in crematoriums surrounding your stadium,” said Rahul Verma, a lawyer and die-hard cricket fan who said he had been a devoted follower of the cricket league since it started in 2008. “This game, a gentleman’s game, never was so grotesque.” As the US Air Force delivered the first shipments of oxygen cylinders, test kits, masks and other emergency supplies promised to India by the Joe Biden administration, several Indian states said they could not fulfil the government’s directive to expand vaccinations to all adults beginning on Saturday because they lacked vaccine doses. As hospitals face shortages of intensive-care beds, relatives of the sick broadcast desperate pleas on social media for oxygen, medicine and other scarce supplies, many Indians say they do not know if they are infected with the coronavirus because overwhelmed labs have stopped processing tests. But one group that seems unaffected is the wealthy and powerful Board of Control for Cricket in India, the regulatory body that oversees the IPL. The board has kept ambulances fitted with mobile intensive-care beds on standby outside stadiums where matches are being played in case a player falls sick. It is testing players every two days and has created a travel bubble between stadiums in the six states hosting matches, including dedicated airport check-in counters for cricketers. Meanwhile, some Indians say they cannot cross state lines to find hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. Hemang Amin, the board’s chief operating officer, said in a letter released this week that the health and safety of players and staff members were “of paramount importance,” and added that the matches were a needed distraction in a difficult time. But the league’s safety protocols have only highlighted the gap between its star players and the rest of the country. “That ambulance outside that stadium could have saved at least 10 lives a day,” said Ishan Singh, a cricket fan in Delhi. “These players are thieves. Given a chance, they will rob wood from the cremations and sell it in the market.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-175
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt orders malls and bars to shut, cuts hours for shops||The Bengal government has ordered malls, cinemas, bars and restaurants indefinitely closed from Friday evening and announced some other restrictions to contain the Covid resurgence amid speculation that stricter curbs would come into force from May 3. Bazaars and haats can stay open “only during 7-10am and 3-5pm”, a notification from the chief secretary said. Officials later said standalone shops were expected to follow the two windows of opening hours. Essential services such as groceries and shops selling medicines or medical equipment are exempt. Home delivery and online services by eateries and malls can continue for now. Transport services have also been kept out of the purview of the restrictions. All social, cultural, academic and entertainment-related gatherings are banned. Also shut are beauty parlours, sports complexes, gyms, spas and swimming pools. Standalone liquor shops, such as those not located in malls, can carry on with sales from 7-10am and 3-5pm. “The restrictions come into force with immediate effect,” a government official said. Sources said the state administration was considering further steps such as closing down the markets while allowing stand-alone shops to operate, and imposing stringent curbs on public transport. “Guidelines are likely to be issued on office attendance in both the public and private sectors,” an official said. Sources in the administration said the state government could not impose stricter restrictions ahead of the counting of votes on May 2. “Tougher curbs could have hindered the movement of those who would be present at the counting centres. A stricter lockdown might be clamped after the results,” a source said. The state government has made it clear that unnecessary gatherings outside the counting halls will be “discouraged”. The Election Commission has already banned rallies after the results. Health department sources said that some restrictions had become necessary with the entire healthcare infrastructure groaning under the spiralling Covid load as more than 17,000 people are testing positive every day in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Bhatpara Trinamul leader hurt in firing||A leader of the Trinamul Congress’s Minority Cell in the Bhatpara Assembly seat was hurt when unidentified people fired at him while he was speaking to a party colleague on Friday evening. Noor E. Jamal has been admitted to a private hospital along EM Bypass in Calcutta. The incident occurred near the Trinamul office in ward 8 of Bhatpara. Police and local sources said at least four miscreants had reached the spot on two motorcycles and fired at Jamal from the close range. Three bullets missed the target, while one grazed Jamal’s left cheek. He had been initially taken to Bhatpara state general hospital before being admitted to the Calcutta facility. A Trinamul councillor at the Bhatpara municipality, Maqsud Alam, said: “It was an attempt on the life of Jamal. But it is not clear who was behind the attack. I talked to the party workers present during the incident and they could not identify the assailants.” Police reached the spot and began a probe. Bhatpara in North 24-Parganas used to witness frequent clashes between supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Assault, arson over goat theft doubt in Jalpaiguri||Two men were assaulted and their vehicle torched over a suspicion of being cattle lifters by a group of villagers in the Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri on Friday. According to sources, some local residents spotted the duo trying to drag two goats into their car at Kalirdanga village on Friday morning. “The residents intercepted the two men and challenged them. As the two could not come up with a proper reply, the local people started beating them. Some others set their vehicle on fire,” said Biswajit Roy, a local panchayat member. The two suspected cattle lifters hail from the neighbouring Mekhliganj block of Cooch Behar district, the sources said. Police soon reached the spot and rescued the duo. Both of them have been detained for interrogation. The sources said a number of incidents of cattle lifting had been reported in the past few weeks at Bhatpara-Kalirdanga village in Padamati 2 panchayat. Sarat Ghosh, who owns the goats, spoke in similar terms. He said he had left the two goats near a tea plantation for grazing but after some time, he came to know that two people were trying to drag the animals into their car. “We stopped the two persons and managed to rescue the goats. Police arrived and took the duo away,” said Ghosh. The police said a fire engine from Maynaguri was brought to douse the flames. The vehicle was almost gutted. The police assured the local people of proper vigil in the area to prevent cattle lifting but asked them to refrain from assaulting any person out of suspicion. “The duo have been brought to the police station. We are talking to them to know why they had been to the village and were dragging the goats into their vehicle. The damaged car has been shifted from the location,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Early trends after noon||The counting of votes on Sunday is likely to take longer than usual and early trends will start emerging well beyond 12 noon unlike previous years, sources in the Election Commission said on Friday. Amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic, there has been a major structural change in the way counting of votes is done and this may delay the process till late in the evening. “Generally, postal ballots, which are counted first, give an early trend. But this time, the number of postal ballots has increased and hence, it will take longer to count them,” an EC official said. “Moreover, all candidates and counting agents will be checked for negative RT-PCR/RAT test reports or vaccination certificates. Hence, the counting will start later than usual,” the official added and said the official hour for counting to start was 8am. The early trend comes from the counting of postal ballots, which gives a rough idea of the fate of a particular seat. Most political parties look forward to these trends. While an early trend used to become clear within two to three hours of the counting’s start in previous elections, it might take over five to six hours this time, sources said. “Postal ballots were primarily for people who are government officials and lived outside their Assembly seats or were engaged for poll duty. But this time, the poll panel has extended the facility of postal ballots to senior citizens, patients and physically-challenged individuals. This has increased the number of postal ballots,” the source said. The EC also increased the number of booths in Bengal to 1,01,790 from 78,903 in 2019 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. This has increased the number of EVMs by almost 30 per cent. As a result, this time, it might go up to 18 to 20 rounds of counting or more, delaying the process. Previously, there would be a maximum of 14 to 15 rounds of counting. Moreover, the EC has reduced the number of tables by almost half inside a counting hall to ensure physical distancing. Thus, while previously, there would be 14 to 15 counting tables, this time, there will be 7 only. After every round of counting, the entire hall will be sanitised, which will take farther time. “The entire counting process will be delayed this time because of the pandemic and measures taken by the EC. Therefore, all of us must wait at least till afternoon to get an understanding of which way the result is going. Leaders should refrain from predicting results from early in the day and ask followers to restrain themselves in view of the current situation,” said Subhamoy Maitra, a psephologist and professor at the Indian Statistical Institute. Health protocols related to the coronavirus will be strictly adhered to at the counting venues, said an EC official. Every second counting agent will have to wear a PPE kit, he added. The counting venues will be guarded by three-tier security. State police and an observer will be deputed at the first-tier, which is 100 meters from the counting venue. No car will be allowed beyond this area. The second-tier will be at the gate of the counting premises, where armed state police forces will be deployed. Central forces will be deployed at the third and final tier, which is the door of the counting venue. The EC has deployed 292 counting observers across the state to oversee the counting process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata prepares nominees for counting||Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee held a videoconference with the party’s leaders and candidates and told them that she was confident of a two-third majority, but warned them against complacency at the counting stage as the BJP couldn’t be trusted. The chief minister asked the candidates to remain ultra-vigilant and stay the course, from the early hours of the morning till the very end of the counting process, irrespective of the trends or the results. “There is no doubt in my mind that our party will retain power for the third consecutive term with every possibility of considerably improving the tally given by every exit poll…. We are confidently looking at a two-third majority,” she was quoted as saying by a leader who attended the virtual meeting. According to him, Mamata urged patience and strictly instructed the leaders and nominees not to get demoralised after the first trends, which would comprise postal ballots that might go to the BJP. This was the first such exercise since her party was formed as Mamata was “extremely suspicious” of the BJP and the poll panel’s intentions. Sources in Trinamul said the chief minister was apprehensive that the modifications in rules and procedure for counting were aimed at helping the BJP manipulate results in close contests which she thought were many this time. The chief minister, said Trinamul sources, gave specific instructions for several districts in the Jungle Mahal and north Bengal, where the BJP had done very well in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 and was expected to perform impressively this time, too. The sources said the leadership advised the nominees against assuming that the BJP was going to do well as in 2019 in districts such as Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar and Alipurduar in north and Bankura, Jhargram, Purulia and West Midnapore in the Jungle Mahal. “In these districts, the BJP could be leading at the start, but do not get demoralised and do not leave the counting centres. Even in the seats where the BJP did well in 2019, most are coming back to Trinamul. So, the counting for those seats should not be abandoned by our party,” Mamata was quoted as saying at the meeting. A Trinamul vice-president said the chief minister also advised the leaders against consumption of food, beverage, cigarettes, paan or anything else that was given by someone else. “Nothing edible given by anybody else, be it the Election Commission or the BJP, or anybody else, must even be touched…. Trust nobody other than your own at the counting centres,” she was quoted as saying. The chief minister mentioned two internal helplines of Trinamul, to be directly monitored by a centralised control room reporting to her. The helplines are for all the people from the party directly involved with the counting process to immediately report problems from the counting centres. “Stay from the very beginning. Stay till the very end…. Sunday is the final day of our war to save Bengal. Stay the course. Victory awaits,” she was quoted as saying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: We believe in exact polls, says Dilip Ghosh||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Friday claimed that his party was coming to power in the state with a thumping majority of nearly 200 seats. However, a section of his party colleagues, though sure of winning the polls, didn’t appear to share his confidence about the figures. “Exit poll isn’t right, exact poll is and we believe in that. The real thing will be revealed on May 2, it will be as we wanted. There will be a comfort majority and we will win nearly 200 seats,” Ghosh said around 48 hours before the counting for Bengal’s 294 Assembly seats starts on May 2. Ghosh’s comments come in the backdrop of exit polls released on Thursday. At least six out of the 10 exit polls gave the Trinamul Congress an edge over the BJP. While Ghosh’s estimate of 200 seats falls in line with Union home minister Amit Shah’s claims, sources in the party said the top-rung of leaders had assessed a win in 160 to 165 seats. The Midnapore MP’s claims of a thunderous victory is intended to prop up the morale of the workers at the grassroots who might feel dejected after the exit polls, sources in the BJP said. “We are confident of winning 160 to 165 seats. But the exit polls shouldn’t demoralise BJP workers before the counting itself. Hence, Dilipda is repeatedly claiming we will win 200 seats,” a state BJP secretary said. According to sources, other than Ghosh, several other leaders are also worried about the impact the exit polls might have on counting agents and BJP workers at the grassroots. In a video conference with state leaders, which was held right after the exit polls were announced on Thursday evening, the national BJP leadership asked them to keep the morale of the counting agents high. Three senior state BJP leaders said Shivprakash, BJP’s national joint general secretary (organisation), and Amitava Chakraborty, the state general secretary (organisation), while addressing the conference, said the exit polls not going in their favour might prove discouraging to the counting agents. “Counting agents are the party’s eyes and ears at the counting venues. They shouldn’t feel disheartened by the exit polls. It is imperative that these agents turn up at the venues on May 2. Both Shivprakashji and Amitavada asked leaders like us to boost the morale of the counting agents,” a state office-bearer said. This leader added that they would speak to local workers and those who had been designated as counting agents and ask them not to panic over the exit polls. Another BJP leader said it appeared that the two leaders were trying to analyse the impact of the exit polls on the participants in the conference. “We have been taught to believe that ‘Iss baar 200 paar (this time over 200)’. But apart from one exit poll, none placed us even close to that figure, which might’ve affected the perception of many of our colleagues,” the leader added. BJP MP and national general secretary Bhupender Yadav was also present at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Containment zone call after May 1 in north Bengal||The state health department will take a decision on the announcement of micro containment zones in north Bengal after the declaration of the Assembly election results on May 2. Sushanta Roy, deputed by the state government as the officer on special duty for Covid-19 in north Bengal, said on Friday that the decision would be made in consultation with district administrations. “There is an apprehension that the number of Covid cases will increase in May and June. That is why it has been planned to identify areas where the number of cases are high and declare those as micro containment zones, instead of declaring a general lockdown in a town or a village. The health department is preparing a map in this regard and after May 2, steps would be taken to declare such zones,” said Roy. The OSD also elaborated on some of the plans drawn up by the health department to handle the Covid situation in north Bengal. Over the past few weeks, like other parts of the country, there has been a steady surge in infections in the north Bengal, especially in Malda, the entire Siliguri subdivision and Jalpaiguri. “It has been decided to install oxygen generator machines at three hospitals in Jalpaiguri. Also, a 20-bed HDU (high dependency unit) will be opened at the subdivisional hospital in Malbazar for Covid patients,” he said. The health department has also planned to use the railway hospital at New Jalpaiguri for treatment of Covid patients. “I inspected the hospital where a facility with 55 beds will be created for Covid patients. The department has in possession of 30-odd beds at a private nursing home in Siliguri. Work is going on to add around 90 beds to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital,” said Roy. On May 1, he will join as the officer on special duty in the state health and family welfare department and continue to work on health issues pertaining to north Bengal, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Closed industries test leaders’ promises||Dhiram Pal Mehrolia lived for four years with the hope that Hindustan Cables Ltd (HCL), closed since 2017, would clear his dues. The 64-year-old was among the scores of retrenched employees of the shuttered central public sector unit who had spotted light at the end of the tunnel when Union minister Babul Supriyo had promised to revive HCL and ensure that the staff got their dues. During his election campaign for the Asansol Lok Sabha seat in 2014, Supriyo had said he had grand plans for turning around the limping central PSU. Three years after Asansol had voted him, the curtains came down on HCL and the likes of Mehrolia lost their livelihood. Although every election comes with a plethora of promises on the future of the company on which the local economy used to thrive, Mehrolia said he would not make the same mistake. Mehrolia said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised in his election speech at Asansol’s Nigha recently to resuscitate the glorious past of this industrial region, but the ex-employee did not dare raise his hopes. Instead, he had several questions for the Prime Minister and his men who visited the area to seek votes for the BJP. “Let the Prime Minister first answer why so many CPSUs are either closed or sick in the Durgapur-Asansol belt. We want to know what the Centre has done to ensure that the companies stay afloat,” Mehrolia had said before he cast his vote. The HCL factory at Rupnarayanpur near Asansol stopped production in 2003 because of chronic losses and was finally declared shut in 2017. All 500 employees were given voluntary retirement. “I no longer hope the plant will reopen. I didn’t get salary in the past two years (2016 and 2017). Neither did I receive my gratuity and PF for this period. My question is, will the government clear my dues?” Mehrolia asks. He used to draw a monthly salary of Rs 22,000 as supervisor at HCL. He said the provident fund and gratuity of around Rs 15 lakh that he had received after the closure of the company had been spent on the education of his two sons and daughter. “The only positive news is that my elder son has got a job at a private cement company after completing civil engineering. My younger son and daughter are still studying,” Mehrolia said. He had taken an education loan of around Rs 2 lakh from a bank that his elder son Akash is repaying now. “The quality of our lives has been so badly affected. Look at the dilapidated HCL quarters where we live in Rupnarayanpur. Basic amenities like electricity and water supply are so irregular. Is this a life?” Mehrolia asked. Charanjit Singh, a former HCL employee and Intuc leader, said: “The town’s economy used to depend on our factory when it was booming. The gloomy story started in 2003 after the production had been halted. But the employees used to get their salaries regularly. Babul Supriyo made so many promises, but we feel cheated as he couldn’t stop the closure of HCL, leave alone revamping the company.” HCL is not alone. The list of closed factories, including private units and CPSUs, in this region once known as the Ruhr of Bengal is long. The Ruhr Valley in Germany is an industrial hub. “Most big industries are closed. People here don’t have jobs. They either work in illegal coal mines or slog it out as day labourers at small factories,” said Pradip Sarkar, former employee of the closed Burn Standard Company Ltd in Burnpur. The Modi cabinet approved the closure of the railway wagon manufacturing unit in 2018. The list of closed units in West Burdwan also includes Mining Allied and Machineries Corporation, Hindustan Fertiliser Corporation Ltd, Bharat Ophthalmic Glass Ltd, Cycle Corporation of India, Pilkington Glass, British Oxygen, Reckitt & Coleman, Kulti Sponge Pipe Factory and several coal mines. Against this backdrop, the main issue in the nine Assembly seats with around 23 lakh voters and went to the polls on April 26 was the industrial decline in the region. Trinamul’s coal sector trade union leader Hareram Singh, who contested from Jamuria, said the BJP might have tried to spin a “Sonar Bangla dream” but people in the area didn’t believe the claim as the extent of job losses had been the maximum since 2014. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had in her campaigns in adjoining Bankura and Purulia laid down what her government was doing to ensure industries came up in Asansol-Durgapur so that the problem of unemployment was addressed. She attacked the Modi government for the closer of CPSUs as well as the attempt to privatise BSNL, the railways and other government-run units. “The reopening of closed CPSUs is not in my hands as they are under the Centre’s control. We are setting up an industrial corridor starting from Panagarh in West Burdwan to Raghunathpur in Purulia, covering Bankura. The entire region, which includes West Burdwan, Birbhum, Bankura and Purulia, will come up as an industrial hub,” Mamata said. In 2016, Trinamul had won six of the nine seats while the CPM-Congress combine had bagged three. However, in the 2019 general election, the BJP led in all Assembly segments. The BJP won the Asansol and Burdwan-Durgapur Lok Sabha seats in the district. Trinamul leaders believe the large number of non-Bengali voters and the party’s organisational deficiencies helped the BJP polarise people along communal lines. “The district has a sizable number of Hindi-speaking voters who work in coal mines and CPSUs. These people who originally hail from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have been polarised. In some pockets, there are tribal voters who, too, shifted loyalties to the BJP since the 2018 rural polls,” a Trinamul leader in Asansol said. The CPM’s strength is heavily depleted in the area that was once a red bastion. The CPM candidate of Durgapur (East), Abhash Roy Choudhury, said Trinamul and the BJP were two sides of the same coin. “They both have made polarisation their main plank while we are telling people about our plans to generate employment. People want work and money in their hands. We need to handle this pandemic properly,” he says. BJP sources said though initially there had been a strong undercurrent in favour of the party across the district, developments such as the induction of former Asansol mayor and Trinamul’s sitting MLA Jitendra Tiwari had not gone down well with many party old-timers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Counting agents’ rush for tests strains health staff||Health department officials in several districts were on Friday faced with the task of carrying out Covid-19 tests on hundreds of counting agents after the Election Commission of India required them and candidates to have negative RT-PCR report or two doses of Covid-19 vaccine to enter counting centres on Sunday. The EC order makes it incumbent upon counting agents and candidates to undergo the Rapid Antigen Test (RT-PCR) during a period of not less than 48 hours before the beginning of the counting process. Health officials said the pressure became huge as the staff had to test over 40,000 people additionally in two days — Friday and Saturday — across Bengal, in addition to regular patients. “Around 53,000 tests are done on a day across Bengal amid the huge scarcity of employees as many of them are in isolation after being infected. Now, it has become a challenge for the staff to test an additional 40,000 people,” said a senior health official. According to the officials in districts, every Assembly constituency will have 14 tables for counting and there would be an agent for each candidate, along with three or four counting staff. There are over 2,000 candidates in Bengal. All the political parties are bringing in 30-40 per cent extra counting agents for the test fearing if some are found Covid positive. “Approximately, 40,000 people had to be tested for Covid in two days. The pressure was extreme on Friday as no political parties took the risk to keep it for May 1. If the commission had ordered the test at least a week ago, then, we could have managed the situation,” said the health official. In Birbhum, health officials opened separate counters for testing polling agents at every block hospital with at least 40 additional staff on Friday. “We had to withdraw our staff from different rural hospitals and the health services in those pockets were vastly affected. But we could do nothing as we need to give priority to the counting agents and candidates,” said a senior health official of Birbhum. In Burdwan, there were three testing points — Burdwan Medical College and Hospital, Sanskriti Lok Mancha and a government agricultural farm. On Friday, the health officials dedicated Sanskriti Lok Mancha — one of the testing centres — only for counting agents of all political parties. No common people were allowed to test there on Friday. Mamani Soren, 35, a resident of Nilpur in Burdwan, had reached Sanskriti Lok Mancha for a test as she was suffering from fever but returned when told that she would not be tested there. “Many common people were deprived of the test or had to travel extra miles to reach other places. We had nothing to do as we had to cope with the crisis of staff. Every day, dozens of our staff are testing positive and we are losing our manpower,” said a health staff in East Burdwan. Sources in different political parties said they had to find 30 per cent extra counting agents for fear of some testing positive for Covid. A section of political leaders in Birbhum said counting agents had to queue up with several symptomatic persons who had arrived for the tests. Trinamul leader Tapas Mondal, who brought 30 counting agents for the tests at Bolpur block hospital, said he was concerned about the spread of infection as they had to queue up with those having Covid symptoms. “We don’t know whether we will be infected while getting the test done as we have come in contact with people having symptoms. Hundreds of people with Covid symptoms are roaming around us and we can’t identify them. Our agents are scared as they fear they will get infected by visiting crowded hospital premises,” said Mondal. Police arrested an outsourced employee of JNM Hospital in Nadia’s Kalyani and two others, including a woman, on Friday allegedly for generating fake Covid-19 test reports using the official user ID and password of the medical facility. The arrested are Mrityunjoy Ram, a data entry operator attached to the hospital’s medical superintendent’s office, and Monalisa Biswas and Arup Das, who work at a private pathological laboratory in Kanchrapara as sample collectors. The residents of Kanchrapara were arrested following a marathon interrogation on Friday afternoon. They were produced in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Kalyani and remanded in jail custody for two weeks. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: The fight is as much against Modi, as it is against Mamata for CPM||At 86, Ashok Kumar Mullick, popularly known as “Mastermoshai”, still treads the political lane that he began walking over six decades ago with a rally at Subodh Mullick Square in central Calcutta. The south Calcutta resident has participated in countless Left movements, including the food movement of 1959. Round the year, Mullick can be seen visiting homes in his area, climbing floors, stopping occasionally to catch a breath and walking up again to knock at the doors of CPM supporters and sympathisers to hand over magazines, leaflets and newspapers or collect funds. “Age is an issue no doubt but someone needs to pitch in when the going gets tough. Things will change in the state and the country,” says the retired high school teacher with the conviction of a man who recalls the defeat of Indira Gandhi and reminds this correspondent that at one point even she had looked invincible. “If Mrs Gandhi could face defeat, the minions (Narendra Modi and his ilk) who have been blown big by corporate power will be pulled down one day by people’s power,” he says as he rolls up the sleeves of his white kurta. If that was 1977, Mullick is quick to remind himself that was also the year when his leader Jyoti Basu led the Left Front to defeat the Congress to become chief minister. A Left Front run that took 34 years and a Mamata Banerjee to halt in 2011. And Mullick makes no bones of the fact that the protagonist to dethrone the Left Front regime remains the biggest enemy for Left supporters in Bengal although the BJP is a foe of the same standing. “The 2021 fight in Bengal is as much against the Narendra Modi-led BJP as it is against Mamata Banerjee and her party Trinamul. Mamata’s party is bereft of any ideology and so they micro-manage politics through local-level hooliganism,” says the CPM supporter who never became a party cardholder and is worried that a BJP victory will inject communalism into Bengal. While Mastermoshai finds no fault with the Left’s policy of equi-distance from Modi and Mamata, many are asking whether the Left has missed out on an opportunity that history brought before it and when CPIML-Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya had laid out the pitch by publicly giving a call to defeat the BJP. “May 2 will be a day when I expect answers to two queries. One, will the BJP taste defeat? And two, whether the Left took the right call in equating its two enemies? As a Left supporter, I want the BJP to be defeated and wish the Left to perform well. But ground realities as I see is far from what I wish happens on May 2,” says another CPM supporter and also a votary of the “No vote to BJP” campaign. “It is good to aspire that the Left will claw back to power even if it is with the help of the Congress and Abbas Siddiqui’s ISF but the turf is still underprepared for a comeback. Even the Congress stand will get tested in its strongholds, which are largely minority-dominated districts,” he says. Mullick, however, thinks Bhattacharya is undermining the Bengal reality. When reminded that a consolidation of Opposition forces under the leadership of Jayprakash Narayan led to Mrs Gandhi’s defeat in 1977 and Bhattacharya was not even suggesting an alliance, Mullick for once takes time to come up with a reply. After a brief pause, Mullick says: “Circumstances then and now are not the same. There has been an enormous spurt in RSS shakhas during Mamata Banerjee’s regime. The desire to finish off the Left has proved to be detrimental and helped the BJP fill in the vacuum. Not going all out against Mamata would have led to a consolidation of anti-Trinamul votes in the BJP’s kitty.” Sixty-five years younger to Mullick and living on the northern fringes of Calcutta, a student of St. Stephen’s College in Delhi has been actively campaigning for the Left as he believes that the “battle against the fascists need to be won decisively”. Ananyo Chakraborty, 21, has been writing poll songs, performing at meetings and taking part in CPM rallies as he believes that the political battle is important for democracy to survive in Bengal. Chakraborty represents the young force that the Left has unleashed in this election to reverse its downward slide. The young Left activist has a different take on Bhattacharya’s tactical proposition to identify the BJP as the main enemy. “The anger of youths, who have been deprived of jobs in the past 10 years largely due to Trinamul’s corruption, against Mamata Banerjee is an everyday experience. I am aware that several Left sympathisers feel that the BJP should have been marked out in this electoral battle but that would have further polarised votes in the BJP’s favour,” he says. Both Mullick and Chakraborty agree that losing Left supporters to the BJP has been a real worry but they feel the trend, even if by a bit, is reversing. The Left has suffered organisationally since 2011 and the party leadership has not been able to deal with the challenges. But the two concur that the role of the Left during the pandemic and the lockdown has prompted many of those who had left to return. “They are slowly realising that the economic policies of the BJP are hurting their interests. The Hindu-Muslim divide will break the social fabric. The lockdown has exposed the BJP’s pro-poor narrative. This election will also be about votes returning to the Left,” Mullick says. Drawing on his experience at St. Stephen’s and during the poll campaigns, Chakraborty says: “After the attacks on JNU and Jamia, college mates who used to find us too political began to turn up at our protest shows. The high point of our rallies, including the one at Brigade, has been the presence of youths. Even if a section of Left voters did switch sides, the gathering of youths and their active participation is reason enough to hope for change.” Even though the two CPM supporters have an age gap of 65 years, which almost reflects the generation gap between Biman Bose and Minakshi Mukherjee, both say that the infusion of youth in the leadership should have happened years ago. “This should have happened long back. Imagine the gap between Pramod Dasgupta’s protégé Biman Bose and Minakshi. After leaders like Md Salim and Sujan Chakraborty, there has been a huge gap. Since 2011, the number of young legs on the ground has dropped. Though of late, the induction of young leaders gives me hope that things will change,” Chakraborty says. He credits the change in the party’s campaign style to the strategy of ushering in leaders like Minakshi, Srijan Bhattacharya, Dipsita Dhar and Aishee Ghosh. When told that there were many who felt the use of popular songs like Tumpa Sona was “unbecoming of the Left”, Chakraborty retorts: “I have composed a campaign song while at the same time I am singing popular IPTA numbers at rallies. The huge popularity of the new campaign songs goes to show they have struck a chord with the masses. If that has happened, the purpose is served.” Economist and political analyst Indraneel Dasgupta almost echoes Chakraborty. Lauding the campaign, Dasgupta, who teaches at the Indian Statistical Institute, says: “I have been an avid watcher of elections in Bengal, at various degrees of separation and engagement, for about four decades now. The hippest and most creative one, in terms of the campaign material generated, is by far the current one. How much of this will get translated to booth-level campaigns or will find reflection in electoral outcomes remains to be seen. But a lot of spontaneous creative energy, of edgy out-of-the-box thinking, has already been harnessed.” If one looks beyond peppy numbers, the campaign of the Left in this election has been to harness the discontent of youths against the Trinamul government’s inability to generate enough jobs and the allegations of corruption in the recruitment process. The Left understands the need to create jobs but many think it is short of ideas as it still upholds the model that the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government had proposed for Singur and Nandigram. “Singur had been a setback for the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government but the CPM still wants to stick to the old formula. The party should break out of its old shell and re-assess the mood of the farming community before deciding which course to take on industrialisation,” says a businessman who runs a small shop in Hooghly’s Pandua and has two jobless sons. Chakraborty, who aspires to get a job in a few years, feels industry is the only answer and youths in Bengal need jobs and not doles that the Mamata government has faith in. But the moot question remains whether the Left with all its intent — starting with strategic alliance with the ISF where it had to shed its inhibitions about identity politics to overhauling its candidates’ list — will be able to undo the setback it has been suffering since 2011. A senior CPM leader said: “The battle has just begun and will continue to be waged beyond May 2, whatever be the outcome.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: People  can die, politicians don’t care||I am a senior citizen aged above 75, a physicist by profession, a curious scientist by inclination. I am heart-broken and very angry. I always had nurtured the idea that India is a mature democracy by now and firmly followed the path of fair play, justice for all, and above all, responsible for the welfare of its citizens. With time, all these values have eroded without a trace. Politics has become an all-consuming power game of sleazy money, a den of uneducated leaders whose sole aim is to stay in power at all costs — citizens “we can bribe” by handouts, making them even more incompetent than what they are. Education, by far and large, has taken a back seat. Nothing has changed, if anything it has gone worse — education is merely a device to amplify our childhood memory books, suitable only for clerks. By Class VI, they become slaves of their own memory, any lapse in that they cannot even think, forget about innovation! Not surprisingly, the best go out of the country and succeed beyond any dream. The political club belongs to members who are primarily not educated, and extremely fond of violence at the slightest pretext. Even the film stars could not resist the glamour, suffering the heat and dust quite happily. Why am I heart-broken after all these years? In the heat of political slogans, the politician omitted to recognise the most vital component of democracy —humans! They can die by the millions, “we really don’t care”. They saw that the devastating tsunami of Covid-19 was coming. But one more dip in the holy ocean by the millions, pressed against each other, they clapped from a distance, after all, these dips are at the heart of Mother India. I am heart-broken because even at the end, the dead do not receive any respect. When the tsunami has come, there is no planning, no bed, no vaccine, not adequate nurses, worse, no oxygen, no doctors. The magnificent theatre of copter, creating a heap of our Indian dust, is quite a spectacle. But people are dying, “oh, never mind, have to win”! Why is there no planning, they have no time? They prefer to ignore the tsunami — statues are more relevant? Time and again, the great India inertia paralyses us from taking any action — we are frozen with the morphine of inaction. The Election Commission is just an example. The thinking is “Almighty God will take care”. We don’t take action, we take corrective measures, already too late. They should have planned oxygen problem mitigation, “no chalta hain”. By the time the permission comes through after crossing all the administrative hurdles, another 2 million have died. All my life in science management, not research of course, the essential thesis of “don’t trouble if trouble doesn’t trouble you” has driven me mad. Now, the same reason is making me heart-broken. Why am I very angry? I have worked for an organisation called the Cyclotron Centre, mostly as the director for almost 25 years. So, I have a special bondage. The same Election Commission ordered staff up to some level to be on election duty. With millions of government staff hanging around, our young staff members, by order, have to attend election duty. I see “hell” on the horizon. They have just come back, 90 per cent of them have been affected by Covid-19. Do they have enough medicine, beds in the hospital, oxygen? They have done a fantastic job for the country because they are far more honest than the politicians the election is all about. What a price to pay? Honesty and a noble purpose give only negative returns? I am angry. A few of them are really bright — to jeopardise their careers midway is a crime. The Chief Justice of Madras High Court is right, the members of the Election Commission should be prosecuted for murder. I add to that — prosecute all irresponsible and incompetent people and leaders. Justice must prevail. Exploitation has to stop, democracy is nobody’s monopoly. When do we begin to understand? Bikash Sinha is a senior scientist at the Indian National Science Academy, former Homi Bhabha Professor and former director at the Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre and the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Whoever wins, trouble and chaos lurk ||One has never seen people in other states and cities of India so genuinely bothered about elections in Bengal. Many are actually petrified that nothing can hold back the BJP if the quintessentially secular bastion of Bengal capitulates. Equally eager are several others to ensure that it does crumble, as it has held out far too long and delayed the patriotic homogenisation of a Hindu Rashtra. Many also believe that India has already paid a heavy price because the only two who have monopolised decision-making in Delhi, by systematically disempowering ministers and bureaucrats, were too obsessively busy in Bengal to find time to tackle the coronavirus. But in Bengal, people are more interested in ending this bitter chapter of the state’s political history. Indications are, however, that peace may take quite a long time to return to this state, irrespective of who takes over. The air is just too toxic to rule with any modicum of stability. Although Bengalis have always loved heated arguments, they are not really conditioned to hate their opponent, or else they would be deprived of the next round. But now they look aghast as society is seared right through and even families and groups of friends are slashed into intolerant warring groups. Poison has also penetrated through the sustained hate propaganda and the venomous debates of the leaders on both sides. It would take a serious and sustained effort to blunt the capacity of both parties to hit, harm and kill at will. Nonetheless, the internationally known bookies of Rajasthan’s Phalodi and many online betting sites declared their winner long ago, and they are fretting as they wait for the annoying processes of voting to act themselves out. Every few days, the home minister too hands out what would appear to the uninitiated to be the exact results of each phase of the polls. He is fed by multiple sources, especially after several institutions of state power have merged seamlessly with the ruling party. The defending champions of Bengal too keep shrieking about their sure victory, confidently predicting that the millions spent on this “hostile acquisition” bid would go waste. Unfortunately for the bookies and contenders, democracy has this incorrigible habit of upsetting many carefully arranged “realities”. One learnt this unforgettable lesson way back in 1977, as an assistant returning officer, when Indira Gandhi’s hordes had confidently declared that her victory was a mere formality. Sadly, in the last couple of years, Bengal has slipped dangerously into the abyss it had avoided so adroitly from 1946 onwards, even after Muhammad Ali Jinnah had inflicted his bloody “Great Calcutta Killings”, quite well-planned. Thereafter, the Muslim League and the Hindu Mahasabha went on an overdrive to create provocations and riots, even as H.S. Suhrawardy and Sarat Chandra Bose kept trying their best to retain Bengal as a united, separate nation. In 1947, however, the communal divide won and Bengal was split in two. Even so, relations between the two communities were considerably different compared with the northern parts of India. This was largely because of their passionate attachment to the common language, their similar food habits and other sensitivities — although “pride and prejudice” co-existed under the surface. Thus, while Punjab and Delhi were overtaken by unprecedented manslaughter and devastation in 1947 when the nation was partitioned, Calcutta remained peaceful thanks to the superhuman efforts of Gandhi, who had successfully earlier doused the Noakhali riots. In the succeeding decades, riots were sporadically ignited by fanatics in East Pakistan, under the indulgent eyes of communal elements in the government, mainly to grab property by driving out Hindus. Thus, waves of refugees streamed in every now and then, and sizeable numbers of Muslims also moved out of Bengal, insecure after the killings on this side. Analysts, however, agree almost unanimously that Bengal handled the trauma of Partition far better than Punjab. A factor that contributed was the ideological commitment of the communists who did not permit the communalisation of the refugees. They did, however, use them for other very disruptive political agitations and also to seize power. Despite intermittent, bloody communal eruptions, the great fortitude of the early decades following Independence ensured that secular politics became the unquestioned “default mode” in Bengal. The political formations that held power in Bengal since 1947 can be faulted on several issues, but none of them pla yed dirty communal politics or deliberately created riots. Muslims accounted for a substantial quarter of the population, or a bit more, and they were both vocal and visible. How then did the situation undergo such a radical change towards the Hindu Right? The first reason was that communal poison finally succeeded in getting in, after years of a systematic injection of hatred against minorities. The BJP won over a section, largely from the high castes and upper classes and also from other, specifically targeted castes. These converts suddenly discovered a Hindu identity that decades of Left and secular rule had never allowed to surface. Then, Mamata Banerjee’s pursuit of the Muslim vote and her own open publicity of photos in a hijab  cut both ways. The Hindu Brigade played upon these visuals, and those of beef hung for sale on open thoroughfares. The marginal increase in the Muslim population was and is being constantly portrayed as the end of the Hindu civilisation. Besides, no one really noticed when the RSS systematically and quietly penetrated different parts of the state for decades, setting up schools and camps to influence people through social work. Finally, many voters are now floored by the Prime Minister’s promise of a “Sonar Bangla”, a golden Bengal, if only the state gives up its 44 years of confrontation with the Centre. It is undeniable that a large and committed section has swung decisively to the BJP and this cannot be wished away, even if all of its members are not hard-core Hindutva supporters. The party has enough strongmen and ample funding, as well as strong support from  the central government that is forever restless to intervene. The BJP surely reaped benefits from the Trinamul Congress’s adverse image of corruption and the intolerable behaviour of its musclemen and leaders. Its large-scale rigging of the 2018 panchayat elections surely alienated numerous people. But its biggest blunder was to terrorise members of all the Opposition parties, who invariably moved to the BJP for protection. Alternatives are ruled out, anyway, as the Left and the Congress have been marginalised at the polls, as the voting figures reveal. The Left now appears quite historically irrelevant and its excesses are still fresh in memory. Its long rule and munificence has given rise to a reasonably well-off “new class” that revels in theoretical arguments and righteous indignation against “neo-fascism” but has hardly the strength to fight it. The Congress has been drained of its life force by its former leader, Mamata, who is unshakable in her stand that she is the “real Congress”. If Mamata manages to emerge paramount in this election, and her numbers are not bought over (which is not unlikely), she may play a more leading role in the nationwide surge against the BJP’s rock-solid rule. Modi is absolutely unforgiving and no one knows how his wrath on Bengal will manifest. The war will only intensify and the BJP in Bengal is likely to step up violence, abetted by the central leadership, to harass the government. But Mamata is also a desperate street-fighter and prone to belligerent agitations. As magistrate, one has had to “tackle” her and to actually “take her into custody” outside Jadavpur police station in 1983. Over the following decades, she went on to win Bengal against an almost invincible regime, and now she considers the BJP prime game. If she is, however, knocked off her perch, she will surely assume her familiar agitational self and ensure that Bengal’s new rulers do not get a moment’s peace. Police firings and the killing of dozens of her supporters have never stopped her. After four decades in administration, one is quite apprehensive that trouble and chaos may thus rule, at least in the near future. Jawhar Sircar is a former Union secretary and a public affairs commentator||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
01-05-2021||North East||Insistence on academic freedom is beyond question||There has been a series of media statements and letters to the President and the Prime Minister by academics asserting the incontrovertible need for academic freedom and bewailing the current assault on it. This insistence on academic freedom is of course beyond question. But one would like to ask if freedom can be divided into slots, each with its own criteria and limits, to be adjusted according to an obscure scale of “public interest” or if freedom by definition is indivisible. Such a notion appears to strike at the very root of equality, a bedrock principle of democracy. At the time some years ago when the police in Delhi had gone on the rampage and intruded on university campuses to mercilessly thrash students demonstrating on a serious public issue like civil rights or secularism or had looked the other way when hooded goons entered a campus under their very noses and mounted an attack on targetted victims among students and faculty, a section of academics had kept aloof from the widespread outrage sparked by such incidents. Their plea had been that such disputes had little to do with the essence of academic freedom. Their conviction was that academic freedom stood for disinterested and dedicated commitment to pure research away from the hustle and bustle of political or social disputes. Such disputes involved unavoidable bias, and academic freedom was according to them basically a painstaking cultivation of impartiality. Learned bodies paid little heed to pleas for a clear position on vital political issues even when such trends were acquiring an alarming character. One now finds some of them signing such petitions. This, one hopes, exposes the fallacy of their earlier position on academic freedom, which is still quite widespread. Is it at all possible, also desirable, to divide freedom into compartments? Can we, and should we, divide freedom into such hermetic compartments? Such as freedom of the press, the independence of the judiciary, freedom of religion, right of freedom to protest without fear, and of course academic freedom? Ultimately they all are but aspects of the freedom of mind. In Tagore’s memorable words, this is the broad domain where ‘the mind is without fear, and the head is held high’. And history has recorded numberless tyrannies that had stumbled on this rock and though thriving for some time had fallen flat never to get back on their feet. Democracy is a resolute commitment to this universal freedom to all aspects of life. It is not absolute, but the limits are those that are acknowledged by all without any reservation. If one pleads for freedom in his or her sphere of life, this must come with the unhesitating grant of freedom in other spheres. That entails the condition that you do not fail to rally round to any group fighting for freedom in deadly  earnest, as when labour are fighting for their hard-earned bargaining rights. Freedom can’t be the comfort zone where scholars wrestle with their problems without restraint, evincing little interest in the failure of courts to deliver speedy and effective verdicts. The independence of the judiciary does not depend on blemishless judgments drawing strength from some perennial source of undefiled and impartial judiciary wisdom that prompts totally objective conclusions. When world opinion condemns your lack of freedom, one does not blankly allege some conspiracy to defame the country, because you had partaken of the freedom of UN forums to criticise other countries found wanting in basic freedoms. The enemies of freedom make no such mistake. They hound out the free spirit out of every such slot by turns, and infiltrates their own henchmen. They turn upside down the whole edifice of freedom and revel in the vacancy as something they can inscribe their writ on. There is a struggle for freedom raging everywhere, and one does not enjoy the luxury of watching from the safety of one’s turf, hands in pockets. Guwahati-based Hiren Gohain is a former Gauhati University professor and a well-known commentator on social and political affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
01-05-2021||North East||Assam elections 2021: Parties junk exit polls||The ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress in Assam have all but junked the exit polls announced on Thursday evening since these were not “exact” polls with the former even releasing its own “exit” polls. Assam state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass released the party’s two-page assessment, referred to party insiders as their own exit polls, complete with the seats the party was winning as well as the seats of its allies — Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL ) — were winning. The BJP’s “winnability” list shows the ruling party bagging 70 seats while the AGP eight and UPPL five, much more than the simple majority mark of 64 in a house of 126. It has also listed 21 seats as doubtful,which means it could go either way. In the run up to the polls, the BJP regularly asserted it would win 100-plus seats. Assam had a three-phase Assembly polls on March 27, April 1 and April 6 with the Congress-led 10-party mahajot mounting a strong challenge to unseat the BJP-led four party mitrajot but all the exit polls have put BJP ahead of the Congress. Counting of votes will take place on May 2. State BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami told The Telegraph that exit polls are “not exact” polls even though most of these predicted the party retaining power. “We also have our own grassroots assessment which was released by our state president. Our assessment gives us 85 seats, two more than what is in the list. Exit polls are not exact polls. We are in a comfortable position,” Goswami said. The IndiaToday-Axis My India exit polls predicted  75 to 85 seats for the BJP-led alliance and 40 to 50 seats to the Congress-led alliance. It has given Others 1-4 seats. Similarly ABC-CVoter too has put the BJP-led alliance ahead by 58-71 seats to Congress-led alliance’s 53-66 seats. It has given 0-5 seats to others. NDTV’s Poll of exit poll gave BJP and allies 76 seats to the Congress and allies 49. According to Today’s Chanakya, the BJP alliance is getting 70 seats to Congress alliance’s 56 and others 0-3. Republic TV-CNX exit poll has given the BJP-led mitrajot 74-84 and 40-50 seats to Congress-led mahajot. It has given others 1-3 seats. State BJP MP Pallab Lochan Das, too, said the BJP would be winning a majority on their own. “People have voted for our government’s performance, especially our Covid management, beneficiary schemes, especially those aimed at the women folk, and overall development. Covid management and beneficiary schemes were the real game-changers, which touched people,” Das, a prominent tea community leader, told this newspaper, adding the people have rejected the “anti-Assam” Congress-AIUDF alliance. The Congress understandably does not agree with the exit polls nor the BJP’s assessment. State PCC president questioned the basis on which exit polls are held. “What is the scientific basis? What is the sample size? Very small. And this time they did not visit the interiors because of Covid-19. These polls are manipulated. Our mahajot is winning at least 75 seats,” Bora said. Like the BJP spokesperson, senior Assam PCC member Diganta Choudhury, asserted exit polls are not exact polls. “We have been saying from the outset that we are winning, our alliance will be getting 77 seats. Wait for May 2. We are winning because of Opposition unity and for effectively reaching out to the tea community and the unemployed.” In 2016, the BJP-led alliance had won 86 seats while the Congress and the AIUDF, contesting on their own, had won 26 and 13 seats respectively. In place of the BPF, the BJP this time joined hands with the UPPL. AICC secretary Bhupen Kumar Borah too felt that it would be better to wait till May 2. “People have voted against BJP’s non-performance and polarisation agenda, for failing to fulfil the promises it made before the 2016 Assembly polls — of protecting jati, mat and bheti,” he said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
01-05-2021||North East||Covid: Mizoram seeks support of community leaders and civil society organisations for curbs||Mizoram, which is observing lockdown-like restrictions since April 20, has started mobilising the support of community leaders and civil society organisations before announcing stricter preventive measures as a substitute for complete shutdown to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state. During a meeting convened by governor P.S. Sreedharan Pillai at the Raj Bhavan in Aizawl on Friday to discuss the Covid-19 situation with leading NGOs, religious leaders, ex-servicemen and journalists, among others, Mizoram health minister Dr R. Lalthangliana spoke about imposing stricter standard operating procedures. “The restrictions currently imposed do not seem to have broken the chain (of infection). The government will have to enforce even stricter restrictions soon,” an official said, quoting the health minister. Till Friday morning, Mizoram had 1,123 active Covid cases and 14 deaths. On Thursday, 140 people tested positive and one died due to the virus. On April 20, Mizoram was the first to announce a near-lockdown in the Northeast, for seven days in Aizawl city and 10 district headquarters following a recommendation from NGOs, academicians and Church leaders in view of the rise in Covid cases. On that day, the number of active cases stood at 414 and the death toll at 12. Lalthangliana said the series of lockdowns in the state had been effective but since Covid cases are rising rapidly, he admitted the government will have no option but to enforce stricter measures as a substitute for lockdown while calling for continued cooperation from all NGOs, civil societies and churches. These organisations are very influential in the state. “The good cooperation and good compliance with the guidelines on containment of the pandemic is the reason why the fatalities are as low as 14 till date, compared to other northeastern states. The support from the civil society is a factor that makes a difference in Mizoram,” the health minister said. Mizoram was the first state to enforce a lockdown, even before the nationwide lockdown was announced in March 2020, the first to screen passengers at the only airport at Lengpui, close state boundaries and international boundaries and set up effective task forces at village/local, district and state levels. These are the reasons why Mizoram was one of the least affected states in the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The meeting, which lasted for over an hour, saw the participants, including the NGO and Church leaders, pledge continued support to the state government, assuring to assume a more proactive role in mass awareness on Covid-appropriate behaviour. Soon after the meeting, the state-level task force on Covid-19 started reviewing the situation to come up with a “stricter” SOP, an official said. Governor Pillai said Mizoram too was experiencing a rapid rise in cases like elsewhere in the country. The intention of convening the meeting, Pillai said, was to strengthen and augment the state government’s “proactive measures” towards Covid-19 management and urge the public to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. “In fact, we are one of the better performing states in terms of Covid cases and deaths. Of course, this has been possible due to the valuable support from the civil society, including the religious bodies and various community-based organisations,” he said. The governor focussed on urging the participants not to lower their guard and collectively create awareness about Covid-appropriate behaviour such as social distancing, wearing masks properly and frequent washing of hands. “While these Covid-appropriate behaviours seem very trivial, they are in fact absolutely essential, and they are our only effective weapons in fighting this disease... Persons who neither wear masks nor practise physical distancing have a 90 per cent risk of contracting the virus. Together, we will emerge victorious,” Pillai said. Neighbouring Assam on Friday too started mobilising the support of community leaders by revising its SOP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-10
01-05-2021||Opinion||Tough choice: Exit polls in Bengal||Sir — Exit polls have predicted the results of the assembly elections in all the states that went to the polls, but West  Bengal has been the focal point of everyone’s curiosity (“6 exit polls give edge to TMC, 3 to BJP”, April 30). The ruling Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party are locked in a close contest for West Bengal’s 294 seats, as the exit polls showed on Thursday. Six out of nine of the exit polls gave the party of the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, an upper hand in the fiercely fought election battle, while the rest predicted that the BJP had an advantage. The run-up to the eight-phase polls and the month-long voting exercise in the state were packed with thundering rallies, a high-pitched war of words and a series of controversies that catapulted Bengal to the centre stage of national politics. Development, polarization, caste politics, corruption, the immigrant crisis and a clash of cultures have dominated the political rhetoric. However, Bengal has traditionally voted overwhelmingly in favour of the party that ends up coming to power. Will it be the same this time? The exit polls suggest otherwise. These polls have often got it wrong in the past, with a section of analysts arguing that the mood of a handful of voters surveyed for the exercise cannot represent the true picture. The latter will emerge on the counting day. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — Exit polls are good for speculation, but they do not merit any serious attention. Their projections often confuse citizens. In Kerala, most channels covering the elections predicted that the Left Democratic Front, led by the Communist Party of India (Marxist), would win between 80 and 100 seats and that the Pinarayi Vijayan regime would continue in power. But that is unlikely to happen because people cannot be fooled by the handouts and food kits. The exit polls have generated confusing numbers. While some have given the upper hand to the LDF, others say that the United Democratic Front will win. Whoever comes to power will have a difficult time as Kerala is a cash-strapped state. K.A. Solaman,Alappuzha, Kerala New hope Sir — Owing to the burgeoning crisis surrounding the second wave of the pandemic, the news of the farmers’ protests against the three contentious farm laws has not been garnering enough attention. But it must be noted that farmers are eyeing a record wheat crop this year. This is heartening news; farmers are being ferried to and from villages to harvest this year’s crop. They are reportedly on track to gathering a 109 million tonnes of wheat. Apart from the anger it is facing for its monumental failure to curb the second wave, the government will now also have to deal with the consequences of having underestimated farmers and their organizational skills. Rashi Bansal,Calcutta PARTING SHOT Sir — It is laudable that Nepal has been able to complete the reconstruction of the historical monument of Dharahara. The ancient tower was completely damaged in an earthquake in 2015. A historic site recognized by Unesco, this beautiful example of Nepali architecture has been a tourist attraction for a long time now. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, people around the world have been under a lot of pressure both physically and mentally. When it becomes safe to travel again, a boost to the tourism sector will infuse new energy into people. Beautiful architectural monuments such as the Dharahara tower have been the mirrors of ancient times and history. Closer home, I remember visiting historic places in areas like Kanyakumari, Trivandrum, Chennai, Bangalore and Mumbai in the mid to late 1990s as a student. Asia has been home to great cultures and the hub of beautiful tourist locations. It boasts seas, mountains, rivers and a myriad natural resources. Now that Nepal has taken steps to open the Dharahara monument, it has become clear that the beautiful Himalayan region has always been ready to emerge stronger amid the pandemic and nature’s fury. P. Senthil Saravana Durai,  Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
01-05-2021||Opinion||Olympics: A fifty-fifty rule||Citius, Altius, Fortius — faster, higher, stronger — the immortal words that constitute the motto of the Olympics, need not be viewed as a mere endorsement of sporting excellence. Altius and Fortius, it can be argued, are an embodiment of the compact shared by the participating athletes and nations to strive for a higher, stronger moral fibre. Interestingly, the Tokyo edition of the Olympics, the Games are expected to take place in spite of a global pandemic, faces a curious moral dilemma. And ‘Rule 50’ of the International Olympic Committee lies at the heart of the conundrum. Rule 50 prohibits athletes from indulging in any kind of racial, religious and — this, presumably is the bone of contention — political demonstration on the podium or any other Olympic venue. To be fair to the IOC, the decision to uphold Rule 50 was arrived at on the basis of a seemingly consultative process: the views on the matter of over 3,000 athletes were factored in by the IOC’s Athletes Commission. The findings of the survey are curious, given that there has been a surge in political demonstrations by athletes the world over. A team in the National Basketball Association refused to take the field in protest against the shooting of a black man in the United States of America; some teams playing the qualifiers of the football World Cup have expressed reservations about alleged human rights abuses in Qatar, the host of the tournament. Yet, in the IOC survey, as many as 70 per cent of the respondents stated that neither the field of play nor the ceremonial platform was an ideal site for demonstration; 67 per cent disavowed podium protests altogether. Politics sullies the purity of sports was their argument. This argument, the history of Olympics would reveal, has been rendered impotent on several occasions. Perhaps the most famous of these ‘transgressions’ was the ‘black power salute’ by two Afro-American athletes in the 1968 Olympics, the most unambiguous political statement that had been witnessed by the competition. There are also examples of the Games being used to augment sinister political projects. It is widely believed that the Berlin Olympics of 1936 was used by the Nazi regime to bolster the nauseating ideals subscribed to by Hitler and his henchmen. As for the debate on whether Rule 50 ought to be perceived as an infringement on the athletes’ right to expression, there are no easy answers. There is perhaps merit in the argument that there are alternative fora to the Olympic podium that can be more effective in amplifying a political message. An explosive press conference or, still better, a political tweet or a post by sportsmen can set the world on fire. But the principle that sports and politics ought to be kept apart to maintain the sanctity of the latter is ancient — as ancient as the Games.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
01-05-2021||Opinion||Critical situation: Reporting on India's Covid resurgence from the UK||How is India’s Covid nightmare — the images from the cremation grounds will haunt us for a long time — being reported in the UK? Journalists have relied on Indian consultants in the NHS and now their counterparts in India to tell us what’s been going on. Dr Zarir Udwadia from Mumbai told Mishal Husain on BBC Radio 4: “The situation is beyond crisis point... This virus has a country of 1.4 billion firmly in a stranglehold. And it’s really exposed our threadbare healthcare system and our failure of leadership, hasn’t it?... ward after ward full of patients struggling to breathe. I see younger patients afflicted... We’re in the mess we are just now because of complacency from the government.” From Calcutta, critical care specialist, Dr Saswati Sinha, was equally eloquent: “It’s an unprecedented scenario in... hospitals across the... country... Our critical care beds are completely occupied. We are completely feeling a sense of despair. And seeing the healthcare system totally crippled gives us a sense of desperation, a feeling of helplessness, not being able to help people who are reaching out to us.” And from Delhi, Dr Sumit Ray, medical superintendent, Holy Family Hospital, said bluntly: “We are running out of oxygen, the whole country is running out of oxygen... If oxygen runs out there is no leeway for many patients — they will die.” The Financial Times focused on another strand: “India reported more than 354,000 new infections on Monday alone, along with 2,800 deaths. Experts believe the true toll is being vastly undercounted...” “In the Jamnagar district in Gujarat, 100 people died of Covid-19 but only one Covid death was reported.” Justice at last Seema Misra, who worked as a subpostmaster in West Byfleet, Surrey, is a victim of what is being called ‘Britain’s biggest miscarriage of justice’ in recent decades. In 2010, when she was eight weeks pregnant, she was jailed for 15 months for stealing £74,609 from the Post Office’s takings. Seema, who collapsed in court, said: “I would definitely have killed myself if I hadn’t been pregnant.” Her taxi driver husband, Davinder, revealed: “I was beaten up and called a ‘f***ing P*ki’, coming to this country and stealing old people’s money.” The Post Office CEO at the time, Paula Vennells, and her senior team, deliberately suppressed evidence to further their “malicious prosecution”.  Now, it turns out Seema’s protestations of innocence were true. The shortfall was caused by a glitch in Horizon, a Japanese computer system by Fujitsu, which the Post Office had introduced. Last week, the Court of Appeal quashed the convictions of 39 former subpostmasters, including Seema. She thinks racism was partly to blame for her conviction at the hands of an all-white jury. “The court documents read, ‘The Queen vs Seema Misra.’ It played with people’s emotions. Why would people believe the Asian lady over the Queen?” she pointed out. Home is where the virus is not Indians in the UK, especially the first generation, think fondly of India as the “mother country”. The early arrivals even spoke of “returning” after a few years in England. For me, one comment stood out from an Indian who had managed to get back to Heathrow before the 4 am deadline on April 23 when India was put on the UK’s Covid “red list”. After landing at Heathrow, he expressed his joy: “I feel like kissing the ground.” The remark made me wonder. Are these Indians — especially the ones who could afford private jets — akin to rats fleeing a sinking ship or just ordinary folk mightily relieved to be coming “home”? Farewell, friend A few old timers may remember David Loshak, who was The Daily Telegraph’s correspondent in India from 1969-72 and anticipated the secession of East Pakistan in his book, Pakistan Crisis. By the time I joined the paper, David, a man of great charm, had switched to medical journalism. David died on April 5, aged 87. Tagore’s “Farewell My Friends”, recorded by one of his grandchildren, was played at the service. Although born Jewish and a professed “lifelong non-believer”, David arranged for his funeral to be held in St Peter and St Paul’s Church in Yattendon, Berkshire. This is where he chose to be buried so he could “lie in the same space where my beloved (wife) Maggi will be”. In a piece, “My funeral”, written in 2013, David explained why he did not wish to be cremated: “My parents were cremated. My first wife, Mollie, was cremated. Ashes were scattered, their locations neglected, unvisited or even forgotten. I have learnt, from coming here in past years to be with Maggi at her parents’ graves and at her brother Roy’s grave, that there is something which can be moving, even spiritual, in graveside contemplation. And then, there is this church, this beautiful little church. It too provides a balm that, I feel, no crematorium, no secular hall or room, however decked out with flowers, can match.” Footnote An inquiry conducted by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission shocked many last week by revealing that the 30,000 Indian soldiers who gave their lives for Britain in World War I were buried in unmarked mass graves in Mesopotamia — and their names were not recorded on stone memorials as invariably happened with their white compatriots. There was apparently “not enough fuel” to cremate Hindus and Sikhs. Once they were buried, they were conveniently relegated to the ranks of “missing”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
01-05-2021||Opinion||Lost vistas||On a day almost lost now in the mists of time, I started going to college. One of the memories of that first, disorienting day is my startled amusement at a two-syllable word meaning, approximately, ‘useless’, written on the back of a marble bust of a former principal. The bust was placed with its unfortunate back visible when one turned on the first-floor landing; its position left me wondering for the rest of my life about the acrobat with the perfect lettering. (I prefer that to the simpler explanation of the bust having been brought there from somewhere else.) I did not associate it with the years of violence, statue-breaking and tragedy that preceded our entry into college — maybe I should have — but it gave me a sense of history happening in spite of the cold whiteness of marble. That sense was somewhat more developed when, years later, I peeked over the walls of the garden in Flagstaff House in Barrackpore, where statues of colonial heroes had been removed from Calcutta at the time to make place in the city for the icons and leaders of independent India. Aesthetics and history are two different things of course, and monuments in which they resonate together, as in the statue of the Unknown Soldier in Calcutta, are still rare. They are likely to grow rarer. The greatest achievement in this sphere recently has been the building of the tallest statue in the world, the Statue of Unity, meant to outdo the Statue of Liberty in height and metaphorical power. But unity is represented by a historical person, Vallabhbhai Patel, chosen by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led regime to overcome in people’s minds, by the force of sheer size, the legacy of Jawaharlal Nehru. Patel, the first deputy prime minister and home minister of independent India, had ensured the integration of 562 princely states with the Union. The statue, close to the Sardar Sarovar Dam, is invested with a political agenda and the desire to make an indelible impression on history. Even Ozymandias did not manage that; archaeologists were still discovering gigantic parts of his head and ear sunk in the groundwater in a Cairo slum in 2017. Predictably, the Statue of Unity lacks the symbolic resonance of the Statue of Liberty, or even of the wistful Little Mermaid in Copenhagen, an unmoving yet vibrant witness to a present remembering the past. The unprecedented tragedy in human lives for which the Narendra Modi-led government cannot escape much of the responsibility seems just the right time to recall the monuments and edifices being built to ensure the regime’s immortal presence, its ideological victories — and votes. The estimated cost of the statue is Rs 2,989 crore, an initial amount of which was raised by the Gujarat government, with a later allocation in the Union budget and contributions from public sector enterprises under corporate social responsibility. This particular dream of the former Gujarat chief minister and present prime minister came to fruition in 2018, without adequate environmental checks and amid adivasi protests regarding land rights, water supply and livelihood. It may be a passing irony that the 553 bronze panels covering its surface were cast in a foundry in China — obviously, the prime minister’s patriotic projects are exempt from ‘Make in India’ demands — but there is more. Patel banned the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh after Mahatma Gandhi’s murder. But his permission was not needed for the symbolic appropriation of his iconic status. The BJP is strong enough to unravel history through its impressive structures. That is more crudely evident in the building of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. There is nothing illegal about it. Is it a twist of history that the Ayodhya land title case was resolved before the case against the destroyers of Babri Masjid could be? A legal right grew out of organized vandalism although the accused were all subsequently acquitted. And now, ignoring the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 that forbids changing the status quo of any shrine after August 15, 1947 with the sole exception of the Babri Masjid, the sites of the Gyanvapi mosque adjacent to the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi and the Shahi Idgah mosque next to the Krishna Janmabhoomi temple in Mathura are being demanded by majoritarian groups. Edifices not of faith but of force are expected to change the course of history and culture together. That is why the display of political force finds priority over all else. The prime minister may be blind to the hellish sight of overflowing crematoriums and deaf to the agony of the people who elected him because all he can see is the blueprint of his beloved Central Vista and all he can hear is the music of construction in progress. Work on the new Parliament complex, the estimated cost of which is Rs 20,000 crore, cannot be stopped just because thousands are dying daily from a highly contagious viral infection. Hospitals are running out of beds, oxygen is frighteningly scarce, drugs like remdesivir seem to have vanished, and the Centre is yet to complete its project of 162 new oxygen plants at Rs 201 crore. Building the Central Vista is an ‘essential service’. So, 180 passes under this head have been issued to ferry workers to and fro from the spot, although the lockdown guidelines in Delhi stipulate that there can be no construction unless the workers live on-site. Some workers, employed by sub-contractors, are frightened but cannot leave because they claim they have not received their wages. Anxiety for families at home, fear for themselves should they fall sick and insecure finances do not matter to a government that must fulfil its dream. Prisons can be without bars. The unforgettable fable-maker who would have turned 100 tomorrow captured this in the scene of the diamond mine in his 1980 film, Hirak Rajar Deshe. The suffering, fear and grief the country is going through at the moment is not the way we would have ever wanted to celebrate his centenary. Yet we celebrate him, willy-nilly, because words and scenes and songs force themselves upon our memory. At the point when Udayan, the teacher in the pathshala of Hirak Rajar Deshe, is explaining to his pupils why a king who is his subjects’ enemy is the most dangerous of creatures, the education minister comes with his retinue to shut down the class for good. Hirak Raja hates learning: it makes people disobedient and questioning. All that the children must know, Udayan is forced to make his pupils repeat, is that the king is god. But the school will open again, he promises them. Fulfilling that promise requires the magic, delightful antics and, ultimately, the courage and canniness of Goopy and Bagha. So when Udayan and his pupils are captured and pushed into the brain-washing room, the king’s most treasured weapon of compliance, the magaj-dholai mantra has been quietly disabled. Goopy appears, singing the king and his courtiers into paralysed submission, telling the king how he has gone beyond all bounds in his misuse of power, starved the poor and brought great calamity to the land. Only then does Udayan come out, leading the young to the king’s gigantic new statue in the middle of a field, where the people join them to pull it down. The king does too. Looking at the tragedy around us, such magic seems rather far away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-33
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Patient dies at Dhanbad hospital, negligence alleged ||The family members of a 49-year-old Eastern CoalFields Limited employee who died during the course of treatment at Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Super speciality Hospital, on Saturday staged a demonstration at the hospital campus alleging medical negligence. The protesting members claimed that the deceased, Sanjay Singh of Kumbardubi area of Dhanbad, was treated as a Covid patient before the test results that lead to his death. The hospital administration also charged Rs 1.5 lakh for five days of treatment. A team of officers from Dhanbad Sadar Police pacified the family members of the deceased assuring them of a fair probe of the incident. One of the family members of Sanjay Singh, said “We had admitted our patient in the hospital on April 26 and hospital authorities claimed that his Covid test would be conducted on April 28 but the Covid test was not conducted and he was administered Remedesivir without the test confirming him to be affected with Covid due to which he died.” “When we sought the Covid report from the hospital after the death of the patient, we were not provided with the report and instead the doctors fled the hospital confirming our doubt,” said the relative. “We are not going to spare the hospital administration and will lodge an FIR against the hospital administration holding them accountable for murder,” fumed the relative. This is the third such incident of allegation of medical negligence by family members at a private hospital. On April 26, three persons died due to Covid in a private hospital, Pragati Nursing Home, after which the family members of all three gathered at the hospital charging medical negligence. On April 14, a 55-year-old Covid patient also died during the course of treatment after which the family members of the deceased staged a demonstration outside the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel starts Labour Day sale on e-learning platform||Tata Steel on Saturday announced a Digie-Shala “Labour Day Flash Sale Offer” on its learning products to celebrate the achievements of workers across the world. Digie-Shala is an intrapreneurial venture by Tata Steel which aims at educating students, working professionals for gaining the skills and knowledge required to excel in their careers. The offer began at 12 noon on Saturday and will be on till 11.59 pm of May 2. For availing the offer one can visit the website at www.capabilitydevelopment.org . There are several exciting offers on e-learning courses - technical and managerial - which can be availed during this offer period, said a company spokesperson. The courses are designed to help people understand the work environment of any industry and develop skills, with verified e-certificates given by Tata Steel. Some of these e-learning courses are on Industry 4.0, Total Quality Management, Advanced Excel, Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs), Primary Steel Making, Industrial Engineering, etc. Tata Steel Assessment Services (TSAS) will also be available at an offer price to help any person get assessed in their core competency skills and build upon their gaps, if any. New packages have also been compiled for the benefit of individuals. Additionally, Tata Steel Digie-Shala will be conducting a ‘Labour's Day Quiz’ on all its social media platforms. The winner of each day’s quiz will win exciting gifts and vouchers. "Anyone can participate by following us on our Tata Steel Digie-Shala handles on Facebook, Instagram, or LinkedIn, "added the spokesperson. The event is expected to attract wide participation of visitors from all walks of life, including students from schools / colleges and working professionals from anywhere in the world. These services will help make the youth industry ready in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Four from Jharkhand become national chess arbiters ||Four new chess arbiters have emerged from Jharkhand with Soukhin Pramanick (Dhanbad) and Priyanka Kumari (Dumka) as the first women to be certified senior national arbiters. The two, along with Vikram Kumar (Seraikela-Kharsawan)and Dhanbad’s Binod Kumar Saw, cleared the senior national arbiter examination conducted on a digital platform by the All India Chess Federation (AICF) on April 24 and 25. The four join Jayant Kumar Bhuyan (international arbiter), Vishal Kumar Minz, Chandan Kumar Prasad (all from East Singhbhum), Deepak Kumar (Ranchi), Prabhat Ranjan Kumar, Neeraj Kumar Mishra (both from Dhanbad) and Prabhu Nath Sah (Hazaribag) as arbiters. Expressing its satisfaction at the development, All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master, said it was good that women from the state were also becoming arbiters. “We are hopeful more women will be added to the list. We congratulate the arbiters who cleared the examination,” he added. With chess having a solid footing in Jharkhand, more candidates are set to clear the national arbiter examination. A wide section of players from the state have proved their mettle in national competitions and have a good understanding of the game. Some of these players would like to become arbiters and conduct tournaments in future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Mango sales in steel city hit by Covid curbs||Mango, popularly known as the king of fruits, has few takers during its peak season with the restrictions imposed across the state during `health safety week’ till May 6. The streets wear a deserted look with very few out on the streets as the movement of people and operation of markets are following strict norms with Covid cases surging across the state. As a result of the lockdown, the sale of mangoes has nosedived much to the chagrin of fruit sellers who had stocked up Banginapalli and Ghulab Khas or Sindhura in large quantities. “I used to sell mangoes ranging from Rs 7,000 to 8,000 earlier. The sale proceeds should have been more or less similar during this peak season. But now the sale has come down to Rs 1,000 to 1,500 daily. Very few people are coming out of their homes in view of the lockdown and fear of infection,” rued Md. Afroz, a fruit seller in Bistupur. Roshan Kumar, a fruit seller in Sakchi, said during summer people generally prefer venturing to the markets in the evening but the prevailing situation has confined them indoors. “Moreover, we have to wind up our operations by 2 pm. My sale has dropped and I am incurring losses,” he added. At present, two varieties of mango – Banginapalli and Ghulab Khas – are available in steel city markets. Both are selling at Rs 120 a kg. Fruit sellers complained that they have to make payments to the wholesalers but the drop in sales is making things difficult. “There has been bumper harvesting of mangoes this season. However, the fruit is not attracting customers in view of the prevailing situation. It is very difficult to sustain in these uncertain times,” said Shaqueel Ahmed, a fruit seller in Golmuri. “Covid infection is not getting contained. I am quite sure the lockdown will get extended, which will compound our woes,” said Md. Aftab, a fruit seller in Ranikudar. “I love mangoes but am yet to get a taste of it this time. I have stopped going to the market for buying essentials. It would be a risky affair to go out in the open, especially markets. I am sure the lockdown would get further extended since the Covid situation is still not in control,” said Mrityunjay Singh, a resident of Sakchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||BIT-Sindri alumnus donates $1 million to PM Cares Fund for Covid crisis||A US based BIT Sindri alumnus, Dr K.P. Singh, the founder of a multinational company, has donated $ 1 million to the BIT Sindri Alumnus Association of North America to transfer to the PM Cares Fund in an effort to help the nation’s healthcare system crippled by the Covid-19 pandemic. Singh is the founder of Holtec International, a supplier of equipment for the energy industry. He has studied both MS in Engineering (1969) and PhD in Mechanical Engineering from University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (1972). Singh has also decided to fund a 100 bed hospital at his native place of Barahiya in Bihar. During his visit to BIT Sindri in 2018, he promised to build a tech center with comparable level of funding to that of University of Pennsylvania if BIT became a central government funded institute. BIT Sindri director, D.K. Singh, said, “K.P. Singh has also decided to help fund the appointment of five adjunct professors at BIT Sindri including their travel expense.” BIT Sindri training and placement officer, Ghanshyam Rai, said, “We as part of the institute express our sincere thanks to the help extended during the pandemic by a BIT Sindri Alumnus based in America.” President of BITSAANA, Anil Singh, appealed to all members to make an effort to make BIT Sindri a central government funded institute. BIT Sindri Alumnus Association has 24 national chapters and seven international chapters, spread across the world  and its members work continuously to reinstate the glory of its alma mater to help the present students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand fails to launch mega jab drive, asks Centre for help ||Facing delay in vaccine supplies, Jharkhand, which could not launch the jab drive for people in the age-group of 18-44 years on Saturday, has sought Centre's intervention for facilitating procurement of at least 50 lakh vaccine doses, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said. The state had placed a demand for 50 lakh vaccine doses in advance to launch the vaccination campaign for the 1.57 crore population in the 18-44 age-bracket under the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 vaccination for which registration had commenced since April 28. "There are issues concerning supplies and we have written to the central government for facilitating procurement of at least 50 lakh doses," Hemant  told PTI. The CM said that the state was fully geared up to start the vaccination campaign as soon as it received the lot. "We hope to start vaccination for 18-44 once we start receiving the doses from both the manufacturers," he said. Hemant has already announced free vaccination for people in the younger age group. The state had placed orders with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India for 25 lakh doses of Covishield and with the Hyderabad based Bharat Biotech for another 25 lakh doses of Covaxin to launch the drive. Health Minister Banna Gupta told PTI, "We have placed an order for 50 lakh vaccine doses. They are saying that it will be supplied between May 15 and May 30.” "We are fully equipped to start the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44. If you give us vaccines today we will start the campaign from tomorrow." Gupta said the state has made arrangements for inoculation of about 4.5 lakh people a day. The minister said that 1.57 crore population in the state fell in the age group of 18-44 years, while the population of those above 45 years including frontline health workers was 83 lakh. Asked about the people vaccinated in the state so far, the minister said the first dose of vaccine has been administered to about 25 lakh people above the age of 45 years including health workers while the second shots have been given to about 4 lakh people. Chief Minister Soren, who himself recently took the first jab of the vaccine, urged people especially the elderly to come forward to take the vaccine. Meanwhile, the central government vide a letter has asked the state to directly procure vaccine doses from the manufacturers. "As you appreciate that the next phase of vaccination starting from May 1, 2021, the government of India has liberalised the process and provided more flexibility and control to the states. The states can now directly procure vaccine doses from the manufacturers. "We urge the state to plan vaccination drives according to the availability of doses and also to ensure that citizens are informed well in advance," Vikas Sheel, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare wrote to the state government. The letter mentions that 3.87 lakh doses of vaccine are likely to be available to the state in May. "...Based on discussions with the manufacturers of vaccines for facilitating a smooth roll out of the next phase of expanded vaccination programme in your state, 3,87,560 number of Covishield vaccine doses of Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune are likely to be available for your state, under the other than Government of India channel in the month of May 2021", the letter mentioned. It also said that the state may take necessary action to obtain supplies for commencing vaccination from May 1, 2021 as per policy guidelines issued by the Ministry. The Union Health Ministry on Saturday said over 79 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses are available with the states and Union territories and over 17 lakh doses will be supplied to them in the next three days. As per the government data, the centre has so far provided nearly 16.37 crore vaccine doses to states/UTs free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||State hospitals told to reserve 70% beds for Covid patients||The health department has asked all the government-run hospitals to reserve 70 per cent beds for Covid patients and also expressed the need to ensure similar reservations in private healthcare facilities owing to the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases across the state. In a letter addressed to all the Deputy Commissioner, Civil Surgeons, private hospitals and the director of Ranchi-based Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), the health department stated that the various healthcare facilities in Jharkhand need to increase the number of dedicated beds for Covid patients in order to deal with the rapidly rising cases of Coronavirus infection in the state. “Given the Covid-19 situation, it is imperative for all the government and private hospitals to keep at least 70 per cent of their beds reserved for Covid patients,” the letter stated. In an earlier directive in April, the health department had asked private hospitals to reserve 50 per cent of their total beds for Covid patients. However, the situation worsened since then, and the active caseload reached close to 60,000 in the state in no time, officials said. In the letter, which was addressed to all the hospitals and officials concerned on Friday evening, the health department also stated the need for setting up isolation wards for asymptomatic and mildly-symptomatic patients of Covid-19. “We need to set up isolation wards where Covid patients with normal oxygen level and mild to moderate symptoms can be kept,” the letter read. The health department has also directed all private and government hospitals to provide treatment to all the “presumptive” Covid patients even if their RT PCR test results did not confirm Coronavirus infection. Lately, several patients developed symptoms of the viral infection and needed hospitalisation even though their RT PCR tests came out negative. While the delay in the result of RT PCR tests was one of the reasons for keeping patients waiting for necessary treatments, doctors suggest that people with symptoms should start medications immediately without waiting for their RT PCR test results. In a statement issued in mid-April, the health department had admitted that mutated variants of the Coronavirus often succeeded in dodging RT PCR tests and could be detected through High Resolution Computed Tomography (HRCT). Following this finding, the state also fixed the price of HRCT tests in order to prevent exorbitant charges by private testing labs and clinics. According to the latest government data, at least 57,000 Jharkhand residents were battling the infection by Saturday morning. On an average, around 2000 patients were added to the active caseload every day in the past couple of weeks as fresh cases outnumbered recoveries. The state has also reported more than 100 deaths daily in the past one week, taking the Covid toll up at 2670.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid patients’ kin snatch oxygen cylinders in Palamau ||Relatives of Covid patients admitted in a hospital in Palamau district of Jharkhand barged into the storeroom and forcibly took away oxygen cylinders frustrated over the delay in getting them refilled. According to reports, over half a dozen relatives of Covid patients at the Medinirai Medical College and Hospital in Palamau had been waiting anxiously for the oxygen cylinders to be refilled since noon on Thursday. However, their patience ran out by evening when despite several attempts no action was allegedly taken by the hospital authorities to refill the cylinders. The patients’ relatives then walked to the storeroom of the hospital and created a ruckus over the delay in giving new oxygen cylinders in exchange for old cylinders. After a while they forcibly barged into the room and took away nearly a dozen cylinders and brought it to the Covid ward of the hospital for the patients. Hospital superintendent Dr K.N. Singh claimed the incident was a handiwork of some “mischievous” elements. “We do not give oxygen cylinders to relatives of patients. The cylinders are handed over to the staff after they produce a slip given from the (Covid) ward. However, the relatives wanted to take the cylinders themselves and had gone to the storeroom. Despite our best efforts, some mischievous elements do indulge in such types of acts,” said Dr Singh. The hospital official rejected claims that there was any shortage of oxygen cylinders at the hospital. Meanwhile, Palamau deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan has constituted an oxygen task force with the additional collector as the nodal officer to ensure regular supply of oxygen and cylinders by coordinating with the firms supplying oxygen cylinders to the hospitals and in the district so that there is no oxygen crisis in any hospital. The task force will also be monitoring the use and supply of oxygen cylinders at the Sadar Hospital which is the main storeroom. On Thursday, Jharkhand registered 5,961 new Covid cases taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 55,877. The state also recorded 145 deaths due to the virus taking the total number of casualties to 2,540. The state has a virus growth rate of 2.55 per cent, which is much higher than the national rate of 1.36 per cent. The recovery rate of Jharkhand is 74.31 per cent, which is much lower than the national average of 82.10 per cent. The mortality rate is also higher (at 1.11 per cent) than the national average of 1.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
01-05-2021||Jharkhand||Patient beaten by lockdown cops dies in Hazaribagh district||A 40-year-old man being taken for treatment died after he was allegedly thrashed by a police patrolling team for violation of lockdown norms in Hazaribagh district of Jharkhand on Thursday evening. The incident occurred near Basria Road under Chouparan police station. Irate villagers of Karma blocked the road in protest against the death of Chakkan Bhuiyan who was being taken on a bike by his brother and his wife to neighbouring Koyali Kalan village. “The police patrolling party came towards us and started asking us why we were moving about in violation of lockdown norms. Before we could explain anything they started beating Chakkan and we fled from the spot out of fear. We were taking him to Chouparan for a medical check-up,” said Chakkan’s brother Shankar. People are prohibited from moving out after 3pm except for emergencies and medical reasons because of the lockdown-like restrictions in force in Jharkhand since April 22. After the police left, Chakkan’s brother and wife returned to the spot and found him unconscious. When they tried to bring him back to his senses, they realised he was dead. The irate villagers then blocked the road demanding action against the police. The protesters lifted the blockade only after receiving an assurance from Hazaribagh superintendent of police Karthik S. “We have ordered a magistrate-level inquiry along with the post-mortem of the deceased. We have also sent the patrolling team head Pradeep Kumar who was accused of beating the man to the police barrack. However, the police team claimed that shops in the area were kept open in violation of the lockdown norms till 8pm. When they tried to close down the shops, there was a stampede in which the 40-year-old man fell down from the bike leading to his death. We are awaiting the magistrate’s report and the post-mortem to find out the exact cause,” the SP said. Local police, however, denied the victim was beaten up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-67
