02-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: EC issues Covid guidelines for 11 counting centres||The counting of votes of 16 Assembly constituencies in and around Calcutta will be carried out at 11 counting centres in the city on Sunday.  The Election Commission of India has issued a set of guidelines for maintaining Covid-19 protocol at the counting centres. Here is the detail of the restrictions and arrangements at the city counting centres: Counting starts at: 8am List of counting centres in Calcutta and the respective Assembly constituencies whose votes will be counted there: ⚫ Netaji Indoor Stadium: Chowringhee, Entally, Beleghata, Jorasanko and Shyampukur Assembly constituencies ⚫ Dinabandhu Andrew’s College: Jadavpur Assembly constituency ⚫ Hastings House Complex: Tollygunge Assembly constituency ⚫ David Hare Training College: Ballygunge Assembly constituency ⚫ Ballygunge Government High School: Rashbehari Assembly constituency ⚫ Shakhawat memorial Government Girls Higher Secondary School: Bhowanipore Assembly constituency ⚫ St Thomas Boys High School: Kolkata Port Assembly constituency ⚫ Gitanjali Stadium: Kasba Assembly constituency ⚫ Bratachari Vidyashram Higher Secondary School: Behala (East) Assembly constituency ⚫ Vivekananda College: Behala (West) Assembly constituency ⚫ Rabindra Bharati University: Maniktala and Cossipore-Belgachia Assembly constituencies. Covid-19 Protocol at the counting centres on May 2: ⚫ No candidate or agent or counting officials will be allowed inside the counting centres without producing negative reports for RT-PCR/Rapid Antigen Test or certificate of two doses of vaccination against Covid-19 ⚫ No one, including political party cadres, will be allowed within the 100-metre periphery of the counting centres. The 100-metre no-entry zone will be demarcated ⚫ Public gathering will not be allowed even outside the 100 metres of the counting centres ⚫ No one having fever or Covid-19-like symptoms will be allowed inside the counting centre. ⚫ Not more than two persons will be allowed to accompany the winning candidates to receive the certificate from the returning officer ⚫ Mask and use of hand sanitisers will be mandatory ⚫ No victory procession shall be allowed outside the counting centres. Police arrangements ⚫ Police will barricade the 100-metre zone around counting centres ⚫ Only those with cards issued by the ECI will be allowed inside the centres ⚫ No electronic gadgets mobile phones, cameras and tripods will be allowed inside the counting centres ⚫ The outer periphery, outside the 100-metre zone, will be manned by city police while the inner ring, just outside the entrance of the counting centres, will be manned by the central forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
02-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: St Xavier’s College to remain closed till May 9||St Xavier’s College will remain closed at least till May 9 because of the pandemic. Till April 30 the students were allowed to visit college offices for urgent works like collecting marksheets, degree certificates, letters of  recommendation, character certificates, getting the attestation done during the office hours on Tuesdays and Thursdays. To facilitate this all offices were functioning with 30 per cent staff strength. Visitors were also being allowed entry. Principal Father Dominic Savio said they had decided to close the college to all visitors for some time. “It is being feared that the situation will further worsen in May. Nobody should venture out and expose themselves to any kind of assembly at a time when the cases could peak. We will review the situation,” said Father Dominic Savio. The college has been closed for in-person classes from March last year as a precaution against Covid. “All offices, labs, libraries and other facilities will remain shut. The decision to reopen the college after May 9 will be taken according to how the situation develops at that time,” says the notice. St Xavier’s College has brought forward the last day of classes for arts and science students to May 10 from May 20 and deferred the online examinations due in May “in order to give some breathing space to the students in the present Covid-situation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
02-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal partial lockdown: No bar on grocery stores,  cap on gathering ||The 7am-10am and 3pm-5pm windows of opening hours applicable to bazaars and haats are applicable for all “retail and stand-alone” shops, a state government notification said on Saturday. “Outlets providing services related to health care, electricity, telecom, transport, grocery, sweets, meat shops and milk supply” have been kept out of the embargo. The Bengal government ordered malls, cinemas, bars and restaurants indefinitely closed from Friday evening. Bazaars and haats can stay open “only during 7-10am and 3-5pm”, a notification from the chief secretary said. The Saturday notice also put a cap of 50 persons on marriage and other social gatherings. Snippets from the city on the first day of the renewed curbs. Markets Considerable rush was spotted in Maniktala and Gariahat market even after 10am. Several people who came for buying fruits, vegetables and meat, claimed they were not aware of the curb. Police officers used loudhailers inside marketplaces to announce the government’s restrictions. Senior police officers said all the police stations have been instructed to communicate with the local market associations and convey the new timings that were announced by the state government on Friday evening. “It will take a day or two for people to understand and follow the pattern. The biggest challenge will be to maintain social distancing when the markets will open only for two hours in morning and afternoon,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Restaurants The restaurants were shut for visitors. Some had posters pasted on their walls saying “only takeaway and online orders”. A fear of a prolonged lockdown like last year, lurked in the minds of restaurateurs and people who work there. “This (partial lockdown) was inevitable, the way cases were going up. I could see this coming. Business had started dipping since the second week of April. Naturally, there is fear of a sustained shutdown among the workers,” said a Park Street restaurateur. The owner of another restaurant in south Calcutta said he would send workers from other states on a “paid leave for 10-12 days”. The restaurant owners said they will bleed again if the shutdown continued for over a month. Malls The groceries sections of the Spencer’s hypermarkets were open at malls, which otherwise wore a deserted look. “The groceries sections will continue to remain open according to normal business hours. The delivery system is also in operation,” said an official of Spencer’s. Around 12.15pm, the only persons in multiple floors of the sprawling South City Mall were guards and employees of some stores. “They had come for internal operations in the wake of the state government order,” said an official of the mall. The malls had also been witnessing a dip in footfall over the past month. “The Bengali New Year footfall was also on the lower side. But post April 15, the footfall dropped sharply,” said an official of a mall in south Calcutta. Liquor stores Standalone liquor shops can carry on with sales from 7-10am and 3-5pm, an excise official said. But most store owners said shops were unlikely to start business before 9am. “The 3pm to 5pm slot is what we are looking at for business,” said the owner of a store in central Calcutta. The online delivery of booze will, however, continue throughout the day. “Even if shops are shut for off-counter sale, the delivery partners will be able to come and pick up orders,” said the owner of a liquor store in south Calcutta. Hawkers Many hawkers in Gariahat had kept their stalls opened well beyond 10am. According to the chief secretary’s notification, standalone shops were expected to follow the two windows (7am to 1am and 3pm to 5pm) of bazaars and haats. From 11.30am, cops from Gariahat police station used hailers to urge the traders to shut shop. By 12.30pm, the stalls were shut. An officer said Saturday was the first day of the curbs and the police wanted to raise awareness among the traders. “The enforcement will be stricter in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
02-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Can’t evict patients who test positive during their stay, hospitals told||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission has said all private hospitals are “duty-bound” to treat any non-Covid patient admitted to their hospitals, who subsequently test positive for Covid-19, during their stay at the hospital. In an audio message posted on a Whatsapp group of private hospitals on Friday, the commission’s chairperson, retired judge Ashim Banerjee, said he had come to know about a case where a patient’s family was asked to shift the patient to another hospital after the patient tested positive for Covid-19. The patient had been admitted with other ailments and was not Covid positive during the admission. “A patient was under treatment in a private health sector receiving treatment for non-Covid disease. In course of treatment, he developed Covid symptoms and was ultimately found to be positive. The hospital is refusing to extend their help to the patient and has asked the patient party to take the patient to some other set-up,” the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission chairperson, said in the audio message. According to the audio message, the hospital group that refused to treat the patient has more than one hospital in the city. “It is the duty of the hospital to see that the patient is cured. Patient is admitted in your hospital. You have other set-up which is catering the needs of Covid patients. Hence, it is your duty to see that the patient is treated. If it is not possible in your establishment shift to your other branch, get him treated for Covid and take him back for other treatment. But you cannot say take your patient back. This is wrong,” Banerjee said in the message. Banerjee later told Metro on Saturday that there was a system for the government hospitals under which anyone, who was admitted with some other ailments and tested positive later in a government-run hospital, was shifted to a Covid hospital run by the government.  After getting cured the patient was taken back to the first hospital for treatment of the other ailment. “Suppose someone tested positive for Covid-19 at SSKM Hospital, where he was admitted for treatment of some ailment. During his stay at SSKM the person tested positive. SSKM would send the patient to the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital for treatment of Covid. When the person recovers from Covid, SSKM Hospital would bring him back to treat the other ailment,” Banerjee said. The chairperson also said if a private hospital did not have Covid treatment facilities then it must arrange for the person’s hospitalisation in a hospital where Covid patients were treated. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury acknowledged the problem of refusal by some hospitals to treat patients who had tested positive for Covid while they were undergoing treatment for other diseases in these hospitals. “I came to know of a patient who was almost forcibly sent out of a hospital because the patient had tested positive for Covid. This cannot be done. This is a problem encountered by many,” he said. Chowdhury, too, said it was responsibility of the hospital to treat the patient. “The hospital has to treat the patient or ensure the patient’s admission in another hospital where necessary care for patient can be given,” he said. Several complaints of hospitals refusing to treat any patient who tested positive for Covid had emerged during the first wave of the pandemic last year. The commission had also asked private hospitals at that time to treat a Covid patient or take responsibility to shift the patient to a hospital where such patients were treated. Covid facility The youth hostel inside the Salt Lake stadium is being converted into a 250-bed Covid facility and operations will start from Monday, an official of the stadium said. The stadium's youth hostel will function as a satellite unit of the AMRI Hospitals Salt Lake and operations have been planned on a PPP model.  Surojit Roy the CEO of the Salt Lake stadium said that the existing facilities at the youth hostel that has large dormitories which are being retrofitted to accommodate Covid-19 patients. Piped oxygen lines are also being installed, the official said. An official of the AMRI Hospitals, said that they will begin operations in a phased manner. "From Monday we will have 50 functional beds. The location is also ideal for us as our hospital is located right opposite," said the official. All 250 beds are expected to be functional by next week, the official said. Once functional the Salt Lake Stadium would be the third stadium in West Bengal to double up as a health centre. The renowned Eden Gardens had served as a safe house for police personnel while the newly built Kishore Bharati Krirangan continues to is a Covid-19 centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
02-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: IIT Kharagpur announces interim semester break for first-year students ||IIT Kharagpur has announced an interim semester break for the first-year students because of the increasing severity of the pandemic. As Covid-19 cases continued to surge, a section of students is “stressed” and not being able to “concentrate on online lectures, tests and assignments”. A Facebook post by the institute’s director V. K. Tewari on Saturday says: “A semester break for first-year undergraduate students will be given from 1st May to 16th May. No classes and tests will be held for first-year students during this period”. The spring semester started from March 30. First-year spring semester will end in the first week of July, instead of the last week of June following the introduction of the interim break. According to an official of the institute, family members of many first-year students got affected following the fresh wave of Covid and this posed challenges to the students in coping up with their academics. “They have said in their appeals to the authorities that their learning abilities are getting severely impacted due to the current scenario,” said the official. The students, he said, felt that an interim break in the semester might give some relief and provide them time to consolidate things until the medical situation was stable. Some of the teachers have also tested positive. At IIT, the stay on the recall of the research scholars has been extended for another fortnight. In mid April, the recall was stayed till early May because of the pandemic situation on the campus and across the country. Repeated calls to director Tewari went unanswered. St Xavier’s College had earlier this week deferred all online semester exams “given the increasing gravity of the pandemic situation” that has led to a scenario where students are struggling “to concentrate on classes and prepare for examinations”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-66
02-05-2021||Business||GST collections hit record high of Rs 1.41 lakh crore in April||The Goods and Services Tax collections in April touched an all time high of over Rs 1.41 lakh crore. However, analysts expect collections to fall in the coming months because of regional lockdowns in the country. The revenues for the month of April 2021 are 14 per cent higher than Rs 1.23 lakh crore collected in March, the finance ministry said on Saturday. During the month, revenues from domestic transactions (including import of services) are 21 per cent higher over the last month. M.S. Mani, senior director, Deloitte India, said: “The all-time high collections which relates to supplies made in March 21 could now give way to muted collections in the coming months because of lower economic activity in April. The continuing focus on improving compliance and the steps taken to curb evasion have significantly helped the GST collections.” “GST revenues have not only crossed the Rs 1 lakh crore mark successively for the last seven months but have also shown a steady increase,” the ministry said. Rajat Bose, partner at Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said: “The collections for April represent the tax collected towards transactions done in the month of March 2021. Since it is the year end, most companies close their books and raise invoices during the financial close. That is perhaps one of the reasons for the spurt in GST collections in April. The real challenge lies ahead as most parts of the country are again in a lockdown and most industries are temporarily shut.” Gross GST revenue collected in the month of April 2021 is at a record high of Rs 1,41,384 crore, of which CGST is Rs 27,837 crore, SGST Rs 35,621 crore, IGST Rs 68,481 crore, (including Rs 29,599 crore collected on import of goods) and cess Rs 9,445 crore (including Rs 981 crore collected on import of goods). Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, said: “The all time high GST collections are extremely encouraging and seem to be the outcome of an uptick in economic recovery and anti evasion measures of the government such as e invoicing, data analytics led investigations and also year end audit and financial closure of the companies as on March 2021. However, the collections may experience a decline in the coming months.” The finance ministry has released in advance to the states the first instalment of Rs 8,873.6 crore of the state disaster response fund (SDRF) for the current fiscal. Up to 50 per cent of the amount released, which is Rs 4,436.8 crore, can be used by the states for Covid-19 containment measures. Normally, the first instalment of SDRF is released in June. “However, in relaxation of normal procedure, not only has the release of SDRF been advanced, the amount has also been released without waiting for the utilisation certificate of the amount provided to the states in the last financial year,” the ministry said. The funds from the SDRF may be used by the states for various measures related to the containment of Covid-19, including meeting the cost of oxygen generation and storage plants in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
02-05-2021||Business||Government extends timelines for tax compliance till May 31||The government on Saturday extended timelines for various income tax compliances, including the filing of belated or revised returns for 2019-20, till May 31. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said it had received representations from various stakeholders for relaxation on compliance requirements because of the ongoing pandemic situation. Tax experts, however, said the extension was “unrealistic” given the lockdown and the intensity of the pandemic. Narayan Jain, advocate and chairman, CCI Professionals Forum, said, “Considering the serious nature of the second wave of the coronavirus, the time should be extended till July 31 instead of May 31. During May, most business houses as well offices of tax professionals will not function because of the lockdowns all over the country.” Nangia & Co LLP partner Shailesh Kumar said: “These relaxations bring relief. However, if the Covid situation does not improve in the next two weeks, the government may need to extend these timelines further.” Appeals to the Commissioner (Appeals) under Chapter XX of the Act, for which the last date of filing is April 1, or thereafter, may be filed within the time provided under that Section or by May 31, 2021, whichever is later. Similar extensions have also been given to the filing of objections to the Dispute Resolution Panel (DRP) under Section 144C of the Act and income tax return filing in response to notice under Section 148 of the Act. Filing of belated returns under sub-section (4) and revised return under sub-section (5) of Section 139 for assessment year 2020-21, which was required to be submitted on or before March 31, may be filed on or before May 31. Payment of tax deducted under Section 194-IA, Section 194-IB and Section 194M, and filing of challan-cum-statement for such tax deducted, which are required to be paid and furnished by April 30,  may be done on or before  May 31. The statement in Form No. 61, containing particulars of declarations received in Form No. 60, which is due to be furnished on or before April 30, may be done on or before  May 31, the official release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
02-05-2021||Business||Auto firms log subdued sales in April amid Covid-19||Major automobile manufacturers Maruti Suzuki, Hyundai Motor, Tata Motors and Kia on Saturday reported a decline in passenger vehicle sales in April compared with March this year as the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic hit dispatches. However, Mahindra & Mahindra along with Honda Cars India posted a sequential growth in their passenger vehicle sales in April. Sales in April this year are not comparable with that of the corresponding month a year ago as companies had reported zero sales because of the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) reported a 4 per cent decline in total sales to 1,59,691 units in April compared with 1,67,014 units in March this year. Similarly, Hyundai Motor India’s total sales declined 8 per cent to 59,203 units from 64,621 units sold in March this year. Tata Motors said its passenger vehicle sales in the domestic market stood at 25,095 units in April, down 15 per cent from 29,654 units in March this year. However, Mahindra & Mahindra said its passenger vehicles sales in the domestic market stood at 18,285 units last month, up 9 per cent from 16,700 units in March 2021. Honda Cars India also reported a 28 per cent increase in its domestic sales to 9,072 units last month compared with 7,103 units in March this year. Toyota Kirloskar’s dispatches to the dealers last month stood at 9,622 units. Kia India reported a 16 per cent decline in dispatches to 16,111 units in April, while MG Motor India’s retail sales last month stood at 2,565 units.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
02-05-2021||Business||SBI cuts home loan interest rate to 6.70%||The State Bank (SBI) has reduced interest rates on housing loans to 6.70 per cent. The lender will now offer an interest rate of 6.70 per cent for loans up to Rs 30 lakh and 6.95 per cent for loans of Rs 30-75 lakh. The new rate structure will become effective from May 1. The bank had earlier offered home loans at an interest rate starting from 6.70 per cent till March 31, 2021. However, from April 1, it had restored the original interest rates beginning from 6.95 per cent. According to the bank’s website, the effective rate for a new home loan (for salaried borrowers) of up to Rs 30 lakh will be 6.80 per cent, 7.05 per cent for loans between Rs 30-75 lakh and 7.15 per cent for housing loans above Rs 75 lakh. SBI will offer a concession of five basis points to women borrowers and a similar relief for loan applications through its YONO app. If both are applied, the lowest rate offered is 6.70 per cent. The move comes at a time regional lockdowns have affected credit growth. According to RBI data, non-food bank credit growth fell to 4.9 per cent in March 2021 from 6.7 per cent in March 2020. There was a slowdown in personal loans growth as well, which fell to 10.2 per cent in March 2021 from 15 per cent a year ago. Home loans grew 9 per cent from 15.4 per cent a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
02-05-2021||India||CPI(M) fights many battles to retain power in Kerala||If the April 6 assembly poll was an existential struggle for the opposition Congress- led UDF, it was nothing but a chance to script history for the ruling CPI(M)-headed LDF by bucking the over four decade-old trend of alternate front governments in Kerala. When the Left Democratic Front seems to be heading for a clean sweep and retaining power, it scripteda new chapter in the state's electoral history and also ensured that the red flag will continue to fly in the lone Left bastion in the country. Though the official announcement is yet to be made, the CPI(M) led LDF has won 70 seats of the total of 140 and is reportedly leading in 29, while Congress-headed UDF opposition has won 32 and is leading in nine. The BJP led NDA has drawn a blank. Befitting reply to Congress and BJP “The historic victory is a recognition of the LDF government’s five year rule. It is the people’s victory. They trusted us and we trusted them. The election was a big political fight forus,” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in Kannur. With this victory, the CPI(M) has given a befitting reply to the opposition Congress and BJP, which had often taken swipes at the Marxist party, saying it would be wiped out from Kerala like in West Bengal and Tripura after the assembly election and Pinarayi Vijayan would be the country's last Communist Chief Minister. Through the results, the marxist party decimated its traditional political rival-- Congress from the state’s political landscape. Not a cakewalk victory But the victory was not handed over on a silver platter to the Left party and the front as they had to battle a plethora of negative factors, including corruption charges, the arrest of its former party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son in money laundering and narcotic case and the incumbency factor to get the desired results. The gold smuggling case, relating to the seizure of about 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore from a diplomatic baggage on July5 last year, had rattled the government for days as fingers were pointed at the ChiefMinister’s office. The dollar case, an offshoot of the gold case, relates to the alleged smuggling of USD 1,90,000 (equivalentto Rs 1.30 crore) by a former finance head of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram to Muscat in Oman. Though the central agencies probing the two cases had arrested Vijayan’s close confidante and former principal secretary M Sivasankar, which had cast a shadow over the ruling party’s hopes of retaining power, the resounding victory in the recently concluded civic polls reinfused confidence in the CPI(M). If the gold and dollar smuggling cases were unexpected weapons for the opposition to pin the government and CPI(M) ahead of the polls, the Marxist party used the opportunity to play a victim card, claiming that their government was subjected to a never before witch hunt by the central agencies and the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. The Sabarimala women’s entry issue had pushed the ruling party into a deep political crisis three years ago as the government faced stiff opposition from right wing groups against the latter's decision to implement the 2018 apex court verdict, permitting women of all age groups into the hill shrine. When the CPI(M) and the LDF had suffered mass drubbing during the last Lok Sabha polls and had to be satisfied with only one seat, the political rivals wrote off the Left party, saying that it would be difficult for them to resurrect. Rising like a phoenix But the CPI(M)-headed front proved its detractors wrong and rose like a phoenix by winning a series of Assembly bypolls and the resounding victory in the December civic polls. The leadership of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the party’s senior politburo member and the longest serving secretary of the party's state unit, was one of the major factors considered to have helped CPI(M) achieve this historic success. Though he was initially criticised for his party secretary-like ruling style, Vijayan managed to create a mass leader image later through various welfare schemes, empathetic approach towards marginalised sections and effective interventions when the state was struck by calamities like the 2018 floods, which was the worstin a century,Ockhi cyclone, the Nipah outbreak and the COVID-19 pandemic. It may be for the first time in its history that the CPI (M) in Kerala had faced an election more projecting and branding an individual than focussing on its policies. The critical stand adopted by the CPI(M) and the Chief Minister, against the BJP and RSS seemed to have helped it win the confidence of the minority community, especially Muslims, who are dominant in the northern districts of the state. Traditionally, the minorities used to rally behind the Congress-UDF during elections, but a change in this trend was evident in many constituencies this time. The Marxist party also took on the Congress-UDF for its alleged soft approach towards the right wing parties, thus creating an image that they were the only party which stood strongly with the minorities. Cashing on CAA and ‘Love Jihad’ The CPI(M) also tried to cash in on their fears and concerns on various issues like Constitutional Amendment Act and ‘Love Jihad’ row, kicked up by the BJP. By accepting the Kerala Congress(M), the long-term partner of the UDF, which has a strong presence in Central Kerala, in its fold, the Marxist party made deep inroads into the Christian community, which comprises 18.38 per cent of Kerala's total population. Populist poll promises like pension for homemakers, raising of conventional welfare pension and distributing provision kits to all ration card holders seems to have worked in favour of the ruling party and front in the crucial assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
02-05-2021||India||Kerala polls: Vijayan rewarded for his leadership during 2018 floods and now Covid||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan isn’t a magnetic orator who can whip a crowd into a frenzy. Still, Vijayan has pulled off a feat that the Marxist crowd-pullers of yesteryear were unable to achieve. He stayed in power for a full five years and has now won a second term in a state that’s notorious for changing political horses every five years. In fact, he made polling history by steering the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) to a back-to-back victory. It marked the first time an incumbent Kerala government won a second straight mandate in four decades. The election verdict marks voters’ approval of Vijayan’s management of extraordinary challenges like the Covid-19 pandemic, the Nipah virus outbreak and the 2018 Kerala floods. The way the 76-year-old political veteran from Dharmadam handled these challenges is the reason the public retained its faith in him. “He has won purely on performance and that is a huge change from all earlier elections,” says one political observer, who adds: “He has delivered and people know he has delivered.” As the pandemic peaked in other parts of India last year, Vijayan became famous as the only chief minister who was facing daily press conferences. Most of the time he looked down and read – occasionally mumbled -- statistics from the sheets of paper in front of him. But the low-key performances won public confidence in a way that no high-profile grandstanding could have done. At the other end of the spectrum, the BJP was out for a duck. Vijayan had said a week before the voting began that the BJP “had opened their first-ever account in Kerala” in 2016 and “this time around, we will close their account.” He was as good as his word. Even “Metroman” E. Sreedharan lost from the Palakkad constituency. The BJP controls the Palakkad municipality so it’s thought voters in the three adjoining panchayats that form part of the constituency voted against Sreedharan, who was so confident of winning he’d even rented a house in Palakkad. Possibly also CPM cadres were told to strategically switch votes to back the Congress to ensure Sreedharan’s defeat. Sreedharan had promised to bring more jobs to the constituency but he also stirred controversy over issues like love jihad during the campaign. The BJP lost its only foothold in Kerala when it came second in the Nemom seat in Thiruvananthapuram. That defeat has pushed the BJP’s veteran Kerala leader Kummanam Rajashekharan back into the political wilderness once again. For the Congress, which ran a lacklustre campaign, there isn’t much consolation to be derived from its showing. The party was, quite simply, unable to pick enough holes in the government’s Teflon-coated campaign. Political parties in Kerala kick off their campaign with state-wide rallies.  At its first rally, the Congress chose to attack the LDF government over the Sabarimala issue of women’s entry into the temple. But the LDF had long since backed away from its initial tough stance on Sabarimala and voters were aware of that. Sabarimala had ceased to be an issue. This became amply clear in this election when even the panchayats near Sabarimala voted for the LDF. The Congress made other mistakes too. Knowing that they were trailing in the polls, they roped in MP Shashi Tharoor to hold public meetings with groups like students and then assembled an election manifesto. But this was an election tactic that came way too late. The fact was the Congress had no innovative ideas to offer. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has represented the Puthuppally constituency for an amazing 50 years. He’s poised to win again but by a reduced margin. Chandy said he accepted the people’s verdict but termed the defeat “an unexpected loss”. Chandy talked about the need for corrective measures but ignored the fact that he and other ageing Congress leaders could be a large part of the party’s problems. By contrast, LDF candidates like the high-profile Health Minister K. K. Shailaja romped home by a huge margin. In many ways, Kerala has evolved in ways unmatched in other parts of the country. When the pandemic struck, it began distributing 280,000 meals daily to older folk and to others who were in financial difficulties. The state also organised anganwadi workers and others on a scale unequalled in the rest of the country to keep Covid-19 numbers down. Later, Covid-19 numbers rose but state government officials insisted that they were winning the most important battle by keeping fatality numbers at impressively low levels. Even now, as infection numbers soared, the state has been able to prevent the rush for beds seen in other parts of the country – although that’s now being strained. Kerala also ensured that it had enough oxygen when cases surged. The BJP, too, was unable to counter the impression that Vijayan was ruling with a firm, steady hand. The Central agencies came in recently and made arrests in the gold smuggling case. But finally, they had only confession statements uncorroborated by other evidence of corruption in the state government and Vijayan was able to paint the investigations as a bid by the Modi government to undermine the state government. Where has the government slipped up? It hasn’t been able to do very much about the state’s chronic unemployment programme. But then the opposition has offered even fewer ideas. At the end of the day, the state’s voters felt Vijayan was running a unified government and getting the cabinet to work together. Even on law and order, the LDF government has been able to keep its cadres under control. (It helps also that the CPI-M has a well-oiled machine on the ground). Vijayan’s public persona is of a tough strongman. In person, though, he’s low-key and doesn’t throw his weight around. Says an observer: “He is the captain of the ship. It’s not one-man rule. But there is control.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
02-05-2021||India||Covid: Vaccination for 18-45 age group to begin in Delhi from Monday||The third and the largest phase of vaccination, under which beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group will be given jabs against coronavirus, will begin here on Monday. Around 90 lakh people in this category will be eligible for the jabs. Five vaccination booths each have been set up at 77 schools for the inoculation exercise, an official said on Sunday. The government set up vaccination centres at schools to accommodate a high number of beneficiaries, he said. At present, jabs are being given to those aged above 45 at around 500 centres in the national capital. Pre-registration will be mandatory for beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group and there will be no walk-ins for this category for now, the official said. Three big private hospital chains Apollo, Fortis and Max have already started vaccinating people in the 18-45 age group at limited centres from Saturday. The Delhi government has placed orders for 1.34 crore vaccine doses with manufactures which will be delivered over the next three months. Of these, 67 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine are being procured from Pune-based Serum Institute of India. Officials had earlier said the first tranche of three lakh doses would reach Delhi in the first week of May. Around 1.5 crore people are targeted to be vaccinated in Delhi, of which 32 lakh have received at least one dose so far, they said. The Delhi government is taking the help of the voters' list to ascertain the number of eligible beneficiaries. According to it, there are around 60 lakh people aged above 45 years. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Thursday said a plan has been formulated to vaccinate all adults against coronavirus within the next three months. He had said everybody aged above 18 would be administered COVID-19 vaccines free of cost in Delhi. A government official had told that inoculation of the 18-45 age group is likely to have a moderate start and will be ramped up gradually. Vaccine will be delivered to the city government in phases. Private hospitals will have to procure vaccines directly from manufacturers, he had said. The Centre will continue to provide vaccine for those aged above 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
02-05-2021||India||BJP has met its match in Bengal and lost: Shashi Tharoor||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Sunday hailed Mamata Banerjee for her “spectacular victory” in the West Bengal Assembly polls. He said that said the BJP has met its match in Bengal and lost. Tharoor, who campaigned extensively for the United Democratic Front (UDF) in the Kerala polls, also expressed disappointment with the results in the state where the ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front was all set to retain power with a thumping mandate. “It’s a day of disappointment for many of my friends and colleagues in @INCKerala. You fought a good fight. The energy and commitment I've seen from you is the party's greatest strength,” Tharoor said. “We must not be disheartened. There is work ahead to renew and revive our party, and to serve the people,” he said in a series of tweets. Tharoor congratulated Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan “for his remarkable re-election, a first in 44 years”. “It is our duty to respect the confidence the people have shown in him and his government. In the fight against Covid and communalism, he (Vijayan) should have our support,”tweeted the MP from Thiruvananthapuram. Hailing Mamata Banerjee on the Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) performance in Bengal, Tharoor said on Twitter, “Congratulations to @MamataOfficial Mamata Banerjee on her spectacular victory over the forces of communalism and intolerance.” “The voters of Bengal (and especially Nandigram) have demonstrated where their hearts lie. The BJP has met its match in Bengal, and lost,” he tweeted. The TMC was ahead in 209 of the 292 seats in the West Bengal polls, way over the victory mark of 147. The BJP was leading on 80 seats. Tharoor also congratulated DMK chief M K Stalin on the “convincing and decisive” victory in Tamil Nadu polls. “All Congress workers are happy to be allied with a party that will restore good governance to Tamil Nadu. Together we must stand for co-operative federalism & #InclusiveIndia,” he said of the DMK-Congress alliance win. After a decade in opposition, the DMK was on course to capture power from the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu as per the trends made available for the 234 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
02-05-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait, 12 others booked for flouting Covid norms at farmers’ meet||The Haryana Police has registered a case against Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait and 12 others, who held a 'maha panchayat' in a village in Ambala, for allegedly violating prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPc, officials said on Sunday. Tikait and some other BKU leaders addressed the 'kisan mazdoor maha panchayat' in Dhurali village near Ambala Cantt on Saturday. Ratan Maan Singh, Baldev Singh and Jasmer Saini are among the other 12 farmer leaders who have been booked by the police. In view of a massive surge in coronavirus cases, the district magistrate had imposed Section 144, which bars assembly of four or more persons. The police said Assistant Sub-Inspector Chandi Singh had warned the BKU leaders not to hold the 'maha panchayat' as Section 144 was enforced in the district. "However, BKU leaders went ahead and organised the event, a senior police official said. Based on a complaint of the assistant sub-inspector, a case was registered against Tikait and 12 other farmer leaders. "They violated the orders under Section 144 as well as the orders duly promulgated by the public servant (district magistrate) under Section 188 of the IPC. The other provisions of IPC added in the FIR include Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), the police official said. Addressing the 'maha panchayat', Tikait, who is the national spokesperson of BKU, reiterated that the agitation against the Centre's new farm laws will continue till the time these legislations are repealed. He asked the farmers to prepare themselves for a long battle. The BKU leader also hit out at the government over its handling of the COVID crisis, saying various hospitals across the country are grappling with a severe shortage of medical oxygen. Talking to the media later, Tikait said during the event, farmers were told that they should take all the steps to protect themselves from the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
02-05-2021||India||Govt thinking of roping in medical, nursing graduates for pandemic duty||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reviewed various measures to augment human resources for effective management of the Covid-19 situation, discussing, among other ways, the possibility of incentivising medical and nursing college graduates for joining the pandemic duty. The final details are likely to be announced on Monday, they added. "Decisions may include delaying NEET and incentivizing MBBS pass-outs studying for it to join the Covid-19 duty. The decisions may also include utilising services of final-year MBBS and nursing students," a government source added. The medical personnel doing the Covid-19 duty may be given preference in the government recruitment and financial incentives as well, the source said. The review meeting took place amid reports of healthcare personnel feeling overwhelmed in some parts of the country due to the surge in the Covid-19 cases, with testing facilities also being under a strain. Following multiple meetings held by Modi on Sunday to review the Covid-19 situation, a statement said the government has also explored the feasibility of conversion of existing nitrogen plants to produce oxygen, and various such potential industries where the existing nitrogen plants may be spared for production of oxygen were identified. After a meeting on the usage of gaseous oxygen, the government noted that many industries like steel plants, refineries with petrochemical units, industries using rich combustion processes and power plants among others have oxygen plants that produce gaseous oxygen. "This oxygen can be tapped for medical use," it said. The strategy being used is to identify industrial units which produce gaseous oxygen of requisite purity, shortlist those which are closer to cities, dense areas and demand centres and establish temporary Covid care establishments with oxygenated beds near that source. A pilot for five such facilities had already been initiated, and there is good progress on this, the government said, adding that this is being accomplished through PSUs or private industries operating the plant and with the coordination of the central and state dispensations. "It is expected that around 10,000 oxygenated beds can be made available in a short period of time by making temporary hospitals near such plants. State governments are being encouraged to set up more such facilities with oxygenated beds to deal with the pandemic," it added. Modi also reviewed progress on the setting up of pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants and was informed that around 1,500 PSA plants are in the process of being established through the contribution of PM Cares Fund, PSUs and others. He directed officials to ensure speedy completion of these plants, the government said. Exploring the feasibility of conversion of existing nitrogen plants to produce oxygen, another meeting chaired by Modi discussed the process of converting the existing PSA nitrogen plants for the production of oxygen. In the nitrogen plants, carbon molecular sieve (CMS) is used whereas zeolite molecular sieve (ZMS) is required for producing oxygen, the government noted, adding that by replacing CMS with ZMS and carrying out a few other changes such as oxygen analyzer, control panel system and flow valves among others, existing nitrogen plants can be modified to produce oxygen. "On deliberation with industries, so far 14 such industries have been identified where conversion of plants is under progress. Further 37 nitrogen plants have been also identified with the help of industry associations," it said. A nitrogen plant modified for the production of oxygen can be either shifted to a nearby hospital or, in case it is not feasible to shift the plant, it can be used for on-site production of oxygen, which can be transported to the hospital through specialized vessels or cylinders, it asserted. Several senior bureaucrats, including Principal Secretary to PM, Cabinet Secretary, Home Secretary, Road Transport & Highways Secretary and & other senior officials, participated in the meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||Serum chief, who had flown to UK to escape threats, promises to return ‘in a few days’||Adar Poonwalla, CEO of the Serum Institute of India, now says he plans to return to the country “in a few days” after declaring he had gone into “extended” self-exile in Britain due to threatening demands for the Covid vaccine from chief ministers and powerful Indian corporate figures. Poowalla tweeted he “looked forward to reviewing operations upon my return in a few days” following “an excellent meeting with all our partners & stakeholders in the UK.” But he gave no details about the exact schedule for his return. The 40-year-old Serum Institute boss triggered a Twitter storm after he told the Times, London, he had flown to Britain just before it banned travellers from India and that he planned an “extended stay” because of the threats he’s been getting from chief ministers and top business people. Twitter users greeted Poonwalla’s announcement with surprise. According to @thetimes “Poonawalla has fled the country he is supposed to be manufacturing vaccines for. Not very reassuring…” commented Krishan Partap Singh, author of the Raisina Series, a trilogy of political novels. Others said his widely publicized remarks to the leading UK newspaper were another blow to India’s attractiveness as an investment destination. Poonwalla minced no words in his comments to The Times. In fact, “threats is an understatement,” Poonawalla said, adding, “The level of expectation and aggression is really unprecedented. It’s overwhelming. Everyone feels they should get the vaccine. They can’t understand why anyone else should get it before them.” Poonawalla, who was given Y level Government security last week that includes police and commandoes, told The Times that the calls begin cordially but the tone usually changes dramatically when he told the callers that it’s not possible to jump the queue. “They are saying if you don’t give us the vaccine it’s not going to be good….It’s not foul language. It’s the tone. It’s the implication of what they might do if I don’t comply. It’s taking control. It’s coming over and basically surrounding the place and not letting us do anything unless we give in to their demands.” Poonawalla told The Times that he planned to stay on in Britain for some time, “because I don’t want to go back to that situation.” He added: “Everything falls on my shoulders but I can’t do it alone…I don’t want to be in a situation where you are just trying to do your job, and just because you can’t supply the needs of X, Y or Z you really don’t want to guess what they are going to do.” In March British newspapers reported that Poonawalla was paying $69,000 a week to rent a sprawling 25,000sq ft house in London’s smart Mayfair district. The newspapers said it was the most expensive rental deal in London in recent times.  His wife and children travelled to Britain some time ago. In remarks that are bound to cause alarm, Poonawalla also said his trip to Britain is partly business and that he may look at starting vaccine production outside India. He refused to comment further on his plans but added, “There’s going to be an announcement soon.” Lord Udny-Lister, a former senior aide of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson visited the Serum Institute in March. Poonawalla admits he thought the worst might be over in December as the number of Covid cases began to fall. “I thought, ‘We’ve done our bit. We’d struggled through 2020 to get everything ready. I thought I could put my feet up and take a vacation, but it’s been the exact opposite. It’s been chaotic.” Poonawalla refused to comment on the Kumbh Mela and election rallies and added that, “I don’t think even God could have forecast it was going to get this bad.” He says: “We are really gasping for all the help we can get.” He insisted that he supported India’s ban on exports even though it has put him in a fix and left him unable to keep commitments. Poonawalla refused to apportion blame for the explosion in Covid cases or say whether he believed that the Kumbh Mela and election rallies had contributed to the crisis. “If I give you the right answer, or any answer, my head would be chopped off . . . I can’t comment on the elections or Kumbh Mela. It’s too sensitive,” he said.  At the same time, he said, “I don’t think even God could have forecast it was going to get this bad.” He said: “We are really gasping for all the help we can get.” He insisted that he supported India’s ban on exports even though it has put him in a commercial fix and left him unable to keep commitments.  Serum Institute has hired around a thousand new employees and is operating its facilities for 20 hours daily, the maximum possible, he says. Also, Serum Institute will be starting production of Novavax next week but it will only be possible to produce a third of what was originally planned because of a US ban on vaccine-related products.  He also insisted that Serum Institute’s vaccines were the cheapest in the world. Poonawalla said that when the pandemic began he was proud to be the man of the moment and felt, “a proud sense and feeling that people were depending on me, and I was doing my best to save and protect the nation and the world.” However, he’s now very disheartened by the criticism he’s getting. He says, the company is not being, “appreciated and supported, but instead, “we are being vilified and blamed”. The Serum Institute chief said he hoped that when the history books are being written he will be judged more favourably. “That’s what calms me down,” he says, adding: “We have done the best we can without cutting corners or doing anything wrong or profiteering. I’ll wait for history to judge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||Thank you for reposing faith in the LDF: Sitaram Yechury tells Kerala||With the CPI(M)-led LDF set to return to power in Kerala, the party's general secretary Sitaram Yechury in a video message on Sunday thanked the state's electorate for showing confidence in the party and vowed that the Left party will continue to fight the challenges faced by people. With the initial trends from the state showing the ruling LDF maintaining its lead in 88 of the 140 Assembly constituencies in Kerala while the opposition Congress-headed UDF was ahead in 50 segments, as per trends available till 10.30 am, Yechury seemed confident that his party will emerge triumphant. "I thank the people of Kerala for reposing faith in an unprecedented manner in the way that the previous LDF government tackled all the challenges that the people have faced and also the pandemic scourge. The government gave a Kerala model to the world on how to handle the pandemic," he said. He said that the country, as well as the state, is facing twin dangers at the moment -- livelihood issues arising out of the pandemic and the defence and safeguarding of the constitutional, secular, Republic of India. "The CPI(M)-led LDF will play its due role in this and we expect that the people of Kerala who have always stood up as one will continue to do so in a stronger manner," he said. Yechury also paid homage to those who had lost their lives in a completely "preventable" scourge of the coronavirus pandemic and said the people of this country have to come together to fight the disease. "We have to make sure that we come together to beat this disease and create a better India and a better Kerala for all of us," he said. If the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government comes back to power in Kerala, it will set a precedent -- after the 1970s, the people of Kerala have not voted a chief minister or party back to power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||France delivers 28 tonnes of medical supplies to India||France on Sunday delivered to India 28 tonnes of ready-to-use medical supplies including eight large oxygen plants as part of the first phase of its solidarity mission to the country which has been grappling with record coronavirus cases. The French embassy said each of the eight plants can continuously supply oxygen to a 250-bed hospital round-the-clock for a dozen years and that they produce medical oxygen from ambient air. "The oxygen plants will be delivered to 8 Indian hospitals, 6 in Delhi, one in Haryana and one in Telangana, based on needs as identified by the Indian authorities," the French embassy said in a statement on Saturday. A special cargo flight brought the supplies to Delhi from France. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said more supplies will come soon from France and that both countries stand together in this fight against the pandemic. The embassy said the medical supplies were worth more than Rs 17 crore. "We stand by India in these difficult times, just as India has always stood by France. In Spring 2020, when French hospitals were facing acute shortages, India provided life-saving help through the export of critical medical drugs," Lenain said. "The French people have not forgotten. India has, in fact, been at the forefront of international cooperation against the pandemic, including through sharing its massive vaccine production capacity with the countries most in need," he said. The French supplies also comprised 28 ventilators and 200 electric syringe pumps to be distributed to several hospitals to enhance their ICU capacities. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said the assistance by France is a testament to the strategic partnership between the two countries. "A testament to India-France strategic partnership & friendship! 28 tonnes of medical equipment including 8 hospital-level oxygen generators and other medical supplies arrives from France. Deeply appreciate the support from France. Will bolster our oxygen capacities," he tweeted. Separately, Belgium also sent 9000 vials of Remdesivir to India on Sunday. The US on Saturday night sent to India a third flight that brought over 1000 oxygen cylinders, regulators and other medical equipment. Two American military aircraft on Friday brought to India large amounts of emergency medical supplies which included 423 oxygen cylinders with regulators, 210 pulse oximeters, 17 large oxygen cylinders, 8,84,000 Abbott rapid diagnostic test kits and 84,000 N-95 face masks. As India battles a devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic, several countries around the world are sending medical supplies to help it tide over the situation. The leading countries that have announced assistance to India include the US, Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius. Some of the countries have already delivered the supplies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||Puducherry: NDA headed for a win, Congress trailing||The NR Congress on Sunday won eight seats in Puducherry and its ally BJP secured three while the Congress-led Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA) emerged victorious in three constituencies as the counting continued for the votes polled in the April 6 elections. As the results for 14 out of 30 assembly seats were declared, the AINRC bagged eight, BJP three, DMK one and Congress two, the Election Commission said. A Namassivayam ofBJP emerged victorious from Mannadipet constituency after defeating his DMK rival A Krishnan. Namassivayam, who shifted his allegiance to the saffron party in January this year after quitting the Congress, contested the April 6 poll from Mannadipet seat as BJP nominee. The former minister polled 14,939 votes while his rival secured 12,189 votes. A green horn in poll battle, U Lakshmikandhan of AINRC wrested the Embalam (reserved) segment from Congress by defeating its candidate and former Welfare Minister M Kandasamy. Chief Electoral Officer Shurbir Singh told PTI that the BJP nominee A John Kumar was declared elected from Kamaraj Nagar. Kumar defeated his immediate Congress rival and former Industries Minister M O H F Shah Jahan. John Kumar was elected from Kamaraj Nagar in the by election held in November 2019 on Congress ticket. He has now retained the segment but on different party ticket. Kumar joined BJP in February after quitting Congress and contested the April 6 poll locking horns with former Industries Minister. M Vaithianathan of Congress defeated BJP's V Saminathan, who is president of Puducherry unit of the party, by a margin of 5,652 votes in the Lawspet constituency. Saminathan was one of the nominated legislators in the outgoing Assembly. Vaithianathan quit the AINRC a few months ago and joined the Congress. The DMK wrested the Uppalam constituency here from the AIADMK in the April 6 poll to the territorial Assembly. DMK nominee Annibal Kennedy defeated AIADMK's A Anbalagam in Uppalam. Anbalagan was holding the constituency consecutively from his first election in 2001. Puducherry elections Seats: 30 Number of voters: 10.03 lakh Voting: April 6 Incumbent: Secular Democratic Alliance Majority mark: 16 Poll issues Political stability: The stability of the government is perceived to be one of the major issues in Puducherry, which witnessed the fall of the government just before its term ended as the Congress leadership asked Narayanasamy to resign due to internal party politics. Corruption: BJP has launched scathing attacks on the erstwhile Congress-led alliance government, accusing it of corruption and not fulfilling poll promises. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while campaigning in Puducherry, had slammed the Congress high command in Delhi, saying that the UT had a “special place” among the list of non-performing Congress governments in the country. “Take any sector -- education, filling of medical seats, the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled tribes -- there was nothing but loot,” Modi said at a rally. Statehood: Demands for securing statehood have been there for quite some time now, given that Puducherry can boast of offering a very high quality of life with excellent physical infrastructure and almost hundred per cent literacy levels. The state Assembly has passed a resolution for full statehood but it is yet to eb endorsed by the Centre. If the NDA comes to power, the Union Territory, which has its own legislature and Chief Minister, may have a shot at that. Congress-DMK tension: The two parties are part of the same alliance, but tension between them is apparent. There has always been a power tussle among the two parties which may have emerged as an issue with voters. Minorities: A contentious demand from Muslims and Christians to add them to the reserved categories is one of the key issues, something that might give an edge to the Congress. Social Welfare Minister M Kandasamy has already taken steps regarding this matter, which may help Congress make a comeback. Key candidates Former chief minister and ANRC leader N Rangasamy, heading the National Democratic Alliance, was perhaps the most prominent face of the election. He contested from Thattanchavady as well as Yanam, an enclave of the UT. The chief contestants in the poll are the AINRC leader N Rangasamy heading the NDA in which the AINRC, AIADMK and BJP are the constituents. On the other side, the Congress-led Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA) comprises the Congress, DMK, VCK, and CPI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||EC orders FIR over celebratory congregations in anticipation of poll victory||With the counting of votes underway, the Election Commission Sunday said it has taken a stern view of reports of congregation of people to celebrate anticipated victory, and has asked the chief secretaries concerned to file an FIR in each case and suspend the police station in charge where such gatherings happen. Responding to queries about reports of celebratory gatherings by supporters of political parties, an EC spokesperson said the poll panel has taken a serious note of some reports of congregations of people to celebrate anticipated victory. "The ECI has directed CS (chief secretaries) of all five states to file FIR in each such case, suspend the SHO of the concerned police station and report action taken immediately of each such incidence," the spokesperson said. The EC had recently banned victory processions on the counting day to curb the spread of coronavirus. The counting of votes for the assembly polls in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and the Union Territory of Puducherry is underway at a time the country is grappling with a raging Covid-19 pandemic. The counting process began at 8 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||14-day lockdown in Odisha from May 5||The Odisha government on Sunday declared a 14-day lockdown in the state from May 5 to contain the spread of Covid-19, an official order said. Barring weekends, essential commodities would be available on all other days during the two-week-long lockdown, the order issued by Chief Secretary S.C. Mohapatra said. "There shall be lockdown throughout the state with effect from May 5, 2021 (Wednesday) till 5am of May 19, 2021 (Wednesday)," the order stated. People will be allowed to purchase essential items within 500 metre radius of their residences between 6 am and 12 pm, according to the official order. During weekends, they will only be able to avail medical services. The order further said that the lockdown and the weekend shutdown will not be applicable to any poll-related work, such as movement of personnel engaged in facilitating by-election to Pipili assembly constituency. Polling in Pipili is scheduled to be held on May 16. "The lockdown is primarily aimed at regulating movement of common people. No restriction has been imposed on goods carriers," the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||Kerala poll trends: Ruling LDF heading for a historic win, breaking a 40-year trend||Ruling LDF took the early lead in Kerala with the left alliance leading in 97 seats while the Congress-led UDF are ahead in 42 seats. BJP managed to take the lead in 3 seats, according to ndtv.com. Counting for the 140-seat Kerala assembly began amid strict adherence to Covid norms as the country battles the raging pandemic, with postal ballots being counted first. Exit polls of local and national television networks have predicted unanimously that the LDF will be re-elected with varying degrees of margins. If that happens, it will mean an end to the four-decade-old trend in the state’s politics of the incumbent not being re-elected Kerala Assembly Elections Seats: 140 Voters: 2.74 crore Voting: one day, April 6 Incumbent: LDF with 91 seats Majority mark: 71 Kerala voters have an unblemished record since the 1970s of ejecting incumbent governments. If the Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF wins this time it will be a first after a very long time. It will be seen as Vijayan’s win and will strengthen his position in the party. Voters have been impressed by his handling of Covid-19 and also the 2018 Kerala floods. Some observers say this will be the first Kerala election that has been decided on performance. The UDF, by contrast, went to the polls without naming a leader. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy was considered one potential. Also, former minister and former president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee V. M. Sudheeran was another potential leader. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor was reckoned to be an outside contender. The Congress is in a tricky situation. In the 2019 general elections it won 19 out of the 20 seats in Kerala. This is also a huge chunk of its 54 Lok Sabha seats. If it loses this time, it will be despite the fact that Rahul Gandhi represents Kerala’s Wayanad constituency and had campaigned actively. Poll issues Though Covid-19 numbers are now soaring, the belief in Kerala is that Vijayan has done a good job tackling the situation. There are questions about the numbers but Kerala has kept fatalities low and the hospital system is coping even as numbers have soared. The state is also one of the few that has sufficient oxygen supplies for patients. The state also has a large number of older people living on their own and this created unique problems of its own. So, in April last year the state began serving 2.8 lakh food packets daily for people who found it difficult to get to shops during lockdown. At a different level, camps were created for migrant workers who have become crucial players in the Kerala economy. Similarly, in the 2018 Kerala floods the government rose to provide aid rapidly to affected people. Its biggest black mark was one not entirely of its own making, over the right of all women to enter the Sabarimala Temple. The Supreme Court ordered that women of all ages should be allowed into the temple and the Kerala government moved zealously to ensure that this was implemented. This angered many Hindus in the state. Key candidates Pinarayi Vijayan contested from his hometown seat, Dharmadam, in the North Kerala Malabar region. He first entered the legislative assembly in 1970 and has won a total of five elections since then. In the 1990s as power minister, he is said to have vastly improved the sector. His great rival in the party was the former LDF Chief Minister V. S. Achuthanandan who wouldn’t leave politics despite his advanced age. Oommen Chandy also has an extraordinary political career behind him. He has represented Puthuppally in Kottayam district for over 50 years since 1970. He has had two terms as chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||India logs over 3.92 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,689 casualties in a day||A record 3,689 daily COVID-19 fatalities pushed India's death toll to 2,15,542, while the infection count reached to 1,95,57,457 with 3,92,488 more people being confirmed positive for the disease, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have crossed the 33-lakh mark, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 33,49,644, comprising 17.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has further dropped to 81.77 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 59,92,271, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.10 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to ICMR, 29,01,42,339 samples have been tested up to May 1 with 18,04,954 samples being tested on Saturday. The 3,689 new fatalities included 802 from Maharashtra, 412 from Delhi, 304 from Uttar Pradesh, 271 from Karnataka, 229 from Chhattisgarh, 172 from Gujarat, 169 from Jharkhand,160 from Rajasthan, 147 from Tamil Nadu, 138 from Punjab,125 from Haryana, 107 from Uttarakhand, 103 from West Bengal and 102 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 2,15,542 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 69,615 from Maharashtra, 16,559 from Delhi ,15,794 from Karnataka, 14,193 from Tamil Nadu, 12,874 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,447 from West Bengal, 9,160 from Punjab and 8,810 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu polls: DMK set to regain reins of power from arch-rival AIDMK||After a decade in opposition, the DMK is on course to capturing power from the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu as per the trends made available for the 234 segments, while the incumbent ruling party appears set to win a chunk of seats that would make it a formidable Oopposition. As counting of votes progressed on Sunday for the April 6 assembly elections, the DMK steadily improved its position and was leading in 121 seats, while 118 is the minimum number required for a simple majority in the 234-member House. If the trends hold good it will be a dream come true moment for the DMK and in sync with its election song, "Stalin thaan vararu", which means Stalin is going to become the Chief Minister. Cadres went ecstatic with the trends, burst crackers and distributed sweets at party headquarters Anna Arivalayam here, apparently in violation of COVID-19 guidelines. On public celebrations, authorities here cited a communique from the Election Commission headquarters that directed placing under immediate suspension of jurisdictional police and other officers and initiation of disciplinary and criminal action against them. Police said Teynampet inspector in-charge of law and order has been placed under suspension for his "lackadaisical attitude and dereliction of duty" and not ensuring compliance of ECs instructions in this connection. DMK's major ally Congress was leading in 15 seats, two Left parties together in four segments and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi in three constituencies. DMK and its allies together are leading in 145 seats. The AIADMK is ahead in 81 seats and together with its partners in 90 constituencies, according to trends made available by the Election Commission for all the 234 segments at 5.00 pm. Allies PMK and BJP were ahead in six and three seats, respectively. Seats: 234 Number of voters: 6.28 crore Voting: Incumbent: AIADMK 134 seats Majority mark: 118  For the first time in 50 years, the land of the Dravidian movement is witnessing an election without the stalwarts of the two major parties – M. Karunanidhi of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and J. Jayalalithaa of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). The DMK is led by M.K. Stalin – he was anointed by Karunanidhi as his successor, and this helped stave off the challenge from M.K. Alagiri, Stalin’s older brother who holds sway over southern Tamil Nadu. Stalin has been party president since 2018 but is yet to deliver an Assembly election victory, but the DMK won 38 of 39 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 elections. The AIADMK government in the state has closed ranks and its two top leaders are CM Edapaddi K Palaniswami and deputy CM O. Panneerselvan Poll issues Local vs outsider: The AIADMK-led alliance includes the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), Tamil Maanila Congress, and some other smaller parties. The DMK, which is in alliance with the Congress and Left parties, has highlighted the ‘local vs. outsider’ issue targeting the BJP for controlling things from the Centre. COVID-19: The Opposition has accused the state government of mishandling the pandemic. In the initial stages, the state overlooked cluster spreads in markets and other places and this resulted in large numbers. The second wave too has shown cases growing alarmingly, and the Madras High Court came down heavily on the government for not doing enough to curtail political rallies. Home Minister Amit Shah held massive rallies at various places in the state. Water scarcity: Just before the polls were announced, Tamil Nadu declared drought in 24 of 38 districts. The State received deficit monsoon rain from both south west (-12%) and north east winds (-24%). CAA: With a Muslim population of 5.86% (according to the 2011 census), the DMK has spoken out against the Centre on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Even the AIADMK, in its manifesto, has said that it will urge the Centre to withdraw the CAA. NEET: Holding the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for medicine has become a poll issue. In its manifesto, the DMK has promised to abolish NEET; the chief minister has alleged that the DMK and Congress are “responsible” for introducing the exam in the State in the first place. NEET was introduced in the State in 2017 before which state board marks were taken into consideration. Several students especially from impoverished backgrounds have died by suicide after failing to clear the exam. Freebies for women: The AIADMK has said it will give Rs 1,500 per month to a woman in every household if it returns to power. It has also promised of maternity leave, free washing machines, free gas cylinders, free solar stoves, and ‘Amma patrol teams’ for women’s safety. The DMK has promised Rs 1,000 per month to a woman in every household, more maternity benefits, free bus passes, gas cylinders at reduced prices and so forth. But none of the major parties has nominated even 13% of women candidates – AIADMK 8% and DMK 6%. Key candidates Chief Minister Palaniswami is contesting from Edappadi in Salem district. He has won four times from there in the past. Palaniswami handed out internal reservation of 10.5 per cent for Vanniyars, who have a say in the seat, but this hasn’t gone down well with several other communities. The Vanniyars have largely pledged their support to the PMK (Pattali Makkal Katchi) Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, popularly known as OPS, is contesting from Bodinayakanur (in Theni district in the foothills of the Western Ghats), and faces DMK's Thanga Tamizh Selvan, who was earlier in the AIADMK. Stalin is contesting from Kolathur (part of Chennai North Lok Sabha constituency). Kamal Haasan (who launched Makkal Nidhi Maiam… People’s Justice Centre in 2018) is contesting from Coimbatore South. Congress working president in Tamil Nadu Mayura Jayakumar is also in the fray. Stalin’s son Udayanidhi Stalin is contesting from Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni. BJP’s Khushboo is contesting from Thousand Lights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-172
02-05-2021||India||Assembly polls: All set for counting, but early trends may be delayed  ||All arrangements are in place for counting of votes on Sunday in tune with COVID-19 guidelines for Assembly polls held between March 27 to April 29 in the four states of Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and the Union Territory of Pondicherry. In Bengal, where the ruling Trinamul Congress headed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee is pitted against the BJP, the Election Commission has deployed 292 counting observers across the state to oversee the counting process. The counting of votes on Sunday is likely to take longer than usual and early trends will start emerging well beyond 12 noon unlike previous years, sources in the Election Commission have said. Amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic, there has been a major structural change in the way counting of votes is done and this may delay the process till late in the evening. “Generally, postal ballots, which are counted first, give an early trend. But this time, the number of postal ballots has increased and hence, it will take longer to count them,” an EC official said. “Moreover, all candidates and counting agents will be checked for negative RT-PCR/RAT test reports or vaccination certificates. Hence, the counting will start later than usual,” the official added and said the official hour for counting to start was 8am. The early trend comes from the counting of postal ballots, which gives a rough idea of the fate of a particular seat. Most political parties look forward to these trends. While an early trend used to become clear within two to three hours of the counting’s start in previous elections, it might take over five to six hours this time, sources said. “Postal ballots were primarily for people who are government officials and lived outside their Assembly seats or were engaged for poll duty. But this time, the poll panel has extended the facility of postal ballots to senior citizens, patients and physically-challenged individuals. This has increased the number of postal ballots,” the source said. The EC also increased the number of booths in Bengal to 1,01,790 from 78,903 in 2019 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. This has increased the number of EVMs by almost 30 per cent. As a result, this time, it might go up to 18 to 20 rounds of counting or more, delaying the process. Previously, there would be a maximum of 14 to 15 rounds of counting. Moreover, the EC has reduced the number of tables by almost half inside a counting hall to ensure physical distancing. Thus, while previously, there would be 14 to 15 counting tables, this time, there will be 7 only. After every round of counting, the entire hall will be sanitised, which will take farther time. “The entire counting process will be delayed this time because of the pandemic and measures taken by the EC. Therefore, all of us must wait at least till afternoon to get an understanding of which way the result is going. Leaders should refrain from predicting results from early in the day and ask followers to restrain themselves in view of the current situation,” said Subhamoy Maitra, a psephologist and professor at the Indian Statistical Institute. Kerala In Kerala, as many as 957 candidates, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, 11 of his cabinet colleagues, Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, Senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy, BJP state chief K Surendran, 'Metroman' E Sreedharan, and former Union minister, K J Alphons among others were in fray for the 140 assembly seats. Though all the exit polls and pre poll surveys had predicted a massive win for the ruling front, the opposition UDF has not given up hope. In Kerala, of the 633 halls in 114 counting centres, 527 will be earmarked for tabulating EVM votes while the remaining 106 will be for counting postal votes, Chief Electoral Officer, Teeka Ram Meena said. Tamil Nadu In Tamil Nadu, though there were four fronts including actor-politician Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam led combine, the key contest was between the ruling AIADMK and main opposition DMK, which exit polls have predicted that would wrest the reins of power. There were nearly 4,000 candidates in the fray including Chief Minister K Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, DMK president M K Stalin, his son and party youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin, AIADMK's rival and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam chief TTV Dhinakaran, MNM's Haasan and BJP state unit chief L Murugan were among the prominent candidates. In Tamil Nadu, there are 75 counting centres spread across the state and all arrangements are in place to smoothly conduct the exercise, authorities said. Cumulatively, there would be 3,372 EVM tables and depending on the constituency and votes polled, counting of votes is expected to range anywhere from 13 to 43 rounds in each of the 234 segments. Puducherry In the Union territory of Puducherry, the former Chief Minister N Rangaswamy led All India NR Congress-BJP alliance and Congress-DMK combine are the key contenders for power. Exit polls have predicted a win for the front led by Rangaswamy. As many as 1,382 personnel would be deployed for counting of votes in the whole of the UT while about 400 police personnel shall be on security duties. Covid guidelines Authorities said the counting of votes would be in strict adherence to the EC guidelines to prevent the spread of coronavirus which includes RT-PCR testing for agents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi calls for national plan to fight the epidemic||Sonia Gandhi on Saturday stressed the need for unity amid the Covid crisis and called for a national plan to fight the epidemic. “Friends, I want to stress that unity is the key to success in overcoming this crisis. I express my condolences to the families who have lost their dear ones,” the Congress president said in a video message. “We have to hold each other’s hand; we have to become each other’s support as well as strength. This tragedy has shaken humanity but try to rise above differences to help people,” she said. Sonia urged the central and state governments to wake up and discharge their duties. “A national plan to fight Covid should be evolved in consultation with all the political parties of the country,” she said, appearing to hint at the government’s failure to meet the challenge and flag the need to harness the collective wisdom available within the country. The government has been rebuffing and ridiculing the Congress over the suggestions it has provided on ways of tackling the epidemic and the accompanying humanitarian and economic crises, while subsequently accepting some of them without acknowledgement. Sonia recently regretted that her suggestions, based on discussions with senior politicians possessing decades of administrative experience, had fallen on deaf ears as the situation plummeted from bad to worse. On Saturday, the Congress president flagged the severe shortages of oxygen and medicine and yet again provided certain suggestions to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The first thing that needs to be done is put Rs 6,000 in the accounts of the poor to stop their exodus from the cities. Ramp up testing, availability of oxygen and medicine, and start vaccination on a war footing,” she said. “Invoke compulsory licensing to increase vaccine production, avoid discriminatory pricing, stop black marketeering of life-saving drugs and ensure industrial oxygen is transformed into medical oxygen.” Several Congress leaders expressed outrage at the government’s attempts to deny the oxygen shortage. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Shortage crisis of vaccine, oxygen & medical supply is real... unlike PM’s image.” Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala dripped sarcasm: “No shortage but India is gasping for oxygen. Only Modi government cannot see it.” He added: “Patients are dying every day. Hospitals don’t have oxygen. Oxygen cylinders aren’t available. Cylinder refill is a challenge. Paper affidavits in (the) Supreme Court will not change the truth.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram chided the government over the vaccine shortage, saying the expansion of the vaccination campaign to include those aged between 18 and 45 had been a “non-starter”. “All but six states have refused to roll out the programme citing insufficiency of vaccines. The (Union) health minister who declared ‘there is no shortage of vaccines’ should admit his failure and resign,” he said. “The vaccine shortage and the failure of the rollout programme are examples of the total mismanagement of the fight against (the) coronavirus. If the health minister is not held accountable, who will be?” The Congress on Saturday launched a medical advisory helpline for Covid patients and a plasma helpline. Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas said that around 22,000 volunteers were working round the clock on Rahul’s request. “We have seen how people are struggling for oxygen and plasma. So far, Youth Congress workers were donating plasma. With this helpline, anybody who has recovered from Covid and wants to donate plasma can (do so),” he said. “This will help patients across the country, at the district and block levels, through a control room that will have the complete data bank.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Virus kills Bihar govt lawyer||Lawyer Keshav Mohan, who had been representing the Bihar government in the Supreme Court, passed away on Saturday morning due to Covid-related complications at a hospital here, his family said. Mohan, who was in his early 40s, is survived by his wife and two children. Enrolled with the Bar Council of Delhi after completing his LLB from Campus Law Centre of Delhi University, Mohan was recently appointed as the additional standing counsel to represent Bihar government in the top court. He had successfully justified in the Supreme Court the decision of the Bihar government to transfer to the CBI the case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. The top court had accepted the recommendation of the Bihar government for a CBI probe into the FIR lodged at Patna by Sushant’s father, who had accused the actor’s former girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and six others of various offences including abetment of suicide. Mohan had been appearing for the Sahara group and its chief Subrata Roy in the apex court in the matter related to dispute of the company with markets regulator Sebi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Jailed RJD strongman Shahabuddin dies of Covid||Jailed former RJD MP Mohammad Shahabuddin died of Covid-19 at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital here on Saturday, the Delhi prisons department said. Shahabuddin, 53, who was serving a life sentence in a murder case, was admitted to the hospital on April 20, it said. Prison officials said Shahabuddin was admitted to the ICU two-three days ago. The former Siwan MP was lodged in high-security jail number 2 at Tihar, they said. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, his wife Rabri Devi and son Tejashwi Yadav condoled Shahabuddin’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Covid:  Indian government  ignored new variants’ threat||A forum of scientific advisers set up by the Indian government warned officials in early March of a new and more contagious variant of the coronavirus taking hold in the country, five scientists who are part of the forum said. Despite the warning, the Centre did not seek to impose major restrictions to stop the spread of the virus. Millions of largely unmasked people attended religious festivals and political rallies that were held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other leaders. The warning about the new variant in early March was issued by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium, or Insacog. It was conveyed to a top official who reports directly to the Prime Minister, according to one of the scientists who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Reuters could not determine whether the Insacog findings were passed on to Modi. Modi’s office did not respond to a request for comment from Reuters. Insacog was set up as a forum of scientific advisers by the government in late December specifically to detect genomic variants of the coronavirus that might threaten public health. Insacog researchers first detected B.1.617, which is now known as the Indian variant of the virus, as early as February, Ajay Parida, director of the government-run Institute of Life Sciences and a member of Insacog, told Reuters. Insacog shared its findings with the health ministry’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) before March 10, warning that infections could quickly increase, the scientist who spoke on condition of anonymity said. The findings were then passed on to the health ministry, this person said. The ministry did not respond to requests for comment. Around that date, Insacog began to prepare a draft media statement for the health ministry. A version of that draft, seen by Reuters, set out the forum’s findings: the new Indian variant had two significant mutations, and it had been traced in 15 to 20 per cent of samples from Maharashtra, the worst-affected state. The draft statement said that the mutations, called E484Q and L452R, were of high concern. It said “there is data of E484Q mutant viruses escaping highly neutralising antibodies in cultures, and there is data that L452R mutation was responsible for both increased transmissibility and immune escape”. In other words, this meant mutated versions of the virus could more easily enter a human cell and counter a person’s immune response to it. The ministry made the findings public on March 24, when it issued a statement to the media that did not include the words “high concern”. The statement said only that more problematic variants required increased testing and quarantine. Asked why the government did not respond more forcefully, for example by restricting large gatherings, Shahid Jameel, chair of the scientific advisory group of Insacog, said: “I am worried that science was not taken into account to drive policy. But I know where my jurisdiction stops. As scientists we provide the evidence, policymaking is the job of the government.” The scientist who spoke on condition of anonymity told Reuters the draft media release was sent to the most senior bureaucrat in the country, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, who reports directly to the Prime Minister. Reuters was unable to learn whether Modi was informed of the findings. Gauba did not respond to a request for comment. The government took no steps to prevent gatherings that might hasten the spread of the new variant, as new infections quadrupled by April 1 from a month earlier. Election rallies continued. Insacog reports to the NCDC in New Delhi. NCDC director Sujeet Kumar Singh recently told a private online gathering that strict lockdown measures had been needed in early April, according to a recording of the meeting reviewed by Reuters. “The exact time, as per our thinking, was 15 days before,” Singh said. Singh did not say at the meeting whether he warned the government directly of the need for action at that time. He declined to comment to Reuters. Singh told the April 19 gathering that more recently, he had relayed the urgency of the matter to government officials. “It was highlighted very, very clearly that unless drastic measures are taken now, it will be too late to prevent the mortality which we are going to see,” said Singh, referring to a meeting on April 18. The need for urgent action was also expressed the week before by the National Task Force for Covid-19, a group of 21 experts and government officials set up last April to provide scientific and technical guidance to the health ministry on the pandemic. It is chaired by V.K. Paul, Modi’s top coronavirus adviser. The group had a discussion on April 15 and “unanimously agreed that the situation is serious and that we should not hesitate in imposing lockdowns”, said one scientist who took part. Reuters could not determine if Paul relayed the group’s conclusion to Modi. Paul did not respond to a request for comment from Reuters. Modi addressed the nation on April 20, arguing against lockdowns. “We have to save the country from lockdowns. I would also request the states to use lockdowns as the last option,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Covid: Senior doctor, 7 others die because of oxygen shortage ||A senior doctor died along with seven other Covid patients in his own hospital because of an oxygen shortage despite the Delhi facility sending out an SOS for supplies on Saturday morning, officials have said. “We are trying to resuscitate five other critical patients,” said S.C.L. Gupta, medical director of the Batra Hospital which allegedly received oxygen at 1.35pm, more than an hour after it had run out of stocks. Gupta said that among the dead was Dr R.K. Himthani, head of the gastroenterology department who had been a patient at the hospital for over a fortnight. Gupta said the Batra Hospital had informed the authorities about an oxygen shortage on Saturday morning, when it had 2,500 litres of the gas left. The hospital ran out of oxygen around 12.30pm and the oxygen tanker arrived at 1.35pm, hospital authorities said. Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj has stopped admitting patients citing an oxygen scarcity. Sources said the hospital had four hours of oxygen left. According to the “Delhi Corona” mobile app, Fortis has 106 coronavirus patients. The Sehgal Neo Hospital in Meera Bagh has sent out an SOS on Twitter about its dwindling oxygen stocks. “We request urgent assistance in getting #SOSoxygen. We are running out of our backup supply, and have been waiting for a supply since early morning. We have 90 patients on O2 & 13 in ICU,” the hospital tweeted around 12.40pm. Hospitals across Delhi and its suburbs have been issuing desperate appeals for oxygen on social media. Last week, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital had said that 25 of its “sickest” patients had died because of a lack of oxygen, and Jaipur Golden Hospital reported 20 deaths citing the same cause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||PM to blame for devastation: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said in an interview with PTI that the entire world is shaken by the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic in India and accused the government of ignoring all early warnings. Excerpts follow: The second wave of coronavirus has hit India hard. We see people gasping for medical aid, medicines, oxygen. How do you see the situation and the response of the government? It breaks my heart every single day to wake up to the absolute devastation around us….  There are never-ending queues everywhere…. There is a fatal shortage of every single item we need to tackle Covid-19…. India is now the world’s coronavirus epicentre. The entire world is shaken by what they are seeing in India. None of this should have happened. There were multiple early warning signs. Forget the signs, scientists clearly warned the government this would happen…. We could and should have been much better prepared. And now, where is the government in this crisis? It is completely missing in action. Did the government falter in assessing the Covid situation? Who is at fault? Absolutely. The Prime Minister is at fault. He runs a highly centralised and personalised government machinery…. The fact is that this government completely failed to understand or to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic — right from the very beginning…. Since the very start of this pandemic back in 2020, I kept trying to warn the government about the disaster ahead…. It’s not just me — anyone who tried to sound the alarm, the state callously and thoughtlessly ignored. Modi government let this virus enter India through our airports in February and March of 2020. And then it panicked and without consultation or thought imposed the world’s harshest lockdown. Migrant workers were left to fend for themselves and an unprecedented exodus began from the cities. The poorest of the poor were forced to walk hundreds of kilometres home with no support, no aid. In his sheer ignorance, the Prime Minister said he would defeat the virus in 21 days, akin to the battle of Mahabharata! Modi government is plainly arrogant… declaring victory against the virus is absolute insanity and demonstrates a complete misunderstanding of the nature of what this virus is. The only way to fight corona is with humility and by realising that you are faced with a relentless opponent, who can adapt and is very resilient. The PM had an entire year to better prepare, protect India, and think through this crisis but what did they do? Did the PM & the government add sufficient oxygen capacity, ramp up testing, increase hospital beds, ventilators? Did the PM think long-term about the state of our health infrastructure and start building for the sort of subsequent corona waves that almost every country in the world was experiencing? It was sheer luck that we emerged out of last year’s nightmare, to a point where we had less than 10,000 new cases in a day early in 2021. We were not testing enough then. We are not testing enough now. Where was the preparation for this massive second wave? Why were the jumbo facilities put up last year dismantled? Why did they raise oxygen exports over 700 per cent — think of that number, 700 per cent — in the months before this brutal second wave? What could the government have done differently to address the second wave? The Modi government was both grossly negligent and blindly overconfident. The BJP announced the end of the pandemic and congratulated the Prime Minister for his “success” even as the second wave was just beginning. The Prime Minister himself is on record as having said that India had successfully fought the pandemic and won. In reality, there was no coherent strategy. One, the government should have built massive capacity over the last year — testing, oxygen, hospital beds, ventilators. Two, they should not have declared victory prematurely. Three, the Prime Minister and his government did not even acknowledge there was a problem. How can you fix something you don’t even accept exists? Four, the government did not act on scientific advice or evidence. They continuously ignored rising cases and were busy instead with election campaigns. They encouraged super-spreader events. They even bragged about them. Our Prime Minister and home minister were not even wearing masks in public over the past few months. What sort of a message is that sending to citizens? Five, most importantly, the only solution we have is vaccination. We are supposed to be the largest manufacturer of vaccines in the world. And yet, India is desperately short of vaccines. …If that is not a failure to plan and execute, what is? With India seeing around 4 lakh cases a day, is there a case for national emergency? We are already in the midst of a national emergency. But just declaring something is not the answer. The biggest problem of this government is it announces and then absconds. Now that the situation is completely out of control, they have dropped the ball and thrown it to the states. They have made the states and citizens truly “Aatmanirbhar”. Rely on yourself is the motto. No one will come to help you. Definitely, not the Prime Minister. The need of the hour is to hold hands, work together and heal our people. India must be the only country in the world facing this massive pandemic without the guidance of an expert and empowered group that is charged with fighting the virus and protecting the people, with planning ahead, anticipating needs and taking the decisions that will result in swift action to save lives. Government of India has said it repeatedly warned states about the second wave… Would you say the current situation is a collective failure of the Centre and states? The entire country has already been under the Epidemic Act for more than a year. The Centre has absolute power over states under the Act…. When cases went down, they declared victory, and the Prime Minister took all the credit as he always does. Now that the situation is terrible, why are you blaming the states? …The Modi government took tens of thousands of crores of donations in his name (PM CARES), without any transparency … States do not even get their GST dues on time. States are dependent on the Modi government for quotas of oxygen, remdesivir and tocilizumab injections. The Modi government has chained the hands of the states behind their backs, so they are completely powerless, and then asks them to sort out their own affairs. Obviously, the system will collapse. All adult vaccinations are starting on May 1 along the lines you demanded, but states say they cannot start as they do not have the vaccines. Did you seek the expansion of vaccinations too early? First, the government set a target of vaccinating 300 million by August. This is the above-45 age category. They managed to fully vaccinate not even 2 per cent of the total population. With the mounting pressure of the government not vaccinating enough, they added another 600 million to the list, by starting vaccinations for the 18-plus group from May 1. But where are the vaccines? Why did the Modi government abandon the people between age groups of 18 and 44 years by refusing to take responsibility for their vaccination? …What is the strategy beyond two companies? How can that suffice for almost 1 billion people? We need 2 billion doses. Now they are scrambling for vaccines. Vaccine makers have reduced prices for states. Your comments? This is the story of “discount sale”, where you mark up the price, and then make a show of reducing it. It is complete eyewash. Why should states pay more than the Centre to buy vaccines? …Why should there be a difference in price for vaccines for the Centre, the states and the private hospitals? Madras High Court has held the Election Commission responsible for the Covid situation. Your views? The court was echoing a widely held view…. I don’t want to make any further comment…. Our institutions are a warning system — they give us feedback and information on how to respond to crisis. But our institutions have been completely destroyed and taken over. The press, judiciary, Election Commission, bureaucracy — none of them have played their role of guardian/watchdog. This means India today is like a ship in a storm, sailing without any information. Corona is just part of the problem — the real problem is that India now doesn’t have the capacity to respond to any major crisis because of what has been done to its systems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Delhi High Court directs Centre to ensure the capital receives 490 tonnes of oxygen||Delhi High Court on Saturday directed the Centre to ensure the capital received its full quota of 490 tonnes of oxygen, saying “enough is enough”, on a day a doctor and seven other Covid patients died because of an oxygen shortage at the Batra Hospital here. “Much water has gone above the head. Now we mean business. Enough is enough,” the court said, warning that failure to comply could lead to contempt action. The bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli asked the senior officials concerned to be present at the next hearing on Monday if Delhi did not receive its full share of oxygen by Saturday night. “We direct the central government to ensure that the NCT of Delhi receives its allocated supply of 490MT (metric tonnes) positively today by whatever means,” the court said during a four-hour special hearing on a holiday on the oxygen crisis and other Covid issues Delhi is grappling with. “Considering the fact that Delhi is not an industrial state and does not have availability of cryogenic tankers of its own... it falls upon the central government to arrange the tankers as well so that the allocation made to Delhi could be fulfilled, lest it remain only a paper allocation.” The bench noted that since April 20, Delhi had not received its full quota of oxygen, which was 480 tonnes to begin with but was later raised to 490 tonnes. “We may even consider initiating contempt proceedings in case of non-compliance. Amit Mahajan (the Centre’s standing counsel in Delhi High Court) shall ensure the communication of this order to the officers concerned forthwith,” the bench said. The court rejected additional solicitor-general Chetan Sharma’s request to defer its order till May 3 or at least by half an hour, especially the warning about initiating contempt proceedings. “You (the Centre) made an allocation, you fulfil it. Do you mean we will shut our eyes to people dying in Delhi? Enough is enough now. Who is asking for a gram more of oxygen than is allocated? If you cannot supply, do not supply. We will see your explanation on Monday,” the bench said. “This is a new way of arguing — telling us, ‘Do not do this, do not do that’. We do not appreciate it. We know what to do.” Sharma said solicitor-general Tushar Mehta would inform the court on Monday about the oxygen allocation and supply to Delhi. The court, however, said the subject that Mehta would be informing the bench about was an increase in the oxygen allocation to Delhi. “We have passed the order. You comply with the order,” Justice Sanghi said and logged off from the proceedings. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, had earlier told the court that several suppliers — Linde, INOX and Air Liquide — were either not supplying the oxygen they were supposed to or were providing it in smaller amounts. The court directed the lawyers of these suppliers to be present at Monday’s hearing. It asked the Centre why the four cryogenic tankers meant for Delhi that the Rajasthan government had held up had not been released despite the court’s earlier orders. It sought a compliance report on Monday. When the Centre’s counsel urged the court to seek an explanation from the Rajasthan government, the bench said: “This is the Centre’s problem. The SG (solicitor-general) made a statement before us (on April 26, assuring release of the tankers). Why should we call the state of Rajasthan? “Those four tankers or something in their place has to come. What is the sanctity of these statements?” The bench directed the Delhi government to seek help from the armed forces in getting oxygen and enhancing the Covid infrastructure. The bench asked Mehra why nothing had been done till now despite the court having asked the Delhi government to seek army help two to three days ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Covid: Daily infections cross 4 lakh ||India on Saturday recorded for the first time over 400,000 new Covid-19 infections that health experts say portend greater pressure on healthcare systems already overwhelmed by patients and more daily deaths in the weeks to come. The 401,993 new lab-confirmed cases detected over the previous 24 hours have raised the number of active patients to over 3.26 million, or thrice the peak count of active patients during the previous wave last September. Health authorities also documented 3,523 Covid-19 deaths — about 146 deaths every hour — through Friday and up to 8am on Saturday, raising the death toll to 211,853, the fourth highest in the world after 576,000 in the US, 404,000 in Brazil and 217,000 in Mexico. An infectious disease specialist said the overnight addition of 400,000-plus cases could translate into an extra demand for 40,000 hospital beds in the coming days, assuming 10 per cent of patients advance into moderate or severe disease that requires hospital care. At the current scale of the epidemic, even if only 5 per cent of the patients need oxygen, the demand for oxygen-supported beds would increase by 20,000 every day across the country, said another physician. While hospitals in several cities, including Delhi, have reported oxygen shortages amid the influx of patients, doctors say the demand for oxygen is also likely to rise in smaller towns with weaker health infrastructure if the epidemic grows in these places. “The capacity to detect falling oxygen levels in patients early in rural areas and to initiate oxygen therapy will be critical,” said Oommen John, a physician and research fellow with The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, an independent research organisation. The infectious disease specialist said the daily death counts could rise in the coming days as there was usually a two-to-three-week lag between cohorts of new cases and deaths among them. The Centre has allocated 16.25 million Covishield doses and 5 million Covaxin doses to the states till May 15, free of cost under the “Government of India” channel, to be used on people aged 45 or older. Bengal will receive 995,300 Covishield doses and 327,980 Covaxin doses, the Union health ministry said, releasing the allocations to each state over the next fortnight. About 150,000 doses of Russia’s Sputnik V, the third Covid-19 vaccine approved for use in India, arrived in the country on Saturday, the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories announced. Under the campaign’s new phase that started on Saturday, states and private hospitals may inoculate people aged between 18 and 45 years by procuring doses on their own from vaccine makers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: Rivals Left and Congress see victory||The ruling Left Democratic Front and the Opposition United Democratic Front in Kerala are both confident of walking away with the laurels when the Assembly election votes are counted on Sunday. While the LDF is banking mainly on its performance on various fronts and the widespread appreciation of its handling of several crises, including the Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress-led UDF has little doubt that the people have voted for change. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has time and again said he is sure the LDF will get a historic second consecutive term by bucking the 40-year cycle of Kerala alternating between the two main players. “I have full faith in the people. That’s why I am saying so. We don’t need to talk about this when we can wait for a day,” Vijayan had told his daily media conference on Friday when he was asked about the exit polls giving the LDF another term in office. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan backed the exit polls, some of which gave the alliance more than the 91 seats it had won in 2016. The Kerala Assembly has 140 seats. “Last time the Kerala Congress (Mani) was with the UDF. This time they are with us. That’s why I feel the exit polls would prove to be correct,” he said. The most prominent faction of the Kerala Congress led by Jose K. Mani joined the LDF in October 2020 after being sidelined by the UDF. The party is expected to do well in central Kerala districts, including Kottayam and Idukki. But Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala had no doubt that the UDF was coming to power. “The chief minister is exhibiting false confidence. We will get a clear mandate,” he said, rubbishing the exit polls that have predicted otherwise. “We won 19 seats in the Lok Sabha polls (2019) by overturning all exit polls,” Chennithala said, referring to its stellar show when the LDF had managed just one seat. While LDF sources said they were confident of winning at least 85 seats to retain power, UDF insiders were sure of winning 74 seats — three more than simple majority. A Congress leader, who requested anonymity, attributed the confidence to “booth-level” inputs that suggested that the party was expecting 30 seats in Malabar (north Kerala districts), 32 in central Kerala and 12 in south Kerala. The second largest UDF partner, the Indian Union Muslim League, a towering presence in the Malabar districts of Malappuram and Kozhikode, is sure of winning 20 of the 27 seats it contested. Party national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, who quit from the Lok Sabha to contest the Vengara Assembly seat, said his internal survey projected a UDF win. “These (exit poll) surveys are basically to confuse our agents who man counting centres. We have clearly told them to stay confident,” he said. The BJP, which made its Assembly debut by winning the Nemom seat in 2016, is confident of winning more than five seats. Although its state president K. Surendran has continuously bragged of bagging at least 35 seats, he has since scaled down his prediction. “From now on, no one can ignore the BJP in Kerala as the NDA will be a major force in the Assembly,” he said on the eve of counting. Apart from Nemom, Konni and Manjeshwar — Surendran contested from the latter two — the BJP expects to do well in Palakkad where it fielded “Metroman” E. Sreedharan, Vattiyoorkavu and Kazhakootam in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Kozhikode North. The BJP had deployed central minister Prahlad Joshi and Karnataka deputy chief minister Ashwath Narayan to supervise the campaign that saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath pitching for the party in the state that has so far rejected its brand of politics. A failure to impress the central leadership could mean trouble for Surendran and his team. The LDF has been banking heavily on its performance and the handling of crises such as two successive years of Nipah outbreaks, two years of devastating floods, and the two waves of Covid-19 when it managed to crush the curve in the first and kept the death rate one of the lowest anywhere in the world. But what has come to haunt the LDF is scams, including a gold smuggling case in which the chief minister’s former secretary M. Sivasankar was arrested. While Sivasankar has since been granted bail, the Opposition had made it a major poll plank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-173
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Minorities back Mamata en bloc in WB blockbuster||Parties such as the AIMIM and Abbas Siddiqui's ISF, which were seen as having the potential to deal a blow to the TMC’s minority support base, failed to make an impression in the West Bengal assembly polls as the minorities threw their weight behind Mamata Banerjee in her high-stakes contest against the BJP. According to the trends and results, the Indian Secular Front (ISF), which had stitched an alliance with the Left parties and the Congress, and was contesting on 26 seats, was a dismal showing in the 292 assembly segments that went to polls. The Asaduddin Owaisi-led party, which contested seven seats in the state polls, also drew a blank, cornering a megre 0.02 per cent vote share. Parties seen having a substantial clout among the Muslims also did not come up with a decisive showing in other states. The Indian Union Muslim League was leading or had won 15 seats in Kerala and its alliance with the United Democratic Front (UDF) was headed for a poll defeat to the ruling Left Democratic Front. Another party considered having a strong support base among Muslims, the Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) fared better, winning or leading on 15 seats out of the over 20 seats it contested. But its alliance with the Congress and other parties failed to stop the BJP from coming back to power. It was the dismal performance of the ISF led by Siddiqui, who is an influential cleric of the shrine of Furfura Sharif, and Owaisi’s AIMIM in West Bengal that has been under spotlight. Minorities, who comprise nearly 30 per cent of Bengal’s electorate, are a deciding factor in nearly 100 seats of the state. The BJP, which failed to breach the TMC’s minority strongholds, had been hoping that the ISF would be able to split Muslim votes, giving them an advantage, according to analysts. Since Independence, minorities in the state have voted in favour of the Congress to keep outfits such as the Hindu Mahasabha and the Jan Sangh at bay. During the late sixties, however, they gradually started drifting towards the Left forces, which cemented its base among minorities with “Operation Barga” ‑ a land-reform movement that benefited lakhs of sharecroppers. Things fell apart for the Left Front after the Sachar Committee report in 2008 painted a dismal picture of the living conditions of minorities. Add to that, the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram and Singur projected the TMC, led by Mamata Banerjee, as their new “savior”. The Mamata Banerjee camp had been the sole beneficiary of minority votes since the Left Front’s exit in 2011, as Muslims have voted en bloc for the TMC, but its failure to control communal riots over the last six years did not go down well with a section of the community. However, the community seems to have voted en bloc for the TMC to keep the BJP out, according to observers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
02-05-2021||West Bengal||SRFTI holds virtual ceremony to commemorate Satyajit Ray's birth centenary||The Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute organised a virtual convocation ceremony on Sunday, a day that also marked the beginning of the year-long celebrations to commemorate the birth centenary of the legendary film-maker. The graduates of the 13th batch of the film wing, the first batch of the electronic and digital media wing and the first batch of the animation cinema wing got their post graduate diploma certificate after pursuing different specialisations and successfully completing their first films. “This day is very significant to us as Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute presents the nation with a bunch of new filmmakers,” Professor Amaresh Chakrabarti, director in-charge of the Kolkata-based institute, said. The chief guest of the ceremony was Aparna Sen, an eminent actor, filmmaker and Padma Shri recipient. She congratulated the graduates on completion of their formal education in various disciplines of cinema and allied audiovisual mediums. In the valedictory speech, she also shared her memories with Ray. “It is doubly auspicious as the day marks the beginning of the centenary celebrations of the master auteur,” she said. Named after the legendary film maestro Satyajit Ray, the institute has emerged as a centre of excellence which offers post-graduate programme in cinematic and television studies. Satyajit Ray, a genuine artist, made Indian cinema worthy of serious attention for the first time in its history, an official statement said Commissioned and produced by the institute, a total of 21 dissertation films and their student crew received honours, comprising six films from animation cinema, five films from the electronic and digital media wing and 10 films from the film wing. Amongst this wide spectrum of narratives, Like a Midnight Dream (Oru Paathira Swapnam Pole), a dissertation film by Sharan Venugopal, was recently awarded Best Film on Family Values in the 67th National Film Awards by Directorate of Film Festivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Political pundits smell chance for regional satraps after Mamata's landslide win||With the results of five assembly polls delivering a chastening blow to BJP’s electoral juggernaut and virtually decimating its main rival Congress, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s massive victory over the formidable saffron machinery may help bring regional satraps to the fore of the national politics yet again, analysts believe. Under flak from the opposition for its government's handling of the Covid-19 crisis, the BJP’s big loss in West Bengal polls has denied the party a face-saver it might have hoped for to claim the popular endorsement for its policies and has lent further ballast to the view that it often falls short against a popular regional force. While the BJP will draw some satisfaction from its comfortable win in Assam, the overall mood in the party was sombre as it appeared drawing a blank in Kerala and also fared poorly in Tamil Nadu where its senior ally AIADMK was set to lose power to the rival DMK but defied some exit poll predictions of its rout. The BJP-led NDA, however, trumped its rivals in Puducherry. BJP sources claimed that a meltdown of the Left-Congress alliance, consolidation of Muslim votes behind Banerjee-headed Trinamool Congress, and a fall in the polling percentage, especially in the last few phases as the Covid-19 cases surged, played a role in its defeat. The saffron party's West Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh, however, said that the leaders who came to BJP from Trinamool somehow did not fare well in the elections, while another senior party leader Kailash Vijayvargiya credited Banerjee for the TMC’s astounding performance. “The TMC won because of Mamata Banerjee. It seems people have chosen Didi. We will introspect what went wrong, whether it was organisational issues, lack of face, insider-outsider debate. We will see what went wrong,” Vijayvargiya said. Manindra Nath Thakur, an associate professor at the Centre for Political Studies of JNU, said the West Bengal results may trigger a new realignment with Banerjee, whom he described as the strongest woman leader after Indira Gandhi, emerging as a key force. Noting that she does have a party structure outside Bengal, he said the second phase of coalition politics may emerge with regional satraps playing a strong role. The Congress will have a role in states where it remains strong, he added. The regional forces used to have a significant presence in the national politics till 2014 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi steered BJP to its maiden majority in Lok Sabha polls diminishing the say of state satraps in power corridors of the national capital. Even in defeat, a BJP leader said, the party emerged as the only capable challenger to Banerjee. “From three seats (2016), we now have nearly 90 MLAs. Analysts will write whatever they have to but the BJP is now an obvious alternative to the TMC, which was not the case until a few years back,” he said. Thakur also noted that Bengal is now “between the BJP and Mamata” with the Left and the Congress having been wiped out. “The BJP has gained ground in the state. With the kind of party structure and resources it has, it may create problems for her in the next five years,” he said. However, judged against its rhetoric of winning over 200 seats, such is the scale of the BJP’s loss that it was reminiscent for some of its drubbing in the 2015 Bihar assembly polls where it was simply no match to the popular support the RJD-JD(U) alliance enjoyed despite its high-decibel campaign. According to the Election Commission’s data, the gap between the TMC and the BJP vote share was almost 10 per cent. This meant a loss of nearly 3 per cent for the saffron party and a gain of about 5 per cent for the TMC since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Political watchers believe the West Bengal results may set a churn in the national politics as a reinvigorated Banerjee will like to play a cementing role to unite opposition parties against the BJP with the Congress continuing to decline. The Congress, on the other hand, has suffered a big loss in Kerala and was unable to put up a strong challenge to the BJP in Assam. Though it’s worse than expected show in the polls coupled with the criticism it is facing over the Covid-19 crisis may worsen the perception problem for the BJP, but there is also a view that the party in the past has managed to successfully overcome challenges like demonetisation, which its critics had believed, might cause it a political setback.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Death of migrant labourers last year forced me to join politics: Manoj Tiwary||Politics was always on cricketer Manoj Tiwary’s radar but in his mind, there was a sense of finality once he saw the plight of migrant labourers during the Covid-19 induced lockdown last year. After deciding to take the plunge into politics, he was clear that he had to be on Mamata Banerjee’s corner. Having won his first state assembly elections from Shibpur constituency by a margin of more than 6000 votes over nearest rival Rathin Chakraborty of BJP, Tiwary knows his immediate assignment. “Effective Covid-19 management in my area, raising awareness and keeping the residents of my constituency safe. That's my first job and its a challenge. But that's what sport teaches us isn't," Tiwary, a former India player and one of the finest batsmen to have emerged from Bengal, told PTI after collecting his victory certificate. Tiwary, even in adverse circumstances, has never been short of confidence and that's why he was never unsure about his victory. “I was well prepared for this election and worked very hard to win blessing and mandate of people of my constituency. I knew politics is not an easy place and for a newcomer from a different sphere, it was all the more difficult. I had campaigned door to door in Shibpur locality, they know my intention. “I am happy that those smiling faces reposed their faith in me and I could feel while campaigning that they would bless me with a big mandate,” said Tiwary. But did he think about the risks of losing an election when he had a secured domestic career and was also doing well as a TV expert? “Yes, it was risky. I went against the tide when I took the decision because you can’t say ‘No’ to Didi. Didi has always been my inspiration. Every year on my birthday, I would receive a greeting card signed by her.” But someone who is always practical, he knew that the knee injury sustained before last edition of Vijay Hazare Trophy would force him to have a plan B. “When I responded to Didi’s call, I had a knee injury and wasn’t playing Vijay Hazare Trophy. It would have taken four to five months to recover. I had to come to terms with IPL rejection and I had time at my disposal which I needed to use constructively. “In my mind, I had to decide what if this knee injury is more serious than I thought. What's my plan B? You need to think about life beyond cricket.” At one point he was very active on social media on “Justice for Sushant Singh Rajput campaign” which he quit after it became “political in nature”. “Yes BJP had approached me but when I saw the plight of migrant labourers who were left in the lurch by the sitting central government, joining them would be not being honest to my ideals and beliefs. I was devastated by what I saw. People dead on railway tracks. It was very difficult to accept that. “No way could I have responded to BJP's call. They didnt fulfil any promises and this Covid mismanagement is just another example.” Also how Mamata stood her ground against the constant attack from the top leadership of BJP also “inspired him”. “The entire machinery of central government was put to force to attack Didi and it was call of the hour to make her stronger with our presence. I was born in Bengal, I got love, affection, fame here. Now, I have another job to do, serve the people of this state to the best of my ability.” Cricket will certainly take a backseat for an active politician but Tiwary is hopeful that there might just be some amount of cricket left in him. “If I would have retired, I would have told you. If I haven't, read between the lines. I don’t rule out the option of playing a few more games for Bengal. Let's wait and see.” And what about sports administration? “Yes, you will find me raising my voice if needed in Cricket Association of Bengal and also wherever it is required for betterment of cricket and sport and as a whole.” Tiwary during his early playing days was known for his punchlines and he had one for the occasion too. “Manoj Tiwary hasn’t just been born to play cricket. Before I leave this world, I will do enough public service have to leave footprint as a people’s man.” PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal stands by its ‘daughter’, Mamata leads Trinamul to a spectacular victory||Bengal reposed faith in its “daughter” and paved the way for a resounding victory for the Trinamul Congress, but Mamata Banerjee narrowly lost at Nandigram after the result of the seat was held up for a while under a cloud of claims and counterclaims, prompting the chief minister to say she would move court. At 7.20pm, according to the Election Commission website, Trinamul had won or was leading in 216 seats, while the BJP had won or was leading in 75 seats in the elections held for 292 of the 294 Assembly seats of Bengal. Independents were leading in two seats. “My target was 221 seats. I had said we will score double century. Bengal, its people and women have won. Bengal has saved the entire country. This is a landslide victory fighting against all odds, central government, all agencies, election commission,” said Mamata. “The slogans Khela Hobe and Joy Bangla worked. The game happened and we won,” she said. In Nandigram, late on Sunday evening, poll officials said the Mamata’s rival, Suvendu Adhikary of the BJP, won the seat by 1,736 votes. While Suvendu polled 1,09,673 votes, Mamata had got 1,07,937 votes.  Mamata had been trailing for most part of the day. At the end of the 16th round of counting, Adhikari, was ahead by just six votes. Mamata chose not to up the ante. “Whatever verdict the Nandigram people have given, I accept,” she told the media at her Kalighat residence. But she spoke of foul play. “In Nandigram, they looted votes. They stopped counting, they announced one result and then they announced something else. There is some foul play here. I will move court,” she said. Asked about her swearing-in, Mamata indicated her priority was to tackle the pandemic. “Our first priority is Covid. We won’t have a largescale oath-taking ceremony,” she said, adding that as of now, there would be no victory procession anywhere by Trinamul party members. Mamata requested the Centre to provide free vaccines to the country. “Otherwise, I will start satyagraha,” she said. ‘Game On’ worked The outcome of the bitterly fought Assembly elections, which saw the BJP come at her with all guns blazing, resonates with the Trinamul Congress campaign that focussed on Mamata as “Banglar meye (daughter of Bengal)” and “Didi" (elder sister)”. In the run-up to the polls, Mamata came up with the slogan of “Khela Hobe (Game On)”. At the end of the day on Sunday, she had convincingly outplayed the BJP in its own game. The BJP’s gambit of fielding Trinamul candidates like Adhikari, Rajib Banerjee, Rabindranath Bhattacharya and others did not pay the dividends it had hoped for. Mamata went into the election fighting heavy anti-incumbency. While the Narada and Saradha scams had rocked her first term as chief minister, corruption during distribution of relief after last year’s cyclone Amphan and in teacher’s recruitments were all staring at her. The Congress and Left parties had hit the streets against the Trinamul, focussing on these issues as it had done several times in the past. These issues figured prominently in the BJP’s campaign too. At the end of the day, these factors did not seem to be in play as the Trinamul romped home with 48.3 per cent of the total vote share. This vote, while rejecting blatant communalism, patriarchy, moral, cultural and culinary policing of the BJP and the Sangh Parivar at large, also seemed to endorse the dole politics which Mamata has practiced in 10 years of her tenure as chief minister. Vote share The BJP’s vote share is close to 38 per cent -- 10 per cent less than the Trinamul’s -- and with the curtains falling on the Left and secular parties in Bengal, it remains as the principal Opposition party in the state. The Congress and the CPM, which went into the election as an alliance, failed to win even a single seat, while their partner, the Indian Secular Front, was leading in one. Ten years after it was ousted out of power, the CPM now has just about 4.56 per cent of the vote share, while Congress has been reduced to 2.86 per cent. The last two remaining Congress bastions, Malda and Murshidabad, have now crumbled. Even in Berhampore, a stronghold of the Congress for decades, the party lost to the BJP. Since becoming chief minister a decade ago, 2021 was Mamata’s toughest political battle as the BJP appeared to be on the rise in Bengal on the strength of its performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Dismal performance For the BJP though, the performance is dismal. Despite spending crores on a campaign that saw the entire party leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, flock to Bengal, it could not cross the double figure mark. In 2021, the BJP has been pushed back further from the leads it enjoyed in 121 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In the runup to the elections, the BJP had also succeeded in weaning away many sitting legislators from the Trinamul to bolster its campaign. But the move seems to have backfired with the likes of Rajib Banerjee, Vaishali Dalmia, Prabir Ghoshal, Sabyasachi Dutta trailing. Congratulations! A number of Opposition leaders have congratulated Didi on her spectacular win. Maratha strongman Sharad Pawar, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav all sent out congratulatory tweets. “Congratulations @MamataOfficial on your stupendous victory! Let us continue our work towards the welfare of people and tackling the Pandemic collectively,” tweeted Pawar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls: Wishes pour in for Mamata from all over ||WIshes have started to pour in for Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from national leaders as election results and trends indicated that Trinamul Congress (TMC) was all set to regain power in Bengal by a landslide. The TMC was ahead in 202 of the 292 seats that went to polls in the state, way over the halfway mark of 147, leaving the BJP trailing with leads in 77 seats. In terms of vote share, the TMC had 48.5 per cent of the votes against the BJPs 37.4 per cent. Among those who sent conggratulatory messages to Mamata were NCP president Sharad Pawar, National Conference Omar Abdullah and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal. NCP president Sharad Pawar took to twitter to congratulate Mamata Banerjee. "Congratulations @MamataOfficial on your stupendous victory! Let us continue our work towards the welfare of people and tackling the Pandemic collectively," tweeted Pawar, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra. "Congratulations @MamataOfficial didi for landslide victory. What a fight! Congratulations to the people of WB," Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday. National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah on Sunday congratulated Mamata Banerjee for the TMC's "remarkable victory" in the Bengal assembly polls, saying the BJP and a thoroughly partisan Election Commission threw everything at her, but she prevailed. Heartiest congratulations to @MamataOfficial didi & everyone at @AITCofficial for the remarkable victory in West Bengal. The BJP & a throughly partisan Election Commission threw everything including the kitchen sink at you & you prevailed. All the best for the next 5 years (sic)," Omar wrote on Twitter. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday congratulated the TMC on its performance in the Bengal assembly polls, saying people have rejected disruptive and divisive forces. In a tweet, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said, "Congratulations to @MamataOfficial @AITCofficial @derekobrienmp on their splendid victory today. Kudos to the people of West Bengal for rejecting disruptive & divisive forces". Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav congratulated Mamata Banerjee and her party, and said "politics of hate stands defeated" in the state. Taking to Twitter, he said the "conscious public" have given a befitting reply to BJP's 'Didi o Didi' barbs. "Hearty congratulations to the conscious public, combative Mamata Banerjee ji and the dedicated leaders and activists of the TMC, who defeated the BJPs's politics of hate in Bengal! This is a befitting reply to the insulting sarcasm 'Didi O Didi' from the BJP," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister tweeted with hashtag '#Didi_jio_didi' His party's MP, Jaya Bachchan, had campaigned for the TMC in Bengal. Amid the political showdown during elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had addressed Banerjee as 'Didi o Didi' and said that her defeat in Nandigram was certain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls: Mamata leads Trinamul to spectacular victory||The Trinamul Congress is looking to sweep the Bengal elections, winning two seats and with leads in 210 of the 292 Assembly seats as per the latest trends, while the BJP, which was running neck-and-neck initially, is ahead in only 79 seats. As for the Samyukta Morcha, the Left-led alliance, Congress is ahead in one seat. Independents are leading in two seats. With 294 seats in Bengal, the magic figure to form the government in the state is 148. At Nandigram, however, Mamata was locked in a tight contest with the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari. As of 6.10pm, the Election Commission reported that she was trailing by over 9,500 votes. Earlier, there were reports that Mamata had won by 1,201 votes, although this was not officially confirmed by EC. But the Trinamul camp was always confident that Didi would ultimately prevail. Trinamul supporters could not march ahead to Mamata’s Harish Chatterjee Street residence _ it is heavily barricaded _ but chose to celebrate on nearby roads with green abir -- the party colours. In 2016, Trinamul had won 211 seats and by the end of the day on Synday, it could well reach closer to that figure.  In Asansol South, for example, the BJP’s lead after three rounds was a mere 600 votes. Likewise, the Congress was leading in Purulia’s Baghmundi by a similar margin after only two rounds. Trinamul is second in both the seats. In Mamata’s erstwhile constituency, her party nominee Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay is ahead of the BJP’s Rudranil Ghosh by nearly 3,000 votes. “We are coming back to power with a comfortable majority. I am confident our party leader will win too,” Chattopadhyay told newspersons. At Sitalkuchi, where five people were killed after Central forces opened fire on the day of voting, the BJP was leading with 32,734 votes. In the Trinamul stronghold of Murshidabad, the sitting Berhampore MLA, Manoj Chakraborty, is trailing behind the BJP nominee by over 13,000 votes after five rounds of counting. In Behala West, education minister Partha Chatterjee is leading by 6,824 votes. Other ministers in the incumbent government, Subrata Mukherjee, Aroop Biswas, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay and Sadhan Pande, are also leading in their constituencies. BJP’s national vice president Mukul Roy is leading in Krishnagar North by 8,235 votes. In Siliguri, the CPM veteran and sitting legislator Asok Bhattacharya is in the third position, behind Shankar Ghosh of the BJP and Trinamul’s Om Prakash Mishra. Similarly in Hooghly’s Chanditala, another CPM leader Mohammad Salim is trailing behind Swati Khondokar and Debashish Dasgupta, alias, Yash. JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh is in third position at Jamuria. In Bally, another prominent Left face is trailing behind Trinamul and BJP nominees. Three prominent BJP nominees, including two MPs Babul Supriyo and Locket Chatterjee, were trailing in Tollygunge and Chinsurah respectively, while the turncoat former minister in the Mamata government, Rajib Banerjee, was also trailing in Domjur. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is at her 30B Harish Chatterjee street monitoring the election trends and the Covid situation in the state. Seats: 294 Number of voters: 7.33 crore Voting: held over eight phases from March 27 to April 29 Incumbent: Trinamul Congress with 211 seats Majority mark: 147 In Bengal, chanting Hindu scriptures from the dais during an election campaign rally was unheard of. Yet in 2021, chief minister Mamata Banerjee ended all her campaign rallies and roadshows reciting shlokas. That’s what her principal rival, the mighty BJP, has managed to do to the chief of the ruling Trinamul Congress in what has been a hard-fought, no-holds-barred campaign. BJP inroads In 2019, the BJP bagged 18 of 42 Lok Sabha seats and thus gained a lead in 121 Assembly seats, just 27 short of the simple majority. Large-scale defections of Trinamul legislators to the saffron party including top leaders like Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee has put them closer to the seat of power in Bengal _ or so the BJP thinks _ provided it is able to build on the gains of 2019 and expand further. This is also the first time that a sizeable number of turncoats are contesting the polls on a BJP ------- how many approximately --- or Trinamul ticket --- how many. Welfare schemes The Trinamul Congress is banking on its welfare schemes to see it through for a third term. The Trinamul Congress says the Mamata Banerjee government has launched 70 welfare schemes, including Kanyashree (Rs 25,000 for a girl child who studies till Class XII) and Rupashree (a one-time payment of Rs. 25,000 during a girl’s marriage). After the 2019 Lok Sabha losses, the Trinamul Congress government launched several outreach programmes like Duarey Sarkar (government at the doorstop), Paray Paray Samadhan (resolving issues in the neighbourhood) and Swastha Sathi, a health insurance scheme where the medical card is handed over to the oldest woman member of the family. Religious polarisation Polarisation on religious lines was something that Bengal has managed to keep at abeyance in its post-partition political history. The undercurrents existed, but communal fears and scaremongering were not the tactics deployed by political parties. With the decline of the Left and the Congress, politics of polarization has taken root and both the BJP and the Trinamul Congress have indulged in it. Mamata Banerjee has wooed the Hindus by chanting shlokas and harping on her Brahmin roots, while at the same time she has kept the scare of the National Register of Citizens alive in Muslims to convey that only she could protect them. The State has a 27% minority population, according to the 2011 Census. On the other hand, the BJP has been vocal about implementing the Citizenship Amendment Act, a cause of fear for the Muslims, as seen in Assam. As for the Congress and the Left Front, which are fighting the elections in an alliance, they tied up with the Indian Secular Front launched by Furfura Sharif peer Abbas Siddique just before the elections. Identity politics Identity politics reared its head from 2006 onwards when land acquisition by the then Left Front government was seen as an attempt to hurt the farmers in parts of East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas, mostly Muslims. After the Trinamul Congress came to power, it began to woo other communities as well, like the Matuas, Hindu migrants from Bangladesh. The BJP has promised to implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act if it is voted to power, with the Matuas in mind. In the last 10 years, identity politics has been at the forefront of many of Mamata Banerjee’s development schemes, like the numerous boards that she has formed for residents of Darjeeling hills, the Gorkhas, Lepchas and others. Never before did the Bengal electorate go to vote keeping in mind the religious identity. Like in other parts of North India, the BJP and its whisper campaign of ‘Hindu khatre main hai’ has now become a part of the politics in Bengal too. Violent runup In the fourth phase of polling at Sitalkuchi Assembly segment number 5 in North Bengal’s Cooch Behar district, central forces opened fire, killing four people. The forces maintained that they fired in self-defence, a claim the Trinamul government rubbished. There are fears of violence after May 2, but according to a preliminary count, more than 20 people have lost their lives since the Model Code of Conduct came into force with more than 30 candidates attacked during the campaign. Poll issues Jobs, industry: The Trinamul Congress manifesto says it will provide a “minimum basic income” to 1.6 crore families, give financial assistance to farmers and in the next five years “uplift an additional 35 lakh people from extreme poverty.” The BJP promised development for a ‘sonar Bangla’, 33% reservation for women in government jobs and implementation of CAA. The Left manifesto harped on jobs and industry. CAA, NRC: The BJP’s push for the CAA and NRC has helped party keep the communal cauldron boiling. The treatment meted to Hindi Bengalis in the neighbouring state of Assam (where the BJP is in power) since the NRC came into effect has not cut much ice. The Muslims, about 27 per cent of the population, feeling threatened are holding on to Mamata, leaving even the traditional Congress vote depleted. Syndicate and corruption: Narendra Modi introduced “syndicate” into the national political lexicon this election season, referring to the organised system of controlling businesses and supplies in construction work that stated during the Left days and has found widespread patronage under Mamata in all spheres of life. Since 2014, the BJP has been talking about the Saradha scam and later the Narada sting operation but little action has been taken. Many of those accused in the two biggest corruption cases in Bengal are now in the BJP. Teacher recruitment: For seven years, youths who have qualified for teaching jobs after clearing the Teacher’s Eligibility Test have been waiting for appointments. In between, the results were quashed by Calcutta High Court for irregularities in the selection process. Amphan Cyclone relief: On May 20, 2020, super cyclone Amphan made landfall in Bengal. The state government announced a Rs 6.250crore relief package, with a house-building assistance of Rs 20,000 each to five lakh families. Villagers in many of the devastated blocks alleged, only those close to the ruling party at the panchayat level were compensated. Key candidates Chief minister Mamata Banerjee remains the biggest draw of the polls, contesting from the sensitive Nandigram, where the BJP has fielded her one-time aide Suvendu Adhikari. The BJP state president Dilip Ghosh is also contesting the polls, so is the party’s national vice-president and another turncoat Mukul Roy. Both the BJP and Trinamul have fielded a number of starlets, filmmakers, singers adding more glamour than substance to Bengal politics. The Left on the other hand has brought in a fresh perspective by giving tickets to its leaders from the various frontal organisations like the JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh, Dipsita Dhar, the joint secretary of the CPM’s students wing (both in their 20s), Minakshi Mukherjee, the state president of the CPM’s youth wing and others, along with veterans like former MPs Mohamamd Salim and Sujan Chakraborty. Campaign bytes Khela hobe (Game is on). Chief minister Mamata Banerjee Didi. O, Didi…  People of Bengal will not tolerate your syndicate raj. Cut money system. They want ‘Sonar Bangla”. Bengal doesn’t need Didi’s kushasan, it needs asol poriborton Prime Minister Narendra Modi However rough they play we will stop only after hitting the goal. Whatever needs to be done to form the government in 2021, we will do that Peerzada Abbas Siddiqui I am a pure cobra, can kill in one bite BJP leader and actor Mithun Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Abir traders facing severe losses ||An abir trader in Burdwan waits for customers on Saturday. Many abir traders in Bengal who had stocked up on green, saffron and red colours ahead of counting Sunday are facing severe losses as the Election Commission has restricted all victory processions amid the second wave of Covid-19. Usually, poll results mean a Holi-like situation on the streets of Bengal, with victory rallies and party workers smearing each other with colour. This time, celebrations will be low-key because of the curbs. Saurav Chandra, an abir trader in Bolpur town, said he had bought 100 quintals of abir, mainly green and saffron, for Rs 4 lakh, but has not sold even one quintal. “In the past elections, political parties would order abir, this time I received no order,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Hill traffic tweak on counting day||Traffic between Darjeeling and Siliguri, the two major towns in north Bengal, will be diverted on Sunday — the day of counting the votes of the Bengal Assembly polls. Police sources said all vehicles heading to Siliguri from Darjeeling would be diverted either through Mirik or Mungpoo from Ghoom-Jorebunglow area. People will have to take a detour of about an hour more than the usual routes. “The decision has been taken because the counting will take place at St. Alphonsus School which is along NH55 in Kurseong,” said an administrative source. Even if one passes the diversion point at Ghoom-Jorebunglow, the vehicles will have to take an alternative route from Dilaram and reach Kurseong through Bagora-Chimney route. Pankabari Road, which connects Siliguri with Kurseong, will completely be closed on Sunday. “People coming from Siliguri and heading towards Darjeeling can take Rohini Road for uphill travel but they will have to take the Bagora-Chimney route and bypass Kurseong town,” the source added. In Darjeeling, Lebong Cart Road will be closed from Darjeeling Motor Stand to the area near Darjeeling Zoo, because counting will be held at Darjeeling Government College. Vehicles plying between Darjeeling town and Lebong will be diverted via Birch Hill Road, said an official. Even though traffic between Darjeeling and Kurseong is relatively heavy, officials are hopeful that people would not venture out unnecessarily on counting day. The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) has decided to keep all their party offices closed on Sunday. Even their leaders have decided to stay indoors. The Anit Thapa camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has also appealed to its supporters not to throng the streets on counting day. “I appeal to all to remain indoors on Sunday,” said Thapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||CBI to question Bengal’s director of security Gyanwant Singh in coal case||The CBI has summoned Gyanwant Singh, Bengal’s director of security, for questioning in connection with the central agency’s probe into the multi-crore coal smuggling case. Singh, a 1993-batch IPS officer, was the in-charge of the state’s law and order till March before the Election Commission of India posted him as the officer-in-charge of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s security after the Nandigram incident when she was injured. Singh, who replaced Vivek Sahay, another senior IPS officer, as Mamata’s security in-charge, has been asked to appear before a team of CBI officers on May 4. Senior officials in the central agency said as the man in charge of the state’s law and order Singh would be questioned about whether he was aware of the alleged involvement of a section of police officers in the pilferage of coal across parts of Birbhum, West Burdwan, Purulia and Bankura districts and if he had initiated any action. “Since this smuggling of coal spanned allegedly across several districts of Bengal, we would like to know from him if he had any information about this pilferage,” said a senior CBI officer. The central agency has already questioned a clutch of IPS officers and other police officers in connection with its probe into this case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is also probing the coal smuggling, has arrested Ashok Mishra, the officer-in-charge of Bankura police station, in connection with the case. Senior CBI officers said statements of each of the police officers who have been questioned so far have been recorded and Singh’s responses would be crosschecked with them. Singh was appointed the additional director-general of police in charge of Bengal’s law and order in May 2019. A section of senior CBI officers claimed the pilferage of coal had increased across parts of the state’s western range where the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) runs several coal mines. One of the two prime accused in the multi-crore coal pilferage case — Trinamul youth leader Vinay Mishra — is absconding. The other accused Anup Majhi alias Lala has faced several rounds of CBI interrogation. He had got immunity from arrest from the Supreme Court. “The post of ADG in-charge of law and order is one of the key police postings in Bengal and Singh’s responses will be very crucial in this case,” said a senior CBI officer. Several senior IPS officers in the state police directorate said Singh was likely to be reinstated as the IPS officer in-charge of the state’s law and order if Trinamul returned to power. The BJP has been alleging that several thousands of crores minted from the sale of this pilfered coal was routed through shell companies and siphoned into the funds of the ruling party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021 | Wish list: Jobs, investment and health care||Voting over, all eyes are now on counting on Sunday for the big reveal. Waiting with bated breath for results are a group of five Siliguri youths, including two first-time voters, who are hoping their votes make a difference in one of the most bitterly contested and high-profile state elections in recent times, that too amid the second wave of the pandemic. Twin brothers Sourav and Gourav Sikdar, a BBA graduate and an engineering student, respectively, and both aged 19, Subham Pal Choudhury, 23, and an employee in a private bank, Sanjay Choudhury, 26, who runs a business and Dipannita Sikdar, 23, a postgraduate student of zoology, spoke animatedly over cups of tea on their concerns and their hopes from the new government. The Telegraph tuned in Sourav: Voting for the first time was a completely new experience. It feels nice to feel my vote would help elect a government. Gourav (laughs): I was a bit nervous but eventually, all went well. Those at the booth were very helpful. Dipannita: Good. But at times, I wonder if those we elect really think of what we, the youths, want from them. Like in Bengal, job opportunities, both in government and private sectors, are lacking for years now. Subham: No, not entirely true…. Many private companies in financial and IT sectors have come up. Also, jobs are available in MSME units. In north Bengal, the tourism industry has flourished in thepast one decade with many new jobs. Sanjay: But what we need is major industrial investments…. Only the MSMEs and service sector won’t do. That is why thousands of qualified youths leave Bengal. Dipannita (sips tea): Obviously, employment is the most important issue on our minds. We hope first-time voters like Gourav and Sourav have voted logically. Sourav: True. What worries us in these days that even after an MBA or a BTech degree, the chances of getting good placements in Bengal is tough. One has to move out…. Recruiters don’t look beyond certain top-level engineering colleges in Bengal. Subham: Another issue that hits young earners like us are rising fuel prices. Also, household expenses have increased because of rise in prices of essential commodities, right from grocery items to LPG. The BJP in power at the Centre is silent on these issues and often passes the buck to the states. This is just not done. Sanjay: I believe the new government in Bengal should also draw up a comprehensive plan to develop health infrastructure… keeping in mind the steady spike in Covid-19 cases. In our city (Siliguri) alone, we are having 250 to 300 cases a day and over 10 deaths. We need a much more robust infrastructure to handle the situation. Gourav: Right you are. At this point of time, the first priority of the state government should be Covid. In the state, around 17,000 people are getting infected in a day, and in Calcutta and adjoining places, we can perceive the shortage in beds and oxygen supply. Setting up oxygen plants should be done on a war footing. Dipannita: We cannot afford to have yet another complete lockdown. We have seen the consequences of last year’s lockdown when millions lost their jobs. Subham: I also feel that the state needs to draw up a proper plan for social welfare schemes….. a lot of government money is spent for such schemes, but some are extended to an economic class which doesn’t need them. I have seen families where students ride scooters but have received free bicycles and have sold those… Also, no point in giving free health insurance to affluent families. Sourav: Another pertinent issue on which we believe the new government should work is drafting a proper land policy to attract private investments. Sanjay (nods): Yes. There had been major infrastructure development…but a clear policy on land usage is necessary. Also, equally important is the law and order situation…..we are far better off than a number of other states and it can help us. Dipannita: This time, widespread violence could be averted during the elections,  but there have been deaths. This must stop. Gourav: Also, peace and amity should be preserved in Bengal. People here have never encouraged radicalism and polarisation. We need to stay together and work for Bengal. Sourav: Agreed. Let’s hope the new government works for all, and responsibly, given the pandemic…. Sanjay: I will be glued to the television throughout Sunday for results. Dipannita: All we want is, whoever comes to power, should work for all, keeping in focus the young generation that needs education and jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP leader held for gun attack on colleague in Malda||The police in Malda  arrested a BJP leader on Friday night in connection with the April 18 attack on Gopal Chandra Saha, the BJP candidate of the Maldaha Assembly constituency who survived a bullet wound. The arrest of Nitai Mandal, who is the president of the BJP’s rural area committee in Old Malda, has come against the backdrop of claims that the firing at Saha, who is also the district general secretary of the BJP, was the fallout of acute infighting. On April 18 evening, while Saha was returning from a campaign, he was shot at, and the bullet hit his neck. He had to undergo a surgery and is recuperating. His family members had filed a complaint with the police, prompting a probe. Initially, a section of BJP leaders, including party’s state general secretary Sayantan Basu, had accused Trinamul of the attack. Trinamul, however, had denied the charges and have pointed to infighting within the saffron camp. As policemen continued their investigation into the case, they arrested seven persons a week after the incident. “During a thorough interrogation by our officers, these people spilled the beans. We got some vital information based on which Nitai Mandal has been arrested,” said Alok Rajoria, the district police chief of Malda. The police have also come to know that after Saha’s name was announced as Maldaha’s candidate, there had been much anger and prolonged demonstrations by many BJP workers. “Nitai Mandal and his associates were behind these protests. We need to find out whether the attack was organised because Gopal Chandra Saha was made the candidate or there is some other motive,” said a police officer. Mandal’s family members, however, claimed that he has been the victim of a conspiracy. The arrest has left the district BJP leaders red-faced. None of them was ready to make any comment on the issue. Trinamul leaders, however, have reacted to it. “These BJP leaders were blaming us for the attack on their candidate. Now, it has been proved that it is a consequence of their own feud within the party. The truth has been revealed,” said Jahar Ghosh, a Trinamul leader of Old Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Oxygen for Delhi from Bengal||The SAIL-run Durgapur Steel Plant on Saturday dispatched 120 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen in six containers to Delhi via rail route, against the backdrop of Mamata Banerjee’s allegation that the Centre was diverting Bengal’s supply to other states. The railways for the first time created a green corridor between Durgapur and Delhi — a distance of about 1,400km — for faster movement of the “Oxygen Express” to the capital that is reeling from a shortage. Railway officials at the Asansol divisional headquarters said the train left Durgapur around 2pm and was expected to reach Delhi within 24 hours. The Bengal chief minister had told a media conference in Durgapur last week that the Centre was behaving in a “step-motherly” fashion towards the state even in the midst of a pandemic. “The Centre suddenly stopped our supply chain of oxygen cylinders and asked SAIL to send them to Uttar Pradesh (and other) BJP-ruled states. (This is) yet another instance of step-motherly treatment. I have strongly objected to this and have written to the Prime Minister,” Mamata had said. Bengal, like many other states, is witnessing an acute crisis of oxygen cylinders, which are in high demand because a large number of people are being treated in home isolation. Mamata had said earlier that the state had around 20,000 oxygen cylinders. “We are in the process of arranging 5,000 more,” she had said in Durgapur last week. Officials said there were concerns that with the allotted 223 tonnes of oxygen, the state might not be able to manage the situation as infections were rising sharply. “We have requested (the Centre) if we could be allowed to use oxygen produced in our state as we fear we would require more than 450 tonnes of oxygen over the next few days,” said a source. A source in SAIL said: “Around 2,200 tonnes of LMO (liquid medical oxygen) have been supplied through our two units — the Durgapur Steel Plant and the IISCO Steel Plant in Burnpur — to Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra in April when the crisis of oxygen started because of the second wave of the pandemic.” Sources at Durgapur Steel Plant said the unit itself had previously dispatched 6,686 tonnes of LMO to various states, including Bengal, since August last year, but the supply was suddenly paused last month. Sources in SAIL said that they had enhanced production to more than 900 tonnes per day. “We have received an order from the ministry asking us to enhance production and dispatch LMO on a priority basis. We are doing the job to the best of our abilities,” said a spokesperson for Durgapur Steel Plant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal hospitals to vaccinate those under 45 years only after more stocks arrive||Bengal’s currently vaccine-less private hospitals will inoculate only those above 45 years in the initial days after stocks arrive and the jabs resume there, and will wait till more doses are available before vaccinating people aged between 18 and 45, private hospital executives have said. Sources at government hospitals and corporation clinics, which are continuing to vaccinate those aged 45 and above, too said they were unsure when the jabs would start for the younger group at their facilities. Private hospital executives, who met Bengal health department officials on Saturday, said the state government had promised to tell them within “two to three days” when Covid vaccines may become available for their facilities. “We are yet not sure when we would be able to begin vaccination again,” a private hospital executive said. “After we get the initial stocks, we will be vaccinating only those aged 45 or above. People aged between 18 and 45 will be vaccinated only when enough stocks are available.” He said that among people aged 45 and above, those scheduled to get their second dose will be given priority. All private healthcare facilities have frozen vaccinations indefinitely from Saturday as they have no vaccine stocks left, having had to return to the Centre all their unused doses on Friday evening. This is because the Centre has started a new regime from Saturday under which private hospitals have to buy their vaccines directly from the manufacturers, who have raised the prices. Till April 30, the Centre provided vaccines to the state governments, which handed a portion of the consignment to private facilities. Several private hospitals say the manufactures have either been silent about when they might be able to supply to the private facilities, or quoted dates as late as July. Many private hospitals want the state government to procure vaccines on their behalf from the manufacturers. An official from a private hospital said: “No private hospital will open the booking through Co-Win for under-45 adults until the state government says that enough vaccine stocks will be available.” He said this meant that those among the under-45 who have registered themselves with Co-Win for vaccination will not be able to book slots for the jabs now. The Centre has ruled out spot registration for adults aged below 45: only those among them who have registered themselves with Co-Win and booked slots with a particular hospital will get the jabs. Govt hospitals The vaccination of people aged 45 and above will continue at government hospitals and Calcutta Municipal Corporation clinics on Monday. Most government facilities, which vaccinated the 45-plus on Saturday, will halt the jabs on Sunday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said that vaccination for those aged between 18 and 45 would begin in Bengal from May 5. However, doctors managing the vaccination programme at two government hospitals said they had not yet received any official communication from the state health department on when inoculation for this younger group would begin. “We have been asked to wait for further instructions,” a doctor at a government hospital said. At Saturday’s meeting, executives from several private hospitals revealed to government officials their difficulties in procuring vaccines. “Officials from several private hospitals said the Serum Institute of India had told them it would not be able to supply vaccines to private healthcare facilities before July while Bharat Biotech had not responded to queries,” a private hospital executive said. The Serum Institute makes Covishield while Bharat Biotech manufactures Covaxin. The state government officials told the private hospital representatives to place their demand for vaccines in a format that the administration would prepare and share with the hospitals. “We have also been told to mention in the format whether we want to procure the vaccines from the manufacturers or from the state government,” an official said. Several private hospitals on Saturday repeated their request that the state health department procure vaccines from the manufacturers on their behalf. The state has written to the Centre asking if it can do so. From Saturday, Serum’s price per dose is Rs 150 for the Centre, Rs 300 for the state governments and Rs 600 for private hospitals. Bharat Biotech’s rates are Rs 150, Rs 400 and Rs 1,200, respectively. Several private hospital executives said they did not expect any progress on vaccine procurement till the announcement of the Assembly election results on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
02-05-2021||North East||Assam poll trends: BJP crosses halfway mark, leads in 78 seats||The ruling BJP in Assam crossed the halfway mark as the Sarbananda Sonowal-led party took a lead in 78 seats, while the Congress is ahead in 46 seats, according to ndtv.com . Counting of votes for the assembly elections in Assam is underway with strict adherence to health protocols as it is taking place amid a raging second wave of COVID-19. An average 82.04 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the elections to 126 assembly constituencies in Assam. Seats: 126 Voters: 2.33 crore Voting: held over three phases from March 27, April 1 and April 6 Incumbent: NDA (BJP 60, Asom Gana Parishad 14, Bodoland People’s Front 12) Majority mark: 63 In Assam, the BJP, led by chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, formed its first government in 2016 with a tally of 86 seats along with its alliance partner Asom Gana Parishad. The Congress, which had governed the state for 15 years, was reduced to 26. This time, the BJP, Asom Gana Parishad and United People’s Party Liberal are contesting the polls in alliance, while the Congress has joined forces with traditional Left parties, Bodoland People’s Front and the All-India United Democratic Front (AIUDF). While the Congress in Bengal dithered over its alliance with the Indian Secular Front, the party’s Assam unit has been upbeat about the alliance with the largely Muslim AIUDF to take on the BJP. About 34 per cent of the population in Assam is Muslim. In North Assam, the Assam Jatiya Parishad and the Raijor Dal could eat into the votes of the NDA partner, AGP. Poll issues CAA: The Congress has put the contentious citizenship act at the forefront of its campaign with the party’s former president, Rahul Gandhi, having made it clear that they would scrap the provision in Assam. The BJP on the other hand is firm on its decision to implement the act. Tea gardens: In the Union budget for the 2021-22 fiscal, Rs 1,000 crore was earmarked for the tea gardens in Assam and Bengal. The announcement was made in February keeping in mind the coming elections. Despite Assam being the largest producer of tea, its labourers are the least paid at Rs 167 per day, far lower than Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Bengal. In 2016, the BJP manifesto promised Rs 351.33 as minimum wage for tea labourers. This time, the Congress has promised wages at Rs 365 per day. Floods: Since 2016, 124 lakh people have been displaced in successive floods. The BJP has promised to make Assam free from floods, like it had promised in 2016. Key candidates Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal is contesting from Majuli, the largest river island in the world, while the Number Two in the cabinet, Himanta Biswa Sarma, is seeking a fifth consecutive term from Jalukbari. At Titabor, the seat represented by the late chief minister, Tarun Gogoi, the Congress has fielded Bhaskarjyoti Barua. If people wear masks, how will beauty parlours run? Himanta Biswa Sarma, state finance and health minister You know about the five guarantees of the Congress. Let me guarantee a sixth, that the Mahajot government will not let Assam be controlled by either Nagpur or Delhi if voted to power. Rahul Gandh, Congress MP I want to tell you about a conspiracy hatched to defame the country. The conspirators have not even spared Indian tea. They are saying that the image of Indian tea has to be defamed worldwide, systematically. Prime Minister Narendra Modi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
02-05-2021||Opinion||Fix the blame: Covid crisis||Sir — It is laudable that Indians are not holding back from helping their fellow citizens in these very dark times. But in hailing these people as heroes, we should not forget that they are doing the job that the government has failed to do. This is not to take anything away from the kindness of people, but a country is not supposed to run on the goodwill of its citizens. We elect representatives by spending thousands of rupees of public funds to do just this. No time is wrong to demand accountability from the government, especially when one has bungled up as badly as ours has with the pandemic. Rima Roy, Calcutta Sir — Around the time when the Narendra Modi regime was meeting and trying to make up for its massive mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis, the Supreme Court — the only hope for Indian democracy — asked the government whether it has considered Section 92 of the Patents Act, 1970, which enables compulsory licensing of patents in a public health emergency. This echoes the advice of the former prime minister, Manmohan Singh, who wrote to Modi, “I believe this is the time to invoke the compulsory licensing provisions in the law, so that a number of companies are able to produce the vaccines under a licence”. Given his hubris, Modi did not even acknowledge Singh. The health minister responded to the letter instead. This is the same person who claimed that the Vedas had theories superior to the theory of relativity. How can one expect a rational reply from this person? “History shall be kinder to you Dr Manmohan Singh ji if your offer of ‘constructive cooperation’ and valuable advice was followed by your [Congress] leaders as well in such extraordinary times,” the health minister tweeted. This government has only one trick up its sleeve — feed people lies and bombast. What happened to the claim of ‘Modi hai toh mumkin hai’? Why can the prime minister not make India’s betterment a possibility? Even though India is being ravaged by the second wave of the pandemic, Modi’s pride will not allow him to take the advice of a former prime minister. We will have to see how the government responds to the Supreme Court’s concerns, not just regarding Section 92 of the Patents Act, 1970 but also about its comments in the context of clamping down on those criticizing the government or asking for help on social media. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — Compulsory licensing can be the shot in the arm we desperately need to tackle this crisis. This is a weapon in the hands of the governments to supply its citizens with generic versions of patented drugs, either through domestic production or imports. Section 92 of the Patents Act, 1970 empowers the Central government to grant licences to applicants who are willing and can manufacture the said drugs. In simple words, if the patented drug costs thousands of rupees, we can make its generic version at a fraction. But does the Narendra Modi government have the wish or even the inclination to help people over lining the pockets of capitalists? Jayant Singh,Calcutta Sir — The prestigious American daily, The New York Times, recently decided to rename its ‘Op-Ed’ page and instead call contributions to the section “Guest Essays”. Articles were first called “Op-Eds” because they were printed on the opposite side of the editorial page. In the digital age, there is no geographical ‘Op-Ed’. It is a relic of an older age and an older print newspaper design. Not long after the NYT had added its Op-Ed page, many other foreign newspapers had followed suit. It will be interesting to see if any of them follow the NYT’s lead in renaming this page. The advantage of an Op-Ed section is that it provides the opportunity to educate and inform a large audience about important issues. Such articles are particularly useful to sway public opinion and dispel common misconceptions. It may be outdated, but many of us still look forward to this section. Ranganathan Sivakumar, Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
02-05-2021||Opinion||A doctor grieves||He is the world’s doctor, and for months he has tirelessly led the global response to the coronavirus pandemic while privately nursing a piercing anguish. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director-general of the World Health Organization, has largely kept his pain secret, maintaining a stoic public front. But when I probed, he wept. Tedros is from Tigray, a part of Ethiopia that since November has endured crimes against humanity by Ethiopian and Eritrean soldiers. The US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, has properly described atrocities in western Tigray as ethnic cleansing, but the world has largely been indifferent. Tigrayan children are starving to death, men have been clubbed to death, and women and girls have been subjected to mass rape. Ethiopian Opposition parties claim that more than 50,000 people have been killed — that is not verifiable, and the toll is unknown — and the scale of torture, starvation, murder and destruction in the past few months may have been the worst in the world. “Hunger is weaponized, rape is weaponized, there is indiscriminate killing,” Tedros said. “The whole region is hungry.” “It’s so painful,” he added. “I don’t have words.” His cousin, a 68-year-old woman, was killed while trying to take shelter in a church, he said. Another relative, a 16-year-old high school student, was shot in the street. Internet and telephone links have been cut off, so Tedros can’t reach family members in Tigray to get more information about who has been tortured or murdered. My colleague, Declan Walsh, has reported on atrocities, such as a 26-year-old man being beaten to death with beer bottles and girls as young as eight being sexually assaulted. The United Nations humanitarian chief, Mark Lowcock, described a woman whose husband was killed, who lost her unborn baby and who then was gang-raped in front of her children. Even though Tedros is one of the world’s most recognized public servants, he may have become a refugee. He is now based at the WHO headquarters in Geneva, but he would probably not be safe if he tried to return to Tigray. Ethiopia’s military chief has denounced him as a criminal. I’ve known and admired Tedros for 15 years, but we have periodically tangled over his deference to dictators. I asked Tedros about that, but he didn’t want to discuss politics of any kind — including whether countries should pressure Ethiopia to stop the slaughter of Tigrayans. He seems deeply conflicted, torn between what he sees as a professional duty to his organization to be impartial and the horror of an ethnic cleansing of his own people. Presiding over these crimes against humanity in Tigray is Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed of Ethiopia, who came to power in 2018 and was initially hailed as a great reformer; he even won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2019. Abiy is a pro-Western figure over whom the United States of America has considerable influence — if it will only use it. The Tigray crisis is rooted in ethnic tensions and a power struggle. For almost three decades, people from Tigray dominated Ethiopia’s Central government; Tedros became Ethiopia’s highly regarded health minister in that period, then foreign minister. This Tigrayan-led government ruled effectively, greatly raising living standards, but it was also repressive, torturing critics, imprisoning journalists and stirring deep resentments among other Ethiopians. After taking power, Abiy reined in Tigrayans and dispatched troops in November to crush what he said was a mutiny in the region. That triggered a civil war with Tigray fighters, and Eritrea’s army entered to back up Ethiopia’s forces. There is also a risk of a wider war involving Sudan. All sides in the conflict have committed atrocities, but by far the most serious and credible allegations are against the Ethiopian and Eritrean armies and their allies. As WHO chief, Tedros has tried to get vaccines distributed more equitably around the world, while dealing with Donald Trump’s appalling decision to pull the US out of the WHO (overturned by President Joe Biden on his first day in office). In public, Tedros is focused on Covid-19 and has mostly kept quiet about atrocities in Tigray. “The public sees Tedros devoting every day to managing the pandemic, but privately he is also managing his pain about Tigray,” said Annie Sparrow, an assistant professor at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, who was an adviser to Tedros. Tedros was reluctant to give this interview, but when he did his torment was unmistakable. “We have Covid and are doing our best. On top of that, to have this pain,” he began, and then the stoic broke down. For more than a minute, he couldn’t speak and sobbed. I respect a man who loses it when contemplating war crimes. I wish more would. And I hope President Biden and other world leaders will hear that agony on behalf of so many in Tigray who are being starved, raped and murdered, and will use their influence to end this catastrophe. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
02-05-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Double lives||The world wide web has been left both shaken and stirred by the decision of MI5 to infiltrate the realm of Instagram. No one can miss the irony of an intelligence organization making its social media debut in the name of transparency. Is secrecy no longer cool for the secret agent? Britain’s domestic intelligence agency is known for its functions of spying and keeping secrets, performed — at least in the popular imagination — by suave, tuxedoed men drinking martinis. But rushing to follow MI5 on Instagram in the hopes of smouldering selfies of secret agents might not bear fruit. “Martini-drinking stereotypes” are exactly what the MI5 is trying to debunk, according to its director-general. The aim, apparently, is to paint a picture of inclusion, encouraging citizens irrespective of socio-economic background, ethnicity, sexuality, gender, disability, and so on to see themselves as possible recruits. This is significant in light of the fact that a 2018 parliamentary committee report strongly criticized the United Kingdom’s spy agencies for failing to assimilate the notion of modern Britain in their rank and file: women and ethnic minorities in senior positions were too few. The MI5, though, is not the only intelligence agency on Instagram, or social media for that matter. Be it the Central Intelligence Agency or the Mossad, social media is teeming with spies. However, those looking to be thrilled would be sorely disappointed. Tweets and posts on their social media sites include recruitment ads, the occasional puzzle, retweets from intelligence officials, and attempts at jokes. But all of this may not be as benign as it seems. An independent study conducted at the University of Colorado suggests that a lot of what intelligence agencies do on these platforms is patently ugly business. As such, appearing ‘cool’ or ‘funny’ — the CIA’s first tweet was “We can neither confirm nor deny that this is our first tweet” — is essentially a way of airbrushing troubling legacies. It only grows curiouser and curiouser from here. The security service’s embracing of Instagram comes days after it warned that social media was being used on “an industrial scale” by rogue States and organized crime to mine personal data and target people. In a world where lives are increasingly being bared online, intelligence gathering cannot remain indifferent to social media. What is worrying though is that they have at their disposal tools that can make snooping on these platforms equivalent to infringements on citizens’ privacy. In 2015, an intelligence and security committee report — it was almost immediately redacted — revealed that intelligence agencies in the UK were collecting not only targeted data on specific suspects but also information from the general public. Over the past decade, online open-source intelligence has become a significant source of actionable data. Social media has been used to identify suspects and key eyewitnesses to some of the most notable cases worldwide. This is likely to reaffirm the double life of social media and of secret services. On the one hand, they are being transformed into repositories of information that is public even as they, in turn, are mining public data secretly while the people remain glued to Instagram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
02-05-2021||Opinion||Vaccine Action Plan of another time when politics wasn't war||There was a time when politics in India was not a hateful war. While political parties had ups and downs in their personal relations, meaningful systemic engagements never got disrupted between the Centre and state governments. When, as the prime minister, Rajiv Gandhi undertook the Vaccine Action Programme in the country on a war footing, the Central team received better cooperation from Opposition-ruled states. Chief ministers like Jyoti Basu in West Bengal, RM Hegde in Karnataka, NT Rama Rao in Andhra Pradesh, and EK Nayanar in Kerala responded to the plan which did not have mass support with greater enthusiasm than Congress-ruled states. They helped in creating awareness among the people which was a gigantic task given the absence of communication tools. State instruments — Doordarshan and All India Radio — played a vital role along with local language media in states. The vaccination drive became a thundering success. Now, even with a communication explosion in the form of multiple television channels and social media, the Narendra Modi government could not deal with the initial vaccine hesitancy and inexplicably blamed the Opposition for this. While there was a massive outreach to the scientific community, civil society and political parties to ensure a consensual approach, the Modi government did little to reach out to other parties before unveiling the vaccination drive. It is strange that Modi could make the entire country clap and bang thalis on one call but had to blame others for vaccine hesitancy. The government has failed to understand that while it has its own role in democracy, the Opposition too has responsibility. Campaigning for the Opposition to vanish — a Congress-mukt Bharat — and expecting cooperation is absurd. The Congress still, with its decades-long experience in governance, gave constructive suggestions during the crisis, only to be rebuffed and ridiculed. The minister of state for external affairs, V Muraleedharan, is known for his strident criticism of the Left Democratic Front government in Kerala. Rarely a day goes by without the minister launching some attack or the other against the government or the chief minister, Pinarayi Vijayan. In one such allegation, Muraleedharan questioned the state government for the malfunctioning of the CoWIN application in the state. But perhaps Muraleedharan has forgotten that the application was developed by the Centre in Delhi and is run by the ministry of health and family welfare headed by his senior colleague, Harsh Vardhan. To make matters worse, an unusual silence pervaded the usual media channels that echoed Muraleedharan’s remarks after people across the country slammed the Centre since the CoWIN application went on the blink. What, one wonders, does Muraleedharan have to say about that? An interview of the senior Assam minister and Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Himanta Biswa Sarma, to a popular web portal in early April asserting there was no Covid-19 in Assam and, thereby, no need to wear masks, adding that the state would celebrate Bihu with usual fervour, stands out in sharp contrast to his media briefings and daily tweets on the overall situation and what he has been doing to stem the spread of the deadly coronavirus. When he gave the interview, Assam had around 617 active cases and 1,109 overall deaths. By April-end, active cases rose to 23,826 and the death toll to 1,307 on account of the deadly second wave sweeping the country. Altogether, 198 persons died within 26 days since his fateful interview. The worsening situation not only keeps reminding the aam janta about his premature claims about Covid-19 being a thing of the past but also about all the violations of safety protocols by politicians, cutting across party lines, during electioneering. The interview has also provided Sarma’s many detractors with a weapon to have a go at him. This is not good for a seasoned politician, seen by his supporters as the CM-in-waiting. Silence could be bliss sometimes for politicians such as Sarma, for any act of indiscretion is bound to haunt them at some point of time in their career, said a senior politician. The Karnataka CM, BS Yediyurappa, has the tough task of defending his government that has been teetering under pressure from both the Covid-19 spike and the under-performing ministers who have been a burden for long. But the latest headache for the Lingayat strongman came in the form of gross insensitivity by his food minister, Umesh Katti, who asked a farmer to ‘go and die’ for asking the government why the five-kilo free rice supplied through ration shops was reduced to just two kilos. Already beleaguered by high Covid numbers and sparse medical resources like beds, oxygen, medicines and vaccines, Yediyurappa immediately issued an apology and said it was not right for a minister to make such comments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
02-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad: 1 killed, 5 injured in family feud||One person was killed and five others injured in Kankani area of Loyabad police station about 10 km from Dhanbad district headquarter on Sunday when two neighbouring families had a clash over the construction of a drain near their house. Enraged over the incident, family members of the deceased Rohan Chauhan, and others of the locality ransacked the house of Sitaram Chauhan breaking TV sets, furniture, refrigerator and other electronic items besides burning two bikes lying in his backyard. The irate protesters also gheraoed the Loyabad Police station demanding police to handover main accused Sitaram Chauhan and his two sons, Anuj Chauhan and Rohit Chauhan. Residents of the locality said Sitaram Chauhan and Umesh Chauhan have had differences over the drain construction. On Sunday, a verbal dispute spiralled into a physical fight where Sitaram Chauhan and his two sons attacked Umesh Chauhan and his sons Rohan Chauhan and Uttam Chauhan with a dagger. Police rushed the duo to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital, where Rohan was declared brought dead and Uttam Chauhan is undergoing treatment in the ICU. A large number of policemen from different police stations including Loyabad, Putki and Moodih have been deployed in the area as the villagers are demanding immediate punishment of the accused, Sitaram Chauhan, Anuj Chauhan and Rohit Chauhan who were also also beaten by local residents before being arrested by police. Dhanbad City SP, R. Ramkumar, assured the residents that police will punish the guilty through a proper legal process. "The situation is under control as we have arrested accused persons and will follow the due legal process to ensure punishment to them," said Ramkumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
02-05-2021||Jharkhand||Seventh Nor'wester triggers rain and storm across state||The season's seventh and this month's first Nor'wester, triggered by a cyclonic circulation hovering over north-west Madhya Pradesh hit several parts of Jharkhand including Jamshedpur and Ranchi on Sunday afternoon. The storm accompanied by lightning and thunderous activity swept across several parts of Jharkhand with a wind speed of 40-45 kmph. The affected districts were Deoghar, Dumka, West Singhbhum, Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Chatra, Dhanbad, Jamshedpur, Giridih, Hazaribagh, Jamtara and Khunti. On Friday, a similar Nor'wester - the season's sixth - had hit Jamshedpur, Ranchi and several other places  resulting in widespread lightning and thunderstorms. The steel city and its adjoining areas -- Ghatshila and Chaibasa encountered the Nor'wester around 2.45 pm. The wind speed was around 45 Kmph. The storm and moderate showers lasted for about 20 minutes. The Nor'wester had first hit several places in north-eastern and central Jharkhand before moving towards the south in Kolhan region. Ranchi and its adjoining areas experienced light showers while several places in southern Jharkhand including Jamshedpur witnessed moderate rain. Weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre extended the rainfall and thunderstorm alert for another four days till May 6. "Partly cloudy sky with possibility of light to moderate rain is expected in various parts of Jharkhand for another four days, "said a duty officer at Ranchi. The Met centre also issued an alert of lightning for the next 72 hours. Met statistics revealed that maximum temperature in most places across Jharkhand has come down below the average normal due to the Nor'wester activity for the last few days. Like Friday, Sunday's Nor'wester too damaged overhead cables several  Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL ) serviced areas in Kolhan and other places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
02-05-2021||Jharkhand||State Congress and JMM leaders hail TMC victory in Bengal Assembly elections||Congress and JMM leaders have welcomed TMC’s victory in Bengal Assembly Elections and termed it as the debacle of communal forces. Congress MLA of Jharia, Purnima Singh, said, “The landslide victory of TMC proves the trust of people of Bengal in Mamata Banerjee’s work.” “In the last six years of BJP rule at centre, people have understood well that it does nothing but only create hype and fails on core issues and thus people didn’t fall prey to their false promises this time and rejected their divisive agenda,” said Singh. “The gross mishandling of the Covid issue by the central government and moreover worsening of the Covid situation in Bengal by holding huge political rallies, where positivity rate has reached as high as 55% further exposed the BJP before the people leading to its debacle in Bengal,” the Congress leader said. Dhanbad based All India Congress Committee Member, Santosh Singh on the other hand claimed that Bengal’s defeat is the defeat of prime minister, Narendra Modi and Election Commission. “They have misused Central Security forces, Enforcement Directorate and Election Commission and BJP suffered humiliating defeat despite all proving the fact that common people are the real heroes in democracy,” said Singh. District President of  Congress and eminent lawyer of Dhanbad, Brajendra Prasad Singh said, “The election result proves the defeat of communal forces  as BJP went into election with no real issue other than divisive agenda and people have taught them a befitting lesson.” “Prime Minister, Narendra Modi and Minister of Home Affairs held huge political rallies in Bengal at a time when Covid was spreading at a fast pace putting the life of common people at risk and people have taught them lessons for their inept handling of pandemic” said Singh. Echoing Singh’s sentiments, district President of JMM, Ramesh Tuddu said, “TMC worked on the ground and BJP indulged in raking up only emotional issues which have no connection with the real problem being faced by the commoners so BJP suffered humiliating defeat.” “The election result proves that Modi magic is waning and the failure of the central government on Covid handling has exposed the inefficiency of the BJP leaders” said Tuddu. State president of minority cell of TMC, Mukhatar Khan, “The election results proves that groundwork has no substitute and thus the BJP despite using all it’s might suffered a humiliating defeat in Bengal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
02-05-2021||Jharkhand||Demand for Covid facility at old assembly building ||Officials of the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha Secretariat have requested the government to set up a 30-bed Covid care centre with oxygen support for staff of the State Assembly at the old Vidhan Sabha building in Sector 2 citing a crisis of beds in the state capital and a rise in cases of infection among the staff working in the State Assembly. In a letter addressed to the Principal Secretary of Home, Prisons and Disaster Management Department recently, the Deputy Secretary of Vidhan Sabha, Ranjit Kumar also asked the government to ensure supply of life-saving drugs to the medical store at the new Vidhan Sabha building in Dhurwa for fast and effective treatment of Assembly staff infected by Coronavirus. “Several staff and officials of the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat have died of Covid-19 recently. Upper Secretary Manohar Lakra, Emergency Secretary Deepak Shukla and Administrative Officer Rajesh Pandey have succumbed to Coronavirus infection,” the letter stated, adding that several other employees of the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat were critical after contracting the viral infection. “Given the crisis of beds in hospitals, it cannot be denied that the situation can get worse in the days to come. I would, therefore, request you to set up a 30-bed Covid care centre with oxygen support at the old Vidhan Sabha building for our staff and ensure supply of life-saving drugs to the medical store at the new Vidhan Sabha building,” Kumar further stated in the letter. In the letter on behalf of Vidhan Sabha staff, Kumar has also requested the government to allow use of the Vidhan Sabha ambulance for staff infected by the virus and provide sufficient oxygen support in the ambulance during the ongoing crisis. The Russian Hostel at Sector 2 was temporarily used as the state assembly in Jharkhand since the formation of the state back in 2000. The new Vidhan Sabha building at Dhurwa was inaugurated in 2019 and is since being used as the permanent State Assembly. “A letter has been sent to the concerned officials and we are hoping that the government will do the needful at the earliest. The situation is fast going out of control and the crisis of beds is only adding to our problems,” said a staff in the public relations department of the Vidhan Sabha. The active caseload of Covid-19 breached the 20,000 mark in Ranchi on Saturday, and the district has enough Covid beds to only treat around 20 per cent of the patients, say health officials. Amid the unprecedented spike in cases, Covid fatalities have also been on the rise here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
02-05-2021||Jharkhand||Madhupur bypoll: JMM leader Hafijul Hassan wins with a margin of  5,247 votes||JMM leader and minister Hafijul Hassan Ansari has won with a margin of 5,247 votes over his nearest rival Ganga Narayan Singh of the BJP in the by- election to the Madhupur assembly constituency, according to the Election Commission. Hasan has polled 1,10,812 votes while his rival BJP candidate has to his credit 1,05,565 votes after the eighth round of counting, an EC spokesperson said. The bypoll in Madhupur in Deoghar district, which took place on April 17, was necessitated by the death of former minister Haji Hussain Ansari, father of the JMM nominee, on October 3 last year. Four Independent candidates - Ashok Kumar Thakur, Rajendra Kumar, Uttam Kumar Yadav and Kishan Kumar Bathwal, who were also in the fray - have polled 3,924; 2,409; 2,003 and 1,033 votes, respectively. According EC website 5,123 votes went to NOTA. Left parties who are not part of the JMM-led UPA government in Jharkhand decided to support Hafijul Hassan for the Madhupur bypoll. In a joint media statement issued at the CPM state office in Ranchi, four Left parties — CPI(M), CPI, CPI(ML) and Marxist Coordination Committee — had announced their support to the JMM-UPA candidate. “We had extended our support to the UPA candidates at Bermo and Dumka bypolls against the BJP candidates and have decided to do the same for Madhupur. This has been done as a protest against the pro-corporate policies of the BJP government reflected in the new farm laws, privatisation of national assets and dismal employment opportunities,” said Prakash Viplav on behalf of the joint coordination committee of the Left parties. Left parties do not have a sizable presence in Madhupur constituency but have a few pockets of where factory workers have shown their support for the Left parties. Chief Minister Hemant Soren, who was the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha's star campaigner for the seat, congratulated Hasan for the victory and thanked the people of the constituency for electing him. Referring to the West Bengal elections, Soren said that people there have given a befitting reply to the BJP and alleged that the saffron party misused a constitutional authority like the Election Commission which is a cause of serious concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-66
