03-05-2021||Calcutta||Mamata to be sworn-in as CM again on May 5||TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee will be sworn-in as West Bengal chief minister for a third straight term on Wednesday, after she spearheaded her party to a ramarkable victory in the assembly polls. She called on Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at Raj Bhavan and resigned as the chief minister, as is the practice, before she is administered the oath of office and secrecy again. She will continue to function in caretaker capacity till then. Earlier Monday, she addressed a press conference where she spoke of a “collective fight” by the opposition against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, but underscored combating the Covid-19 crisis should be the first priority. “I am just a street fighter. I can boost the morale of the people so that we can fight a strong fight against the BJP. One cannot do everything alone and it should be a collective effort. “If collectively we can take a decision, together we can fight the battle of 2024. But first let us fight this Covid crisis and then we will decide on this. Now is not the time,” she said, responding to a question about her role in the 2024 general elections. Later, the newly elected MLAs of the TMC met and unanimously chose her the leader of the legislature party, before she called on the governor to stake claim to form the government. Banerjee, who lost from Nandigram despite the astounding TMC victory, can be sworn-in as the chief minister but will have to get elected to the assembly within six months of assuming office. “CM @MamataOfficial called on me and submitted her resignation as CM and the same has been accepted. She has been requested to continue till alternative arrangements are made,” Dhankhar tweeted after Banerjee tendered her resignation. The oath-taking ceremony will be a low-key affair due to an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. “Taking note of communication @AITCofficial electing @MamataOfficial as leader of 17th WB Legislative Assembly have invited her to take oath of office of Chief Minister on May 5 at 10.45 am at Raj Bhawan. In view of current Covid situation function will be with limited audience,” he tweeted. During her media interaction, Banerjee again demanded that every citizen of the country should be given free vaccines by the Centre. “They are sending vaccine and oxygen to two-three states. Why so? Every state should get its due. I have heard that in Gujarat, vaccine is being given from the BJP party office. Do they (BJP) have any expertise in giving vaccines?” she claimed. Banerjee also claimed that the Left, which ruled the state for 34 years on the trot, was unable to get back the votes that it had lost to the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, leading to its further downfall. “I may have political differences with them (Left) but I did not want to see them getting zero. It would have been better if they got the votes back from the BJP. They favoured the BJP so much that they became a signboard. They need to think about this. Dipankar Bhattacharya (CPIM-L) did not do this,” she said. The chief minister said she did not get the customary call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on her victory in the elections. “This is the first time I saw a prime minister not calling. It is ok, he may be busy. I did not take it in sentiment,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: We tried to wean those swayed by BJP blitz||Kasturi Basu, activist and documentary filmmaker, is one of the founders of the “No Vote to BJP campaign”. Over the past four months, the campaign has reached various districts of Bengal, organising meetings, performing skits, distributing pamphlets and putting up posters with one clarion call — “vote any party you want but the BJP”. Basu writes about her experience of the “past four months on the beaten track with a slogan and zeitgeist of our times”. The warmest message came from Punjab as the poll results were being declared. A picture and a message of the indefatigable farmers at the Singhu border, distributing sweets and lighting candles to celebrate a resounding defeat of the BJP in the Assembly polls in Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. It held out a significant message for the “No Vote To BJP” campaign in Bengal, a people’s movement I have been part of for the past four months, along with hundreds of fellow citizens. It carried a message of “What is to be Done”, particularly for the upcoming electoral battles in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana. It was also a message for the rest of India, which had been watching closely the bitterly contested Bengal polls where a fascist Centre with all its might had launched an arrogant bid for taking over Bengal, with a macho slogan “Ebaar Bangla, Parle Samla”! For many of us, we saw our role in the “No Vote to BJP” campaign as an extension of our involvement in the fierce movement against the NRC-NPR-CAA matrix in Bengal. The crime against humanity that’s the Assam NRC had shaken us from our stupor during the Modi 1.0 regime. Then, the passing of the CAA 2019, together with the already-draconian CAA 2003, and the declaration of the NPR process, pulled the last trigger. Perhaps the Modi-Shah-RSS combine had not anticipated that their reckless moves would end up mobilising thousands of determined activists during the Modi 2.0 era to stand up decisively against the oppressive citizenship matrix. As the regime in Delhi stayed arrogant about not budging from their citizenship restructuring project, at the core of my heart I felt that the Bengal polls were a kind of referendum on the matter. As much as they were a referendum against the farm bills, the labour code, the massive disinvestment of the public sector and the New Education Policy 2020. So, we began the campaign and set out on a journey for four months. It was a first for me. No Vote to BJP – Endorse anyone but throw out the fascists – was our central slogan. The slogan was intended to strike a chord with the people who were never loyal or traditional BJP supporters, but those who had been blown over by the blitz of the BJP campaign and voted for the party in 2019. Through our campaign we tried to persuade, reason and talk to these fellow citizens, to wean them away from the influence of the BJP. Our campaign toolkit included direct mass contact in 19 districts of Bengal, through a couple of hundred street corner meetings, district-wise mobile campaigns on tableaus, auto-rickshaws and totos, about a dozen rallies and some door-to-door campaigning. The red and white poster with “BJP ke Ektio Vote Noy” written over it was soon all over the place, along with other posters from the campaign, highlighting issues of life, dignity and livelihood – reasons for rejecting the fascist party in the fray. Often, in the dead of the night we would receive disapproving and even threatening phone calls from unknown numbers, asking us to discontinue the campaign. But mostly, it was people calling enthusiastically, wishing to join the campaign. Our friends sometimes got heckled, attacked and stopped from campaigning by the BJP and RSS workers. I can recall instances in Raniganj, Ashoknagar, Bolpur and Murshidabad. Among the anti-BJP parties in the fray, the TMC was expectedly welcoming of our campaign, and so was a section of the CPM workers who have their ear to the ground. Unfortunately, the CPM leadership remained cold and indifferent to it, with several of their most ardent supporters turning openly hostile to the campaign and attacking it virulently on social media. I think it was a mistake on their part which they may re-evaluate. The TMC turned out to be the biggest beneficiary of this, possibly as they stood the strongest chance to rout the BJP electorally. As for our campaign, there is no stopping.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Our aim was to present result sheet of fascist force||A music video created by some of Bengal’s young artistes warned people against the politics of hate ahead of the Assembly elections. Titled Nijeder Mawte Nijeder Gaan (Our song in our way), the video has had 6 million views since its release on March 24. Actor Riddhi Sen, 22, had collaborated with friends and colleagues Rwitobroto Mukherjee and Surangana Bandyopadhyay, for the project. Sen writes on what prodded him to take a stand. Our country is going through one of the darkest times because of the uncontrollable second wave of Covid-19. Thousands are gasping for breath, hospital beds are full, crematoriums are awake through the night. Courts have held the central government responsible for bringing this on and the roots for this crisis lie long back. The coronavirus has exposed a flawed system like never before. It exposed the government’s lack of efficiency to handle a health emergency. Instead of strengthening our health-care system and our economy, thousands of crores were spent to buy a jet for our respected Prime Minister’s foreign travels. Crores were spent on building a statue and temple and in arranging a jamboree to please the then US President; not to mention demonetisation that had set our economy back by years. Amid such a crisis, the suppression of dissent by brute force, arrest of activists, increasing violence on Muslims, Dalits and women, rampaging the social media by the IT cell’s shadow warriors and spending money like water on Bengal elections reflected one thing - this central government did not care about citizens. Just like symptoms of Covid-19, there are symptoms of fascism, provided by history. January 2021 onwards, Bengal saw many of them. Polarisation became Bengal’s political narrative, shamelessly. During such a time (actor) Anirban Bhattacharya wrote the lyrics of Nijeder Mawte Nijeder Gan. The music was composed by Subhadeep Guha. The song rang a bell inside us. We all felt the urge to voice the fact that loving one’s country doesn’t mean that one loses the power to dissent.  In 1861, Abraham Lincoln said in his inaugural address: “When people shall grow weary of their constitutional right, to amend their government, they shall exert their revolutionary right, to dismember and overthrow that government.” This is the power of democracy. Before the pandemic, in 2020, we all took part in a performance which we named Chorus 2020, which happened at Nazrul Manch, where many artistes came together to take a stand against this fascist government. The idea of a “civil society” had started fading away in people’s minds. We need to understand, in order to voice one’s political opinion and to work for people, one doesn’t need to subscribe to a particular political party, we underestimate the power of a citizen, who silently records everything. The sheer passion of the song drove me and my colleagues and friends to come up with the idea of a music video, under the supervision of Parambrata Chattopadhyay. While writing the screenplay for the music video, me, Rwitobroto and Surangana’s idea was to present a result sheet in front of the audience, the result sheet of what the fascist force has done to India in the last few years. The BJP created a perception that they were coming to power in Bengal. Their tools were false propaganda, money and the media. Our idea in this music video was to unravel this false perspective, so people could see through. We are indebted to all those people who lent their hand in making this music video. Yes, we had fears, we were all aware of the risks. But the word “risk” becomes irrelevant in a situation where our country is. Like Abbie Hoffman (played by Sacha Baron Cohen) in the film The Trial of Chicago Seven says in a scene where he is put on trial for protesting the Vietnam war: “Give me a moment, will you friend?”, he tells the prosecutor. “I’ve never been put on trial for my thoughts before.” For the first time our country witnessed people being put on trial for their thoughts. Our deepest respect to each and everyone who resisted the fascist force, starting from the ‘No Vote to BJP campaign’ to hundreds of people in our city screaming “No NRC, No CAA” in unison. Our song played a small part in a long resistance which needs to continue. Because Bengal believes in what Tagore said: “Neither the colourless vagueness of cosmopolitanism, nor the fierce self-idolatry of nation-worship, is the goal of human history.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Resistance to BJP’s attempt to murder democracy||A music video released on April 3 by some of the city’s young musicians urged voters of Bengal to be “hushiyar (beware)” because the seeds of hatred being sown ahead of the elections could have telling consequences for a long time. Swadesh Misra, a city-based writer, wrote the lyrics and the song was sung by the band Fiddler’s Green. Mishra and Samantak Sinha, the vocalist of the band, share their experiences of being part of the battle against majoritarianism. As an Indian citizen and an artist, I have never been able to support the activities of the BJP. Supporting the party’s politics of polarisation was out of question. I had a spontaneous inner calling to protest the attempts to create a rift between people on the basis of religion. I felt an urge to take a stand against a party that defiled democracy in the name of fake nationalism. I could see people around me in deep distress — migrant workers to farmers, women, students and people from the minority communities. The BJP’s ‘one language, one nation, one government’ policy hurt India’s federal structure. The policy had hurt regional language-driven identitie The BJP’s “one language, one nation, one government” policy hurts India’s federal structure. The cadres of the party, acting at the behest of corporate players, doped the citizenry on the opium of religion. The need to raise our voices against this vicious political atmosphere was imperative. I wanted to speak out myself. I was inspired by many others. None of us is above politics. A time comes when you have to take a side. I was certain about my stand. At such a time, I came across Samantak Sinha, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta and other like-minded people. They asked me to write a song. The Fiddler’s Green band became one with the song and took it to another level. They took the song to a larger audience. A victory in Bengal would have come as a big shot in the arm for the BJP’s sinister ploy to rebuild India on the basis of religion. Bengal was the bird’s eye for the BJP. But the stand of Bengal’s people has come as a resistance to the BJP’s attempts to kill democracy. The party has had a major embarrassment after the poll drubbing. But the fight is not over yet. We have to cleanse the country of the ideology of majoritarianism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Bhowanipore residents vote to keep cosmopolitanism intact||This constituency has voted to keep its cosmopolitanism and heterogeneity intact, residents said on Sunday while reacting to Trinamul’s victory from the seat by around 30,000 votes. Local Trinamul workers and leaders are known to residents of all pockets of Bhowanipore, a fact that evoked confidence among voters to vote for the party, many residents said. BJP’s workers can be seen working in only a handful of places. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, two-time MLA from Bhowanipore, did not contest from the seat this time. The BJP had used much of its resources in its attempt to win the seat in Mamata’s backyard. The chief minister is a voter in the constituency. Union home minister Amit Shah had himself campaigned for the BJP candidate from Bhowanipore, Rudranil Ghosh. “The kind of margin by which Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay has won from Bhowanipore shows that people of all religions, castes and communities have voted for Trinamul. It would not have been possible to win by such a huge margin if everyone did not vote for Trinamul,” said Deepak Bharti, a state government employee and a resident of Chakraberia. Mamata had repeatedly mentioned in her campaigns how a group of BJP leaders, outsiders without any knowledge of Bengal’s culture and society, were coming to the state to campaign. Wednesday’s election results  suggested that Bengal’s voters agreed with what she had said, residents pointed out. Vicky Shaw, a real estate consultant who lives near Debendra Ghosh Road, said the BJP’s ploy to divide communities had failed in Bhowanipore and also across Bengal. “People will only vote for those who worked for them. People have seen how local Trinamul workers and leaders helped the families who were quarantined because of Covid. The poor people in slums received benefits from the government when their homes were damaged by Amphan. The ploy to divide people on religious lines did not work. People voted for those who stood by them in difficult times,” said Shaw. A resident of Bakulbagan, who works for a multinational IT company, too, said Trinamul leaders were visible in the area. But he did not know of any BJP worker in their neighbourhood. “Bhowanipore is a Trinamul bastion. I knew the party would win from here,” the 50-year-old man said. A constituency that has among its voters Bengalis, Marwaris, Gujaratis, Sikhs and Sindhis, among others, did not go for any division on community lines. Trinamul candidate Chattopadhyay called Bhowanipore a “mini-India”. He said he believed people of all communities had voted for him. “If Trinamul did not receive votes from a lot of non-Bengalis, we would not have been able to achieve this result,” Chattopadhyay, 77, told Metro on Sunday evening. Trinamul’s victory margin in Bhowanipore has improved compared with the 2019 parliamentary elections and the 2016 Assembly polls. Mamata defeated her nearest rival – Left-Congress combine’s Deepa Das Munshi – by 25,301 votes in the 2016 elections. But in the 2019 parliamentary elections, Trinamul suffered a blow in the Bhowanipore Assembly segment, where Trinamul’s Mala Roy was ahead of the BJP’s Chandra Kumar Bose by only 3,168 votes. Roy went on to win the Calcutta South constituency. “I have always lived in Bhowanipore. This time Mamata gave me the opportunity to contest the elections from a place where I have lived all my life,” Chattopadhyay said. Among Bhowanipore’s residents is a sizeable number of Sikhs. “I think almost all Sikhs have voted against the BJP, and for Trinamul. Many of the Sikhs who live here have continuously organised rallies in Calcutta in support of the farmers’ movement. They were angry with the BJP,” said Hardeep Singh, a property consultant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Thousands of Trinamul Congress supporters violate Covid norms||The result day started with strict vigil by law agencies at counting centres in Calcutta to ensure that all Covid protocols were followed. But it ended with non-compliance as thousands of Trinamul supporters stepped out to celebrate their party’s victory, in violation of Covid norms. People were seen dancing on roads, smearing one another with colours and playing  football, many of them without masks. Police tried to disperse the crowd by making announcements through loudhailers but could do little to enforce the restrictions imposed by the election commission on victory rallies or gatherings. In the afternoon, the commission asked the chief secretary to ensure compliance with the Covid norms. It also directed the state administration to suspend the officers in charge of the police stations of the areas where violations were cited. No one was suspended till Sunday evening, said state government officials. “We are trying our best to make people understand that so much mingling without masks could be dangerous,” said an officer of Hare Street police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: TMC supporters celebrate party's victory on Zakaria Street||Celebrations look different in times of Covid. Zakaria Street was celebrating nonetheless on Sunday evening after a long day glued to TV screens. The familiar celebratory Ramazan market on Zakaria Street was missing. Gone was the inviting aroma of haleem and kebabs. But young men and women gathered after the iftar. They congratulated one another on the Bengal result. Sweets were distributed. Some of them burst firecrackers but stopped soon after some elders said the smoke could cause problems for Covid patients in home isolation. “Our happiness knows no bounds today but we shouldn’t take chances with Covid,” a young man said. “Today is one of the happiest days of my life. I have sent messages to many Hindu friends saying thank you,” said Abdur Rahman, 33, a Zakaria Street resident. A 60-year-old man, who usually sells sewai and sheermal on Zakaria Street, said the Bengal vote results reasserted Muslims’ as equal citizens on this land. Many people on Zakaria Street and neighbouring areas, who woke up before 4am for sehri and namaaz, did not go back to sleep after that on Sunday. They remained awake and closely followed news of the election results. But at the end of the day, the anxious and tedious wait paid off. After iftar, residents came out, congratulating one another and distributing sweets to celebrate the BJP’s defeat. Many residents had told this newspaper in the run up to the Assembly elections that they were pained by the rise in Hindutva politics in the country over the past few years. But in the same vein, they had also said they were confident that the politics of polarisation would not work in Bengal. They had ample trust in their Bengali Hindu brethren and the secular fabric of Bengal. The Sunday results vindicated that trust. Rahman owns a gym near Ram Mandir in central Calcutta. Many of his regular patrons are Hindus. “I go to Hindu friends’ places during the Puja. They come to my house during Id,” said Rahman, a fourth-generation resident on Zakaria Street. A number of residents said the aggressive BJP campaign was unnerving. “No BJP leader bothered to knock on our doors in their campaign trail. But at rallies and roadshows, they kept targeting us and calling us names,” said Ajmal Khan, 28. “But our elders kept reassuring us that Bengal would give a befitting reply to the BJP. That is what happened.” Trinamul’s Vivek Gupta won Jorasanko — Zakaria Street is part of that constituency - after trailing the BJP’s Meena Devi Purohit for a long time. Some traders who shut their stalls gathered in front of Nakhoda Mosque after it was certain that the BJP was losing Bengal. “If the BJP won Bengal, then we would have felt homeless in our own state. But this verdict shows we are also citizens of this very land. We want to thank our Hindu brothers for letting this happen,” said the 60-year-old man, who sells sewai and sheermal. “I had told you so,” was the first thing that Muhammad Mahmood told this newspaper after the results on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021: Fascism is to be smashed||An old saying goes like this — fascism is not to be debated, it is to be smashed. Our protest, our song, stems from this premise. Whenever a regime interferes in people’s personal liberties, whenever a regime starts deciding what people will eat, wear, sing and listen to; we will come together, stand up in protest. My art form is my medium of protest. Whenever there is any attack of personal liberties, irrespective of whoever in power is doing that, we will protest against that power. We were prepared for a possible backlash by members of the Right-wing ecosystem’s online army after the song was released. We have been doing songs of protest against CAA-NRC-NPR combine. In January 2020, we had composed a song in support of the protesting students at Jawaharlal Nehru University. We want our songs to be our tools of protest. Even if the songs reach some people, they will take it forward and spread the message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal records 17,515 new Covid infections, 92 deaths||Bengal on Sunday recorded 17,515 new Covid infections, 92 deaths and 15,587 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to 1.18 lakh. Of the 92 deaths, 23 were reported from Calcutta and 29 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts in the state. While Calcutta recorded 3,935 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,942. Remdesivir arrest Police have arrested a man with 18 vials of remdesivir -  a medicine used to treat Covid. Remdesivir has been in short supply in the city, prompting many to make efforts to procure it at a premium. Jay Ashutosh Mittal, 39, a resident of Bangur Avenue, had apparently stocked 18 vials of the medicine under the trade name Remcor 100 at a Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road address, the police said. Jay had put up advertisements for the stock on social media and was about to sell the medicine at a much higher rate than the original price, the police said. A case has been registered at Park Street police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: How Covid changed the counting process||From a counting centre at Bidhannagar College, a polling official recounted how different Sunday’s proceedings were compared to pre-Covid times. The Telegraph spoke to Bidyut Pal, a polling official at the centre where votes of three Assembly segments — Bidhannagar, New Town-Rajarhat and Rajarhat-Gopalpur — were counted. The whole counting process was different and challenging this time. Nearly all my colleagues were wearing face masks inside the centre. We could barely hear each other while calling out the number of votes counted. We had to keep telling each other the number of votes counted from each table and despite our best efforts and shouting, it was muffled and often led to confusion. To add to our worries, the counting agents fielded from different political parties, too, could not hear us and were leaning close. We had to tell them to maintain distance but they said they could not hear us. I also had to tell some colleagues as well as the agents to wear masks properly. I have a family at home and don’t want to get Covid. We got a mask, face shield and sanitisers as soon as we reported for duty at the counting centre. The number of people inside the centre was much less compared to other years. My table had only three agents of political parties; earlier, there would be seven or eight. I feel, given the situation, the process could have been streamed online real-time and protests or challenges by any political party could be registered online. This would have reduced the number of people inside the centre. When we stepped outside during a break, I saw many without masks and it was quite scary. I hope that I don’t get Covid as I was on duty during the elections as well. I took all the precautions but I am still worried.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Women vote against male aggression||A group of misogynist men trying to heckle, ridicule and insult one woman made many other women of Bengal decide who they wanted to vote for, several of them said after the election results on Sunday evening. The insult to chief minister Mamata Banerjee was an insult to all women and we voted against that male aggression, many women said after the landslide verdict for the Trinamul Congress. “If you are ridiculing a woman then we women have shown you the way and proved that you cannot suppress women’s voices,” said Ashya Khatoon, a 26-year-old an engineering student. Some women Metro spoke to referred to BJP state president Dilip Ghosh apparently suggesting chief minister Mamata wear bermuda shorts to display her injured leg. The Telegraph had reported Trinamul leaders raising their concern at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tone when calling Mamata “Didi o Didi”. From a 74-year-old woman in Behala to a middle-aged schoolteacher in Sinthee, many said they went out to vote in this election, amid a raging pandemic, because every vote mattered and they wanted to do their bit to stand with Mamata. “Some leaders were mocking her — is that the way to conduct oneself and talk about a woman?” said economics teacher Joeeta Basu. Ankita Sharma, 25, said: “In politics, it is expected that one would pull the other’s leg, but not bend so low to insult someone.” “We need women leaders who understand women’s rights and issues. When we talk about equality, we have to practise it, too,” said Khatoon. At 74, Tanima Roy Choudhury, too, felt she had to do what was in her power to stand with Mamata. “Amar khomota hocche ekta vote (my power is one vote and that is what I exercised),” Roy Choudhury, who voted after 15 years, said. “It is also in my own interest that I stood up for Mamata Banerjee,” she said. Many women described the feeling of “relief” after Trinamul’s victory. “I am happy I will be able to wear my shorts, eat pork and beef and travel alone,” said Priyanka Kar, in her mid-30s. Kar, who works at a cement manufacturing company, has to travel to the districts for close to 15 days a month. She commutes on trains and buses and felt if the BJP came to power, she would have felt insecure. Kar, who grew up in Jalpaiguri, said it was also important to her that Mamata addresses women’s issues and tries to empower women. “My aunt who lived in a village a few kilometers from Jalpaiguri had to give up studies because of the long distance between the school and her house. Giving cycles to girls has helped many cover such distances and not quit studies,” she said. For several others, the reason to vote for Trinamul was to fight against the divisive politics of the BJP. “As a leader you cannot discriminate between your people,” said Khatoon. Bengal’s “inclusive nature” was being threatened and a rift was being created not just amongst different religions but amongst people. “We are here since my grandmother’s time and we have had Bengali friends. Now, a rift has been generated in the minds of the people — a rift between Bengalis and non-Bengalis. We, as people of Bengal, fought against it,” said Ankita Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Contrasting images from Trinamul Congress and BJP camps ||In the Bengal BJP headquarters in central Calcutta, there were altogether five men, huddled in front of a TV screen, around 1.30pm. As the numbers flashed, one of them told his party colleagues “110-115 will at least save some of our maan-samman (pride)”. The BJP was then leading in 90 seats. “110-115” was a distant dream. Trinamul offices looked just the opposite, often scarily so because of lack of Covid hygiene. At a Trinamul office in south Calcutta, workers were confused whether celebrations were in order given that Mamata Banerjee was trailing in Nandigram. With every new lead, there were loud cheers and then the conversation again veered towards Mamata. Krishna Dasgupta cried out: “Ish! Didi akhono pichhiye. Ki je hawbe (Oh! Didi is still trailing. What now?)” Not too far away from the Naktala Trinamul office, the doors at the BJP and CPM offices had padlocks hanging from them. In Adi Naktala, the BJP has an office for the Tollygunge area. On Sunday, the office remained shut. The CPM office, opposite Krishnu Dey Sarani, did not open as well. “By this time on other Sundays, there are many here,” said an elderly person across the road. Around the time the BJP leads were hovering around 100, the discussion in the Trinamul camp was how much money the BJP could spend to make up for the deficit. Then the TV ticker showed the BJP was down to 98 and Sumita Dam, the outgoing Trinamul councillor of Ward . 100, thumped the table in front of her in celebration. Then flashed a ticker “Egiye baamera (the Left are leading)” and there was a loud and collective expression of disbelief. Someone in the room then pointed out that the news was of Kerala. Across small Trinamul offices, PK (Prashant Kishore), often unmentionable within the ranks, had emerged a hero. “He was the one who said the BJP would not cross three digits. He was right,” said a young man. The arrangements in the BJP election office at Hastings were grand. Biggies like the BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and IT cell chief Amit Malviya were supposed to brief the media. But things were not proceeding as expected. Only middle-rung state leaders are here, said a party source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Elections 2021: Sweet shops rush to supply ‘khela hobe’ mishti||Like many in Bengal, sweet shop owners in the city, too, had not prepared for Sunday’s avalanche. The sweet sellers had thought it would be a dull verdict day in terms of business because of Covid restrictions and the possibility of a close  contest. This turned upside down from late afternoon. As it became clear Mamata Banerjee was headed for a landslide win, orders for traditional sweets started pouring in and sellers with many decades of experience scrambled to change plans. Some who had prepared a mix of saffron-coloured sweets, lamented their call. They had to keep those items aside to make way for traditional Bengali mishti. “We would usually keep around four kilos of sandesh ready. By evening, the volume of orders was double that and we had to bring sankh sandesh from our two other centres,” said Nilanjan Ghosh of Mithai, near Park Circus.  “Given the madness for Bengali sandesh that we witnessed, on Monday I guess we will have to keep around 15 kilos ready.” Several shop owners said they had no idea there would be such a sudden surge in demand. “We had kept rasogollas decorated in a one big glass jar. Late in the afternoon, a buyer came looking for several such jars. Unable to find many, he picked up the one that was kept as a showpiece and went away,” said Dhiman Das of KC Das. “From Monday, we have decided to step up our production of rasogollas and other traditional Bengali sweets.” The landmark KC Das store at Esplanade was a favourite destination for BJP leaders every time Prime Minister Narendra Modi or home minister Amit Shah came to Bengal to campaign. On Sunday, none of those leaders turned up at the shop. Sunday was quite different from the 2016 result day when several Trinamul leaders had placed orders with some of the city’s traditional sweetmeat shops in advance. “We have not been scaling up our production since there aren’t too many buyers these days and it is difficult to preserve mishti made from chhana,” said Partha Nandy of Girish Chandra Dey and Nakur Chandra Nandy, the sweet shop in north Calcutta that has been in the business since 1844. “On Sunday, the orders started pouring in from late afternoon, specifically for our old varieties of sandesh like Jalbhora and Manohara,” he said. A few others who had prepared mishti of both saffron and green hues ended up moving the former away from their racks. “We had to keep the orange-coloured mishti items aside. The popular picks were the ones that had ‘khela hobe’ or the Trinamul symbol on them,” said Sudip Mullick of Balaram Mullick and Radharaman Mullick. “Most sweet shop owners were not ready for this sudden demand.” Over the next few days, as celebrations continue, most sweet shop owners said they hoped to do better business than during Bengali New Year. Abir (gulal) sellers had not expected such a twist either. From their stock of saffron and green abir, only one colour sold out. “In just an hour, I sold over four kilos of green abir,” said Rohit Shaw in Burrabazar’s Pagaya Patti. It was no different across parts of Gariahat, Tollygunge, Kalighat, Maniktala and Dum Dum when shops opened briefly in keeping with the Covid restrictions. “I had stocked around three kilos of saffron abir. It remained unsold,” said Shibu Maity of Kasba. “But the entire stock of green was sold.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-65
03-05-2021||Business||Sensex ends 64 points down||Market benchmark Sensex staged a smart recovery from the day's low to end with marginal losses on Monday amid a negative trend in global equities. After plunging over 750 points in early trade, the 30-share BSE index made a U-turn to finish 63.84 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 48,718.52. In similar movement, the broader NSE Nifty closed 3.05 points or 0.02 per cent higher at 14,634.15. Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 4 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Reliance Industries, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, ONGC, ITC and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, HUL, Maruti, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints and NTPC were among the gainers. "Domestic equities recovered sharply from day's low despite weak global cues. While growing uncertainties about collection efficiency and asset quality of banks/NBFCs dragged heavy weight financials, strong buying in FMCG and Metals supported recovery in markets," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. While persistent rise in second wave of COVID-19 cases has weighed on investors' sentiments, steady corporate earnings with positive managements' commentaries offered support to markets, he noted. Active COVID-19 cases in India rose to 34,13,642 against 33,49,644 on Sunday, according to a Health Ministry update Monday morning. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a negative note. Stock exchanges in Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays. European markets were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.63 per cent lower at USD 66.34 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 600 pts in early trade||Market benchmark Sensex plunged over 600 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid a negative trend in Asian equities. The 30-share BSE index tanked 607.32 points or 1.24 per cent to 48,175.04 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 152.45 points or 1.04 per cent to 14,478.65. Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by SBI, ONGC, Reliance Industries, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, M&M, Bajaj Auto, Maruti, HUL, IndusInd Bank and Nestle India were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex sank 983.58 points or 1.98 per cent to finish at 48,782.36, and Nifty fell 263.80 points or 1.77 per cent to 14,631.10. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 3,465.07 crore on Friday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) purchased shares worth Rs 1,419.31 crore, according to provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities do not look to be inspiring at the moment. NDA's sub-par performance in West Bengal assembly election and possibility of emergence of strong opposition from alliance of regional parties to fight against NDA may weigh on investors sentiments," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Notably, a persistent rise in the second wave of COVID-19 cases, increasing death cases and extended partial lockdown announced by several states are expected to keep economic momentum soft for May also, he added. Active COVID-19 cases in India rose to 34,13,642 against 33,49,644 on Sunday, according to a Health Ministry update this morning. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.39 per cent lower at USD 66.50 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||We are altering our production pattern according to chip supply: MD of Maruti Suzuki India||Maruti Suzuki India is tweaking the production of variants to work around the current semi-conductor chip crisis. Marketing director Shashank Srivastava said, “Different variants require different series of chips. There is a shortage across all the series but certain series are available at certain times. We are making do with whatever is available.” The level of electronics goes up with the more luxurious variants with higher series chips in the infotainment system, digital speedometer display and GPS systems. Srivastava claims that Maruti is least affected because of its large portfolio. “We are altering our production pattern according to the chip supply. So, customers can take their pick. The Dzire has L and V variants. We are tweaking production of these two variants according to supply of chips.”. Ertiga has a waiting period of five to six weeks, while for the Brezza is four to six weeks. While both Maruti and Hyundai have a wider product portfolio, enabling its customers to opt for ones in production, companies with smaller portfolios like Nissan Magnite has a longer waiting period. Companies such as Ford, Mahindra and Ashok Leyland have raised flags over the short supply and indicated that it could impact the production in the coming months. The car industry is likely to see an impact by way of constraints in manufacturing new vehicles. Auto industry expects the issue to stay till the first half of 2021. Mahindra & Mahindra has already indicated that it would push the new product launches beyond Q1 of next fiscal due to the semiconductor shortage. The shortage of semiconductor chips was sparked by the global pandemic as countries went into a lockdown and auto companies shut factories. As the need for the chips dwindled in the auto segment, chip makers diverted their supplies to other sectors, including mobile phones and FMCGs. Now that the sector has bounced back to production, demand for chips has soared but the supply chain remains disrupted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||Road ministry notifies changes in vehicle ownership transfer rules||The owner of a vehicle can now nominate a person in the registration certificate so that the vehicle can be registered or transferred to the nominee after the owner’s death. The name of the nominee may be included at the time of registration of the vehicles and at a later date through an online application. The process is otherwise quite cumbersome in the country. According to rules notified by the ministry of road transport and highways in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, the owner of a vehicle has to submit proof of the identity of the nominee in case the nominee is mentioned. “If the owner of a motor vehicle dies, the person nominated in the certificate of registration or the person succeeding to the possession of the vehicle, as the case may be, may for a period of three months from the death of the owner, use the vehicle as if it has been transferred to him. “The nominee  has to inform the registering authority within 30 days of the death of the owner of his intention to use the vehicle,” the notification said. The nominee shall apply in Form 31 within three months from the death of the owner of the vehicle to the registering authority for transfer of ownership to his name. For a change in nominee in case of contingencies such as divorce or division of property, the owner may do so using an agreed standard operating procedure, it added. At present, in the case of death of a registered owner, the procedure of transferring the vehicle to a nominee requires complying with a raft of procedures and frequent visits to different offices. The ministry on November 27, 2020 had proposed to amend the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 to facilitate the owner of a vehicle for nominating a person in the registration certificate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||Spike in digital fraud cases amid second wave of Covid pandemic||A Bangalore-based data analytics start-up anticipates a spike in digital fraud cases amid the second wave of the Covid pandemic as people turn to digital means of payments and transactions. “When Covid was at its peak last year, the number of complaints were 500-600 every single day. This came down to around 300-400 later in the year. Again it is picking up at 600-650 per day. This number is going to go up and we envisage this will grow up to 1,000 per day,” said Adhip Ramesh, founder, TrustCheckr. The three-year old start-up uses API (application programming interface) based solutions to enable businesses to detect frauds and fake profiles on digital platforms using data sourced from various fintech partners and social channels. “The flavour of the season is charity fraud using Covid as a reason. The story keeps on changing but the methodology remains the same,” said co-founder Shivraj Harsha. “The common thread of digital payment frauds is phone number and email address. We check fraud signals with phone/email, validate the customer authenticity using historical fraud trends and fraud data sets,” said Ramesh. The company collected around 350,000 data points over a 12-month period across different types of fraud during the Covid pandemic and estimated that social engineering frauds comprising CVV/OTP sharing, UPI phishing, frauds through digital payments links and QR codes on digital payments platform, fake cashbacks and screen sharing apps, KYC related frauds constituted majority of the overall frauds. Geographically, the eastern states of Bihar, Odisha and the northeastern states of Guwahati and bordering districts of Bangladesh constituted around 40 per cent of the fraud origination. The metro cities of NCR, Mumbai, Delhi and Calcutta constituted around 20 per cent. Ramesh added that the start-up is in discussions with NPCI, banks, NBFCs and other fintech operators, including digital payments platforms on the possibility of incorporating their solution into those platforms. “The objective is to stop a fraud occurring right at the point of origination. Our solution acts as an additional layer or firewall,” said Harsha. “If it sounds too good to be true, one should be careful about such transactions,” he added. Data from NPCI shows that UPI transactions have grown 78.37 per cent in volume and 92.5 per cent in value during 2020-21 compared with the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||State Bank of India to keep interest rates down to support economic growth||State Bank of India (SBI) will try to keep the interest rates benign as long as possible with a view to supporting the economic growth, its chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara has said. On the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 on non-performing assets of the bank, the SBI chief said that as the lockdown was not pan-India, one will have to wait and watch to assess its impact on the banking sector. Observing that multiple variables, including inflation, have a bearing on the interest rates, he said, “Our effort is to support the growth initiatives. To ensure that happens, we will try to keep the soft interest rate regime for as long as possible.” Khara further said it is too early to give any colour to the likely scenario of NPAs because of the local restrictions. The impact of the lockdown differs from state to state as it is not uniform, he said, adding, “So, probably we can wait and watch for some more time before making any comment on the impact on the economy and NPA situation”. On the various initiatives of the country’s largest lender, Khara said, SBI has decided to set up makeshift hospitals with ICU facilities for Covid-19 patients in some of the worst affected states. The bank has already earmarked Rs 30 crore to set up makeshift hospitals for Covid patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India to strengthen risk-based supervision of banks, NBFCs||The Reserve Bank has decided to review and strengthen the risk-based supervision (RBS) of the banking sector to enable financial sector players to address the emerging challenges. The RBI uses the RBS model, including both qualitative and quantitative elements, to supervise banks, urban co-operatives banks, non-banking financial companies and other financial institutions. “It is now intended to review the supervisory processes and mechanism in order to make the extant RBS model more robust and capable of addressing emerging challenges, while removing inconsistencies, if any,” the RBI said while inviting bids from technical experts/consultants to carry forward the process for banks. “It is intended to review the existing supervisory rating models under the CAMELS approach for improved risk capture in a forward looking manner and for harmonising the supervisory approach across all SEs,” it said. The annual financial inspection of UCBs and NBFCs is largely based on the CAMELS model (capital adequacy, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity, and systems & control). The government has appointed RBI executive director T. Rabi Sankar as the fourth deputy governor of the central bank. Sankar fills the vacancy created by the retirement of B. P. Kanungo on April 2, after completing one-year extension. In the case of UCBs and NBFCs, the expression of interest (EOI) for “consultant for review of supervisory models” said the supervisory functions pertaining to commercial banks, UCBs and NBFCs are now integrated, with the objective of harmonising the supervisory approach based on the activities/size of the supervised entities (SEs).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||Blackstone increases bet on India||Wall Street major Blackstone is increasing its bets on India, promising to pump in more dollars than it has already invested in the past decade. For the American alternative investment management giant with close to $620 billion in assets under management globally, India is its most profitable market in terms of returns — its seed investment of around $25 billion is worth over $50 billion at present, according to co-founder, chairman and chief executive Stephen A Schwarzman. In the past decade, Blackstone has invested more than $22 billion in the country and some of its existing investments include Mphasis, Nexus Malls and edutech player Aakash. Mphasis is its largest investment so far with $2 billion already invested and an additional $2.8 billion committed. Other investments include largest specialty glass packaging maker Piramal Glass ($1 billion), global leader in recyclable packaging tubes Essel Propack and largest independent affordable housing finance company Aadhar. It also has two REITs, making it the largest owner of office, real estate and a leading player in the retail and logistics space. Last year, it launched Asia’s largest and the country’s first two REITs. India is the most successful investment destination for the firm. The company anticipates investing more in the next 10 years that it has already invested in the previous period, Schwarzman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
03-05-2021||Business||Exports jump to $30.21 billion in April||India’s exports in April jumped nearly three-folds to $30.21 billion on account of a healthy growth in key sectors, including engineering, gems and jewellery, and petroleum products, even as trade deficit widened to $15.24 billion, according to the commerce ministry’s preliminary data released on Sunday. The country’s merchandise exports were to the tune of $10.17 billion in April 2020. Trade deficit in that month was $6.92 billion. Imports too rose by over three-folds to $45.45 billion last month against $17.09 billion in April 2020. “India’s merchandise exports in April 2021 were $30.21 billion, an increase of 197.03 per cent over $10.17 billion in April 2020 and an increase of 16.03 per cent over $26.04 billion in April 2019,” the ministry said in a statement. In percentage terms, the growth rate in exports and imports are at a record high, mainly because of the base-effect. Exports shrank by a record 60.28 per cent in April 2020 because of the pandemic induced lockdown. In March this year, exports grew 60.29 per cent to $34.45 billion. As many as 462 infrastructure projects, each worth Rs 150 crore or more, have been hit by cost overruns totalling more than Rs 4.36 lakh crore, according to a report. The ministry of statistics and programme implementation monitors infrastructure projects worth Rs 150 crore and above. Of the 1,737 such projects, 462 reported cost overruns and 557 were delayed. “Total original cost of implementation of the 1,737 projects was Rs 22,33,409.53 crore and their anticipated completion cost is likely to be Rs 26,69,649.35 crore, which reflects overall cost overruns of Rs 4,36,239.82 crore (19.53 per cent of original cost),” the ministry’s latest report for March 2021 said. The second wave of coronavirus has pummelled fuel sales in April as local restrictions have stifled demand. “At the end of April, overall fuel demand is down by about 7 per cent from pre-Covid level of April 2019,” Arun Singh, director for marketing and refineries at Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL), said. India’s coal import is expected to be subdued in the coming months on account of various factors like prevailing Covid situation, high coal stock in the system and higher international prices, according to mjunction. Coal import fell 12.62 per cent to 215.92 million tonnes (MT) in 2020-21 from 247.10 MT in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
03-05-2021||Business||Government waives late fee for delayed filing of March, April GSTR-3B, tax payment||The government has waived the late fee for delayed filing of monthly return GSTR-3B and tax payment for the months of March and April and has also reduced the interest rate for late filers. The finance ministry in a statement said it has provided several relief measures in view of the challenges faced by taxpayers in meeting the statutory and regulatory compliances under the Goods & Services Tax (GST) law because the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. Taxpayers with a turnover of over Rs 5 crore have been given 15 days extra time to file monthly summary return GSTR-3B and pay taxes without paying any late fees. They would be required to pay a lower 9 per cent interest for these 15 days, after which the rate would be 18 per cent. Businesses with a turnover of up to Rs 5 crore in the preceding financial year, have 30 days more time from their original due date for filing 3B returns for March and April, with a late fee waiver. The interest rate would be ‘Nil’ for the first 15 days, post which it would be a concessional 9 per cent rate. After 30 days, the normal 18 per cent interest would be levied. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) on May 1 issued the notification, saying that these relaxations come into effect from April 18. Also the due date for filing April sales return GSTR-1 has been extended till May 26, from the original due date of May 11. For composition dealers filing sales return GSTR-4, the deadline for filing returns for the financial year ended March 31, 2021, has been extended by a month till May 31. AMRG & Associates senior partner Rajat Mohan said owing to Covid induced exigencies, the government has introduced compliance-related reliefs for the block of two-month March and April, 2021. Every taxpayer of the country is eligible for some form of extension irrespective of the size of operations. “Large taxpayers will enjoy a full waiver of late fee, and partial relief in levy of interest wherein GSTR -3B filings are delayed up to 15 days. However, small taxpayers will enjoy similar benefits even if such filings are delayed up to 30 days,” Mohan added. While businesses file GSTR-1 of a particular month by the 11th day of the subsequent month, GSTR-3B is filed in a staggered manner between day 20 to 24 of the succeeding month. EY tax partner Abhishek Jain, said, “With the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown in several parts of the country, many industry players would have struggled to meet the GST compliance deadlines. The extension in the deadlines would provide the much needed relief to the industry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
03-05-2021||Business||Feast on funds: a checklist to help you pick new fund offers in the market||Food and funds make strange bedfellows but one cannot but think about the former when one scans the latest list of NFOs (New Fund Offers), which the securities regulator regularly updates. An eclectic feast seems to await the mutual fund investor, the one who is seeking new-age alternatives to old-fashioned fuddy-duddies. Laid neatly on the table is a multi-course smorgasbord —  a thaali comprising international funds, thematic funds and even exchange-traded funds based on indices that only the discerning few would be familiar with. So while you may nibble at an India-Taiwan equity proposal, and make a morsel of a Nasdaq 100 index idea, you may also relish a low-volatility investment theme, not to mention ETFs (exchange traded funds) that would mirror consumption and FMCG indices. Indeed, rarely was the asset management space in India so crowded in terms of sheer diversity of fresh propositions. The very nature of some of the NFOs proposed lately present investors with a stiff challenge — how would they exercise choice? Which among these really merit their attention? And why should they reject the others? Before I get to discuss these issues, let me quickly tell you that NFOs such as these reflect a definite willingness on the part of our fund houses to offer a greater variety of choices to the local investor fraternity. While this is especially true for equity (where variegation of proposals is quite easily achieved), the debt space is currently witnessing similar trends too. The days of only traditional and old-style products for the two most critical asset classes are truly over, it seems. Certain significant developments in the securities markets — many of these have already emerged as major international themes — have helped intensify the trend in India. For instance, ESG (environment, social and governance) is now an important force to reckon with globally; Indian fund houses have already started to adopt it. Sustainable investing, including themes focused on protection of climate or reduction of carbon footprint, is the other emerging space for our asset managers. Already, one of them has lined up a fund revolving around water. I do not wish to name specific fund houses here; let readers find out more if they wish. It is clear to me that a cascade of spiffy NFOs may well leave the average participant quite flummoxed. If you are keen on allocating to any of the new proposals, make sure that you address a few vital issues right at the beginning. This, it is time for you to consider the following: • Do your risk-return limitations allow the inclusion of an altogether fresh option? • Is the idea in line with your existing investment objectives? Will it be in sync with your current asset allocation? Or do you need to tweak your strategy significantly just to accommodate it? • How will the proposal add value to the portfolio you have at this juncture? What sort of securities is the new fund likely to acquire? Are you sure it is effectively not a me-too product in disguise? Remember, a completely novel proposition (especially if it is based on an exotic theme) may be a drag on your portfolio, at least in the initial phase, as the fund manager has to fully appreciate its rationale. So think about it in terms of longer-than-usual gestation period too. At any rate, he will need time to fully invest the amount mobilised from the new-offer market. Notions like climate protection and carbon reduction (both are bound to achieve great traction in the days to come) are very complex. Businesses that are getting generated worldwide (especially in emerging markets like ours) on the basis of these notions will not be easily comprehended by ordinary investors. The point is, there is need for greater vigilance with regard to NFOs, and only a careful investor will be able to understand their finer nuances. Simply put, he is well advised to carefully read the document in order to know an NFO’s true worth. Take the recent case of an ETF that has been worked out for the FANG market in the US. The fund will invest in stocks constituting the NYSE FANG+ index. The Facebook-Amazon-Netflix-Google (includes Apple too) combine has its own set of merits, and the fund manager concerned is leveraging on the same for his Indian clients. The fact that a popular “FANG index” already exists overseas makes it easier for the domestic fund. Not all NFOs will make wonderful additions to an investor’s existing holdings. Their core risks (which may potentially result in gross underperformance) must be understood by him. Further, he must also be aware of the fact that a number of systemic elements will be at play, particularly if the NFO is based on an international concept. Global dynamics can be very different from ours, and while many popular index funds/ETFs will mirror international trends, there will always be tracking errors as well as sundry costs and expenses. Also, foreign exchange movements will certainly be an influential factor for the markets, and no investor can afford to ignore these. Regulatory risks too are a constant threat for many smart investment ideas — ordinary investors are often too ignorant about these perils. The writer is director of Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-64
03-05-2021||India||Central Vista Project: Amid Covid crisis, centre sets deadline for completion of PM’s residence||The construction of the prime minister's residence under the ambitious Central Vista project will be completed by December 2022, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has informed a government-appointed expert panel, which has given its nod to the project. The CPWD, which is the project developer, informed the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) that the expansion of the Parliament building and the construction of a new Parliament building will be done by November 2022 and the prime minister's residence will be constructed by December 2022. The Ministry of Environment has already granted the clearance for the expansion and renovation of the existing Parliament building, which is part of the Rs-13,450 crore Central Vista Redevelopment Project. At a meeting held last month, the EAC recommended for the environmental clearance for the redevelopment of the Common Central Secretariat buildings and the prime minister's residence. “The EAC, based on the information submitted and clarifications provided by the project proponent and detailed discussions held on all the issues, recommended granting environmental clearance to the project,” the minutes of the meeting said. The panel took note of the CPWD’s submission that the Common Central Secretariat will consolidate all ministries and improve the productivity and the efficiency of the administration. According to the CPWD, the Common Central Secretariat buildings will be constructed by May 2023. It informed that the Central Conference Centre, which is expected to be ready by December 2026, will cater to the conferencing needs and will also be connected by a people mover to the Delhi Metro. “Modern and secure residential facilities for the Vice President and the Prime Minister will be equipped with all necessary spaces and infrastructure, including the Special Protection Group; Environmental: Landscape/greenbelt development, traffic decongestion, provision of STP, OWC, safety aspects including fire-fighting system, maximum use of treated waste water, well-designed network of storm water drains, rain water harvesting system etc.,” the EAC noted. While giving its nod, the panel directed the CPWD to ensure that an area for greenery is provided according to the details in the project document, which say the area under plantation or greenery will be 81,220 square metres. “As proposed, at least 4,918 trees will be maintained within the project site during the operation phase of the project,” it said. It also directed the CPWD to install two continuous online ambient air quality (AAQ) monitoring stations in the project area in consultation with the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) before the demolition work starts. “Online monitoring should cover parameters e.g. PM10, PM2.5 along with NOx, SOx, covering upwind and downwind directions during the construction period,” it said. The committee also directed the project developer to draw a detailed traffic management-and-decongestion plan to ensure that the service of the roads near the project site may not get adversely impacted during the implementation of the project. “The plan should stipulate, inter alia, the path and appropriate time for the movement of vehicles to and from site. The plan shall be vetted by a concerned agency in the state government,” it said. It directed the CPWD to ensure that noise barriers or acoustics of adequate efficiency are provided at each construction site during the construction phase and at least 50 anti-smog guns and an equal number of anti-smog towers are installed to curb air pollution during the construction phase. The anti-smog towers shall be installed during the operation phase as proposed, it said. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country ‑ envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a Common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The CPWD, which is executing the project, had revised its estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||Govt waives IGST on import of Covid-relief material received as donation for free distribution||The government on Monday waived Integrated GST (IGST) till June 30 on import of Covid-relief material received as a donation, a move that will speed up customs clearances for such imports, including those by charitable organisations. The Finance Ministry in a statement said the government had received several representations from charitable organisations, corporate entities, and other associations outside India seeking exemption from IGST on the import of Covid-19 relief material donated/received free of cost from outside India for free distribution. “Accordingly, the Central Government has...granted exemption from IGST on import of such goods received free of cost for free distribution for covid relief," it said, adding the exemption would be applicable till June 30. This exemption will also cover goods already imported, but lying uncleared at the Customs ports. Following this decision, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj and CBIC Chairman Ajit Kumar interacted with Chief Secretaries of States/UTs and briefed them on the exemption from Customs duty and IGST on specified Covid relief material. The CBIC in a tweet said that during the meeting, state governments were also requested to set up Help Desks to facilitate donors and relief agencies and give wide publicity to the same. “Close coordination between States and Customs was emphasised to ensure that supplies reach the end-users without delay,” it added. State governments were also requested to immediately appoint Nodal Officers so that entities desirous of importing Covid relief material for free distribution may approach them for certification, it added. About the meeting with state officials, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in a tweet said: “Quick follow-up action in briefing Chief Secretaries of states on today's order of IGST exemption on specified #COVID19 relief materials (Customs duty waiver given earlier). Will speed up clearance for charitable organisations and others.” The government has already exempted customs duty on import of a host of Covid-related relief materials, including Remdesivir injection and its APIs, Inflammatory diagnostic (markers) kits, medical-grade oxygen, oxygen therapy-related equipment such as oxygen concentrators, cryogenic transport tanks, etc, and Covid vaccines. The IGST exemption given on Monday will be subject to nodal authorities, appointed by the state governments, authorising any entity, relief agency or statutory body, for free distribution of such relief material. The said goods can be imported free of cost by a state government or, any entity/ relief agency/ statutory body, authorised in this regard for free distribution anywhere in India. The importer shall before clearance of goods from Customs produce a certificate from the said nodal authorities that goods are meant for free distribution for Covid relief. After imports, the importer shall produce, to the Deputy or Assistant Commissioner of Customs at the port within six months from the date of importation or within such extended period not exceeding nine months, a statement containing details of goods imported and distributed free of cost. This statement shall be certified by the said nodal authority of the state government. “This exemption shall thus enable import of the Covid relief supply imported free of cost for free distribution without payment of IGST (up to the 30th June 2021). As customs duty is already exempt, these imports will not attract any customs duty or IGST,” the ministry added. Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co Partner Rajat Bose said this is a much-needed respite provided by the central government as IGST is a cost for such organisations who are helping people with the free distribution of essential medicines and medical equipment for battling the virus. “The Central Government should, however, go a step further and reduce the GST on local supplies of such items, while at the same time allowing input tax credit as well which will result in considerably reducing the cost of such items procured locally,” Bose added. India’s single day COVID infections had crossed a record 4 lakh mark last week. On Monday, 3.68 lakh new infections and 3,417 deaths were reported. Last week, the government slashed the IGST rate on the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use to 12 per cent, from 28 per cent, for two months till June 30. Under Goods and Services Tax (GST), the tax levied on consumption of goods or rendering of service is split 50:50 between the Centre and the state. Such tax is known as Central-GST or CGST and State-GST or SGST. On inter-state movement of goods as well as imports, an Integrated-GST or IGST is levied, which accrues to the Centre. The amount paid as IGST can be utilised by businesses for claiming credit while making CGST or SGST payments at the time of actual sale. AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said: “Government has rightly come up with full IGST relief on import of Covid related relief material including oxygen concentrators, generators, cylinders and Covid medicines by the state government and its authorised agencies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||Oxygen Express with 85 MT LMO leaves from Gujarat for Gurugram||An ‘Oxygen Express’ train carrying 85.23 tons of liquid medical oxygen left from Hapa near Jamnagar in Gujarat for Gurugram in Haryana on Monday, said Western Railway officials. The LMO is to be supplied to hospitals in Delhi and adjoining areas, all battling a severe surge in coronavirus cases and a resultant spike in demand for vital gas. “A Ro-Ro (roll on roll off) service carrying four tankers loaded with liquid medical oxygen left from Hapa in Gujarat at 6:37 am on May 3 and will reach Gurugram in Haryana in the morning of May 4. The Oxygen Express, carrying 85.23 tonnes of LMO in four tankers, will traverse 1,088 kilometres to reach its destination,” a WR release informed. “These oxygen tankers will be used in COVID hospitals in Delhi and adjoining areas. This is the second Oxygen Express train of WR. The LMO has been supplied by Reliance Industries in Jamnagar,” the release added. On April 25, a WR service left from Hapa to Kalamboli in Maharashtra with 44 tons of LMO. The release said, till May 2, Railways had delivered over 1,094 metric tonnes (MT) LMO to Maharashtra (174 MT), Uttar Pradesh (430.51 MT), Madhya Pradesh (156.96 MT), Delhi (190 MT), Haryana (79 MT) and Telangana (63.6 MT).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre postpones NEET-PG, doctors and interns to help fight pandemic||Seeking to augment human resources deployed in fighting Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved a number of measures, including postponing the NEET-PG for at least four months to make a large number of qualified doctors available for pandemic duty and pressing into service medical interns. The PMO said in a statement on Monday that the services of final year MBBS students can also be utilised for providing services like tele-consultation and monitoring of mild Covid cases after due orientation under the faculty's supervision. Medical interns will work under the supervision of their faculty. This will reduce the workload on the existing doctors engaged in Covid duty and boost the efforts of triaging, it said. It added that B.Sc. or GNM qualified nurses may be utilised in full-time Covid nursing duties under the supervision of senior doctors and nurses. Those providing services in Covid management will be given priority in forthcoming regular government recruitments after they complete a minimum of 100 days of duty, the PMO said. The medical students and professionals to be engaged in Covid related work will be suitably vaccinated, it said. All such professionals who sign up for minimum 100 days of duty and complete it successfully will also be given the Prime Minister's Distinguished Covid National Service Samman from the government of India. They will also be covered under the government's insurance scheme for health workers engaged in fighting Covid-19. The statement said the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test for Post-Graduation (NEET-PG) will be postponed for at least four months, and the exam will not be held before August 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||Now, 24 patients die in Karnataka hospital due to oxygen shortage||As many as 24 patients including 23 suffering from COVID-19 died in Karnataka's Chamarajanagar due to alleged oxygen shortage in the district hospital in the last 24 hours, officials said. A pall of gloom descended on the Chamarajanagar district hospital as the grieving kin of the deceased gathered after hearing the news. "My boy had recovered 75%. If there had been an oxygen cylinder he could have been saved," ndtv.com quoted Lokesh, a kin of one of the deceased as saying. Another such relative, Rajanna, said he received a distress call from his brother at midnight. "He called me around 12 o'clock saying there was no oxygen. Please see what you can do. When we came here immediately, they didn't allow any of us in. When we called again, there was no reply. That meant he was gone. He died because of lack of oxygen". Family members of the dead also staged a demonstration at the hospital and alleged there was a shorten of oxygen and raised slogans. Chamarajanagar district in-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar, who is also the Primary and Secondary Education Minister, said he has ordered a death audit report from the district administration into the incident. He, however, maintained that all the deaths did not occur due to oxygen shortage. "Its not appropriate to say that all the 24 deaths happened due to oxygen shortage. These deaths had happened from Sunday morning to this morning. The oxygen shortage happened in the wee hours of Monday -- from 12.30 AM to 2.30 AM," Kumar told reporters here. Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has appointed IAS officer Shivayogi Kalasad to investigate into the matter. The report into the deaths has to be submitted to the government within three days. State Home Minister Basavaraja Bommai, meanwhile, has asked the Director General & Inspector General of Police (DG&IGP) Praveen Sood to investigate the matter and submit a comprehensive report for further action. Suresh Kumar said the death audit report would detail what these patients were suffering from, whether they had any comorbidities and in which state they were brought to the hospital. "All the people who died may not have died due to oxygen shortage," he added. According to him, there is a stock of 6,000 litres of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) but there was a need for oxygen cylinders. "The cylinders were supposed to come from Mysuru but there was some glitch," Kumar said. He also said he has explained the situation to the Chief Secretary of the State, personal secretary to the Chief Minister and the Additional Director General of Police Pratap Reddy, who is in charge of oxygen supply in the state. "I have also told the officials to find a permanent solution for the supply of oxygen in Chamarajanagar district. There indeed is a problem in Mysuru but that should not hinder the supply of oxygen from Mysuru to Chamarajanagar and Mandya," Suresh Kumar added. Expressing his sorrow over the death of 24 people, the Minister said he would be rushing to Chamarajanagar to take stock of the situation. Congress came down hard on the Yediyurappa govt over its handling of the crisis after the news broke. Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet asked, "Died or killed?" The All India Congress Committee general secretary and Karnataka in-charge, Randeep Singh Surjewala demanded the arrest of the Health Minister. "This is murder by designed negligence of Yediyurappa Govt ! The Health Minister must resign. Will CM Yediyurappa ji own moral responsibility for the deaths?" Mr Surjewala tweeted. Congress Karnataka chief DK Shivakumar said the government is only interested in publicity and does not take any responsibility. Several hospitals across the country have been reporting a shortage of oxygen, with many patients losing lives due to this. Karnataka reported 37,733 fresh COVID-19 cases, 21,149 recoveries, and 217 deaths in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases in the state stands at 4,21,436 with 11,64,398 recoveries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||EC plea on media too far fetched, says SC||The Supreme Court Monday termed as too far fetched the poll panel's plea for restraining media from reporting remarks in court proceedings and came out in support of high courts saying it does not want to demoralise them as they are vital pillars of democracy. A bench of Justice D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah assured the Election Commission that the high court's remarks were not meant to run down the poll panel and it will try to balance the rights of two constitutional bodies - the HC and the EC - in its order. The apex court reserved the order on the appeal of the Election Commission against Madras High Court's critical remarks holding it responsible for the surge in COVID-19 cases in the country and fastening its responsible officials with the murder charges. The bench said it would pronounce the order "expeditiously". Media should be able to report everything also to create accountability and the dialogue in court is often to create an umbrella of discussion, the bench said in a hearing conducted via video conferencing. The media is an important and powerful watchdog in democracy and it cannot be stopped from reporting discussions in higher courts, it said. Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for the poll panel, submitted that COVID-19 management does not come under the EC's purview and after 20 days of polls in Tamil Nadu, the high court said it should be charged with murder. There was a continuous debate in media over the high court remarks on murder charges against the poll panel, he said, adding that somewhere a line has to drawn. The apex court, however, asked EC to take the observations of the high court in the right spirit and said, "You have done a good job". "We will take into account EC's grievance and to the best of our abilities, try to balance between rights of the poll panel and high courts," the bench said. The top court told Dwivedi that Madras High Court's effort was not to run down the EC as an institution. The Election Commission had moved the top court on Saturday challenging the critical observations made by the Madras High Court holding it responsible for a surge in COVID-19 cases in the country, saying the remarks were "uncalled for, blatant and disparaging". The high court had, on April 26, castigated the EC for the surge in COVID-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, holding it "singularly" responsible for the spread of the viral disease, called it the "the most irresponsible institution" and even said its officials may be booked under murder charges. The poll panel allowing political parties to take out rallies and organise meetings had led to the surge in COVID cases, the court had observed. The EC's appeal against these remarks was trashed by the division bench of the high court on April 30, leading the poll watchdog to approach the top court. The division bench of the high court, on April 26, made the stinging observation on a plea moved by Tamil Nadu's Transport Minister MR Vijayabaskar, who was the AIADMK candidate from Karur in the April 6 Assembly polls, seeking a direction to the authorities concerned to ensure a fair counting of votes on May 2 in his constituency by taking effective steps and ensuring proper arrangements while following the COVID-19 protocols. Since a total of 77 candidates were in the fray in Karur, it would be very difficult to accommodate their agents in the counting hall. It may affect the observance of the protocols, the petitioner had alleged. When the EC's counsel told the judges that all necessary steps were being taken, the bench shot back, saying by allowing the political parties to take out rallies and organise meetings, it (commission) had paved the way for a resurgence of the deadly virus. Irked over the submission made by the EC's counsel that all precautionary measures would be taken at the counting centres, the chief justice replied that the poll panel must be "singularly" held responsible for the sudden surge in the number of coronavirus cases in the country. The bench had even said that EC officials may be booked under murder charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||Pfizer seeks expedited nod for Covid vaccine in India ||Pfizer is in discussions with the Indian government for an expedited approval pathway to make Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine available in the country, its chief Albert Bourla said on Monday, while stating that the firm is donating medicines worth USD 70 million (over Rs 510 crore) for treatment of COVID-19 patients in India. "We are deeply concerned by the critical COVID-19 situation in India, and our hearts go out to you, your loved ones and all the people of India," he said in a mail sent to Pfizer India employees that he posted on linked.in. "Pfizer is committed to being a partner in India's fight against this disease and is quickly working to mobilise the largest humanitarian relief effort in the company's history," he added. "Right now, Pfizer colleagues at distribution centres in the US, Europe and Asia are hard at work rushing shipments of Pfizer medicines that the Government of India has identified as part of its COVID treatment protocol," Bourla said. Pfizer is donating these medicines to help make sure that every COVID-19 patient in every public hospital across the country can have access to company's medicines they need free of charge, he added. "These medicines, valued at more than USD 70 million, will be made available immediately, and we will work closely with the government and our NGO partners to get them to where they are needed most," Bourla said. This effort, in combination with Pfizer Foundation funding that supports humanitarian organisations providing essential and life-saving equipment to India, such as ventilators, oxygen concentrators and consumables, is our most comprehensive humanitarian relief response ever, he added. He also said that the company is aware that access to vaccines is critical to ending this pandemic. "Unfortunately, our vaccine is not registered in India although our application was submitted months ago. We are currently discussing with the Indian government an expedited approval pathway to make our Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine available for use in the country," Bourla said. Pfizer stands in solidarity with all those currently affected by COVID-19 in India and around the world and will continue to do everything possible to provide assistance, he added. "As we work to meet the public health need and to be a partner with the Government of India to establish a path forward for our vaccine, please know you and your loved ones are foremost in our thoughts and prayers," Bourla said. Earlier in April, Pfizer said that it had offered a not-for-profit price for its vaccine for the government immunisation programme in India. "Pfizer remains committed to continuing our engagement with the government towards making the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine available for use in the government's immunisation programme in the country," the company had said in April in email response to PTI. The Indian government last month allowed emergency use approval of the imported vaccines in India which have been granted emergency approval for restricted use by United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA), European Medicines Agency (EMA), UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (UK MHRA), Pharmaceuticals and Medical Device Agency (PMDA) Japan or which are listed in WHO (emergency use listing).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||SC directs Centre to prepare buffer stock of oxygen for use in emergencies||The Supreme Court has directed the Centre to prepare a buffer stock of oxygen for emergency purposes in collaboration with states and decentralise the location of the stocks so that it is immediately available if the normal supply chain is disrupted. A three-judge bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said the emergency stocks shall be created within the next four days and replenished on a day-to-day basis, in addition to the existing allocation of medical oxygen supply to the states. "We direct the central government in collaboration with the states to prepare a buffer stock of oxygen to be used for emergency purposes to ensure supply lines continue to function even in unforeseen circumstances. The location of the emergency stocks shall be decentralised so as to be immediately available if the normal supply chain is disrupted to any hospital for any reason," the bench said. "The emergency stocks shall be created within the next four days. The replenishment of the emergency stocks will also be monitored on a real-time basis through the virtual control room in active consultation with each state/UT. This is in addition to the day to day allocations," it added. Noting that the situation on the ground in Delhi is heart-rending, the top court also directed the Centre to ensure that the deficit in the supply of oxygen to the national capital is rectified before May 3 midnight. It said lives of citizens cannot be put in jeopardy in the battle of shifting responsibility of supply of oxygen. "The protection of the lives of citizens is paramount in times of a national crisis and the responsibility falls on both the central government and the GNCTD to cooperate with each other to ensure that all possible measures are taken to resolve the situation," the bench also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao and Ravindra Bhat said. On the issue of treatment in hospitals, the top court directed the Centre to formulate within two weeks a national policy on admissions to hospitals in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. "Till the formulation of such a policy by the central government, no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs in any state/UT for lack of local residential proof of that state/UT or even in the absence of identity proof," the bench said. It also directed the Centre and the state governments to notify that any clampdown on information on social media or harassment caused to individuals seeking help on any platform will attract coercive action. "The central government and state governments shall notify all chief secretaries, directors-general of police, commissioners of police that any clampdown on information on social media or harassment caused to individuals seeking/delivering help on any platform will attract a coercive exercise of jurisdiction by this court. "The registrar (judicial) is also directed to place a copy of this order before all district magistrates in the country," it said in an order uploaded on the SC website late on Sunday night. The top court also directed the Centre to revisit its initiatives and protocols, including the availability of oxygen, availability and pricing of vaccines, and availability of essential drugs at affordable prices. It asked senior advocates Jaideep Gupta and Meenakshi Arora, appointed as amicus curiae, to collate and compile these suggestions submitted by various parties. The matter is listed for the next hearing on May 10. The directions were passed in a suo motu case for ensuring essential supplies and services during the COVID-19 pandemic. The bench has taken up issues such as the projected demand for oxygen in the country at present and in the near future, how the government intends to allocate it to "critically affected" states and its monitoring mechanism to ensure supply. The Supreme Court had earlier made clear that any attempt to clamp down on the free flow of information on social media, including a call for help from people, would be treated as contempt of the court. "There should be free flow of information; we should hear voices of citizens. This is a national crisis. There should not be any presumption that the grievances raised on the Internet are always false. Let a strong message be sent to all the DGPs that there should not be any kind of clampdown," the bench had said while reserving its order on April 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||India logs over 3.68 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,417 casualties in a day||The daily COVID-19 cases in India showed a slight dip with 3,68,147 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, taking the total tally of cases to 1,99,25,604, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 2,18,959 with 3,417 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. While the country recorded 4,01,993 new cases on May 1, it had registered 3,92,488 fresh cases on May 2. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 34,13,642 comprising 17.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stands at 81.77 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 62,93,003, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 29,16,47,037 samples have been tested up to May 2 with 15,04,698 samples being tested on Sunday. The 3,417 new fatalities include 669 from Maharashtra, 407 from Delhi, 288 from Uttar Pradesh, 217 from Karnataka, 199 from Chhattisgarh, 159 from Rajasthan, 157 from Punjab, 153 each from Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, 145 from Haryana and 115 from Jharkhand. A total of 2,18,959 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 70,284 from Maharashtra, 16,966 from Delhi, 16,011 from Karnataka, 14,346 from Tamil Nadu, 13,162 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,539 from West Bengal, 9,317 from Punjab and 9,009 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||CBSE limits Class X marks to scores students obtained in the past three years||The marks that CBSE schools award to Class X students in any subject this session, in the absence of board exams, will be limited by the scores its students obtained in the board exams of the past three years. First, if the school’s students have scored an overall average of 71, 74 and 72 per cent in the last three board exams, say, then the year in which they scored the highest overall average of 74 will be the “reference year” for awarding this year’s marks, the CBSE has decreed. Next, the average marks the school’s students obtained in each subject in the year in which their overall average was 74 will be considered. This year’s students cannot be awarded marks in any subject that is more than two per cent higher or lower than the average score their peers scored in that subject in the reference year. Suppose, the school’s students had secured an average of 78 in English in the year in which their overall average score was 74. Then, this year, the school cannot award its students more than 80 or less than 76 in English. Academics suggested that such a “moderation” policy would hurt the best students on the pretext of ensuring “reasonably reliable, unbiased and fair” marking. Since the CBSE has cancelled the Class X board exams citing the Covid resurgence, the schools will have to mark students under a policy that accords 20 per cent weight to internal assessment and 80 per cent to school-based exams. If a school’s students have not appeared in the boards before, the CBSE will provide the district, state and national averages of the last two years relating to schools of the same type, that is, KVS schools for a KVS school or private schools for a private school. The highest overall average score will determine the reference year. Of the 80 per cent weight accorded to the school-based exams, 10 per cent weight will be accorded to periodic tests, 30 per cent to the half-yearly test and 40 per cent to the pre-board exam.If a school has not held any internal exams this academic year, it can do so now online or offline, the CBSE has said. Jitendra Sharma, a retired professor who taught at the teacher training institute in Jaipur, said the new system of average-based marking would hurt the better students. “Each student is different and each batch is different,” he said. The CBSE has asked the schools to send the marks by June 5. The results will be announced by June 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-170
03-05-2021||India||Jaishankar fumes on Youth Congress giving away 'unsolicited' oxygen cylinders to the Philippine embassy||The Narendra Modi government on Sunday accused the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) of giving away “unsolicited” oxygen cylinders to the Philippine embassy for “cheap publicity”, only to end up with egg on its face when the New Zealand high commission made a public request for oxygen to the IYC — the youth wing of the Congress. “@sosiyc @srinivasiyc Could you please help with oxygen cylinder urgently at New Zealand High Commission? Thank You,” the appeal from the verified Twitter handle of the New Zealand mission said, exactly one minute after external affairs minister S. Jaishankar had berated the Congress. The MEA later took to Twitter to say it was “responding to the medical demands” of embassies and high commissions and added: “Given the pandemic situation, all are urged not to hoard essential supplies, including oxygen.” Several members of the diplomatic corps are said to have tested positive. @sosiyc and @srinivasiyc — the Twitter handles of the relief campaign of the IYC and the Congress youth wing president B.V. Srinivas, respectively — are the most tagged in appeals for help for Covid patients. But to have a foreign embassy also reach out to the Opposition party rather than the government appeared to have got Jaishankar’s goat. “MEA checked with the Philippines Embassy. This was an unsolicited supply as they had no Covid cases. Clearly for cheap publicity by you know who. Giving away cylinders like this when there are people in desperate need of oxygen is simply appalling. Jairamji, MEA never sleeps; our people know across the world. MEA also never fakes; we know who does,’’ Jaishankar tweeted on Sunday morning, responding to Congress leader Jairam Ramesh who had said he was “stunned that the youth wing of the opposition party is attending to SOS calls from foreign embassies” and asked if the MEA was sleeping. Jaishankar tweeted at 9.14am and the New Zealand high commission’s appeal to the IYC came at 9.15am. This was soon deleted and a fresh tweet posted at 10.07am, which said: “We are trying all sources to arrange for oxygen cylinders urgently and our appeal has unfortunately been misinterpreted, for which we are sorry.” There had been no other appeal for oxygen over the past three days on the mission’s verified Twitter handle. Subsequently, Srinvas tweeted a video of his team delivering cylinders to the mission and said: “New Zealand high commission opened gates of the embassy and accepted cylinders. Also, they thanked the #SOSIYC team for this quick relief as patient inside embassy was critically ill.’’ The Youth Congress also replied to Jaishankar from its handle @IYC, tweeting: “Please excuse us for the delayed response, actually we were busy fulfilling a request at the New Zealand Embassy.” It continued: “We got a request for an urgent requirement of Oxygen Cylinders for 2 Covid patients in Philippines Embassy. The Cylinders were delivered at the embassy on a much solicited request. Post delivery embassy thanked us on Facebook. All screenshots attached with names and number masked.” Srinivas told The Telegraph the Youth Congress had got a request over phone for cylinders for the Philippines embassy. “Would an embassy in the most secure zone of the capital open its gates for us in the night if there was no request for cylinders on the premises? We got several calls for cylinders and we delivered….” The Opposition leaders on Sunday asked the Modi government to focus on the pandemic and ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen to hospitals amid reports of shortages from several states leading to the deaths of  many patients, our special correspondent reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
03-05-2021||India||Adityanath hides spiralling Covid deaths by covering up crematories and banning pictures||After denying any oxygen shortage, the Yogi Adityanath government is focusing on hiding the spiralling Covid deaths by covering up crematories and banning pictures of the burning pyres that are now circulating worldwide. High plastic and cloth banners have been put up all along the pavement railings on the only open side of Rajghat, the lone cremation ground in the chief minister’s hometown of Gorakhpur, blocking view of the pyres and the long queues of bodies. Citing religious sanctity, the banners criminalise the shooting of photos or videos of the crematory. “The last rites of the dead are going on according to Hindu customs. Please don’t do photography/ videography. It’s a punishable offence,” the banners say. “No law says that taking pictures of a cremation ground is a crime,” Sunil Sharma, a Lucknow-based lawyer, said. “Many feature films are shot on cremation grounds amid real cremations. Perhaps the government will now book whoever takes pictures of cremations on the charge of disturbing law and order.” Pictures of cremation grounds where burning pyres have taken up almost every inch of space have generated bad global publicity for Indian authorities’ handling of the second wave of the Covid outbreak. In mid-April, the Adityanath government had covered up both of Lucknow’s crematories, Baikunth Dham and Gullala Ghat, by fencing them with iron sheets. Rajghat, which has an electric incinerator and about two dozen temporary platforms for pyres, already has brick walls on three sides. An official from the Gorakhpur Nagar Nigam, the municipal authority that has put up the banners, said: “We received an order to cover up the area and did so. We now receive up to 45 bodies a day, up from 6 or 7 during the normal times earlier. There isn’t enough firewood; so queues form.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
03-05-2021||India||Bengal polls 2021: Prashant Kishor feted as man of the moment||Prashant Kishor, Mamata Bannerji’s chief political strategist, had put his career on the line with a public dare made last December that the BJP would struggle to cross two digits in the Bengal assembly. The BJP, he told The Telegraph, in March, had become a “formidable force” in Bengal, but the Trinamul would hold its ground. “Khela hobey, we are ready, game on!” he had said. Today, amidst the Trinmul’s resounding victory, Kishor came to be feted by many as man of the moment. He spoke exclusively to us as the trends became clear. Excerpts: Q: You had predicted this, but not many believed you. Tell us how this happened. A: I was always convinced we would win, and win handsomely, I don’t know why folks didn’t see it or believe me. Propaganda cannot make you win an election. Partly this is the result of the sheer arrogance of the BJP, they were flying sky high, they missed the ground. I told you earlier, the BJP enters a battle already declaring itself a victor, they make a lot of noise. Q: And very often they make the noise and win. A: Yes, but when you have someone who is serious about giving them a fight, this is what happens. Mamata Bannerji said, fine we are here, come, we will fight, khela hobey. It is the intent. She suffered a rude shock in 2019, but she took it seriously. I remember I had just lost my father when she approached me. I told her the family is bereaved, I will take some time, but she was anxious and restless. She was calling me with a sense of urgency, telling me, “Jaldi aao, jaldi aao.” She knew she had to make urgent amends, that is how a genuine political leader responds. She wanted to fight. She does not make excuses, she looks for how best she can stay in the game. The BJP entirely missed out on how we responded after 2019, through various and extensive programmes of public outreach, through sustained campaigning and delivery, through consistently staying on the ground among the people. Q: You spoke of the Election Commission being partial … A: See this is not only about Bengal, this is about India and about the survival of democracy. Every democrat in India and every political party should be concerned about the role of the Election Commission and how partisan it can become, how it can bend and scrape. Their role in Bengal has been scandalous, they have behaved like an arm of the powers in Delhi. The way they were taking dictation was obvious to everyone. I will name just one factor: the BJP led a most communal campaign in Bengal, it was predicated on naked Hindutva, on Jai Shri Ram, on all sorts of religious symbolism and religious disaffection. What did the Election Commission do to stop that? Nothing. And that is a danger, a grave danger that will live beyond this election. People should wake up to this. Q: Would you say this has been your toughest challenge? A: It is tough to say toughest or not, but let me tell you it was not easy. The eventual numbers do not bear that out, our victory is huge, but the battle was intense and had to be fought at every level from the block up. Frankly, I did have my moments of doubt, especially when I saw media flying in and going back with reports of a BJP sweep. So many newspapers and channels were absolutely convinced the BJP would win hands down. But then I thought to myself, what have I been doing in Bengal for 15 months? Should I believe these people who have just spent a week or so here, or should I trust my instinct and work. The BJP made a narrative of important people leaving TMC, they projected the myth of a disintegrating party with huge anti-incumbency. They believed that narrative themselves, the media bought into it. What had happened, in reality, was that we had gone through a process of cleansing and actually had a new Trinamul. Nobody saw this or took it seriously. You see, the media can give you hype, it can work or the margins, it can make a noise for this one or that, but media cannot make you win or lose. Media is an amplifier at best, it is not the sound. The sound is on the ground, the sound is the people. They have spoken. Q: What does this mean for politics beyond Bengal? A: That’s a little too early to spell out. Q: But is this not going to resound beyond Bengal? You yourself told me a few weeks ago that the Bengal election was about whether India would remain a multi-party democracy or become a one-party state. A: Let us see where things go from here. What I can say for now that it has given voice and hope to those people who want to fight this danger called the BJP. There is a way to do it, that is what we have demonstrated in Bengal. If you are really serious about a political fight, you can do it, at least you can try. All those people who want the BJP defeated have a takeaway from Bengal, it is possible to defeat them. Have a will and have a strategy. Have the gut for a fight. Don’t make excuses. Some people go on saying we have no resources, we do not have media support, there is too much polarization. Polarisation is a bogey, absolute bogey. In no part of India have Hindus got polarized in a way that they themselves become the majority, not even in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, the two strongholds of the BJP. You do not want to be with folks who make excuses, you want people who will get into the pit and fight, and fight seriously. Mamata Bannerji was prepared to do that from the very start, from when she got the shock of 2019. The results are there for everyone to see. Ends||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
03-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Assembly elections 2021: DMK leads, rival saves face||The DMK-led front headed by M.K. Stalin swept the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections after 10 years, foiling the BJP’s attempt at religious polarisation, although the AIADMK put up a fight in its bid to retain power. “I thank all the voters and everyone in Tamil Nadu for mandating the DMK to rule for the sixth time,” Stalin, who won from Kolathur by nearly 69,000 votes, said in the evening. At 10.30pm, the DMK-led alliance — which includes the Congress, Left, IUML, MDMK, VCK, KDMK and a few smaller outfits — won or led from 156 of the state’s 234 seats. The DMK alone accounted for 134 seats, well past the majority mark of 118. The AIADMK-BJP-PMK alliance won or led from 77 seats, with the AIADMK accounting for 67. The BJP led from 4 seats, looking set to reopen its account in the Tamil Nadu Assembly after 20 years. Actor-politician Kamal Haasan, leader of the Makkal Neethi Maiyam, lost to BJP women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan by a little over 1,000 votes from Coimbatore South. Star BJP candidate and actress Khushbu Sundar lost to the DMK’s Ezhilan from Chennai’s Thousand Lights constituency by 33,044 votes. DMK youth leader Udaynidhi Stalin won the Chepauk-Triplicane seat by 60,000-odd votes. From the AIADMK, outgoing chief minister E.K. Palaniswami won Edappadi by more than 60,000 votes while his outgoing deputy, O. Panneerselvam, led from Bodi. However, several AIADMK ministers lost. Sasikala’s nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran, leader of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam which had broken away from the AIADMK, trailed from Kovilpatti. “The AIADMK’s announcement of several goodies in the last few months — including the 10.5 per cent sub-quota for the OBC Vanniyars within the 20 per cent Most Backward Classes quota — has helped it in the last lap after its crushing defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls,” CPM leader A. Soundararajan said. “Congratulations to Shri M.K. Stalin for the victory. People of Tamil Nadu have voted for change and we will, under your leadership, prove to be a confident step in that direction,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted. NCP leader Sharad Pawar, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and RJD’s Lalu Prasad congratulated Stalin. “Congratulations to the DMK leader M.K. Stalin on his party’s win,” defence minister Rajnath Singh said. Total seats     234 Majority         118 Leads and wins DMK+           156 AIADMK+       77 Others             1   In neighbouring Puducherry, N. Rangasamy’s AINRC and ally BJP won 13 of the 22 seats declared till 10pm. The state has 30 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
03-05-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: Left Front breaks 44-year trend of anti-incumbency||The Left Democratic Front in Kerala smashed a 44-year trend of anti-incumbency felling the ruling combine, sweeping the state elections and wresting the lone seat the BJP had won last time. The CPM-led alliance bettered its 2016 winning tally of 91 seats to bag 99 of the 140 seats, with the Congress-led United Democratic Front bagging the remaining 41. The BJP, which had opened its account in Kerala in 2016 with the victory of O. Rajagopal, was back to square one with V. Sivankutty of the LDF wresting the Nemom seat. The three-cornered fight for Nemom ended up in line with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s words: “We will close that account this time.” Vijayan retained his Dharmadam seat in Kannur district by a margin of 50,123 votes, a vast improvement over his 2016 winning margin of 36,905. “This is the people’s victory,” was how Vijayan described the win. “We had all along said we will win more seats (than in 2016) as we trust the people and the people trust us. This result validates that trust,” the chief minister said. “This election has once again made it clear that communalism has no place in Kerala,” Vijayan said, taking a swipe at the BJP that had leveraged on religious issues like women’s entry at the Sabarimala temple. But even Sabarimala could not save the BJP as its state president K. Surendran lost from both Manjeshwar and Konni, where the hill shrine is located. The BJP had deployed a battery of star campaigners, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and party president J.P. Nadda. Surendran blamed “Muslim consolidation” for the defeat even in Nemom. “Our assessment is that there has been widespread Muslim consolidation against us,” he said. The UDF put up a dismal show to end up with just 40 seats, 13 fewer than the 2016 tally, leaving the party’s state leadership in a quandary. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who retained his Haripad seat, said he would comment only after studying the results. “The Congress is the biggest political party in Kerala. We have seen defeats and victories. So the Congress cannot be wiped out with this defeat,” he added. Health minister K.K. Shailaja, who had won accolades for handling the Nipah outbreaks and the Covid-19 pandemic, won from Mattannur in Kannur district by 61,035 votes. “Metroman” E. Sreedharan, who had contested from Palakkad on a BJP ticket, lost. The 89-year-old retired technocrat who had declared himself as the possible chief minister if his party got a majority lost to Shafi Parambil of the Congress by 3,863 votes. Total seats           140 Majority                 71 Leads and wins CPM+                  99 Congress+           41 BJP                       0||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-171
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata appeals for peace as violence rocks Bengal, will move court on 'Nandigram plot' ||Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee appealed for peace on Monday after Bengal erupted in violence with reports pouring in about attacks on BJP followers and even Red Volunteers working for Covid relief. “Bengal loves peace and culture. Elections are over now. Sometimes it becomes very heated. There is also no denying that BJP and the central forces committed atrocities. I will request all to stay peaceful,” Mamata said on Monday from  her Kalighat residence. As per final results of the Assembly elections held for 292 of 294 seats, Trinamul has won 213 seats, two more than 2016; while the BJP has bagged 77. The two remaining seats were won by an Indian Secular Front candidate and an Independent. In 2016, Trinamul won 211 seats and then engineered largescale defections from the Congress. Despite the overwhelming victory, Mamata herself lost in Nandigram to the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, her one-time close aide, by 1,956 votes. On Monday, Mamata alleged that a returning officer was threatened at gun point to not order a repoll. “I have received an SMS where a returning officer is pleading for his life… From 8,000 votes suddenly it went to zero. For hours the server was down. I know EVMs were changed. Forty minutes there was power cut in the counting centre. We will investigate all of this, we will go to court,” she said. Despite Mamata’s appeals for peace and directives against holding victory processions beacuse of the second wave of the pandemic, the picture emerging from various parts of the state tell a different story. In Calcutta’s Beliaghata, a BJP supporter, Abhijit Sarkar,  was allegedly beaten to death by Trinamul supporters. Party offices of both the BJP and the CPM, which has zero representation in the state Assembly, came under attack. In Kadambagachhi, an Indian Secular Front worker identified as Hasanur Jaman died after being hit by bombs. In a series of tweets, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said nine persons had lost their lives in post-poll political violence and the situation was alarming. “Perturbed and worried at several reports of violence, arson and killings from various parts of State. Party offices, houses and shops being attacked. Situation alarming,” tweeted the Governor. He also had a meeting with the heads of Bengal and Calcutta police. Mamata Banerjee will call on the Governor at 7pm where post-poll violence is likely to come up during discussions. “Such political violence and lawlessness cannot be overlooked as this taints essence of democratic fabric. Call upon people to maintain calm and peace and promote harmony,” Dhankhar also tweeted. BJP workers and offices came under attack in Balurghat’s Kismatdapat, Nandigram, Pirtala in East Burdwan,  among other places. “Six of our party workers have been killed in post-result violence. Offices have been ransacked, houses and vehicles attacked. Law and order is the chief minister’s responsibility. If the CM doesn’t take responsibility, who will?” asked Dilip Ghosh, the state BJP chief. Mamata claimed that her party supporters too were killed in Burdwan and had been attacked in Cooch Behar. “BJP is still committing excesses,” Mamata said. Mamata is likely to take oath as chief minister on Wednesday, while her party MLAs will be sworn-in later in the week. The list of cabinet and state ministers will be decided later by Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021:BJP wins two hill seats, Binay Tamang camp one||Of the three hill seats, the BJP won the Darjeeling and Kurseong Assembly constituencies while the Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha —Trinamul’s ally — won the Kalimpong seat. Neeraj Zimba, GNLF leader and BJP Darjeeling MLA, retained his seat. The BJP’s B.P. Bajgain won from Kurseong. Ruden Sada Lepcha of the Tamang-Thapa camp of the Morcha, won from Kalimpong. The rival Morcha faction led by Bimal Gurung, also Trinamul’s ally, drew a blank. Gurung’s candidates were relegated to the third spot in all three hill seats. But with Trinamul’s hat-trick in Bengal, Zimba admitted his was “a half-hearted win”. In this show of strength before Trinamul, the Tamang- Thapa camp edged ahead of Gurung by winning the Kalimpong seat and coming second in Darjeeling and Kurseong. All Trinamul candidates in the constituencies of the Dooars and Terai — where Gurung campaigned — also lost to the BJP this time. The Tamang-Thapa camp polled around 1.55 lakh votes against Bimal Gurung’s 1 lakh-odd votes in the hills. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Tamang-Thapa camp had secured about 20 per cent of the hill votes while the BJP-GNLF-Bimal Gurung camp had polled more than 70 per cent. Gurung dumped the BJP last October to join hands with Trinamul, even as both Morcha factions continued to be bitter rivals. However, this time the Tamang-Thapa camp not only increased their vote share but also managed to win a seat on their own strength for the first time. “We are happy with our results as our main competition is with Gurung’s faction in the hills. We defeated him and his political career is at stake now,” said Thapa. Much was at stake for the Tamang-Thapa faction. The faction had lost two back-to-back elections in 2019, the Darjeeling Lok Sabha elections and the Assembly bypoll. Perhaps aware that his political career was at stake, Gurung on Sunday asked his cadre base to go back to the people and revive the organisation. “We came back after (being on the run) for three-and-half years and we probably could not reach out to all. I appeal to our cadres to reach out to the people. I, too, would be reaching out to the grassroots,” said Gurung after his faction’s defeat. Gurung had dumped his ally, the BJP, last year in October and joined hands with Trinamul to resurface in the hills. However, members of his faction evinced confidence that the faction would perform well in the local polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata leads Trinamul towards electoral victory||Mamata Banerjee plus the rest of Bengal have vanquished Narendra Modi plus Amit Shah plus the Election Commission plus communalism. At 11.30pm on Sunday, the Trinamul Congress was ahead in 213 seats and the BJP in 77. One Independent won and a party with influence among minorities was leading, accounting for the 292 seats in which polling was held. Trinamul looked on course to clock a 48 per cent share of the votes polled, a clear 10 percentage points ahead of the BJP. The sole stumble in the Trinamul dream run was Mamata’s loss to Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram by 1,956 votes. A formal announcement on the outcome was delayed after Trinamul made a request for a recount. The Election Commission eventually announced the result in favour of Adhikari late on Sunday night. The loss need not stand in the way of Mamata being sworn in as chief minister for the third time. However, she will have to win from an Assembly seat in six months. “Victory of Bengal people, victory of the country, victory of democracy,” Mamata said, flashing a victory sign, in her first reaction after emerging from her room at 30B Harish Chatterjee Street on one of the most astonishing days in the tumultuous history of Bengal, if not national, politics. “I salute the people of Nandigram for their verdict,” Mamata said during the 10-minute media interaction in the evening. “I bow my head in front of the people of Bengal for giving us this landslide victory,” she added, before setting out for the Kalighat temple, where she offered puja, having led her party to a spectacular victory after one of the most daunting electoral battles in the country. “Bengal saved India today,” Mamata had said at the interaction, underscoring the significance of the Trinamul victory for Opposition parties elsewhere in the country that are grappling with the question of how to halt what till the other day looked like an unstoppable juggernaut powered by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. Several factors appeared to have made a decisive difference this time. ⚫Mamata held her nerve against a vicious campaign, aided and abetted by sections of the visual media, that she was appeasing Muslims. She discharged her constitutional responsibility by pledging to protect everyone. The upshot: Muslims in most parts of Bengal appeared to have rallied behind Trinamul and refused to be swayed by other organisations eager to represent the community. The BJP’s Hindu-Muslim game backfired, with Trinamul bagging 37 of the 47 seats in Murshidabad, Malda, North and South Dinajpur, all with 40 per cent Muslim voters (polling will take place in two Murshidabad seats later). Traditional fiefs of the Congress and the Left, these four districts had never before rewarded Trinamul in elections. ⚫ But the scale of Trinamul’s triumph means that no single community could have helped the party pull it off. The Trinamul performance shredded the claim that minority consolidation was solely responsible for the party achieving critical mass. Trinamul did well in several Hindu-majority areas in Bankura, Jhargram, Calcutta, Howrah, Hooghly and the urban areas of North and South 24-Parganas. ⚫ The X-factor this time were the state’s women, who appeared to have dumped the BJP. While the Bengal government’s schemes for women — such as Swasthya Sathi – yielded dividends, many women were outraged each time Modi dipped his tongue in acid and rolled off the “Didi O Didi” taunt at rallies. In Siliguri, two homemakers who were stuck in a market because of a road show by Shah last month, had told this correspondent that they could not digest BJP leaders’ jeering of Mamata. “We are Bengali women and we have dignity…. These people don’t know our culture; they come from outside and insult us,” was the gist of what the two women said after refusing for over 15 minutes to comment on anything related to politics. The women said they were not supporters of any political party and their poll preferences varied each year. But their answer suggested that they would vote for Mamata as they believed in her narrative that the “outsider BJP leaders” were bringing an alien culture into the state. The BJP guest speakers’ insistence on speaking in Hindi without a translator amplified the outsider image. The BJP tried its best to contest Mamata’s Bengali-versus-outsider stand and accused her of catering to provincialism to win votes. Mamata made a quick course correction, telling her rallies that the state was for everyone — irrespective of their religious or linguistic identities — and clarified that her problem was primarily with outsiders coming to the state in the poll season to foment trouble. The poll results indicate that a significant portion of the state’s non-Bengali-speaking population — around 75 lakh — understood Mamata’s logic and felt they were safe under a regional party. Riddhima Pareek, a young company secretary and resident of Howrah, said she had voted for Trinamul because she felt safe in Mamata’s Bengal. “I go around freely using public transport in Calcutta…. I have returned home from my central Calcutta office after midnight without any hassles. I feel women are safe in Didi’s Bengal and so I voted for her party,” Pareek, whose family hails from Rajasthan, said. “I’m happy that Didi is back,” she added. Modi’s mismanagement of the second wave of Covid also took a heavy toll. Trinamul won over 90 of the 114 seats that went to the polls in the last three phases when the pandemic’s traumatic impact had become all too apparent. The odds had been stacked heavily against Mamata, who faced an onslaught from multiple flanks. First, the Election Commission of India announced an eight-phase election, which was seen as an attempt to allow a prolonged period of high-pitched, chest-thumping campaign by Modi and his cabinet colleagues across Bengal. As the BJP vowed to make its Mission Bengal a success, it deployed unprecedented resources in the run-up to the election to engineer defections from the Trinamul leaders. During the election process, scores of Trinamul leaders were summoned by multiple central agencies in various corruption cases, some up to a decade old. Senior BJP leaders made all-out attempts to polarise Bengal voters along religious lines by accusing Mamata of appeasing Muslims. Finally, sections of the media helped generate an impression that the ruling party was collapsing like a pack of cards and facing a rout. The multi-pronged assault began in December with commentators writing Mamata off in the face of a slew of defections -- led by Adhikari - but she took the challenge head on by deciding to contest from his backyard in Nandigram. Sources close to Mamata said she smelt a conspiracy by the BJP in the Nandigram outcome. “The BJP hatched a huge conspiracy to defeat her in Nandigram on the expectation that the Trinamul tally won’t cross 160.… Their plan was to engineer defections in Trinamul after the uncertainty following Didi’s loss,” a source said. Mamata, the source claimed, got wind of the game plan a few days ago and deputed four of her trusted lieutenants to four districts to ensure that the BJP did not succeed in any defection drive. “All the conspiracies would be out shortly and we would move court,” the source said. Although the battle for Nandigram went against her, that one decision to place herself at the forefront of the battleground in East Midnapore gave the Trinamul ranks the adrenaline rush they needed to take on the BJP in 35 seats in the two Midnapores and Jhargram. The election results have proved that Adhikari, who had referred to Mamata as “Begum” and an aunt of the Rohingya, is nothing but a paper tiger in the region, with Trinamul bagging 28 seats in what was once undivided Midnapore. “I had taken the decision all of a sudden while addressing a rally at Nandigram on January 19…. Abhishek (Banerjee) had reacted to my decision saying I was too impulsive, but I thought that it was the best decision for the party,” Mamata had told this correspondent during an informal interaction a few days after the announcement. The audacious decision not only helped Mamata pitchfork Trinamul back into the battle in the three districts but also galvanised the party across Bengal, especially in Bankura, Purulia and central Bengal districts like Hooghly, East Burdwan, West Burdwan and Birbhum. Of the 75 seats in these districts, Trinamul won 52, surprising even party insiders. In her brief public appearance after the victory, Mamata thanked all sections of society, especially women and people from the minority communities, and pledged to continue working for the people. As the next big election is still three years away, Mamata has time on her hand to deliver on the promises she has made in her manifesto. In her close circles, she had indicated she would form a new team – in both party and government – for the future. Mamata’ new term will have to be markedly different -- in terms of delivering on governance and dealing with corruption at high places --- from the last two terms if she wants to respect the mandate and keep the BJP at bay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee loses from Nandigram||Neck and neck. Cliff-hanger. Seesaw. The clichés flew as most of Bengal remained glued to TV sets through Sunday, watching Nandigram swing this way and that, now poised to hand the BJP the bragging rights and the next moment appearing to script sweet vindication for Mamata Banerjee. Late in the night, the Election Commission announced BJP candidate and Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari as the winner over his former mentor by 1,956 votes, or just over 0.85 per cent of the 2.28 lakh ballots cast. Trinamul, which suspects hanky-panky, had formally sought a recount before the result was announced. The chief minister also hinted at a possible court case. However, handed the rest of Bengal with a decisive mandate, Mamata seemed not too bothered by the possibility of an embarrassment at the hands of her former protégé, and at the theatre of her rise to power a decade ago. “Accepting the verdict of the people of Nandigram. I salute the people there. It’s another thing that votes were looted there. We might move court,” she told the media. Mamata, set for a third term as chief minister with a two-thirds majority, added: “I’m not worried about the Nandigram outcome. The victory of Bengal has saved the entire nation.” If sworn in as chief minister, as is likely, Mamata has to win a by-election within six months. That should hardly prove an obstacle and she might well consider contesting from Khardah, which Trinamul candidate Kajal Sinha won before dying of Covid. The BJP, though, tried to squeeze every bit of mileage out of the Nandigram result. BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya tweeted: “This is BIG. Mamata Banerjee, the sitting Chief Minister, loses Nandigram. BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari wins….” He went on: “After this crushing defeat what moral authority will Mamata Banerjee have to retain her Chief Ministership? Her defeat is a taint on TMC’s victory.” Since morning, Mamata had been trailing. Leading from the first round of counting, Adhikari was ahead by 17,379 votes at the end of the 10th of 17 rounds. It was early afternoon. But the chief minister began clawing back from the 11th round, and except for a setback in the 12th, chipped away at the deficit. When the 16th round ended, she led by 820 votes. This was when some reports mistakenly declared her the winner by 1,200 votes, although one round of counting remained. The district administration later attributed the lapse to a coordination gap and a server glitch while the BJP alleged malpractice to aid Mamata. That one remaining round apparently dragged for three hours, for it was 8pm when Adhikari was formally announced victorious from a constituency whose 68,000 Muslims made up a little over 26 per cent of an electorate of 2.57 lakh. Among the votes counted in the last round were those cast in Sonachura, fulcrum of the land movement that had catapulted Mamata to power in 2011 but which had witnessed a vicious and polarising campaign by Adhikari against her. “Hindu-majority Sonachura, which Suvendu had intensely polarised, proved the clincher,” a senior Trinamul leader said. “Outside Nandigram, the polarisation bid did not work for the BJP almost anywhere, with Bengal’s Hindus slamming the door on Hindutva. But in Nandigram, it seemed to pay off for them.” He added: “Also, she (Mamata) did not secure good enough leads from Garchakraberia, Kendemari, Satengabari, Muhammadpur and Shamsabad, where minorities make up 70-80 per cent of the population. That made things worse.” While Adhikari polled 48.49 per cent of the votes, Mamata secured 47.64 per cent and the Left’s Minakshi Mukherjee, 2.74 per cent. “A lot of irregularities marred the counting, and things got very fishy during the final round,” said Trinamul leader Abu Taher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls 2021: Bray of Bengal||Narendra Modi ⚫ But Didi, write it down, their (SC, ST and OBCs) affection for Modi will never decrease. ⚫ We all saw what happened in Nandigram some time back. It shows that Didi has accepted defeat. It shows that a BJP government will be formed in Bengal. ⚫ When Bengal’s BJP chief minister, Bengal’s BJP government will take oath, I will surely attend that ceremony ⚫ … Even Muslims who voted her to power have lost confidence in her and have moved away. This indicates that she is losing the elections. ⚫ We will… succeed in bagging over 200 seats ⚫ Didi got very demoralised after the fifth phase of polls (180 seats). What is the reason? After the five phases it has become definite that the BJP is much ahead of Didi with more than 122 seats. ⚫ This panic and sudden outburst against institutions or the forces say she is sensing defeat. ⚫ I hope Didi’s injured leg gets healed soon so that she is able to walk when she submits her resignation to the governor after May 2. (in The Telegraph on April 30) ⚫ The BJP’s two main campaigners did not deviate from combining a searing critique of (Mamata) Banerjee’s governance record with concrete promises that would accrue both immediately and in the long run…. The chief minister seemed disoriented and this was in sharp contrast with the grandeur of Modi and the combativeness of Shah. ⚫ For 30 years, the communists ruled, and then came the TMC that ruled for 10 years, now the people want development and in places where we are campaigning, every district, every town has blessed the BJP with their votes. ⚫ Where has the Prime Minister said one word against her? When did calling someone Didi become a cat call? Many journalists call me Didi because that is the way we talk to people. The Prime Minister has not used any foul language. ⚫ The people of Bengal have decided that it is time for Didi’s game to be over. The people want ‘TMC bhagao, BJP lao, Bangla bachao’. Neither will I congratulate Mamata Banerjee for her win in Bengal nor do I wish to say that I ‘respect’ the people’s verdict, because I sincerely think that people of Bengal made a Historic mistake by not giving BJP a chance & by electing this Corrupt, Incapable, Dishonest Government & a Cruel Lady back to power!! Yes, as a Law-Abiding citizen, I shall ‘obey’ the decision taken by the people in a democratic country.. That’s it !! Nothing more — Nothing less!! -Babul Supriyo on Facebook on Sunday evening||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP shocked by defeat of Modi-Shah||The resounding defeat of the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah brand of politics in Bengal has come as a shock to the BJP amid signs of discontent within some party lobbies. Although most BJP leaders chose silence, a few old-timers privately blamed the Modi-Shah duo and seemed to betray a sense of relief, interpreting the verdict as a blow to the arrogance at the top. “The BJP has performed very well in Bengal. It’s Modi-Shah’s politics that has been defeated,” a party veteran told The Telegraph. Several veterans warned of similar poll results in the future if the party persisted with its current brand of politics. Led by Prime Minister Modi and home minister Shah, BJP campaigners had unashamedly spoken the language of polarisation. Many had deemed elements of the Prime Minister’s taunting of Mamata Banerjee as socially inappropriate. Some questioned the BJP’s present policy of using the “Modi-Shah model” in every state. “Why is Modi the mascot in all state elections and Shah the chief strategist?” an old-timer asked. Modi, accused of focusing on the Bengal polls at the cost of Covid preparations, appeared so deeply occupied on Sunday with meetings to ramp up oxygen supplies that he seemed to find no time to comment on the election results till evening. When he did break his silence, he congratulated Mamata but chose to put a spin on the drubbing in Bengal, portraying it as marking the BJP’s rise from a “negligible presence” in Bengal. While the BJP tally has jumped from its 2016 score of 3 seats, it has fallen far below the 121 Assembly segments it had led from in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Bengal. Before Sunday’s results, Modi and other BJP campaigners had claimed their party would win more than 200 of the state’s 294 seats. “Congratulations to Mamata Didi for @AITCofficial’s win in West Bengal. The Centre will continue to extend all possible support to the West Bengal government...,” Modi tweeted. “I would like to thank my sisters and brothers from West Bengal who have blessed our party. From a negligible presence earlier, the BJP’s presence has significantly increased.” After Modi, Shah too broke his silence and posted tweets in Hindi and Bengali accepting the verdict. He didn’t congratulate Mamata, restricting himself to celebrating the BJP’s emergence as a “strong Opposition”. Party veteran and defence minister Rajnath Singh was among the first to congratulate Mamata and convey his “best wishes”, prompting some to sniff a hint of defiance. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted her congratulations to “didi” a while later. BJP leaders normally wait for Modi to speak first on such occasions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Candidates who defected to BJP prove to be giant-slayers||At a time turncoats lost in most parts of Bengal, north Bengal saw a sharp contrast with many candidates who defected to the BJP proving to be giant-slayers. Veteran CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya, a six-time MLA and a former state minister from Siliguri, faced defeat from Shankar Ghosh, his former protégé who joined the BJP a few weeks before the polls. Trinamul leaders who were ministers in Mamata Banerjee’s outgoing cabinet, Gautam Deb and Rabindranath Ghosh, also lost from Dabgram-Fulbari and Natabari, respectively. Deb lost to Shikha Chatterjee, a BJP leader who deserted Trinamul in 2018. Ghosh conceded defeat to his former party colleague Mihir Goswami who joined the BJP last year. Krishna Kalyani, the BJP candidate of Raiganj who left Trinamul a few weeks back, defeated Mohit Sengupta, the most prominent Congress leader of North Dinajpur. Over 140 turncoats, including Mamata’s erstwhile cabinet ministers Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee, were fielded by the BJP across the state this time, sources said. “In south Bengal, most turncoats lost. In north Bengal, it was interesting that many turncoats defeated heavyweights. But each prominent face lost for a different reason,” said a political observer. In Siliguri and Raiganj, he said, anti-incumbency worked against Bhattacharya and Sengupta. “Deb because many voters swung to the BJP over the lack of Trinamul’s micro-level political activities. He tried his best to reach out to people during his campaign, but it did not work. Ghosh lost over organisational weakness and party feuds,” admitted a Trinamul insider. Chatterjee, who defeated Deb, said people were angry with Trinamul over land irregularities in Dabgram-Fulbari. Ghosh, who defeated Bhattacharya, said: “During my campaign, I could clearly perceive that people of Siliguri wanted a change.” Bhattacharya, who finished third after Trinamul’s Omprakash Mishra, said he was quitting elections. “We have to accept the verdict. I have decided to stay away from electoral politics and work as a common party worker,” he said. Sengupta, widely considered the last man standing in the Congress in North Dinajpur, appeared baffled: “Voters got polarised but truly I am yet to know why I came third.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Eleven districts pave way for Trinamul landslide||Fifteen of Bengal’s 23 districts handsomely rewarded Mamata Banerjee, helping her trounce the BJP. But what appeared to have ensured the decimation of the saffron challenge were the 165 seats which Trinamul is poised to win out of a possible 190 in 11 of the south Bengal districts. The Trinamul Congress chief, whose third consecutive term as the chief minister was ensured on Sunday irrespective of the Nandigram outcome, rode what appeared to be a wave in her favour and against the alleged bohiragawto (outsider) in North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah, East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Jhargram, East Burdwan, Birbhum, Murshidabad and Calcutta. Between them, these 11 districts had 190 seats (only 20 out of 22 in Murshidabad went to polls, owing to candidates in two seats succumbing to Covid-19) in the fray, in which Trinamul appeared all set to emerge with a strike rate of nearly 87 per cent. “These 11 districts gave us around 77 per cent of the 215-odd seats we are likely to win at the end. Not even in our most optimistic estimates had we factored in such performances from many of these districts…. It was clearly a firm stand people took in favour of Didi (Mamata), to keep the BJP out,” said a senior Trinamul leader, unwilling to go on record as Mamata herself had spoken. In the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, Trinamul had a lead in 142 of those seats. In the key 75-seat cluster of Calcutta, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas, Trinamul was poised to win 67. Across the river, in the Hooghly-Howrah cluster, Trinamul was leading in 30 of 34 seats. Similarly, in the erstwhile undivided Midnapore’s 34-seat cluster of Jhargram, East Midnapore and West Midnapore, Mamata’s party appeared set to win 28. In East Burdwan, Trinamul was leading in 13 of 16 seats. Out of Birbhum’s 11, Trinamul was leading in 10. Finally, in the crucial district of Murshidabad, out of the 20 seats that went to the polls, Trinamul was set to win 17. “What is extremely important to remember is the unlikelihood of some of these victories, given the situation, traditionally, or in 2019. There have been recoveries in North 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Calcutta, the undivided Midnapore cluster, and Birbhum…. Murshidabad was never our area of strength, but the people there blessed us with immense faith this time,” said the Trinamul leader. Sources in the BJP, which went into introspection mode since the afternoon, said a number of factors were being zeroed in on for the party’s “unexpected” drubbing. “Everything we threw at her turned out to be ineffective. The people badly misunderstood us,” admitted a state BJP functionary. “The bohiragawto label did go against us. Polarisation did not work as most of Bengal’s Hindus clearly took a stand against us,” he added. “Candidate selection was not up to the mark. The electorate punished turncoats…. Even some of the districts where we had major expectations from — such as Nadia, Hooghly, the two Midnapores, Jhargram, North 24-Parganas, Calcutta — badly disappointed us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata prods Centre to provide free vaccination for all||Mamata Banerjee, in her first news conference after sweeping the elections on Sunday, demanded free Covid vaccination for all by the Centre. “We will give free vaccination to all people in the state and I demand free vaccination for 140 crore people in the country. I will start a non-violent movement from the Gandhi statue on the Maidan (in Calcutta) very soon,” Mamata said. “They have the Reserve Bank (of India) with them… The cost of vaccinating everyone in the country will be Rs 30,000 crore. Why won’t they do it?” she asked. Mamata made it clear that battling the Covid pandemic would be her top priority after taking charge of the government. She urged Trinamul Congress supporters  not to bring out any victory processions now. “We will not have any victory rallies now… We will have a big one at the Brigade (Grounds) after the Covid situation normalises,” she said. The focus on Covid, sources close to her said, came from her realisation that the Narendra Modi government’s mishandling of the pandemic had contributed to her landslide win. Of 114 seats that went to polls in the last three phases, which were held when the Covid situation in the country had turned grim, Trinamul won around 95. “People blessed us with their two hands and I promise that we will tackle the Covid situation and things will be under control,” Mamata said. The chief minister said her target was to win 221 seats. She said several political leaders from across the country had congratulated her on the results and she would get back to each one of them personally. Although she lost in Nandigram, the Trinamul chief made it clear that she would be taking oath as chief minister of Bengal. “We will have a small swearing-in ceremony in view of the Covid situation… I cannot comment if there will be any lockdown or not right at this moment as I have to sit with my officers who have already taken some decision,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: ‘Didi an agent of national change’, says Cong veteran||The Bengal Assembly elections have marked Mamata Banerjee out as “an agent of national political change”, Congress veteran and former Union law minister Ashwani Kumar said on Sunday. “The poll result has implications — not only for Bengal, but also for the Lok Sabha elections in 2024. Through this victory, Didi has been catapulted on the national scene as a dominant agent of political change, and is destined to play a major role in the unity of Opposition forces in the country. This is the prime need of the hour,” Kumar said. “The election results have reinforced the relevance of regional parties and the absolute necessity of co-operative federalism. At the same time, it is about Didi’s grit and determination that accounts for an indefatigable fight against the full might of the BJP. Though the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP pulled out all the stops to win Bengal, the outcome has quite evidently demonstrated that the people of Bengal have reposed their trust in Mamata,” he added. “Democratic politics is all about messaging from the heart, and Didi appealed to the emotion and hearts of the Bengali people. The people, in turn, reciprocated positively,” Kumar said. On the raging issue of personal abuse during poll campaigns, Kumar said the outcome had demonstrated its futility. “The election result has demonstrated the limitations of personalised abuse in campaigns. The electoral discourse from any political platform must not cross the basic norms of civility.” Kumar said: “We have to distinguish between those who provoke and those who are forced to react to the provocation. The BJP’s attempts to ridicule and malign Didi simply boomeranged on the BJP.” Asked about the BJP’s huge jump from three seats in the 2016 Assembly elections, Kumar said: “People demonstrate their vote preferences for different reasons. A ruling party at the Centre has its natural appeal and the Prime Minister’s larger than life presence in Bengal could have influenced the voters, along with an attraction for change. But apparently, all these factors were not good enough to dislodge Didi’s image as a fighter and daughter of Bengal.” Kumar said people appeared to have taken this election as a means to transcend the state’s borders. “Voters knew that the result would have a ramification for national politics. Therefore, there was a natural tendency to prevent the division of secular and liberal votes. Since the Congress was not a dominant party in the electoral fray, people chose to vote for Didi to prevent a split in the anti-BJP vote,” he said. “The chastening election results are an SOS for the Congress ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The need for demonstrable and purposive action to address the organisational and communication gaps was never more evident,” the senior Congress leader said. For the Congress to retain its resilience and relevance in national politics, it must secure internal cohesiveness and establish an emotional connect with the people, Kumar felt. “It needs to work on its messaging and accurately assess the barometer of popular sensitivities,” he said, adding that “in the context of Bengal, the party needs to introspect whether given the extraordinary circumstances, it was prudent to join the anti-TMC alliance”. According to Kumar, Sonia Gandhi’s unifying leadership of the party is necessary at this juncture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Trinamul betters north tally vis-a-vis 2019 Lok Sabha result||Mamata Banerjee indeed played a “speed breaker Didi” and could halt the saffron camp’s chariot in north Bengal to a considerable extent, if not totally, and brought down the BJP’s tally vis-à-vis the party’s performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and simultaneously made a clean sweep in three minority-dominated districts. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had at a public rally here ahead of the last general election used the term “speed breaker” for Mamata to drive home the point that the Bengal chief minister was impeding the state’s development. “This adjective seems to be apt now….. Didi could stop the chariot of Narendra Modi and his coterie, even in north Bengal. We could erode its support base in three districts and increase the number of seats as compared to our leads in the Assembly segments in 2019,” said Hemanta Sharma, a district coordinator of Trinamul in Malda. In 2016, Trinamul had won 23 of 54 seats in north Bengal. Sixteen seats went to the Congress and the Left got nine MLAs. The BJP won from two segments, while the remaining four seats went to others. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP won seven of eight Parliament seats in north Bengal and the party managed lead in 37 Assembly segments, followed by Trinamul in 13 and the Congress in four. In the Assembly poll results announced on Sunday, the BJP retained its support in Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling districts. “Trinamul, however, secured a majority in South Dinajpur, North Dinajpur and Malda, where it could not perform well in the 2016 Assembly polls and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. This is where Trinamul managed to thwart the BJP from waving saffron flags all across north Bengal,” said a political observer. This time, the BJP won 30 seats, which include only eight of 27 seats in three districts where Trinamul made inroads. Altogether, Trinamul could win 23 seats, which is the same number of its 2016 results and almost double as compared to the number of Assembly segments where it could secure a lead in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Trinamul’s ally won one hill seat this time. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda and Anirban Choudhury in Alipurduar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: How Trinamul tackled the Adhikaris ||The coming together of warring factions of the Trinamul Congress over the betrayal of Suvendu Adhikari and Mamata Banerjee’s decision to contest from Nandigram helped the party win majority of the seats in East Midnapore and West Midnapore, considered to be the strongholds of the Adhikaris. Trinamul won 23 out of 31 Assembly segments in East and West Midnapores. The BJP could win just eight. This gave a blow to the BJP as the party had expected to win a majority of the 35 seats in East and West Midnapores after Suvendu Adhikari had joined the saffron camp. Even Suvendu had claimed he and state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, who hails from West Midnapore, would uproot Trinamul from undivided Midnapore. “But Trinamul started the work to stitch together the party after Suvendu left. Senior leaders like Subrata Bakshi repeatedly visited the districts to ensure Trinamul workers didn’t get demoralised. As senior leaders held a series of meetings with the grassroots level workers, the party got united,” said a Trinamul insider. Moreover, once Suvendu left Trinamul, many active workers who remained inactive because of his highhandedness, actively joined the party’s activities. This helped Trinamul both in East Midnapore and West Midnapore, said sources. Besides, Trinamul had started to ignite people’s grievance against Suvendu very cleverly. “People had grievances against Suvendu as his close aides carried out anti-people activities in the area for years. The surge of the BJP in East and West Midnapores in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls was because of people’s anger against Suvendu. Trinamul tried to use the situation and was successful in drawing back hundreds of supporters who had worked for the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls,” said a party insider. Mamata’s decision to |contest the polls from Nandigram also helped Trinamul strengthen its support base in East and West Midnapore. “After Suvendu left the party, there was a void of |leadership. But once the chief minister announced fight from Nandigram, the party successfully got united |and fought against Suvendu hard. It now appears it was a battle against Suvendu rather than the BJP,” said a party source. The BJP, however, refused to accept that Suvendu was the prime reason behind the party’s poor show in East and West Midnapores. “Party’s result is not up to the mark across the state. So, it is not right to single out East and West Midnapores. Our party leadership would assess the reasons behind the party’s poor show and then only anything can be said on the issue,” said Nabarun Nayek, a BJP leader in East Midnapore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Citizen law acts as catalyst among minorities||The 2021 Assembly elections stand testimony to the Trinamul Congress’s emergence as the most dominant force in the minority-dominated belts of north and central Bengal, areas on which Mamata Banerjee had been steadfastly focusing for years. Trinamul won 36 of the 47 seats in the minority-dominated districts of Murshidabad, Malda, North and South Dinajpur. The minority population in these four districts ranges from 35 per cent to 70 per cent, with the concentration as high as 85 per cent in some constituencies. “These 36 seats largely helped our party to cross the 200 mark. Our consistent efforts to garner the support of the minorities living in these districts have finally borne fruit. People have realised that it is only Mamata Banerjee who can stop the BJP from carrying out exercises such as the NRC and the CAA in the state,” said Dulal Sarkar, a Malda Trinamul leader. Ahead of the elections, there had been indications that a substantial portion of the minority population, which had been voting for the Congress and the Left for decades, would support Trinamul this time. Muslims had overwhelmingly said that they felt threatened by the BJP and would vote for Trinamul although many of them had sided with the Left or the Congress for years. “This has been proved to be correct. The anti-CAA, anti-NRC narrative that Mamata Banerjee had spun has done wonders in these areas. People have shunned both the Congress and the Left and have sided with her. On the other hand, the BJP, which had played the polarisation card in these districts, won 11 seats where the concentration of minorities is comparatively less,” said Najibur Rehman, a political analyst based in Malda. He pointed out that Mamata’s message had worked to such an extent that even seats like Sujapur (Malda) where the Congress had been winning since 1967 had landed in Trinamul’s kitty. A section of government officials pointed out that the development initiatives of the state government for the minorities had also helped the chief minister earn the trust of the community. “The state government gave minority scholarships to nearly 1 crore students over the past 10 years. Securing the burial grounds by erecting walls also helped the ruling party gain the confidence of the minorities,” an official said. Winning seats in Murshidabad and Malda holds significance for Trinamul as the party could not get a foothold in these two minority-dominated districts despite securing the support of the community in North and South Dinajpur, North and South 24-Parganas, Hooghly and Nadia. “Now, it is clear that the minorities of Murshidabad and Malda have started realising that the chief minister is serious about their development. As the BJP has emerged as the major Opposition party in the state, minorities need to consolidate behind the chief minister over the next few years,” a Trinamul leader said. Among the parties in the Opposition, it is the Congress that has suffered the maximum damage. In 2016, the party had won 11 of the 19 seats in Malda and North Dinajpur. This time, the party has got obliterated even in Murshidabad, the home district of state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. In Murshidabad, Trinamul won 18 of the 20 seats that voted. The remaining two seats — Behrampore and Murshidabad — have gone to the BJP. The Congress had fielded candidates in 16 seats in Murshidabad and the Left in four. “Out of these 16 seats, the Congress has finished second only in four. In the remaining 12 seats, it is the BJP that has come second. This clearly indicates that there had been polarisation…. The minority votes went to Trinamul while the Hindu votes went to the BJP. It also indicates that the Congress’s support base has shifted to Trinamul,” said a senior Congress leader in Murshidabad. Adhir, who released a video message in the evening, accepted defeat. “But both Trinamul and the BJP played the polarisation card. It is a bad trend in Bengal’s politics,” he said. Similar was the scene in the neighbouring districts of Malda and North Dinajpur where the Congress’s candidates like Isha Khan Choudhury and Mohit Sengupta had to bite the dust. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: Matuas buck trend, stay with BJP||The Matua community, which voted for the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, continued to back the saffron party in the Assembly elections. The Matuas, with a strong presence in some 15 constituencies in Nadia and North 24-Parganas and in some segments in north Bengal, have largely voted for the BJP, reposing their faith in the party that promised to implement the citizenship matrix. However, the backward classes in non-Matua belts across the state largely voted for Trinamul in contrast to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The citizenship issue had become a key poll plank in this Assembly election, particularly in North 24-Parganas, Nadia, East Burdwan and in some north Bengal districts, owing to the sizeable presence of the Matuas — Hindus refugees from Bangladesh — many of whom live in fear that they will be labelled Bangladeshis. The BJP, which claimed to guarantee them citizenship, despite Mamata Banerjee and other Trinamul leaders saying the community had absolutely nothing to worry, won 14 seats in the Matua belt of Nadia and North 24-Parganas, apart from parts of north Bengal. Trinamul drew a blank in the Matua belt, but won 36 SC seats of the 68 and 11 ST seats of the 14 across the state. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, apart from the Matuas, the BJP had won the hearts of the backward classes in Bankura, Birbhum, West Midnapore, East Midnapore, Purulia and parts of north Bengal too. Then, the BJP had leads in 35 SC and 14 ST Assembly segments, respectively. Trinamul led in 33 SC and three ST Assembly segments, respectively. In the 2021 Assembly polls, Trinamul wanted to regain the support base among backward classes. The party introduced a number of welfare schemes, though Matuas again preferred the BJP. Matuas form around 40 per cent of the electorate in the community’s strongholds in Ranaghat (SC) and Bongaon (SC) Lok Sabha constituencies, and also play a decisive role in around 30 constituencies across the state. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the community helped the BJP win both Ranaghat (SC) and Bongaon (SC) seats by big margins. On Sunday, the BJP did an encore of the Lok Sabha poll as the party bagged all the seats in the Matua-dominated belt. In Nadia, the BJP won Krishnaganj (SC), Ranaghat North East (SC), Ranaghat South (SC), Ranaghat North West, Chakdah, Kalyani (SC), Haringhata (SC). In North 24-Parganas, where the community’s holy abode is located, the saffron party won Bongaon South (SC), Bongaon North (SC), Gaighata (SC), Bagdah (SC). All India Matua Mahasangha chief and BJP MP Santanu Thakur said: “I am happy that the Matuas have reposed their faith in the BJP. There were provocations and attempts to mislead the community, but it’s good they have chosen the right party for their benefit.” Matua leader and Trinamul candidate Narottam Biswas, who lost to BJP’s Subrata Thakur in Gaighata, called the community’s voting trend “peculiar”. “It seems Matuas made a suicidal choice and voted for the BJP while enjoying welfare schemes of Mamata Banerjee,” Biswas said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Postal ballots suggest government staff back Trinamul||Trinamul secured nearly 47 per cent of the votes cast through postal ballots, suggesting state government employees backed Bengal’s ruling party despite a big disparity in dearness allowance between central and state government employees. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP got over 48 per cent votes through postal ballots. Postal ballots were issued to state government employees engaged in poll duty and people aged above 80. As most aged voters voted in booths, most postal ballots came from state government employees, said a poll panel source. This year, nearly 6 lakh government employees received postal ballots. Some government employees said the state had stood by them during the pandemic. The state government announced 3 per cent DA from January 2021, even as the Centre withheld the DA of central government employees since last year. Though central government employees get 17 per cent DA, the state government’s gesture made a difference. “We want DA on a par with central government employees...But the way the state government stood by us during the pandemic, we did not hesitate to support Mamata Banerjee,” said an employee of land and land reforms department. Mamata had also announced an insurance scheme of Rs 10 lakh for state government employees who fought the pandemic from the front. Lakhs of health workers, municipal workers and policemen gained from the scheme. Some government employees also pointed out that they did not have confidence in the BJP’s promise to implement the Seventh Pay Commission if it came to power. “The employees were not convinced with the announcement. Perhaps they did not trust the saffron party after the Centre withheld the DA for central government employees during the pandemic. Besides, the way the Centre has been divesting public sector units, state government employees here were really frightened,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: First House without a single Left MLA||The Left Front, which had ruled Bengal for 34 years, will have no representative in the Assembly for the first time in the history of the state’s post-Independent electoral politics. “The performance of the Sanjukta Morcha and the Left has been very disappointing. People’s urge to defeat the BJP led to a sharp polarisation squeezing out the Sanjukta Morcha. A self-critical review of these results will be undertaken by the party to draw needed lessons,” a statement by the CPM politburo read. The statement also said the “people of Bengal have very clearly rejected the ideology of communal politics” referring to the BJP’s defeat in the state. The CPM had contested in 136 of the total 294 seats in Bengal. Other Left parties like the RSP, CPI and the Forward Bloc fought in 11, 10 and 22 seats, respectively. Most of these candidates forfeited their deposits. The Front failed to win a single seat in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. Their overall vote share was also reduced to close to 7 per cent then. According to the trends of the Assembly poll results made available by the Election Commission of India on Sunday, the Left’s vote share is likely to suffer a further decline. The Left Front had won 32 seats in the 2016 Assembly polls. In a statement issued on behalf of the Left-Congress-ISF alliance, CPM leader Biman Bose said: “The Sanyukta Morcha has faced disastrous results in the polls. The Trinamul Congress has won and the BJP has been defeated. It can be primarily said the reason behind this outcome is people’s desperation to defeat the BJP. The Morcha will discuss within itself, and the member parties will discuss amongst themselves, the reason behind this defeat and learn from it...The responsibility of anti-Trinamul forces has increased... I also urge the workers of the Morcha to stand by the people in these difficult times...” Multiple leaders in the Left Front told The Telegraph that they had misjudged the mood of the electorate. They had expected that the votes which they had lost to the BJP in 2019 would return to their kitty. Instead, in their desperation to stop the BJP, these votes went to Trinamul. These leaders felt the Front had been able to successfully communicate the ills of the BJP to Bengal’s electorate and hence woo the voters away from the saffron camp. However, it has failed to earn their trust as the BJP’s strongest opponent. Many CPM workers complained about general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s absence from the poll scene in Bengal. Manik Sarkar, former Tripura chief minister, was one of the star campaigners of the CPM. According to sources, his schedule was curtailed after two meetings because his address was focused more on stopping the BJP. “After Manikbabu’s first two addresses, the party felt he wasn’t quite toeing its line. Mamata Banerjee herself quoted Manikbabu at one of her rallies to refer to Tripura’s situation under the BJP regime. It was then decided that he shouldn’t be brought anymore,” a CPM leader said. Some CPM leaders believe two key things worked in favour of Trinamul — Mamata’s promise to home deliver free rations and her steps to empower women. The Bengal government has provided free rations to about five crore people in the past one year amidst the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown. While the chief minister has promised to deliver free rations at the doorstep of her citizens, she has also successfully been able to make them believe if the BJP comes to power, this scheme will be abandoned, Left leaders feel. The women electorate has always connected with Mamata and this time, she has given them a sense of authority by issuing the Swasthya Sathi health cards in their names. Trinamul’s poll manifesto also promised universal basic income of Rs 500 for general category households and Rs 1,000 for SC/STs. This money would also go to the women of the family. “These are two schemes that the marginalised people have connected with. Traditional Left voters have also been wooed by these schemes,” a source in the CPM state committee said. Junior constituents of the Left Front believe the alliance with the Congress and the ISF was not accepted by traditional Left voters. “I would rather say the Abbas Siddique impact that people were talking about didn’t work. The only seat the Morcha is on the verge of winning belongs to the ISF,” a Forward Bloc leader said. The infusion of young faces into the candidate list by the Left parties and flashy campaigns had generated much hope among party supporters but the final outcome showed it did not help the Front win the confidence of the people. Dipankar Bhattacharya, the general secretary of another Left party CPIML-Liberation, was one of the first to advocate the resistance against the BJP. He had said the Left Front in Bengal must realise the primary task was to stop the BJP and not Trinamul. “The Left in Bengal must rebuild and restart. They need to understand that the results are actually a vindication of the Left legacy of Bengal. People have strongly rejected communal politics and chosen the strongest party,” Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||North East||India archer Jayanta Talukdar admitted to ICU after testing positive for Covid-19||Former Olympian and World Cup gold medallist Jayanta Talukdar was being treated in an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for low oxygen count a week after he was diagnosed with Covid-19, his father Ranjan Talukdar said. “His oxygen level had started plummeting to 92-mark so was shifted to ICU yesterday (on Sunday). He is doing fine with an oxygen cylinder but the level drops the moment it's removed,” Talukdar senior told PTI. He was hospitalized at the Kalapahar Covid Care Hospital on May 27, his father added. The 35-year-old product of Tata Archery Academy had returned to his hometown about a month ago after he failed to make the cut for the Olympic-bound India team and possibly contracted the virus from his doctor wife. “His wife first got the infection but she has now recovered. Possibly from her Jayanta got the infection,” the senior Talukdar said. He further said they live in a faraway place and they were doing fine after taking the first jab of the Covid-19 vaccine. The 2012 London Olympian had achieved his career-best world number two ranking after winning back-to-back individual World Cup gold medals in stage one (Porec) and stage two (Croatia) of the World Cup in 2006. He also won an individual bronze medal at the New Delhi Commonwealth Games 2010 and was a key member of the Indian side with Rahul Banerjee, Tarundeep Rai, and Mangal Singh Champia who had become world number one in the build-up to the London Olympics. An Arjuna Awardee, Talukdar has also won two Asian Games team bronze medals in 2006 Doha and 2010 Guangzhou.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
03-05-2021||North East||Assam Assembly polls 2021: Saffron camp retains power with cuts||The BJP-led alliance is set to win a second straight term in Assam but with a reduced margin — its shrill polarisation pitch, populist policies and development initiatives trumping the Congress-led Mahajot’s welfare guarantees. According to the Election Commission, till 11.30pm the ruling alliance of the BJP (59) AGP (9) and the UPPL (6) had won or were ahead in 74 seats, while the Congress-led 10-party Mahajot was ahead in 50. The Congress was ahead in 29 seats. Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi, a popular leader who led the anti-citizenship act protests in Assam and is now in jail, was set to win the Sivasagar seat. The majority mark is 64 in the House of 126. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal thanked the people for reposing faith in the ruling alliance, terming the victory as the people’s victory and promising to work more enthusiastically for all sections of the society and expediting the overall development of the state. Political analyst V. Tripathi attributed the ruling alliance’s victory to its development initiatives, religious polarisation and populist policies and the Congress’s lack of leadership. The polarisation pitch intensified when the Congress and the AIUDF joined hands, he said. Ruling alliance leaders, especially senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, were relentless in their attack on the Congress-AIUDF, saying a vote to the Mahajot would be a vote to AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal, accused by the BJP and its allies of promoting the interests of infiltrators. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the BJP-AGP-BPF alliance had won 86 seats to unseat the then ruling Congress, which could manage only 26 seats. The AIUDF, contesting separately, had won 13 seats. The Congress, not in the picture till February second week, did well to put up a fight. Congress insiders said an intra-party power tussle till January, the absence of an acceptable and inspiring state leader to lead the campaign and the alliance with the AIUDF had proved costly. Among the biggest losers were Assam Congress president Ripun Bora and Assam Jatiya Parishad chief Lurinjyoti Gogoi. Bora later quit as state Congress chief. “The leadership had been warned against the alliance and had been asked to name a new state leader. The alliance helped the AIUDF more than us. But we must also praise the role of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and AICC general secretary in-charge of Assam Jitendra Singh of uniting the warring leaders and launching a well-oiled campaign, but it was too little too late,” a Congress leader said. Total seats        126 Majority             64 Leads and wins BJP+                74 Congress+       50 Others               2||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
03-05-2021||Opinion|| In other news: Assembly polls 2021||The psephologists must be relieved. The results of the assembly elections in four states and one Union territory seem to be consistent with the predictions made by the pundits in the exit polls. But this is not to suggest that every outcome has been unremarkable. In Kerala, the Left Democratic Front has stormed back to power, defying the decades-old ritual of governments formed by the Left and the Congress sharing alternate terms. The Bharatiya Janata Party has also become the first non-Congress party to win power in Assam for two consecutive terms. Bengal — the jewel in the crown of the electoral contests in the public eye — has also witnessed an unprecedented sweep by Mamata Banerjee and her Trinamul Congress. Tiny Puducherry has had a surprise in store too, with the National Democratic Alliance making a mark. Only Tamil Nadu, it can be argued, has yielded to the predictable. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has knocked its traditional rival, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, off its perch. The DMK’s resounding victory had been expected. How far would India’s national political map be affected by these mandates? It is too early to draw conclusions in this respect. But there are undoubtedly some broad pointers. First, in spite of the acute suffering that India is undergoing at the moment, Narendra Modi and the BJP remain the nation’s primary political force. The BJP has regained Assam and left its imprint in Puducherry. The setback in Bengal notwithstanding, it is now the principal Opposition party in the state. The foremost loser has been the Congress, once again; it has ceded Kerala, failed to regain Assam, and performed woefully in Bengal. The Congress is now the rump of a party that it was once, and can hope to oppose the BJP only in solidarity with regional parties. This is where Ms Banerjee’s call for an alliance of Opposition parties at a national level against the BJP for the parliamentary elections in 2024 assumes significance. The other notable feature about these state elections has been the bipolar nature of the contests. In the four states at least, the lion’s share of the votes has been cornered by the two strongest contenders. The shrinking of alternative political choices cannot be a healthy sign for democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
03-05-2021||Opinion||Dignified end: Covid deaths in India||Sir — As the deadly second wave of the coronavirus that is currently devastating the country leaves a long trail of dead bodies, leading to depleting space and wood for burials or lighting pyres, traditional modes of laying the departed to rest need to be reconsidered. Last rites are not just sacred, they are also deeply sentimental issues for people of all religions and bring solace and closure to grieving families. Religious reasons are why few opt for the electric and gas crematoria, although these have been around for many years now in most big towns and cities of the country. Even at the onset of the pandemic, when experts recommended that bodies of the Covid-infected be cremated in electric or gas pyres, many picked traditional pyres. But given the desperate situation in the country now electric crematoria are working round the clock as people are flocking to this medically safe, clean, quick and eco-friendly mode of bidding adieu to their kin. Yet, the sudden increase in the number of people succumbing to the virus has led to an acute shortage of wood and space, and a rise in black-marketing. While some have been amenable to adopting the eco-friendly, electric or gas crematoria, the pandemic calls for a collective rethink. Leaders of all faiths must find ways of consecrating this practice. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — While news about human kindness amidst the pandemic abounds, there are also stories about grotesque travesties of humanity, with a black market not just for life-saving drugs and equipment but also things needed to put the dead to rest. People are having to pay through their noses and give up their life’s savings, after having lost their loved ones. This expense — coming probably after people have shelled out quite a bit of money for treatment — is an unbelievable strain on them. The governments in the states and at the Centre must consider immediate steps to take over the provision of material and space for cremation completely. That is the only way to put an end to profiteering since there seems to be nothing that can conquer human greed. People must also be convinced to use electric crematoria in order to avoid long waits and high costs. This is also safer for Covid-positive patients. Sumi Rajan,Mumbai Sir — It is shocking that people have no qualms about profiteering from the dead. While most people are being requested to opt for electric crematoria, this is easier said than done. Electric crematoria are breaking down all over the country or melting from being overworked. The number of such crematoria needs to be increased at once. Ria Roy,Calcutta  Every breath counts n Sir — At a time when the country is gasping for oxygen and people are dying from a lack of medical oxygen, I remember the hype in the national capital region and other parts of the country in the recent past surrounding oxygen bars. The rich and the idle went to these places for recreational use of oxygen. Now that the government has banned the use of medical oxygen for purposes other than medical, it must go a step further and regulate the use of medical products for recreational purposes in the future too. The pandemic has taught us how precious our medical resources are and these should not be treated lightly.Aditya Sharma,Noida Dated concept Sir — Six decades after upholding the constitutional validity of Section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code which penalizes sedition, the Supreme Court is going to revisit this British-era provision. This is heartening. ‘Sedition’ — defined as “conduct or speech inciting people to rebel against the authority of a state or monarch” — has no place in a democracy. In a system where the government is voted to power by the people, citizens have every right to campaign against the party at the helm of things if they are displeased with its actions. This is the very premise of a democracy. How, then, can ‘sedition’ be penalized? Moreover, the law needs to have a finger on the pulse of the times. Governments in India — especially the present dispensation — routinely use the law of sedition to clamp down on dissent and dissenters. In the last couple of years, Indian prisons have been filled with students, educators, social workers and others who dared to speak up against the wrongdoings of the government. Citizens, irrespective of age, gender, or health, are languishing in prisons without bail because they decided to stand up and demand accountability from the government that they elected to power. B.D. Mukherjee,Calcutta Sir — Over the decades, the State has almost unfailingly been invoking offences of ‘sedition’ or ‘corruption’ when seeking to discipline an adversary. That was the position in the past and it remains unchanged in the present. It is to the credit of the judiciary that most such foisted cases end in acquittals. But this does not change the actions of those wielding the levers of power. In India, the process is the punishment. The moment someone becomes an accused in a criminal proceeding, he or she gets entangled in the dilatory criminal judicial system of the country. Efforts have to be made by such a person to avoid police custody and custodial interrogation, get anticipatory bail to avoid arrest, get regular bail from the court, appear at all the hearings, and the list goes on. It is thus heartening that the Supreme Court is going to reconsider the constitutional validity of the provision of sedition. It is time this antiquated law was done away with. Chirantan Ghosh,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
03-05-2021||Opinion||Hatred loses: Bengal rejects communal politics||West Bengal does not accept the politics of communal hatred. That is the single, focused message from an indisputable majority of its voters. The scale of the Trinamul Congress’s victory was not predicted by any exit poll, which means that the intensity of Bengal’s rejection of the Bharatiya Janata Party was never gauged. The deafening propaganda of the BJP and the spectacle of its biggest leaders and star campaigners, including the prime minister, the Union home minister and the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, holding repeated electoral rallies in different parts of the state may have blinded observers to indicators of the people’s attitude. The BJP has certainly increased its number of assembly seats from three, although it has not crossed 100. The other rival of the TMC, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), teamed up with the Congress and the Indian Secular Front, has given up space to the BJP, which has obviously drawn to itself the anti-incumbency vote together with the support it has built in the state. The TMC victory is all the more remarkable because the BJP had turned all its big guns on it, welcoming into its fold its leaders from Mukul Roy to Suvendu Adhikari, and ensuring through the Election Commission an eight-phase election in the middle of a pandemic. It did not even condemn the alleged gunning down of four voters by the Central Industrial Security Forces at Sitalkuchi. Against its muscle, money and use of State machinery, the TMC fought with Mamata Banerjee in the lead, campaigning from a wheelchair till the end. The battle in Nandigram, where she had pitted herself against her former aide without standing from a ‘safe’ seat, seemed symbolic of the drama that the elections had become in West Bengal. Together with the politics of hatred, the state has rejected cultural and social coercion and risen up against insults heaped on a woman leader by powerful male politicians. Now the BJP must decide if the seats it has gained are an adequate return for the attentions showered on it by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. Will they be accountable for the devastating pandemic to which the long-drawn out elections contributed? Meanwhile, West Bengal has shown the country that it is possible to build ramparts against hatred.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
03-05-2021||Opinion||Workers' rights: The tide is finally turning in China||In a country where workers’ rights are non-existent except in some multinational corporations, a court has recognized an employee’s right to take leave to mourn his father. With the approval of his supervisor, the employee went to his hometown to visit his ailing father. However, on his way back to work, came news that his father had died. He went back immediately for the last rites. All this took eight days. It so turned out that the Shanghai-based company’s head had not signed the employee’s leave application, and the worker was fired for “skipping work without a valid reason”. He challenged his dismissal in a labour arbitration forum, and asked for compensation for the “illegal termination” of his contract. Ruling in his favour, the forum ordered a compensation of 75,269 yuan (it roughly amounts to Rs 8,62,000). The company went to court, but both the lower court and the appeals court upheld the ruling, saying it was “the employer’s duty to show compassion to their employees’ personal difficulties and misfortunes”. The firm’s chief executive officer was faulted for not signing the leave application on time. True values Netizens hailed the judgment for upholding both employee rights and Chinese values. One wrote: “Seeing a father off for the last time is part of the basic bond... and written into the bones of Chinese people for centuries. The refusal to grant leave not only challenges the law, but also public order and the customs of our society.” Another court struck down the dismissal of a computer engineer who defied company instructions to attend to clients’ calls during his Spring Festival holiday by leaving his laptop at home. The company, also Shanghai-based, also blamed him for taking 27 days’ leave at one go, turning up at an important meeting at noon instead of 9 am and consistently going for lunch at 11.30 am instead of 12.30 pm. The court ruled that employees had no obligation to work during a legal break, that the  27-day leave was okay, that he had a valid explanation for the delayed attendance at the meeting and that the early lunch did not warrant dismissal. The company was ordered to pay 1,94,000 yuan (Rs 10,74,000) as compensation. Netizens have also rallied around a cosmetologist dismissed for “not obeying management” when she refused to stay back for dance practice for the company’s annual party. The 36-year-old woman, whose supervisor reported her refusal to management on the company’s WeChat group, argued that advance notice and better planning were necessary for such orders. Not a slave In 2019, Jack Ma, the founder of the e-commerce giant, Alibaba, had praised China’s then emerging ‘996’ culture — working from 9 am to 9 pm, six days a week. While ordinary workers were anyway working ‘997’, ‘996’ had become a trend with employees in the information technology sector. Calling ‘996’ a “huge blessing”, Ma had asked: “If you don’t work 996 when young, when can you ever?” In a similar vein, a famous actress and businesswoman recently boasted on television that she routinely texted her employees till 3 am, expecting a reply by 7 am, because by then “four hours have passed!” She mocked an employee who had protested saying, “Boss! I’m still sleeping!’’ at 7 am. Deluged with criticism, she issued this ‘apology’: “I will correct my behaviour in the future.” In December, a 22-year-old e-commerce employee collapsed on her way home from work at 1.30 am, and died soon after. But as the above instances show, the tide seems to have turned. “I signed a contract to work at a company, not serve as a slave,” said one netizen. Mao would have approved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
03-05-2021||Opinion||Bengal’s daughter||Who dares wins. Beyond all the analysis and interpretation that will come to attend the quite astounding, and sobering, verdict of the people of Bengal, this is Mamata Banerjee’s finest hour. She has become today the consequence of who she has relentlessly been in the process of becoming since she had her skull split in a skirmish with the Left three decades ago: a fighter who won’t give up the fight. She had the most formidable and dubiously loaded war chest thrown at her, volley upon volley, dare upon bellowing dare; she took the blows with grit and with pugnacity and exhausted them. In the process of such mostly one-legged gallantry, she has scored a stellar breach in a raging myth of our politics — that Narendra Modi and Amit Shah form an invincibility we’d better reconcile to, that there is an inevitability to the hegemony of their ‘chakravarti’ project, that where they venture they will establish their suzerainty. Mamata has halted the ashwamedha in Bengal; she remains firmly in the saddle of her realm, battle-scarred and bleeding in Nandigram herself, but unshaken. It isn’t often a two-term incumbent is able to fight off such a robust charge on the fortress. The travesty remains it isn’t often the challenge is borne the way Mamata did in Bengal. Or, let it be said, the way freshman Tejashwi did in Bihar not so long ago. The way he hounded the combined might and resources of Modi-Shah and Nitish Kumar in Bihar, the way he nearly came to pip them, should have already proved to those ready to pay heed that the Modi-Shah mission plays — very often successfully — on the counterfeit currency of impregnability. This is not to remotely suggest at this stage that their term as big daddies of the field is anywhere near expiry; that would be infantile indulgence at the moment. They remain in active rampage; Narendra Modi, for all his garrulous fumbling and messing about, mindful and mindless, remains, in offence of good sense and to some stupefaction, the lead national act. What Mamata has demonstrated is that with enough intent and purpose, with cuffing the right buttons, the rampaging can be called out and shown its place. This is a moment not unlike the Mahagathbandhan’s 2015 victory in Bihar, later nullified by Nitish Kumar’s notorious pole-vault into Modi’s lap. The thwarting of the BJP’s power-grab on Bihar was widely seen at the time as a swivel event that would enable a credible rallying of the Opposition. The only swivel that resulted was Nitish Kumar’s treachery on the mandate. The counterblast from Bengal comes in the throes of a spiralled authoritarianism; it is marauding and it is untrammelled. Institutions have been beaten and twisted out of shape. The economy has been run aground. The citizenry’s recourse to correction has been throttled. A cold, tyrant heart presides over our proceedings, such that it is no longer possible to believe that there may even be something human that constitutes the government we re-elected to power in 2019. Drop a litmus into the swirl of statements that have emerged from our minders as we suffer our harshest crisis and see for yourself what you come up with. There aren’t enough hospital beds, not nearly enough oxygen, we are celebrating a ‘tika utsav’ but there is neither tika nor utsav anywhere the gaze goes. The fatigued fraternity of doctors and health workers has been stretched beyond measure. It requires urgent aid. We have made one man’s vanity called the Central Vista an essential service; not a paisa allotted to this monumental callousness must be moved elsewhere, the earthmovers must roll, the heart of Delhi must be ripped and rolled to fashion the master’s flawed fantasy at a time when Delhi is queuing up to see off its dead. Such is the moment we are in, such are the suffocations from which Mamata’s victory has allowed us a momentary lease of breathing. She has run a fine race, but the race isn’t done yet. More than once in our recent past the baton of challenge has been picked, more than once has it been dropped. Most tellingly by the Congress, which, again to some stupefaction, remains the chief national Opposition. It is time it moults out of calcified derelictions, begins to act its part, begins to re-learn lessons from Bengal and, equally, from its defeats in Kerala and Assam. That lesson, bluntly put, is this: forsake your entitlements and your excuses, shun your reckless abandoning of the field, descend into the trench, fight the fight. Ahead of that, give yourselves a leader who would replace the non-functioning dyarchy at the top of the party. Midway through the campaign for Bengal, Mamata had sent out a letter, a desperate plea really, to major non-BJP formations to close ranks and save the nation from being contorted crudely out of shape. She recognized, and rightly so, the immense power the Bharatiya Janata Party, especially the Modi-Shah duo, has come to wield, how destructive that could be to the nation, and why there was need to close ranks and stop the slide. The appeal received scant notice; some merely thought it an indication from Mamata that she was losing the battle, clutching at straws as she sensed a drowning mid-stream. There are lessons for Mamata to learn, for sure, and corrections to effect. The smart politician that she is, it is not possible she is unaware of widespread disaffection with actors of the Trinamul Congress in Bengal. It cannot be that she is unaware that credible reason exists, even among her votaries, for grouse and grievance: corruption at the grass roots, the culture of syndicates and commission/extortion that has become pervasive, the charge of nepotism and of appeasement. Those cannot be brushed aside or buried, not even under the overwhelming downpour of celebratory confetti. Those will need attending. But looking beyond Bengal, now that the battle is done and summarily dusted, it is perhaps time to revisit the letter and examine its contents for what they really were — a cry from the flanks to prevent the edifice from collapsing. Mamata has held that flank, wholesomely and indomitably; it is time the rest came up with the wares. The dare of winning a bout so often and lackadaisically given up as lost is on the table; it requires picking up. sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
03-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Calf rescued from well in Giridih||Bokaro: A calf that fell in a deep well has been rescued by the forest department team at Saria Block of Giridih on Monday. The rescue operation took five hours with the help of three JCB machines to lift the calf. A crowd of villagers had gathered at the spot to see the rescue operation. The calf is said to be the member of a herd of 22 elephants wandering the jungle of Saria Block for the past few days. Forest Ranger of Saria, Shyam Kumar said, “The herd of elephants have calves. The herd had come near the well. There was a banana tree close to the embankment of the well, we believe that the calf which had fallen in the well might had skidded while approaching the tree. However, we have rescued the calf.” After coming out of the well, the calf ran towards the village. The officials of the forest department are trying to drive the calf towards the herd. Rajesh Pandey a villager said that they heard calf trumpeting around 2 am. On Thursday night, the same herd of elephants killed a young man in the area. The forest department has sounded an alert in the area. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A team of officials in Barkatha of Barhi subdivision on Monday sealed several shops immediately after getting information about businessmen flouting lockdown norms. The shops were selling utensils, textile and electronic items. Block development officer Kriti Bala Lakra and circle officer Nirmal Soren said they will act if anyone violates lockdown rules. “We had sealed ten shops and process is on to lodge FIR against them,” they added. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A wagon carrying oxygen cylinders hit a car killing three on the spot in Konhara area between Barhi and Bagodar in Barkatha, 68km away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. Police said the accident occurred on GT road as both vehicles coming from opposite direction took the same diversion resulting in the incident. The three persons including a woman sitting in the car died on the spot. Police have sent the bodies for post mortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Dhanbad: The family members of a Covid patient who died during treatment at Central Hospital of BCCL at Jagjivan Nagar of Dhanbad on Monday created a ruckus at the campus alleging medical negligence. A team of police and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) controlled the situation and promised the family members of the deceased of a fair probe. A Lodna colleiry employee of BCCL was admitted this morning in the Central hospital on Monday morning after his health condition deteriorated due to Covid but he died in the afternoon during the course of treatment. Family members of the deceased claimed that the patient was not attended properly by the doctors in the hospital. They further charged that he died after being administered an injection in the hospital. (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Monday instructed the circle officers of Dhanbad and Nirsa to file FIRs against four doctors under the disaster management act for not partaking as a Covid frontline health worker. Singh further instructed the officers to write to National Medical Council and Jharkhand Medical Council for cancellation of license for practice of the four doctors. Singh said that these four doctors had been instructed to join Covid duty on April 26 and were given a 24 hour ultimatum to join but they did not respond to the notices showing severe negligence of services. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
03-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city to Lucknow a green corridor for oxygen transport||An Oxygen Express train carrying 85 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients left Tatanagar railway station for Lucknow. The nearly 1,000 km distance between the two destinations- Tatanagar and Lucknow was converted into a green corridor so that the train could reach Lucknow with the consignment of liquid oxygen supplied by Linde India's Jamshedpur plant as early as possible. "The liquid oxygen loaded in 10 containers were  transported in seven wagons of an Oxygen Express train provided by South Eastern Railway, "said H.K. Balmuchu, station director of Tatanagar adding that a green corridor was made so that the train will not stop anywhere between the two destinations. On April 27, following a request made by Delhi government,  Jharkhand had sent four tankers of liquid medical oxygen by road from the Jamshedpur plant of Linde India, a leading manufacturer of industrial gases, to the national capital. During the second wave of the pandemic and surge in Covid positive cases, South Eastern Railway is continuously running Oxygen Express Trains from its jurisdiction to transport liquid medical oxygen to meet the medical emergencies. Running of Oxygen Express trains by South Eastern Railway started from April 23 and a total of 594.34 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen has been dispatched by South Eastern Railway through 13 Oxygen Express trains run so far. From Bokaro, total of nine trains have gone to Lucknow and three trains towards Bhopal, Sagar and Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh. Apart from this, one train has been run from Rourkela towards Faridabad in Haryana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
03-05-2021||Jharkhand||Landowners demand return of 220 acres at coal town mine ||An armed protest was carried out by more than 50 landowners at the project site of a private mining company of BCCL in Muraidih underground Colliery of Barora Area on Monday. The protesters, wielding traditional arms like bows and arrows, spears and lathi sticks, gathered at the main gate of the project site at around 7.30 am shouting slogans and alleging that jobs and monetary compensation was not given by the company in exchange for their land. The protestors blocked the entry of workers to the mine and demanded their land be given back to them. Mano Devi, one of the protestors said that a large number of local villagers parted with 220 acres of land for the project ahead of 2014 as they had been promised jobs and compensation. “We have been giving notices to BCCL since 2015 to provide us our due but all our notices are falling on deaf ear and now the company is also backtracking on their promise of jobs and compensation,” said Devi. Echoing her sentiments, Mansa Tuddu said, “We resorted to the extreme step of carrying out armed demonstration outside the project site of the colliery as all our earlier efforts to draw attention by giving notices have failed.” Earlier, landowners at Muraidih had also carried out protests on several occasions including one in February last year after which the BCCL management had promised to consider their demands. However, the armed protest was carried out as their promises were not fulfilled. “We have pacified the protesters in view of the disaster management act in place and convinced them to submit a written demand” said Manish Kumar Dubey, Assistant Sub Inspector of Barora Police station. Manager of BCCL Muraidih Colliery, Dhivar, said “The land acquisition has been carried out during the launch of the colliery following all due procedure but we will look into the objections of people who carried out the protest today.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
03-05-2021||Jharkhand||Fire training programme at all Covid hospitals across Dhanbad||The staff members of Sahid Nirma Mahto Medical College and Hospital and Central Hospital of BCCL including nurses, ward boys, doctors, sanitation workers and administrative members underwent a two-hour fire mock drill on Monday. The fire mock drill has been launched at the instruction of Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh. It will be conducted in all 30 Covid treatment facilities of the district including nine government and 21 private hospitals. The training was conducted under the guidance of district fire officer Surendra Yadav. He explained the process of alarm operation, stopping central AC, isolating power supplies and evacuation of patients from the hospital in case of a fire emergency. “We have explained various steps right from the beginning of discovery of fire to calling the fire service, operating existing fire safety devices, assembling staff and doctors outside the building and evacuation of patients,” said Yadav to The Telegraph Online. “With regard to evacuation of bed patients to a place of safety we explained operation of 2 and 4 handed lifts, fireman’s lift, blanket removal, putting patients on wheelchair, removal of patients downstairs and removal by stretcher with or without wheels,” said Yadav. “Specific use of different kinds of material like foam, dry powder, carbon dioxide and fire blanket for fighting were also explained,” elaborated Yadav. According to the schedule prepared by the District Disaster Management Authority, the training will be conducted at Sadar Hospital Dhanbad and Divisional Railway Hospital on Tuesday and at Asharfi Hospital and Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Super speciality hospital on Wednesday. The Fire Safety Audit of Patliputra Nursing Home and Pragati Nursing Home will be conducted on May 6. A fire safety audit of 20 private hospitals engaged in Covid treatment was conducted by the district fire officer and according to the report portable fire extinguishers were installed in several private hospitals which lacked the amenity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
03-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Dhanbad government hospital adds 60 ICU beds||The Dhanbad district administration has installed a 60 bed ICU Covid treatment facility at Sadar Hospital on Sunday. The number of ICU beds in the district has increased to around 250 after the April 18 permission given to 14 private hospitals to begin Covid treatment at their respective facilities. Apart from the Sadar Hospital, two other main ICUs operating in the district are at Cath lab of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Central Hospital of BCCL in Jagjivan Nagar. The 14 private hospitals also run their own ICU facility. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh, monitored the installation of equipment and other facilities of the Sadar Hospital on Sunday. He designated three pharmacists at the hospital and instructed them to ensure management of the store room to ensure timely availability of all medicines and equipment for treatment of patients. Singh instructed the nodal officer of the hospital Dr Rajkumar to ensure availability of PPE kits, gloves, masks etc to all the staff working at the hospital. The deputy commissioner also wrote a letter to the Jharkhand Director of National Health Mission asking him to provide 200 pieces of jumbo type oxygen cylinders to the district. In his letter, Singh pointed out that the Covid treatment facilities of Dhanbad with 250 ICU beds cater to the need to several adjoining districts including Bokaro, Girididh, Koderma, Jamtara, Godda, Sahebganj and lack of proper supply of oxygen cylinders may affect the treatment at these facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
03-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs over 4,700 fresh Covid cases, 115 casualties in a day||Jharkhand continued to report a triple-digit-spike in Covid deaths on Sunday as at least 115 patients, including 42 from Ranchi alone, died during treatment in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in the state close to the 3000-mark, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. However, the state reported a spike of less than 5000 cases on the day after fresh cases breaching the 5000-mark daily in the past one week. As many as 4,738 people were found infected by Coronavirus in the state on Sunday while 4541 Covid patients recovered from the infection, a bulletin released by the NHM stated. Even though the number of fresh cases dropped slightly on Sunday in comparison to the past one week, the positivity rate in the state was still 18.63 per cent, which is higher than the positivity rate in some of the worst-affected states in India. As per NHM data, Jharkhand on Sunday tested swab samples of as many as 25,421 residents. The over 4700 fresh cases took the Covid tally in the state to 2,44,472 while the active caseload jumped to 58,519. Around 75 per cent of the over 2.44 lakh people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far was recovered, highlights government data. Ranchi not only reported the highest number of casualties but also the highest spike in cases on the day. As per NHM data, as many as 913 people were found infected by the deadly virus in Ranchi on Sunday while 792 patients recovered. The active caseload in the district on Sunday reached 20,163, which is the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The 42 deaths on the day took the toll in Ranchi to 939. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum reported 652 cases against 780 recoveries and continued to witness a downward trend in the active caseload. As per government data, as many as 5,931 East Singhbhum residents were battling Coronavirus infection by the end of Sunday. The district also reported 12 casualties on the day, which took the toll there up at 645. As per government data, the growth rate of infection dropped to 2.39 per cent in Jharkhand on Sunday. However, it was still higher than the national average of 1.49 per cent. The doubling rate also improved on the day and reached 29.40 days, revealed NHM data. The doubling rate in the state was also lower than the national average of 46.84 days. The state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 4200 people, while the second dose was administered to as many as 5607 beneficiaries. Jharkhand is yet to start vaccination for people in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
