04-05-2021||Calcutta||Covishield supply to arrive after 3 weeks in Bengal: Official||A senior official of the Bengal government said on Monday it could take at least three weeks for fresh doses of Covishield, one of the two Covid-19 vaccines in use in India, to arrive in Bengal and those would only be for government facilities. “The Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, has informally told us that it would not be able to supply fresh doses to Bengal at least before three weeks. And these fresh doses are for government-run vaccine centres,” the official said. A state health department official said about 50 lakh people were awaiting the second dose of Covishield across Bengal. Many of them have their doses due in the next few weeks. According to the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, private hospitals in Calcutta need at least three lakh doses in May to complete the vaccination of those who have taken their first dose at the private facilities. “Which means people who have taken Covishield as the first dose will have to wait beyond eight weeks for the second,” said the government official. The Centre and health experts have said people who have taken Covishield as the first dose should take the second jab between six and eight weeks of the first. Bharat Biotech — which manufacturers Covaxin, the other Covid vaccine being used in India — has promised the state government about 1.5 lakh doses in a day or two but that would be far from adequate, an official said. On Monday, till around 9pm, about 1.75 lakh people were vaccinated at government facilities in the state, the health department said. Among the recipients, only 18,500 got the first dose. The Centre had announced last month that from May 1, the states and private vaccination centres would have to procure Covid vaccines directly from the manufacturers. All private hospitals in Calcutta have suspended vaccination because of lack of stocks. The hospitals did not administer any jab on Monday and some put up notices announcing suspension of the drive for an indefinite period. The private hospitals on Monday sent requisition for vaccine doses to the state health department, filling in formatted forms. State health department sources said the private hospitals had asked for at least three lakh doses for those who were awaiting their second jab and one crore for those who will get their first dose. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has submitted a demand of around 8,000 doses for May. The hospital has run out of stocks and did not conduct any vaccination since May 1. “As advised, we filled in the template specifying the requirement of vials for the beneficiaries entitled for the second dose till May 31, amounting to 8,000 doses of both vaccines. We have also mentioned our requirements for phase 3 of the vaccination for the next three months, ending July 21, of around 34,000 doses. We have been assured of further guidance in a short period by the state government,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is a flagship unit. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals has submitted a demand of around 600 daily doses, said an official. Peerless Hospital has submitted a demand of around 50,000 doses for the coming three months. “We have been unable to conduct the vaccination drive since May 1 and are awaiting response from the state government. At the same time, we are also in touch with the manufacturers of the vaccines for direct procurement but there has been no response. Many people are calling up to find out when we will resume vaccination,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. He said the hospital wrote to the manufacturers on Monday, too. “We have 3,000 second doses pending in May,” said Mitra. A senior state health department official said they were in talks with the Centre regarding procurement of vaccines for private hospitals but there has been no response yet. “We have also given the option to private hospitals to pay directly to the manufacturers and we would allow them to use our cold chain network for distribution and storage. But the vaccines are not available and so everything is at a standstill,”said the official. Bengal on Monday recorded 17,501 new infections, 98 deaths and 15,937 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.19 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Haj House turns into Covid unit||Haj House near Kaikhali has been converted into a satellite Covid-19 facility of Charnock Hospital. The centre on VIP Road has 90 beds, 50 of which are intensive care unit beds, an official of the hospital said. “The bed count is set to go up to 300. The satellite unit is being run on a private-public partnership in association with the state government’s health department,” the official said. All beds at the unit have piped oxygen lines. Apart from that, ventilators, BiPAP equipment for ICU beds as well as a CT-scan unit are operational there. “The satellite centre has dedicated ambulances, run in coordination with the health department,” the Charnock official said. Prashant Sharma, the managing director of Charnock Hospital, said the VIP Road unit would use oxygen cylinders till an oxygen plant was set up. “We have requested the state government for support,” he said. Sharma said they had tied up with a city-based group of entrepreneurs who would help them financially to buy medical equipment. “They have promised us equipment worth Rs 3 crore,” he said. The private hospital, located off VIP Road near the airport, is the third facility in the city after Medica Superspecialty Hospital and AMRI Hospitals to take up a government-run establishment and convert it into a satellite unit for Covid patients. The state government has asked private hospitals to open satellite units for Covid patients with mild or moderate symptoms so the hospitals could accommodate more critical patients. Medica has set up a unit at Kishore Bharati Stadium. The Salt Lake branch of AMRI Hospitals has started operating a satellite Covid-19 unit inside the Salt Lake stadium. A portion of the stadium’s youth hostel that has large dormitories have been retrofitted to accommodate Covid-19 patients. “Piped oxygen lines have already been installed,” said Surojit Roy, the CEO of the Salt Lake stadium. “The location is ideal for us as our hospital is located right opposite. All 250 beds are expected to start functioning in a few days,” an AMRI official said. The state government has invited private hospitals and nursing homes to convert government facilities such as stadiums, large halls and community centres into satellite facilities for patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Crunch hits response to JU appeal for funds||Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das’s appeal for funds to buy devices and data packs to bridge the digital divide among students has received a poor response so far. University officials blamed this on the Covid-induced financial distress that usual donors are going through in the second wave of the pandemic. On April 13, Das had appealed to “members of the extended university community” to “donate generously” to enable the university to address the digital divide affecting a large section of students at a time when classes are being held on digital platforms as a precaution against Covid. Till May 3, only Rs 80,500 has been raised — an amount much lower than the collection during a similar drive last August. When Das had first called for a fundraising drive on August 20 for a similar mission, around Rs 12 lakh was raised in three weeks, said a university official who was part of a panel overseeing the drive. The official told The Telegraph on Monday that so far, they had received 15 appeals from the university’s employees for deduction from their salary, translating into a contribution totalling around Rs 60,000. “We have got direct deposits to JU bank accounts from the alumni and benevolent individuals totalling Rs 20,500. Compared to last year, the corpus does not look impressive,” he said. Last year, JU had managed to build up a corpus of over Rs 21 lakh in a month. The money was used to buy smartphones and data packs for the students. “We don’t see that happening this year,” said the official. An alumnus who had made a substantial contribution last year said that the fear of a medical emergency was preventing him from pitching in this time. “The situation has worsened from what it was last year. We all are more concerned about saving as much as possible in case the health scare strikes us. This is coming in the way of making a fresh contribution,” he said. A JU alumna who taught at the university for 36 years had donated Rs 5 lakh in September last year. But this year, the university is yet to receive any such generous contributions. “The contribution so far has not been up to the mark. I guess everybody is going through financial distress amid the pandemic. This has to be appreciated as well,” said Das. A teacher of the university who was involved in the fundraising drive last year said this time they were hesitating to approach people for donations because financial constraints had impacted everyone. “Last year, I had personally reached out to many of my batchmates who work in senior positions of companies for contributions. They responded to my appeals. Had the situation improved or remained stable, I would have thought about approaching them again. But many of them are fearing they might suffer a pay cut or loss of job,” the teacher said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals increase Covid beds but inadequate as cases surge||Private hospitals in the city have increased their Covid beds but the long list of patients waiting to get admitted still continues. The increase in the number of Covid beds is proving to be inadequate and many patients with oxygen saturation levels below 90 are struggling to find beds, officials across hospitals said. Belle Vue Clinic had a waiting list of 46 patients on Monday evening; Fortis Hospital, Anandapur, is generally having a waiting list of about 30 patients; Peerless Hospital had a waiting list of 70 on Monday; while AMRI Hospitals has a waiting list of about 15 patients at each of its three units in Dhakuria, Mukundapur and Salt Lake. Officials at many hospitals said they would be able to further increase their Covid bed count only after some non-Covid patients are discharged. “We have 234 Covid beds, including 46 critical care beds. But all are occupied. We have a waiting list of 46 patients as of Monday evening,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. “When a patient’s family calls, we are taking down their contact details and trying to assess the seriousness of the patient. Whenever we have a bed vacant, we are calling them back to inform them about the vacancy.” AMRI Hospitals has 408 Covid beds, 160 of which are critical care beds. All beds were occupied on Monday, said an official. All 253 Covid beds at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 130 beds at Fortis Hospital Anandapur, 179 beds at Ruby General Hospital and 165 beds at Peerless Hospital were occupied on Monday. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said they would further add to their Covid beds but were waiting for non-Covid patients to be discharged. “Once all patients in a ward are discharged, we would convert it into a Covid ward. We have to wait till all non-Covid patients in a ward are discharged,” Mitra said. The scarcity of beds is delaying admission of many patients with very low oxygen saturation levels. A 67-year-old resident from Calcutta’s northern fringes with an oxygen saturation level below 90 had been trying to get a bed at a private hospital since Sunday evening. After attempts at several hospitals, the patient was waiting to get admitted at a private hospital on Monday evening. Several hospitals are shifting Covid patients who are doing well to satellite facilities to free hospital beds for more serious patients. “A Covid patient who has recuperated is being sent to the satellite facility to stay under observation before being discharged. This is allowing us to admit a more critical patient in our hospital,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head of Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The group, he said, has set up about 200 Covid beds at its units in Howrah and Barasat. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has issued an advisory asking all private hospitals to reserve at least 60 per cent of their beds for Covid patients. Several hospitals have already set aside 60 per cent or even more beds for such patients but that has not been able to ease the crisis. Subhasish Datta, the head of operations at Ruby General Hospital, said he felt that the demand was about 2.5 times more than the beds available. “From the number of calls we are getting from Covid patients who want to get admitted, it seems the demand is about 2.5 times the number of beds we have. We are trying to arrange for consultation over the phone till a patient gets a bed,” Datta said. He said the hospital was also asking Covid patients who were not being able to do CT scans elsewhere to get the scan done at Ruby.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
04-05-2021||Calcutta||JU decides to keep emergency services open ||Jadavpur University has decided to keep only departments providing emergency services, like audit and accounts and maintenance, open till May 7 with bare minimum staff because of the pandemic. The university on April 23 had announced the closure of the campus exempting the emergency services till May 3. The closure was extended till Friday on May 3. The university had in mid April announced that all sections, departments and schools will remain open for only two or three days a week with skeleton staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Fewer Metro trains from May 6, zoo shut||From Thursday, Metro Railway will run 216 trains every weekday, further down from the current fleet of 238 trains, an official said. The Metro daily passenger count, which had touched 1.8 lakh in March, has been hovering just over one lakh over the past few days. The first trains will leave the terminal stations at 7.30am, instead of 7.20am. The last trains will leave at 8.48pm from Dakshineswar and 9pm from Dum Dum and New Garia, respectively. On Saturday, there will be 216 trains, instead of 218. On Sunday, 98 trains will run instead of 100. Zoo shut All the zoos and parks and wildlife sanctuaries in the state will be shut for visitors with “immediate effect”, said a notice from the state government on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Storybooks at kids’ doorstep||Rick Riordan, Enid Blyton and J.K. Rowling — Class V student Annanmay Daga has several favourite authors. And he knows how to involve his friends in the game of reading books. The La Martiniere for Boys student and his booklover friends make a point of sharing books and discuss the latest fictions they read. To push other children like him to up their reading habit, Annanmay and his sister have contributed some of their favourite classics, fairytales and non-fiction to a new online library that got started recently. Thanks to the contributions of several children, an online library for children — Forever Booked — was born in the run-up to World Book Day on April 23. A venture of three mothers-turned entrepreneurs, the library aims to deliver books at the doorstep of young booklovers in the city. “Most of us have books that our children have outgrown. Some have storage problem at home. Instead of the books gathering dust or getting dog-eared, we want others to read and enjoy them. We took two months to pass the word around and collect books from our friends which included both fiction and non-fiction. Finally, Forever Booked opened doors with 3,000 books, and it’s counting,” said Bali Sanghvi, who, along with Richa Daga and Neha Bhatnagar, initiated the project. The library caters to children right from Kindergarten to young adults and offers unlimited exchange facility for avid readers. “Our collection ranges from classics to popular writers and even comics such as Amar Chitra Katha. Since they are contributed by students, new readers can connect with them. Young readers are also invited to share their experiences and recommendations to help new members,” said Bhatnagar. The members can either log in with their registration numbers and add the selected books to cart, after going through an online catalogue, or they can directly WhatsApp for the requested books with their catelogue numbers. The news comes as a boon to many students, who are tired of staying at home since past year. Class V student Tashvi G hopes to complete the Percy Jackson series with her early bird membership. “I have read a few from my brother’s collection. The rest I can borrow from this library,” said The Heritage student, who hopes to contribute some books too. “How many books can I buy for her? We have a transferable job and storage is a problem. There are not many libraries in the city that are dedicated to children. I found the collection here quite extensive with authors ranging from various countries,” said Tashvi’s mother Neetika Vijay Kumar. The library also aims to promote physical reading at a time when children are engrossed in the virtual spaces and screen-times. “I miss my friends, school and all the singing and dancing. But books are fun. They make me happy,” said Class I student Parshv Lakhani, a fan of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. His mother hopes the new membership will keep him better occupied. The library plans to hold live storytelling sessions online and organise a virtual book club shortly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Shot to fame within frame||At the age of four, he took his father’s DSLR to take a few snaps in Santiniketan. That’s how it all began for the 19-year-old Pubarun Basu, who recently became the Youth Photographer of the Year at Sony World Photography Awards. The competition, organised by the World Photography Organisation, was meant for the age group of 12 to 19 years. A South Point High School alumnus, Pubarun won the award for his image No Escape from Reality, clicked inside his bedroom during the lockdown. In the photo, the shadows of railings projected onto curtains create an illusion of cage bars from behind which a pair of hands are seen as if trying to break through. The illusion of shadows and the gesture of hands convey a sense of entrapment shared by so many in the past year. “It’s an honour to be adjudged the Youth Photographer of the Year. In the contest, I could see some extraordinary snapshots taken by my fellow competitors from around the world,” said Pubarun, who is pursuing English honours at The Bhawanipur Education Society College. The World Photography Organisation, based in London, has been holding the contest for the last 14 years. There are four categories — Professional, Open, Student and Youth. In the Youth one, the budding shutterbugs can submit one photograph every month from July to December, and the organisation announces a winner at the end of every month. Then all the six winners vie for the Youth Photographer of the Year award that is announced in April the following year. This time, all the four categories received more than three lakh photographs. Pubarun was never formally trained in photography. His father Pranab Basu is both his teacher and inspiration. “I’m privileged to have a brilliant photographer in my family — my father. He never taught me formally but gave advice regarding exposure, framing, manual settings and so on,” he said. Incidentally, Basu is a professional photographer. He feels: “It is quite difficult to gain appreciation out of a conceptual body of work. Hence, it fills me with pleasure to see Pubarun’s creativity receiving so much love from all over the world.” As a tiny tot, Pubarun had once clicked a few photos of kalabou snan, a Durga Puja ritual, at Bagbazar Ghat near his residence. On seeing those, Pranab bought him a point-and-shoot camera. Initially, Pubarun used to take birds’ photos with it. In school, too, Pubarun used to cover all the events. While studying in Class IX, he got access to his father's high-end cameras. Later, he started clicking photos while taking an evening stroll. “There are plenty of subjects to capture — setting sun on the Hooghly river, tramlines, rail tracks, north Calcutta lanes — all fascinating moments,” said Pubarun, who wants to do masters in fine arts abroad. At 15, Pubarun got an entry into an online National Geographic community. Though it doesn’t allow anyone below 18 as a member, his case was exceptional. His 13 photographs were selected as Editor’s Favourite in the community in a single year. “It was my first achievement. I was overwhelmed to see my photographs getting selected by a community so esteemed,” he said. A couple of Pubarun’s photographs were also published in the Daily Dozen, an online forum of National Geographic, in 2018. The BBC also published his photograph online as Reader’s Picture of the Year 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Club Library Virtual Event organises a programme titled ‘Why Do I Love Thee’||Bengal Club members and their guests attended a programme virtually to remember the bard who was born in April 1564. At the Bengal Club Library Virtual Event on Friday, titled ‘Why Do I Love Thee’, participants pondered over how 457 years later, Shakespeare continues to be taught, discussed and performed. Anchored by Julie Banerjee Mehta, the evening saw Shormishtha Panja of Delhi University show the attendees some celebrated Shakespeare production posters, illustrations and paintings. Jadavpur University’s Dayita Majumder talked about how Shakespeare’s sonnets — published in 1609, which incidentally was the year of the plague — were a departure from the established form and structure of sonnets prevalent then. Diganta Chowdhury and Aneesha Seth sang the Willow Song from Othello, while Keshav Roy’s recorded performance from Othello and Hamlet riveted all. Club members showed off their Shakespearana as Sandip Chatterjee did a Shylock while Sumit Ray did the witches. Chaitali Moitra read from Twelfth Night and Monojit Dasgupta recorded the Seven Ages of Man. The evening ended with Sandip Chatterjee and Julie Mehta doing a scene from King Lear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Modern High School for Girls begin support group for senior students||Modern High School for Girls has started a peer support group for senior students where they can talk to their friends and share their anxieties. The group was started in October last year and has continued in the new academic session. The idea is for the girls to get a “free space to express themselves” and be hand-held by peers without the constant presence of supervising adults or teachers, the school said. The group, for students of Classes IX to XII, meets online twice a week. In the sessions, the students have discussed academic stress and online class, bereavement in the family, career choices, missing school and wanting to meet friends. Teachers, too, can play a role. They can be advisors to guide the students when they seek their support. “Children in the presence of peers express themselves freely, they can confide in and understand each other. They approach adults (teachers) when they know they need to seek their help but not have them breathing down their neck at all times,” said Devi Kar, the director of the school. Some students have been trained by young people who work in the field of peer support, a school official said. There is a group of student volunteers that conducts the sessions and they “prioritise anonymity”, a student said. “We encourage open and frank conversations and primarily focus on talking. We let people speak out. Some of them talk about conflicts between parents or death in the family during the pandemic leading to sleepless nights. We do not preach or prescribe what they could do but suggest certain things that can be helpful,” said Srijoni Mitra, a Class XII student volunteer. The advisor to the peer support group, Reena Sen, who is also a consultant of the school, said that “real empathy comes from peers”. “All schools are dealing with adolescents but this is a huge step forward. No matter how invested adults are in the lives of children, real empathy comes from peers. As an adult, I try to be kind and compassionate to them but I am not in their shoes,” said Sen. Challenges in the present pandemic are different from what many adults have gone through during their teenage years, Sen added. Debadrita Basu, a Class XII student volunteer, said “we give four or five suggestions”. “They come back to us and tell us if it has worked and if the situation worsens, we go to our advisor and she guides us. On some occasions parents are also involved,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta police drops Pamela Goswami’s name in cocaine case||Calcutta police dropped the names of Pamela Goswami, her friend Prabir Dey and guard Somnath Chatterjee from the chargesheet in the cocaine case that was submitted in court on Monday. The 1,200-page chargesheet has named BJP leader Rakesh Singh as the prime accused. A departmental inquiry has been started against the officer in-charge of New Alipore police station, whom Pamela had allegedly accused of being biased when she was in custody, a senior officer at Lalbazar said. Goswami had alleged that the officer was hand in glove with Rakesh and had allegedly allowed one of his associates — Amrit Raj Singh — to flee the spot moments before cops surrounded Pamela’s car and arrested her on February 19. The chargesheet mentions eight names, including Rakesh Singh, Amrita Singh alias Sweety, who allegedly supplied cocaine to Rakesh, and Amrit Raj Singh, who had allegedly planted the cocaine in Pamela’s car. Amrit Raj is still at large. It also mentions two drug dealers, who had allegedly supplied cocaine to Sweety; Aryan Dev, who allegedly alerted the local police station (New Alipore) about the purported presence of cocaine in Pamela’s car; Suraj Kumar Shah, who was riding the scooter that allegedly helped Amrit Raj to flee the spot and another associate of Rakesh, who lived near his home. According to the submission by the cops, Rakesh had procured the cocaine through various persons, who were also arrested. Amrit Raj has been declared an absconder in the case. All eight named in the chargesheet have been charged under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. The charges, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. Goswami, a secretary of the BJP’s state youth wing, and two others were arrested from NR Avenue in New Alipore on February 19 after police allegedly found 90g cocaine under the front seat of the car in which the three were travelling. While in custody, Goswami had purportedly claimed that she was offered a seat in the Assembly elections against cash by Rakesh and that she and her friend were being taken to meet a Union minister, who was in Calcutta that day, when Rakesh had planted the cocaine in the car to trap her. During the probe, the police said they had examined at least 80 witnesses before submitting the chargesheet on the 74th day from the date of Pamela’s arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
04-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Shop timings spell trouble for businesses||Many standalone shops remained shut during the 3pm to 5pm slot on Monday and ones that opened were deserted. Only bazaars and liquor stores did see some buyers turning up in the afternoon. But owners of several other stores said they were likely to shut shop for an indefinite period in the coming days. The 7am to 10am window is not of much use for them. The staff at many stores, as well as hawkers around the city, come from the fringes of Calcutta. Many take local trains to the city and back home. Opening a store at 7am is challenging. Even if they manage, there is hardly any visitor early in the morning. The manager of a menswear store in south Calcutta did not open the shop at all on Monday. The shop used to remain open from 11am to 8pm. “There is no point opening early. We are not selling essential commodities. Nobody comes before 11.30am-noon. To remain open only between 3pm and 5pm will also be futile. Two hours is too short a time to do business. Peak summer afternoons are also lean for business,” said the manager. Some of the standalone stalls in the Oberoi Grand arcade had opened during the 3pm to 5pm slot but there was hardly any visitor. The pavements on both flanks from the Gariahat intersection bore an eerie silence around 3.30pm on Monday. The pavements are usually chock-a-block with hawkers, selling everything from innerwear to melamine dishes. But on Monday, most stalls were shut in the afternoon as they were in the morning. “I come from Baruipur (in South 24-Parganas) on a train. It takes me at least 90 minutes to reach Gariahat. It is not easy for me to open at 7am. Even if I do, who will come to buy?” asked a hawker who sold women’s bags at Gariahat. “The afternoon slot is too short. Moreover, the number of women and college students is virtually zero,” said the hawker. A store in north Calcutta had sought permission to allow staff in around 2.30pm to allow the staff to be “up and running” from 3pm. But cops are said to have denied the leeway. Bazaars were busy during the morning window. In the afternoon window, only some stalls had opened. At the vegetables corner of the Gariahat market, only a couple of sellers were seen around 3.15pm. A handful of buyers were in the market. Alcohol shops, unacquainted with early morning business, are also having to tweak their schedule. A store in Alipore had opened by 7.30am on Monday. There were multiple visitors during the morning slot. A couple of visitors had dropped in on their way home from morning walks. “Two of us live nearby (in Taratala and Kidderpore). They came early and opened the store,” said an employee. At another liquor store in Kasba, there was a small queue in the afternoon, as there was one outside a store in Ballygunge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-64
04-05-2021||Business||Sensex slumps 465 points to close below 49,000||Market benchmark Sensex tumbled 465 points on Tuesday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and Infosys despite a positive trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index ended 465.01 points or 0.95 per cent lower at 48,253.51, and the broader NSE Nifty slumped 137.65 points or 0.94 per cent to 14,496.50. Dr Reddy's was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Sun Pharma, HDFC twins, Infosys, M&M and PowerGrid. On the other hand, ONGC, Bajaj Finance, TCS, Nestle India and SBI were among the gainers. "Domestic equities gave up gains towards the second half of the day and fell sharply as mounting uncertainty led by rise in second wave of COVID-19 cases weighed on investors' sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Barring PSU banks, selling pressure was visible across the sectors with pharma witnessing steep correction. While a persistent increase in daily caseload in several states is still a matter of concern, visible modest decline in new cases in many parts like Maharashtra and Delhi offers comfort, he noted. Active COVID-19 cases in India rose to 34,47,133 against 34,13,642 on Monday, according to a Health Ministry update Tuesday morning. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays. Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.79 per cent higher at USD 68.77 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 200 points in early trade||Market benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank amid a mixed trend in global equities. The 30-share BSE index rose 242.57 points or 0.50 per cent to 48,961.09 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 78.05 points or 0.53 per cent to 14,712.20. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, gaining around 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, SBI, Bajaj Finance and NTPC. On the other hand, Titan, HUL, Reliance Industries, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma and Infosys were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex finished 63.84 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 48,718.52, and Nifty closed 3.05 points or 0.02 per cent higher at 14,634.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,289.46 crore on Monday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) purchased shares worth Rs 552.92 crore, according to provisional exchange data. "This bull market, which has been climbing many walls of worries, is likely to remain resilient supported by positive news on the COVID front, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. He noted that the latest data indicates plateauing of the COVID curve and a steady decline in COVID numbers in 13 states including Maharashtra. Daily numbers after peaking at 4.02 lakh on May 1, have been steadily declining and now stand near 3.5 lakh. "This can give further support to the 'hope trade' that is currently on, despite the grim health crisis. Q4 results continue to be good across sectors. The FIIs continue to be on the sell side but this is being neutralised by DII buying. IT, pharma, telecom are safe sectors in the context of the lockdowns during the second wave," he added. Active COVID-19 cases in India rose to 34,47,133 against 34,13,642 on Monday, according to a Health Ministry update this morning. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red. Stock exchanges in Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays. Equities on Wall Street ended on a mixed note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading flat at USD 67.56 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Aramco may pick up a 20 per cent stake in Reliance's oil-to-chemicals business||Reliance Industries is reportedly in talks with Aramco under which the Saudi oil behemoth could pick up a 20 per cent stake in the oil-to-chemicals business that the Mukesh Ambani-owned conglomerate plans to spin off later this year. Aramco is believed to have offered to make the $15 billion investment through a mix of cash and its stock. RIL could be offered a 1 per cent stake in the Saudi entity and the rest in staggered cash payments — a proposal that the Ambanis are apparently baulking at as this could delay debt reduction plans in the O2C business. In its reorganisation plan for the oil-to-chemicals business that  was put out in February, RIL had provided for a long-dated loan of $25 billion “with repayment flexibility as an efficient mechanism to upstream cash to RIL from any strategic investment in O2C”. Reports suggest that Aramco is offering its shares as part payment which will come with a lock-in, effectively nixing plans for early debt repayment to the parent. Sources said the talks between the two sides were on but it was still too early to say whether an agreement would be reached on a cash-and-stock payment mechanism. They said during negotiations a number of proposals are tossed around without confirming whether that the cash-and-stock option was on the table. Rumours about a deal gained credence after the London-based Financial Times reported last week that the talks had revived in recent weeks. It said Aramco had offered to pay for the O2C stake with its shares initially and follow it up with cash payments over several years. The report, however, added that the proportion of shares versus cash was still up for debate and terms had yet to be finalised. The report has renewed optimism that Mukesh Ambani may have some great news for RIL shareholders that could be announced during the annual general meeting in July, or even earlier if the two sides can hammer out the rough contours of the deal. If it happens, it would be redolent of the deal-making flurry last year when RIL raised Rs 1.52 lakh crore by striking deals with a gaggle of investors including Facebook, Google and Abu Dhabi’s sovereign wealth funds — Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) and Mubadala Investment Company — by offering strategic stakes in its Jio Platforms. RIL raised another Rs 47,200 crore from global private equity funds in Reliance Retail Ventures. It also floated India’s largest-ever Rs 53,124 crore rights issue. The transactions were critical in turning RIL into a net debt-free company. Deal looms If everything goes right, there might be an encore this year —coincidentally at a time when the Indian economy is going through the second wave of the pandemic. Last week, while announcing the results for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021, RIL did not provide any update on the Aramco transaction which the market was eagerly waiting to hear about. Interest in the deal was re-ignited after Saudi Aramco announced in August last year that it was undertaking a due diligence exercise before picking up a stake in the oil-to-chemical (O2C) business. This has been an on-again, off-again sort of deal that Mukesh Ambani first announced in 2019 that Aramco would pick up a 20 per cent in its O2C business for an enterprise value (EV) of $75 billion. Since then, progress on the deal has been slow, blighted by the Covid crisis and Aramco’s failure to raise $100 billion in December 2019 from what was touted as the world’s biggest initial public offering(IPO). Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman recently hinted at talks to hawk a minority stake in the Saudi national oil company to an overseas investor.  Though he did not disclose any details, he only pointed out that it would be “very important in strengthening Aramco’s sales in the country where this company resides”, which sparked speculation that he was talking about RIL. Higher valuation Interestingly, if Saudi Aramco offers a 1 per cent stake to RIL, the deal would be valued at well over $15 billion, which means that the sides are pencilling in a higher valuation for RIL’s 02C business than was determined two years ago. This should also be seen in the light of the fact that brokerages are now quoting an enterprise value of $50-60 billion for this business, based on a sum-of-the-parts valuation. The O2C business straddles five business verticals: fuels, polymers, elastomers, aromatics and fibre intermediates, and polyesters. The O2C business accounted for segment revenue of Rs 320,008 crore — 51.9 per cent of the Rs 616,911 crore gross value of sales and services from all of RIL’s businesses in the year ended March 31. Analysts at Jefferies have said the benefits that RIL will derive from any deal with Aramco will depend on how it is structured. “If a significant part of the proceeds are in Aramco stock with a lock-in, and the cash payments are staggered over a few years, debt reduction would be delayed and RIL would be exposed to the volatility in Aramco’s stock price. However, if the O2C business is valued higher than the $75 billion indicated earlier to compensate for the lack of liquidity of Aramco’s stock, the deal could be NPV (net present value) neutral, in our view. If the consideration is liquid, then it would benefit RIL in the following ways: some parts would go to reduce debt on the standalone entity, and some parts would go into funding the new O2C cracker,” they added. “Our conversations with investors highlight current expectations of any O2C stake sale bringing in billions of dollars of cash into RIL, which it would either utilise for further reducing debt or for new business investments. If RIL were to accept an Aramco stake as consideration for an O2C stake sale, the implicit assumption would be that of oil prices surging from here over the next few years for any such structure to be value accretive,” analysts at JP Morgan said in a note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank net profits rise 33 per cent for fourth quarter ended March 3||Kotak Mahindra Bank’s net profits rose 33 per cent for fourth quarter ended March 31 to Rs 1,682.37 crore from Rs 1,266.60 crore a year ago. However, this number came a tad below analyst estimates. Core net interest income grew 8 per cent at Rs  3,843 crore against Rs 3,560 crore in the year ago period. However, there was an improvement in its asset quality with the ratio of gross non-performing assets dropping to 3.25 per cent from 3.27 per cent in the preceding three months. Uday Kotak, managing director & CEO of Kotak Mahindra Bank, on Monday said his current term in the bank is till December 2023 and that the board will take a call on succession in due course. This comes after the RBI capped the tenure of CEOs in private sector banks at 15 years. Kotak has been at the helm for more than 17 years. “The tenure for me is up to December 31, 2023. So, you are going to see me around as CEO at least till then,” he said after announcing the results for the fourth quarter ended March. To a question on succession planning, he hinted that the board does not have to wait till the RBI puts a cap, and added that in the current times of Covid-19, it is all the more necessary. SBI Life SBI Life Insurance Company on Monday reported a flat net profit at Rs 532 crore for the March 2021 quarter. The life insurer had posted a net profit of Rs 531 crore a year ago.  Total income jumped to Rs 20,897 crore from Rs 5,675 crore in year-ago period. IDBI Bank LIC-owned IDBI Bank on Monday reported a nearly four-fold jump in its standalone profit after tax to Rs 512 crore in the March quarter compared with Rs 135 crore a year ago on the back of an impressive 38 per cent growth in its net interest income. The lender also turned profitable on an annual basis after five years as it reported a standalone profit of Rs 1,359 crore for the 2020-21 fiscal that ended in March against a loss of Rs 12,887 crore in FY20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Verizon near a deal to sell Yahoo and AOL to private equity firm Apollo Global Management||Verizon once saw media as the future, the linchpin of a strategy to give customers something they couldn’t get elsewhere at a time when all mobile offerings were essentially the same. It has a different vision for the future now. The phone giant, signaling that it has given up on its media business, is near a deal to sell Yahoo and AOL to the private equity firm Apollo Global Management, two people with knowledge of the matter said on Sunday. The transaction would be the latest turn in the history of two of the internet’s earliest pioneers. Yahoo used to be the front page of the internet, cataloging the furious pace of new websites that sprang up in the late 1990s. AOL was once the service that most people used to get online. But both were ultimately supplanted by nimbler start-ups, like Google and Facebook, though Yahoo and AOL still publish highly trafficked websites like Yahoo Sports and TechCrunch. The deal, which could be announced in the coming days, would value the brands at $4 billion to $5 billion and include Verizon’s advertising technology business as well. The people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the talks are confidential, cautioned that the talks could still fall apart. When Verizon bought AOL in 2015 for $4.4 billion, the company called AOL “a digital trailblazer”. Lowell McAdam, Verizon’s chief executive at the time, championed the deal as part of its “strategy to provide a cross-screen connection for consumers, creators and advertisers to deliver that premium experience.” Tim Armstrong, the head of AOL, was part of the package, and he soon persuaded Verizon executives to add to its media holdings. Armstrong orchestrated the 2017 purchase of Yahoo for $4.5 billion — a prize he had been pursuing for years. In the statement announcing the deal, Armstrong said, “We’re building the future of brands.” It was all in the pursuit of almighty “scale,” a business term of art that has almost become a religious mantra in Silicon Valley. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Slump in factory output sparks an 18-27 per cent drop in truck rentals on trunk routes during April||The slump in factory output has sparked an 18-27 per cent drop in truck rentals on trunk routes during April against the rates on a sequential basis in the open market. This has prompted truckers to seek relaxation in non-performing asset (NPA) norms and halting the seizure of vehicles as this could impact the transport of essential items. “The truck rentals slumped as factory output fell 35-40 per cent because of production cuts and closures in many states triggered by the present wave of Covid, resulting in local lockdowns,” said S.P. Singh, senior fellow and coordinator, Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training. Also, there was 10-15 per cent drop in arrivals of fruits and vegetables in mandis (or Agricultural Price Marketing Committees). IFTRT projects the truck freight rentals and sales to remain timid for the current quarter and most likely for the next quarter of the current fiscal. As of now, there is no specific financial package for micro, small and medium enterprises in trade and manufacturing to lift the economy, the association said. The road transport business consists of 90 per cent of small truck ownerships and has been hit hard, observed IFTRT based on 75 key truck and trade centres in the country. Separately, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC)— the transport union – has also sought moratorium in equal monthly instalments in the prevailing scenario and asked for relaxation of non-performing-asset NPA norms and halting the seizure of vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Stocks witness initial jolt as TMC's electoral victory weighed on investor sentiment||Stocks on Monday witnessed an initial jolt as the massive electoral victory by the TMC in Bengal weighed on investor sentiment. However, buying support in metals, FMCG and auto counters helped benchmark indices recover from their lows to close with marginal losses. The 30-share Sensex, which had collapsed more than 750 points during intra-day trade, recovered to finish with a drop of only 63.84 points. The broader Nifty closed 3.05 points, or 0.02 per cent higher at 14634.15. It was a weak beginning for stocks as the huge victory of the TMC in Bengal and the NDA’s poor performance in other states such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala led to views that the ruling party in the Centre would face stiff challenge from regional parties. It also forced investors to re-assess the potent power of the BJP juggernaut, especially with polls due next year in Uttar Pradesh. However, stocks overcame these apprehensions and recovered from their lows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Opec’s share of India’s oil imports fall to the lowest in at least two decades||Opec’s share of India’s oil imports fell to the lowest in at least two decades in the year to the end of March as overall purchases by Asia’s third largest economy fell to a six-year low, data obtained from industry and trade sources showed. Total crude imports by the world’s third-biggest oil importer fell to 3.97 million barrels per day (bpd) in the 2021 fiscal year to March 31, down 11.8 per cent from a year earlier, the data showed. India bought more US and Canadian oil at the expense of that from Africa and the Middle East, reducing purchases from Opec members to around 2.86 million barrels per day and squeezing the group’s share of imports to 72 per cent from 80 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Pfizer in talks with Centre to expedite approval pathway for vaccine||Pfizer is in discussions with the Indian government for an expedited approval pathway to make Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine available in the country, its chief Albert Bourla said on Monday, while stating that the firm is donating medicines worth $70 million (over Rs 510 crore) for treatment of Covid-19 patients in India. “We are deeply concerned by the critical Covid-19 situation in India, and our hearts go out to you, your loved ones and all the people of India,” he said in a mail sent to Pfizer India employees that he posted on linked.in. “Right now, Pfizer colleagues at distribution centres in the US, Europe and Asia are hard at work rushing shipments of Pfizer medicines  that the government of India has identified as part of its Covid treatment protocol,” Bourla said. “These medicines, valued at more than $70 million, will be made available immediately, and we will work closely with the government and our NGO partners to get them to where they are needed most,” Bourla said. Capgemini funds IT major Capgemini on Monday announced a Rs 50 crore fund to build Covid care ICU facilities, oxygen generation plants, other long-term medical infrastructure and provide relief operations during the pandemic. In addition, the French firm is also contributing Rs 5 crore to UNICEF to provide immediate support across India for critical Covid-19 response care, by setting up three oxygen generation plants and RT-PCR testing machines. FM caution Cautioning the global community against vaccine nationalism at this hour of the pandemic, India on Monday asked the developed nations to share technology and allow free movement of critical components and raw material needed for production of vaccines. “Countries will have to be open about sharing vaccine-based technologies. The TRIPS agreement will have to be looked at in the context of the pandemic,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. IGST waiver The government has waived Integrated GST (IGST) till June 30 on the import of Covid-related relief material donated or received free of cost from outside India for free distribution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business|| India’s manufacturing sector steady despite mounting cases of Covid-19||India’s manufacturing sector remained steady despite mounting cases of Covid-19 amid the second wave. The IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index stood at 55.5 in April compared with 55.4 in March 2021, according to a media statement. That’s the eighth straight month of the index remaining in the expansion zone. A reading above 50 indicates economic expansion. “The PMI results for April showed a further slowdown in rates of growth for new orders and output, both of which eased to eight-month lows amid the intensification of the Covid crisis,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Lima noted that “the surge in Covid cases could dampen demand further when firms’ financials are already susceptible to the hurdle of rising global prices”. The survey, however, noted that while output and sales increased at the slowest rates since last August, there was a faster upturn in international orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-62
04-05-2021||Business||Covid: Economic impact of a V-shaped second wave worrying as pandemic closes in on rural India||The economic impact of a V-shaped second wave of the pandemic is worrying as Covid-19, till now considered to be an urban phenomenon, is closing in on rural India. The share of rural districts in new cases in April was 30 per cent, up from 21 per cent in March, a Crisil research report has said. The impact of state-announced curbs is being felt across high-frequency indicators, including retail and workplace  mobility, power supply, GST e-way bill collection and power supply, which are trending down for the second consecutive week now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
04-05-2021||Business||Covid: CII urges govt to take 'strongest' steps, without impacting essential operations||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has urged the government to take the “strongest” national steps, including curtailment of economic activity, without impacting critical and essential operations. The industry association said economic activities can be restricted for two weeks to “break the chain”. It also advised its members to review operations and restrict the use of manpower outside home. “We need the highest response measures to break the chain; we must use this time rapidly to build capacity,” CII president Uday Kotak said. The CII’s advice comes amid reports that the Centre’s task force has also been pushing hard for a nationwide lockdown to break the chain of the virus as the country records an unprecedented caseload of 4.01 lakh Covid-19 cases and 3,523 deaths in the last 24 hours. “Curtail all non-essential economic activity requiring physical presence of employees at the workplace for the next two weeks. This is necessary to break the chain of transmission. All responsible corporates should strive to protect their employees and ensure that their employee balance sheet remains healthy,” Kotak added. Ficci suggestion Industry body Ficci has suggested the government a series of steps, including speeding up the vaccination drive and maintaining supply of essential medicines, in order to contain the rising Covid-19 cases in the country. In a letter to Sanjeeva Kumar, member secretary, National Disaster Management Authority, the chamber said there is an urgent need for a national criteria for hospital admissions for Covid-19 as it would help reduce the burden of non-essential Covid admissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-63
04-05-2021||India||You can put your head in sand like an ostrich, we will not, Delhi HC blasts Centre ||The Centre's inability to supply adequate oxygen to Delhi came in for severe criticism on Tuesday with the Delhi High Court asking why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against it for failing to comply with its order on oxygen supply for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. "You can put your head in the sand like an ostrich, we will not," the high court told the central government, adding that the Supreme Court had already directed _ and now the high court was also saying _  that the Centre would have to supply 700 MT oxygen daily to Delhi right away by whatever means. "You are part of the city and seeing the situation yourself. No, you don't know. Are you living in ivory towers?" the bench said. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also rejected the Centre's submission that Delhi was not entitled to 700 metric tonnes of medical oxygen in light of existing medical infrastructure. It said the Supreme Court's April 30 detailed order directed the central government to provide 700 MT of oxygen per day to Delhi and not just 490 MT. "We had told you contempt is the last thing on our mind but it is certainly in our mind and don't drive us to that last point. We mean business now. Enough is enough. Be clear on this. We are not going to take no for an answer. There is no way you won't supply 700 MT. "There is a Supreme Court order and now we are also saying that you will have to supply 700 MT oxygen daily to Delhi right away by whatever means. We would not hear anything except compliance," the bench observed. The bench, which heard the matter related to the oxygen crisis and other COVID-19 related issues that Delhi was grappling with for five hours, said, "We see grim reality everyday of people not able to secure oxygen or ICU beds in hospitals which have reduced beds due to the gas shortage. "We, therefore, direct the central government to show cause why contempt be not initiated for not only non-compliance of our earlier order as also of the order of the Supreme Court dated April 30. To answer the said notice, we direct the presence of Piyush Goyal and Sumita Dawra (senior Central government officers) tomorrow," it said. On the submission of ASG Chetan Sharma that the compliance affidavit of April 30 order would be filed in the Supreme Court by tomorrow morning, the bench said, "We fail to understand what good a compliance affidavit will be done when as a matter of fact 700 MT of oxygen is not delivered to Delhi. Even the earlier allocated 490 MT and revised 590 MT is not being delivered even for a single day." "It pains us that the aspect of supply of oxygen for treatment of COVID-19 patients in Delhi should be viewed in the way it has been done by the Centre," it said. It added that on one hand there was a need to augment capacities to meet the rising numbers, while on the other hand, the existing infrastructure was crumbling and available beds could not be put to use. After the court dictated its order, ASG Sharma said that he had taken down the order and it may be uploaded tomorrow morning only. To this, the bench said, "No, we will upload it today itself."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||May session of JEE-Mains postponed in view of second Covid wave||Engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains scheduled from May 24 to 28 has been postponed in view of the COVID-19 situation, according to the Ministry of Education's National Testing Agency (NTA). Earlier, the April edition of the exam was postponed following an exponential rise in coronavirus cases. "The JEE-Mains scheduled from May 24 to 28 are being postponed in view of the current pandemic situation," the NTA said in an order. The rescheduling of the April and May sessions will be done subsequently and "the registration for the May session will also be announced at a later stage", it said. From this year, the exam is being conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. While the first phase was conducted in February followed by the second phase in March. The next phases were scheduled to be held in April and May. Over 6.2 lakh candidates appeared in the first session while 5.5 lakh candidates appeared in the second session of the exam. As per the policy, after the February, March, April and May sessions of JEE(Main)-2021, the ranks of candidates will be released taking into consideration the best of their four scores. India's total tally of COVID-19 cases crossed the 2-crore mark with over 50 lakh infections being added in just 15 days. The total tally of coronavirus cases in the country mounted to 2,02,82,833 with 3,57,229 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Bihar goes into lockdown mode till May 15 amid Covid surge||Lockdown was imposed in Bihar till May 15 amid a surge in COVID-19 cases with the state facing a positivity rate of around 10 per cent, officials said on Tuesday. The decision for the lockdown, which will come into effect on Wednesday, was taken at the meeting of the Crisis Management Group presided over by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, they said. Soon after the meeting, the chief minister announced the decision, following which Chief Secretary Tripurari Sharan along with senior police and administration officers held a press conference to announce the modalities. The chief secretary said that all government and private offices will remain closed during the period. However, essential services such as civil defence, electricity supply, water supply, fire services, veterinary work, postal and telecommunication will continue to operate. Hospitals, medical laboratories, ambulance services and other health-related outlets have been kept out of the ambit of the lockdown. Principal Secretary of Health, Pratyaya Amrit, clarified that the vaccination drive will continue during the lockdown. Banking, ATMs and insurance services have been kept out of the purview of the lockdown. Industrial and construction work, besides agricultural activities, e-commerce and courier services have also been exempted. Operations of print and electronic media have also been allowed during the period. Petrol pumps, LPG and outlets connected with retail services of petroleum products will also continue to operate. The shops dealing with grocery items and retail outlets dealing with vegetables, fruits, non-veg items, milk and PDS outlets will remain open from 7 am to 11 am daily during the lockdown, the chief secretary said. Schools, colleges and private coaching centres will remain completely shut during the lockdown, Sharan said, adding that no examination will be held during the period. Religious places will also remain closed during the period. Cinema halls, parks, gyms and hosting of other functions have been suspended during the lockdown. Though the movement of vehicles has been prohibited, public transport for the passengers heading to railway stations, airports, and bus terminuses will be allowed with 50 per cent sitting capacity, the chief secretary said. Restaurants and hotels will remain closed but home delivery has been allowed, he said, adding that similar is the norm for dhabas and eateries along the highways. Weddings are allowed with only 50 guests but the use of DJs and taking out 'barat' processions are prohibited. The chief secretary said an advance notice of three days has to be given to the local police station regarding weddings. For the performance of the last rites and 'shradh', not more than 20 people will be allowed. The chief secretary informed that all the districts have been ordered to organise community kitchens to feed the needy. He said the ration card holders will be given allotted foodgrains from PDS shops free in the month of May, the cost of which will be borne by the state government. He said the lockdown has been promulgated under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and those violating the orders will be punished accordingly. The Patna High Court had on Monday came down heavily on the state government over handling the second wave of the pandemic. It had asked Advocate General Lalit Kishore to talk to the chief minister on the urgent need of the lockdown. Bihar had reported 11,407 new COVID-19 cases on Monday and 82 more deaths. Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Chaitanya Prasad told reporters that Nitish Kumar held a detailed discussion with deputy chief ministers Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, and Health Minister Mangal Pandey, among others on Monday night. The chief minister also crisscrossed the state capital for an on-the-spot assessment of the situation, he said. The health secretary said the state witnessed 10 per cent positivity rate over the last one week and the department will monitor whether this is coming down during the lockdown. He further said, the state government will launch a mass recruitment drive for hiring medicos and will conduct walk-in interviews to add to the strength of the doctors and paramedical staff. Regarding the availability of medical oxygen, Amrit said the state is procuring them from other states and the Centre has also assured to provide sufficient stock of medical oxygen in the next three-four days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Fauci advises India to marshal all resources, including Army, to fight Covid||Terming the situation in India very desperate , America's top public health expert Dr Anthony Fauci has suggested the government marshal all its resources, including the armed forces, to immediately build makeshift field hospitals, and urged other countries to help with not only materials but also personnel. In an exclusive interview to PTI, Fauci, who is the Chief Medical Adviser to US President Joe Biden, also called for a nationwide lockdown, not necessarily for six months but for a few weeks to break the continuity and transmission of infection. Dr. Fauci's suggestions and dire assessment of India came as the number of new Covid infections in India officially passed 2 crore, almost double the number three months ago. Of these more than 2,20,000 people have died, according to official figures. In contrast, the United States has recorded 3.2 crore cases and 5,77,000 deaths in a population that's one-fourth of India's 120 crore since the pandemic began. Still, because of India's inadequate healthcare infrastructure, weaker economy and lower standard of living, the suffering has been magnified, especially in the second wave that has led to a huge shortage of oxygen and hospital ICU beds. The government says the infection rates have consistently dropped since April 30, when it recorded more than 400,000 cases. It reported over 355,000 cases on Tuesday. Given the fact that India is under such terrible stress right now with the extent of the outbreak, the rest of the world should pitch in to help, similar to what the United States is doing, he said. The world can help by supplying India with materials, and perhaps even personnel, but certainly materials that they need to adequately address it (the pandemic), he said. The 80-year-old physician and immunologist, who serves as the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, on Monday also recommend mass vaccination to arrest the current spread of the deadly disease across India. "Right now, they should start getting as many people vaccinated as they possibly can, with both the vaccines that they developed themselves in India as well as supplies of vaccines that they may be able to procure from other suppliers, be that the United States, be that Russia whatever country is willing whenever companies are willing to supply vaccine," Fauci said. However, getting someone "vaccinated now" does not solve today's problem, he noted, adding that it helps prevent a problem several weeks from now. The more immediate problem is how to care for and treat the thousands who are thronging overflowing hospitals across the country every day, in desperate need of oxygen and basic treatment. It is quite obvious to everyone that the situation in India is extremely serious," said Fauci, who is considered one of the world's top infectious disease specialists. "When you have so many people getting infected the lack of the capability to take adequate care of everyone; when you have shortages of hospital beds and oxygen and shortages of supplies, that really becomes a very desperate situation. Which is the reason why we feel it's important for the rest of the world to help out, to the extent they can," he said. Fauci, who has been keeping a close tab on the worst health crisis in India, said there are certain things that India can do immediately, mid-term and long-term basis. He recommended taking the help of the country's armed forces to immediately build makeshift field hospitals. "You will recall, last year when China had a very serious problem, they marshalled their resources to very, very rapidly build new hospitals, to be able to handle all the people who required hospitalisation," he said. Referring to media reports, he said there is a drastic shortage of hospital beds in India and people are being taken care of in makeshift arrangements. "So, it would be possible, perhaps, with the help of your own military, to put up field hospitals as you would do as if in a wartime setting, so that people who are sick and require a hospital bed, will have a hospital bed," he said. He also underlined the need for a countrywide lockdown for a few weeks to arrest the spread of the virus. A few days ago, I recommended and I believe at least parts of India are doing it, that you shut down the country in lockdown, he said. "Because other countries, including for example what China did last year, what Australia did when they had an outbreak, what New Zealand did, what other countries did is to completely lock down for a relatively limited period of time. You don't have to lock down for six months. You can lock down for a few weeks, Fauci suggested. He explained that when a lockdown in imposed, it definitely interferes with the dynamics of the viral outbreak and you could interfere with the continuity and the transmission of infection, the top immunologist noted, citing the experience gained by other countries. Responding to a question whether the current surge in infections in India posed a threat to other countries, Fauci said, "Well, I mean, obviously, when you have a massive amount of infection in one country there's always a risk of infections. "You want to be careful that that doesn't spread widely elsewhere," Fauci added. "We are very sorry that India is going through this very, very difficult time. And that's the reason why we know we are in great solidarity with them and trying to do whatever we can to help them," Fauci said, referring to the Biden administration rushing medical equipment and life-saving drugs to India to help it fight the pandemic. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut's Twitter account suspended permanently||Twitter has permanently suspended actor Kangana Ranaut's account for repeated violations of rules, specifically its "Hateful Conduct and Abusive Behaviour policy , the microblogging site said in a statement on Tuesday. The 34-year-old actor's handle @KanganaTeam now displays the message: account suspended. Ranaut, known for her often inflammatory tweets, posted several messages following the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress' win over the BJP in West Bengal and incidents of post-poll violence. Calling for President's Rule in the state, she also blamed Banerjee for the violence and called her unpublishable names. "We've been clear that we will take strong enforcement action on behavior that has the potential to lead to offline harm, a Twitter spokesperson said in a statement. "The referenced account has been permanently suspended for repeated violations of Twitter Rules specifically our Hateful Conduct policy and Abusive Behaviour policy. We enforce the Twitter Rules judiciously and impartially for everyone on our service," the spokesperson added. According to Twitter's Abusive Behaviour policy, "one may not engage in the targeted harassment of someone, or incite other people to do so or attempt to harass, intimidate, or silence someone else's voice". When an account is suspended permanently, the account holder is notified about the rules they have violated, the social media platform said citing the policy. On Monday, writer-lyricist Hussain Haidry had shared two tweets of the actor and urged people to report the account. If you are a blue tick account or with large following, I am not asking you to speak up against this. But please just quietly REPORT these two tweets. This is calling for mass violence. And directing it at Muslims, he wrote. Many social media users have called Ranaut out for spreading hatred. The actor also posted a video on Instagram where she termed the silence of the liberal international media on Bengal violence their "conspiracy against India" . Ranaut is also active on Facebook. Last year, Ranaut's sister Rangoli's account was suspended on the microblogging website. The actor became active on Twitter after that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||India's total Covid tally crosses 2-crore mark||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases crossed the 2-crore mark with over 50 lakh infections being added in just 15 days. The total tally of coronavirus cases in the country mounted to 2,02,82,833 with 3,57,229 new infections being reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 2,22,408 with 3,449 new fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. India's total COVID-19 infections had surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 after which it took 107 days to reach 1.25 crore on April 5. However, it only took 15 days for the cases to cross the 1.50 mark. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 34,47,133 comprising 17 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 81.91 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,66,13,292, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 1.50 crore on April 19. According to the ICMR, 29,33,10,779 samples have been tested up to May 3 with 16,63,742 samples being tested on Monday. The 3,449 new fatalities include 567 from Maharashtra, 448 from Delhi, 285 from Uttar Pradesh, 266 from Chhattisgarh, 239 from Karnataka, 155 from Punjab, 154 from Rajasthan, 140 each from Gujarat and Haryana, 129 from Jharkhand, 128 from Uttarakhand and 122 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 2,22,408 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 70,851 from Maharashtra, 17,414 from Delhi, 16,250 from Karnataka, 14,468 from Tamil Nadu, 13,447 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,637 from West Bengal, 9,472 from Punjab and 9,275 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Covid: Experts recommend 6-to-10-week lockdowns for hardest-hit districts||A 22-member expert group has recommended 6-to-10-week lockdowns in the districts hit hardest by the second Covid-19 wave, urging far longer closures than the 14-day “local containment” prescribed by the Centre. The group has called for the closure of all indoor public spaces barring those providing essential services, consultations with local community groups and measures to support the poor and vulnerable who are likely to bear the brunt of the closures. Global observations on lockdowns suggest that such closures need to be in place for 6 to 10 weeks for Covid-19 cases to fall significantly, The Lancet Covid-19 Commission India Task Force has said in a report it has shared with the Centre’s Covid-19 advisers. Its recommendations include the closure of all offices, public buildings, indoor dining restaurants, shops, malls and places of worship in districts designated “hotspots” based on measures such as daily counts of new Covid-19 cases, the growth rates of these counts, and the proportion of critical-care beds occupied. The Union home ministry had, using guidelines from the health ministry, asked the states last week to identify “districts of concern” where the proportion of positive cases among those tested is 10 per cent or higher and where oxygen-supported or critical-care bed occupancy is 60 per cent or higher. The Centre has asked the states to identify geographical areas with clusters of cases and implement “local containment” measures to restrict people from intermingling for 14 days. Several states have introduced limited, short-term closures while some others are enforcing longer closures. The India Task Force has, however, called for “synchronised, coordinated” closures for 6 to 10 weeks to systematically bring down the new-case counts close to pre-second-wave levels in the hardest-hit areas. “We were not in favour of such closures or lockdowns some weeks back,” Chandrika Bahadur, who is with the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network, New Delhi, and heads the India Task Force, told The Telegraph. “But the epidemic has evolved fast and we believe it is at a point where 6-to-10 week closures might be needed to help reduce new cases significantly in those parts of the country that are hotspots.” India’s epidemic, measured through the seven-day average of daily new cases, has ballooned nearly 24-fold over the past eight weeks — from 15,700 cases in early March to 373,000 in early May. The India Task Force has also proposed a complete ban on gatherings of more than 10 people at any given place. A health ministry official said the epidemic was showing “early signs of plateauing” in Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. But, the official said, it was continuing to grow in Bengal, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Punjab and Rajasthan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Jacinda Ardern says New Zealand high commission should have gone through proper channels for oxygen||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Monday confirmed that her country’s high commission in New Delhi had a “very unwell” local staff member on the premises when an SOS tweet for oxygen was posted to the Indian Youth Congress on Sunday. Ardern said the high commission should have gone through the proper channels for oxygen cylinders. Answering questions live on a television channel, Arden said: “Yes, you did see that there was a message that was put out. The high commission has apologised.… There are channels they should be going through for such matters but I should recognise that we do have a local staff member who’s within the compound, who has been very unwell. So that was the basis on which that call was made.” The tone and the transparent manner in which Ardern handled the issue was in sharp contrast to the bristling manner in which Indian foreign minister S. Jaishankar, a retired diplomat who needs no lessons in diplomacy, fielded questions from the Opposition. Jaishankar had posted a few acerbic tweets in response to Congress leader Jairam Ramesh’s question whether the external affairs ministry was sleeping after it emerged that the Philippines embassy had sought the Youth Congress’s help for oxygen before the New Zealand mission did so. The Youth Congress has been running a widely acclaimed network to help those in need of Covid medical aid. Jaishankar had referred to “cheap publicity” and said “MEA never fakes, we know who does” in the reply he tweeted to Ramesh. The Opposition is meant to ask tough questions, and the minister could have merely explained the position without escalating it into a nasty brawl that has drawn wide attention at a time India has cut a sorry figure worldwide over its Covid management. Although Jaishankar had confined his sharp tweets to the Philippines incident, the Indian external affairs ministry spokesperson had tweeted around two hours after the New Zealand episode that the officials concerned “are in continuous touch” with all high commissions and embassies. The ministry is “responding to their medical demands, especially those related to Covid. This includes facilitating their hospital treatment. Given the pandemic situation, all are urged not to hoard essential supplies, including oxygen,” the MEA had tweeted against the backdrop of a claim by Jaishankar that the Youth Congress supply to the Philippines was “unsolicited” and the country had no Covid cases. Ramesh subsequently tagged to Jaishankar’s account purported tweets from the Youth Congress and the Philippines embassy that suggested the supply was not unsolicited. This newspaper could not verify the tweets with the Philippines embassy but they had not been denied till Monday evening. Ramesh then asked: “What say you now, Mr Minister?” To which, Jaishankar replied: “I’d say don’t waste oxygen, literally or metaphorically. From a MEA that never sleeps — good night.” A tweeter offered sage advice to the former top diplomat: “Stop this please, it’s beneath you and the office you represent.” Another was less diplomatic, if not downright merciless: “Please encourage the MEA to sleep regularly. The consequences of a PM who doesn’t sleep are already for the world to see.” Against this back and forth on the Philippines embassy episode, the statement by Ardern, the New Zealand Prime Minister widely admired for her style of governance and efficiency, made two things clear. One, there was a medical emergency in the New Zealand high commission in New Delhi and the mission did put out a message seeking help. Two, the Prime Minister accepted that the high commission should have tapped official channels and confirmed that it had apologised. There was neither any smart repartee nor acid-dripping retort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Assembly Polls 2021: Entire state stood dehind daughter of Bengal, says Puri priest||Jagannath Swain Mohapatra, a senior servitor of the Puri Shree Jagannath temple, had organised a yagna at the residence of Bengal chief minister and Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee in February to ensure her party’s victory in the Assembly elections and had exuded confidence about the TMC coming to power again. Mohapatra’s forecast came true on Sunday with the resounding victory of Trinamul in the elections and Mamata all set to become the chief minister of Bengal for the third time in a row. Mohapatra was in touch with Mamata and spoke to her twice on counting day to keep track of the developments on Sunday. The 70-year-old servitor, who performed the puja at Mamata’s residence on February 26, told The Telegraph: “On that day after performing the puja at her residence at Kalighat, I had a feeling that she would win the battle. Early on Sunday morning on counting day, I went inside the shrine and lit a diya (earthen lamp) for Mamata, our daughter, the daughter of Bengal. I had a feeling that she would win. After coming back from the temple, I called her around 10am and gave my best wishes and gave the blessings of Lord Jagannath. I called her again around 5pm and congratulated her.” Mohapatra, who is the chief badagrahi (protector) of Lord Jagannath during the Rath Yatra of the deities at Puri and tasked with protecting his chariot, said: “I have closely watched her (Mamata). She is a great devotee of Lord Jagannath and has a great love for mankind. Lord always protects people who surrender at his feet. Mamata is a shining example of this.” Praising the Bengal chief minister, the senior servitor said: “She is always connected with the masses and can read the nerve of the people. She understands their problems. The way Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and other BJP leaders targeted her and tried to take fun of her did not go down well with the people of the state. Women disliked it in particular and rose as one to save the daughter of Bengal. The BJP even failed to unite the Hindus because they are also aware that the party is indulging in politics over religion. The BJP’s move has backfired.” He further said: “Lord Jagannath is the symbol of secularism. Jagannath culture is above communal politics. Lord Jagannath is the lord of the universe. Devotees from all sects are dear to him. Bhakta Salabega, a 17th century Muslim poet, was the greatest devotee of Lord Jagannath and the devotional songs penned by him are considered the best. The BJP has failed to understand the Jagannath culture. Lakhs of people from Bengal are devotees of Lord Jagannath. They did not fall prey to cheap communal politics.” He also said he wanted to go to Calcutta to offer his good wishes to Mamata but the Covid situation prevented him from undertaking the journey. “Even Mamata expressed her desire to come to Puri to offer her prayers at the feet of Lord Jagannath. I told her not to come as the temple is closed for devotees because of Covid-19. Besides, it’s better not to travel at this time when the corona(virus) pandemic has spread all over,” the senior priest said. On Mamata’s defeat from the Nandigram seat, he said: “Its not at all important. Somewhere something went wrong. There should be a recounting there. What is important is that the entire state stood behind the daughter of Bengal. We are proud of our daughter has single-handedly faced the onslaught of BJP and defeated them. It’s because of Lord’s wish that Mamata had a landslide victory.” Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik spoke to Mamata on Monday and congratulated her for the landslide victory in the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Covid: Oxygen runs out, 24 patients died in Karnataka ||Twenty-four Covid patients died in Karnataka’s Chamrajnagar district in 24 hours, with the Opposition alleging they succumbed to a lack of oxygen and crying “murder by the government”. Karnataka health minister K. Sudhakar acknowledged an oxygen shortage in the state but claimed that only 3 of the 24 patients had died because of an interruption in oxygen supply at the district government hospital. Leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramaiah alleged that Chamrajnagar had been facing an oxygen shortage since Friday but the authorities had ignored the pleas of Congress leaders from the district. While 23 patients died at the government hospital, one died at a private hospital in Chamrajnagar, about 175km from here, between Sunday 7am and Monday 7am, minister Sudhakar said. “All the (23) patients (at the district hospital) had been in hospital for 14 to 18 days and were critical,” he said. He said the state government had ordered an inquiry headed by an IAS officer, Shivayogi Kalasad. “Each life is precious and it’s our duty to find out the reason (for the deaths) and ensure they are not repeated,” the minister told reporters. Asked about the Opposition’s allegation, Sudhakar said: “I shall wait for the inquiry report, to be submitted in three days.” Sudhakar said that while the government hospital had a 6,000-litre oxygen storage plant whose stocks were expected to last a day and a half, private hospitals in Chamrajnagar mostly depended on oxygen cylinders ferried from Mysore, 60km away. “All cylinders are refilled in Mysore since Chamrajnagar has no refilling centre,” Sudhakar said, citing what he said was one of the reasons for the shortage. Siddaramaiah sought the resignation of BJP chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Sudhakar and education minister Suresh Kumar, who is in charge of the district. The Congress leader demanded a judicial inquiry into the deaths, asking whether a government probe headed by a bureaucrat could be expected to reveal the truth. “Our former MP, R. Dhruvanarayana, and MLA Puttaranga Shetty tried to reach Suresh Kumar even on Sunday (over the oxygen shortage) but he was not available,” Siddaramaiah said. He urged the government to pay Rs 25 lakh to the next of kin of each of the dead as compensation, and punish all those responsible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-168
04-05-2021||India||Kerala Assembly Elections 2021: Major shake-up on cards in Congress likely||A major shake-up is on cards in the Kerala unit of the Congress following its shock defeat in the state polls with the Left Democratic Front making history by bucking a four-decades-old anti-incumbency cycle. Party sources said state Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran has already sounded off AICC about his willingness to step down and at least one district president has resigned taking responsibility for the loss. However, the general consensus was against anyone resigning at this stage. “We are planning to conduct a review of the results before the next government takes over,” AICC observer Ivan D’Souza told The Telegraph. Camped in Thiruvananthapuram, D’Souza, who is from neighbouring Karnataka, said it was too early to take any call on changes in the party organisation. “We need to meet all the leaders to review. I am not aware of anyone offering to resign,” he said when asked about Ramachandran’s offer. But later in the day, the party’s Alappuzha district president M. Liju submitted his resignation accepting responsibility for the party’s poor show in the district where Congress could win just one of the nine seats. Although the CPM had denied tickets to heavyweights such as T.M. Thomas Isaac in Alappuzha and G. Sudhakaran in neighbouring Ambalappuzha, the Congress failed to capitalise on their absence. Liju lost in Ambalappuzha. Kannur district Congress president Satheesan Pacheni also offered to resign. He had lost to Kadanapally Ramachandran of the LDF in Kannur constituency. State Congress vice-president C.P. Mohammed sought a complete change in the party’s organisation structure. “There is no point in changing one functionary. But there should be a complete makeover from the bottom to the top level,” he told a channel. The first sign of a significant change came with sources indicating that the party could go in for a new leader of the Opposition in place of Ramesh Chennithala. The alternatives that came up included V.D. Satheesan, Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan and P.T. Thomas. Party sources said many of them wanted a change in leadership by roping in someone like K. Sudhakaran, a powerhouse from Kannur district. Radhakrishnan later told a channel that he wanted Sudhakaran, a Lok Sabha member, to be “utilised properly”. Former chief minister A.K. Antony told reporters that the party had everything in it to come back if it picked up the right lessons from the setback. “The Congress and the UDF can come back very strongly if we learn the right lessons from this defeat,” said the former Union minister. A party insider said there were major concerns about the UDF being pushed to the third place in six constituencies, four of them in Thiruvananthapuram district. “This is something we need to address along with the overall defeat. We are a party with a very good base in Kerala. So we cannot let the BJP overtake us in so many constituencies,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Bengal Polls 2021: We are happy at Mamata Banerjee’s victory, say Kashmiris ||Soura resident Gul Mohammad Wani, who has travelled to Calcutta every winter to sell shawls for the past 40 years, has never voted in Kashmir elections. But on Sunday he was quietly praying for the victory of the “secular forces” in the Bengal polls, much like thousands of other “shawlwallas” who peddle their stuff in the eastern state and consider it their “second home”. “Naturally, we are happy (at Mamata Banerjee’s victory). I was always confident that they (BJP) would not win the election there,” Wani, 62, told The Telegraph. “That’s because Bengalis are a very peace-loving and civilised people. I knew they would reject the forces of Hindutva.” Wani said he had virtually “spent my life” in Bengal, staying on for six to seven months every year in the state. “We see Bengal as our second home; we always felt safer there than in our own Kashmir. But this election was the first (to have) a communal element. Kashmiris doing business there feared for their security if the other party (BJP) won,” he said. Apart from the handicrafts sellers who regularly visit Bengal, many other Kashmiris too closely monitored the election. Kashmir has suffered at the hands of the BJP-led central government, losing its special status and having to endure laws seen as ploys to change the Valley’s Muslim-majority character. For Wani, who began his working life as a hawker after dropping out of college in the early 1980s and is now a wholesaler, Mamata’s victory means a lot more than politics. Thousands of Kashmiri shawl sellers, many with their families in tow, leave for Bengal every year, around October, to sell their stuff and return in April. Wani said the practice had continued uninterrupted for the past 200 years. “Because of that there are a lot of cultural connects between the people of the two places. I have often hosted my Bengali acquaintances, vacationing in Kashmir, at my home in Srinagar. They too are very hospitable to us,” he said. Handicrafts are the mainstay of Kashmir’s economy after agriculture, horticulture and tourism. Lakhs of artisans are engaged in the sector, and thousands travel to different parts of the country to sell the products. For a large number of them, Bengal is the favourite destination. Hazratbal resident Gulzar Fazli, who has sold his wares in Bengal for decades, said the state would never have been the same again for Kashmiris if Mamata had lost to the BJP. “The situation in Kashmir has been bad for a long time but it was always refreshing for us to spend our winters there (in Bengal). That might have changed (with a BJP victory). For a couple of years, I have not been able to go to Bengal because of health reasons but I’m missing that place,” he said. Bashir Ahmad Akhoon, who lives in Chak-e-Bagh near Srinagar’s National Institute of Technology, said the Bengal government had stood by visiting Kashmiri traders in times of trouble. “After the Pulwama attack (of 2019), some people roughed up and robbed a few Kashmiri hawkers, but the Mamata government warned them. The traders’ money was soon returned to them,” Akhoon said. Former chief ministers Mehbooba Mufti and Omar Abdullah have congratulated Mamata on her huge victory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Doctor cautions against use of lung CT scans, steroids in people with mild Covid-19||A top medical doctor on Monday cautioned against the use of lung CT scans or steroids in people with mild Covid-19, warning that they would potentially harm patients. “There is no need for CT scans in patients with mild illness,” Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, said at a health ministry briefing. Sometimes, a small proportion of even asymptomatic Covid-19 patients might show patches visible through CT scans but do not require any intervention, he said. A single CT scan can expose patients to radiation equivalent to that from 300 X-rays, Guleria said, and people who are young may experience a greater risk of cancer through such exposure. “The timing of treatment is critical,” he said, cautioning that the consumption of steroids in the early stages of the infection might increase viral loads and raise the risk of viral pneumonia. An updated standard treatment protocol released by the AIIMS faculty on April 22 makes it clear that patients with mild illness only need drugs such as paracetamol along with gargling and steam inhalation, depending on symptoms. Only patients who advance into the moderate stage — marked by a fall in oxygen levels to below 93-94 or more than 24 breaths per minute — need to be treated with oxygen, steroids and other medications. AIIMS, Guleria said, has been trying to disseminate the protocol to doctors across the country through online seminars. He said oxygen therapy, steroids, and anti-coagulants — drugs that reduce the risk of clotting — remain primary treatments in moderate disease. Although remdesivir, tocilizumab and convalescent plasma have also been approved for use under emergency-use authorisation, Guleria said, there is not enough data yet to support clear benefits from these interventions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Centre invites medical graduates to join Covid workforce||The Centre on Monday invited medical graduates across India studying for the National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test for postgraduate (PG) courses to join the Covid-19 workforce, assuring them that the exam will not be held before August 31. The Union health ministry has asked states to reach out to all such prospective NEET candidates and persuade them to join the Covid-19 workforce and help augment human resources at a time the savage second wave of the pandemic has overwhelmed hospitals and medical staff. The ministry also said it would give the candidates at least one month’s time for study period after the announcement of the examination date. More than 150,000 medical graduates are estimated to be preparing for the NEET-PG 2021 that was scheduled for January 2021 but has been postponed, first to April 2021 and now to beyond August 31. The ministry has also asked states to fill up vacant posts of doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff within 45 days through contractual appointments and use services of final-year MBBS students, final-year PG students, and final-year BSc qualified nurses for Covid-19 care. Public and private hospitals may avail of these relaxations, the ministry said, adding that medical personnel who complete 100 days of Covid-19 duties will be given priority in forthcoming regular government recruitments. Health experts tracking the second wave have said these moves were overdue as the numbers of new infections and active patients in many parts of India have grown beyond the capacity of hospitals or healthcare staff to manage with ideal high efficiency. India recorded over 368,000 new infections on Monday, raising the total number of active patients to over 3.41 million, more than three times higher than the peak counts of patients in mid-September last year during the first wave. “Unprecedented problems warrant unprecedented solutions — and this is one of those periods,” said Santanu Tripathi, former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. Sections of medical graduates, however, say they are dismayed by the Centre’s decision to postpone the NEET-PG exam. “I think this is a short-sighted decision — taken by people who have little idea about what studying for the exam involves,” an aspiring candidate told The Telegraph. India would have had nearly 40,000 extra medical graduates working as residents and available for Covid-19 duties had NEET 2021 been held in January as planned when the number of daily new Covid-19 cases had fallen significantly, the candidate said. The parent of a NEET 2021 candidate said students typically study 15 or 16 hours a day for months to score high in the exam and working full-time in a hospital wouldn’t provide them enough time to study. “Getting a month before the exam isn’t enough — the syllabus is like a bottomless pit.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Covid: Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas earns reputation for helping people in distress||Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas has earned a reputation for helping people in distress. From the harsh lockdown in March 2020 to the devastating second wave of the pandemic now, he has been seen distributing food, arranging for transport, delivering oxygen and medicines at doorsteps and securing hospital admissions. In an interview with The Telegraph, Srinivas refused to accept that he was doing anything exceptional, arguing that thousands of people were helping each other in this time of crisis. Excerpts follow: Q: What motivated you to serve people at a time when politics is all about networking and deception? B.V. Srinivas: I will tell you the reality. In March 2020, Rahul Gandhi told us that this pandemic will play havoc with the world and instructed us to help people in whatever way possible. We followed his instructions. Again on March 7, 2021, Rahulji attended the Youth Congress executive and alerted us to the lurking danger of the second wave. He asked us to keep focus on Covid, farmers’ agitation and unemployment. We responded to his call with sincerity. Q: But the leader always exhorts the cadre to serve the people. That’s taken as hollow rhetoric. You have taken it very seriously. Srinivas: Not me. We selected 600 Youth Congress workers last year — those who had passion to serve the people and were resourceful and networked across the country. They all worked tirelessly last year during the lockdown when millions of people got dislocated and walked hundreds of kilometres to reach home. We have added 400 more this year and these 1,000 people are Rahul Gandhi’s team extending a helping hand to people in distress. We formed a helpline, set up systems on social media — with the hashtag “SOSIYC” — and used personal Twitter accounts to connect to needy persons. We are getting thousands of distress calls. It saddens us that we cannot help everybody. Q: But the nature of youth politics has been different — it is known more for energy than compassion. The Youth Congress was known more for rowdyism than social service. You have developed a new model of youth politics. Srinivas: No, no… our tradition is politics of Mahatma Gandhi. Our leader Rahulji is also young and he tells us this is not the time for politics. If you can’t help people in such a great humanitarian crisis, politics will be reduced to power-grabbing. I am lucky that Rahulji gave me the opportunity and platform to do something for the people. Q: There are thousands of youth in the Congress and other parties. Why is that Srinivas stands out? How many other leaders are working like this? Srinivas: Thousands of people have come out to help. Civil society knows the government has failed and people are desperately looking for help. We are working among the people because there is extreme distress. We are living in difficult times. I was lucky to have worked in natural calamities in Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala over the past few years. I went to Bihar as well during floods. Q: You had this commitment from the very beginning, to serve the people? Srinivas: I don’t come from a political background. My father died early, my mother was an employee in Steel Authority of India. I was playing cricket, played under-19. I was a wicketkeeper-batsman. An accident ended my cricket and I got interested in politics in college. Then Rahulji made me national secretary of Youth Congress and I came to Delhi. When I was given charge of Uttar Pradesh as general secretary, I was hesitant as I didn’t know Hindi. But Rahulji told me you have to understand “bhavna (emotion)” of the people, “bhasha (language)” is not important. That motivated me. Now as Youth Congress president, I have the opportunity to work. Q: How do you manage to help such a large number of people? Where do the resources come from? Does the party help? Srinivas: Nothing can be done without the party’s help. We also rely on donations, primarily from Youth Congress members themselves. There are many resourceful persons, well-connected guys who help. They can arrange transport, get admission in hospitals, arrange medicine and food. There are dedicated boys who are working 24x7. It is unfortunate that I have become the face; the whole team is equally responsible. Q: Don’t you think the very nature of politics will change if social service becomes the guiding principle for all? Srinivas: That’s how it should be. We are seeing aberrations now when humanitarian responsibilities are ignored. But Rahulji is committed to that kind of politics. Things will change soon. Politics has to be about people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Covid: Social media a godsend as govt fails the sick||Rajni Gill woke up with a slight fever in mid-April, the first warning that she had Covid-19. Within a few days, she was breathless and nearly unconscious in a hospital. Desperate to arrange plasma treatment for Gill, a gynaecologist in Noida, her family called doctors, friends, anyone they thought could help. Then her sister posted a plea on Facebook: “I am looking for a plasma donor for my sister who is hospitalised in Noida. She is B positive and is 43.” The message, quickly amplified on Twitter, flashed across the phone of B.V. Srinivas, an Opposition politician in Delhi, who was just then securing plasma for a college student. He deputised a volunteer donor to rush to the blood bank for Gill. “The administration and systems have collapsed,” Srinivas said. “I have never seen so many people dying at the same time.” “Mine and my team’s work may be a drop in the ocean — but a drop nevertheless,” he said. With India’s healthcare system overwhelmed by the unprecedented Covid surge, which is bringing about 400,000 new cases and thousands of deaths each day, desperate relatives and friends of the infected have resorted to sending SOS messages on social media. And many of those calls are being answered. Some people need medical oxygen, which is nearly impossible to find in the national capital. Others are hunting for medicine that goes for high prices on the black market, or for ventilators that are exceedingly rare. The pleas are reaching tech-savvy engineers, lawyers, NGO workers, politicians, doctors and even tuk-tuk drivers, who have mobilised online to help the sick, some of them hundreds of miles away. Collectively, they have formed grassroots networks that are stepping in where state and national governments have failed. It is a role that Srinivas, 38, has played before in times of crisis. As the president of the Congress party’s youth league, he has provided support after natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods. He has worked to get textbooks to underprivileged children and medicine to people who couldn’t afford it. Early last year, when the pandemic first struck and India locked down, Srinivas galvanised young volunteers across the country who distributed food for stranded migrants, along with more than 10 million masks. He now heads a team of 1,000 people, including 100 in Delhi, the centre of the current outbreak. “I have grown up on Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals,” said Srinivas, who aspired to be a cricket player before entering politics. “I cannot believe it that I am out here today, trying to help so many people.” The cries for help on Twitter and Facebook started spreading “like wildfire” in early April, Srinivas said. He created the hashtag “SOSIYC” so people could connect to his organisation, the Indian Youth Congress. His team advertises for plasma donors online, and 5,000 have signed up. He also enlists psychologists to counsel donors about the four-hour procedure. India’s loose online aid networks rely on tools and techniques commonly used in marketing and other forms of messaging on social media. Families tag people with large followings or specialised skills who might be able to amplify their messages, while volunteer organisers use keywords to filter the flood of requests. Abhishek Murarka, who works in finance in Mumbai, decided he needed to do more than retweet messages. He started searching for the terms “verified”, “confirmed” and “available” on Twitter to track down specific leads on Covid supplies. He has since posted an 84-second video explaining his techniques so that others can use them. Hundreds of miles away, Praveen Mishra, 20, who runs a start-up in Bangalore, studied Murarka’s video and applied his own filters to search for beds, oxygen and medicine. He was able to get a particular medicine to a patient in Delhi after confirming that it was available in Hyderabad. “Initially I felt very scared, that there are too many cases and that I will not be able to help at all,” Mishra said. “Now I am calling 20 leads per day and verifying their needs.” Some people are tapping into resources around the world. Nikhil Jois, a technology executive in Bangalore, and his own team vetted charity organisations that supplied oxygen, food and sanitary napkins. He whittled his list down to just over a dozen organisations, some of which could accept international donations. His team then asked several companies in India to link to the list on their apps or websites. And he began emailing executives, investors and best-selling authors in the US, asking them to give. “The most beautiful part of social media is that you trust strangers,” Jois said. That, of course, is not always a good idea. Dubious accounts offer shoddy or exorbitantly priced goods to desperate people, and leads on supplies can quickly evaporate. And trolls will always inflict hate on the vulnerable. But with India in crisis and travel not a safe option, social media has been the only way for some people to find help. Aditya Jain, who is in Delhi, recently put out a plea that went viral on Twitter. He felt helpless as his elderly aunt and uncle, about 130 miles away in Agra, struggled during the strict lockdown there. His aunt suffers from a spinal disease, and his uncle, a diabetic, needs weekly dialysis. Unable to go out, they were eating just one meal a day. They couldn’t care for themselves, and at times they couldn’t make it to the bathroom. Through LinkedIn, he found an organisation that caters to seniors. He filled out a form, providing their names, location and other information. The next morning, volunteers showed up at their doorstep with breakfast and adult diapers. “Social media is like a godsend for us,” said an emotional Jain, who has lost one of his other relatives to Covid. Srinivas said he was getting at least 10,000 messages on Twitter every day and followed up on all of them. For every 100 requests, he said, he can usually help 30 to 40 people, given the shortages. Even foreign diplomats in Delhi have reached out to his organisation for help. On Sunday, the New Zealand High Commission tagged the Indian Youth Congress on Twitter in an appeal for oxygen cylinders. Since the Youth Congress is part of the political Opposition, that got a lot of attention, given the intense criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the pandemic. (The commission said its appeal had been “misinterpreted, for which we are sorry”.) Srinivas’s volunteers use direct messaging to collect data on people needing help, then classify them by risk profile. They work with people on the ground to arrange hospital beds and plasma donations for the most serious cases. Others are put in touch with doctors who can provide remote consultations. Often, the system’s deficiencies are too great to overcome. Mahua Ray Chaudhuri frantically tagged Srinivas looking for oxygen for her sick father. His team found some, but that wasn’t enough: No ICU beds were available. “At least I could get him oxygen, and he died breathing,” Chaudhuri said by telephone, breaking down. “This help from strangers on Twitter was like a balm for our disturbed minds and souls.” But Srinivas’s team was able to get plasma for Gill, the gynaecologist, just in time. She is now recuperating in a hospital on the outskirts of Delhi. “I feel choked with emotions,” she said. “Coming out of such a fatal time, I realise I have been helped selflessly by complete strangers.” She recently called Srinivas to thank him. “Though I have never met her, it was a humbling experience hearing her voice,” he said. “I am so relieved she made it.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||SC refuses to entertain EC's plea to restrain police from registering murder cases against officials||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain an Election Commission plea to restrain the country’s police from registering murder cases against its officials on the basis of oral observations by Madras High Court that blamed the poll panel for the Covid resurgence. The apex court also ruled out restraining the high courts from making such oral observations or the media from reporting them, asserting the media was the “watchdog” of democracy and needed to report such oral observations for the public good. Madras High Court had on April 26 castigated the commission for allowing poll rallies, held it “singularly” responsible for India’s second Covid wave, called it the “the most irresponsible institution” and said its officials might be booked for murder. It later refused to recall its observations. Last week, a culpable homicide case was registered in Calcutta against deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain over a poll candidate’s death from Covid. The case was registered on a complaint from Nandita Sinha, wife of Trinamul candidate Kajal Sinha who was on Sunday posthumously declared elected from Khardaha. While refusing the commission’s plea, the apex court bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said the poll panel was free to approach Calcutta High Court and seek quashing of the culpable homicide case. “We will have to maintain sanctity of judicial order; we will have to also give liberty to the chief justice of high court. We also feel that the media should include in its reports everything that has been observed in the court,” Justice Chandrachud told senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, counsel for the commission. “We cannot pass any directions that media cannot report the contents of the oral discussion in court and only report the order. This is because the discussion in a court of law is equally in public interest. When we are dealing with the superior courts like the high courts, I place this (oral) discussion at the same pedestal as the final order. “Now, we cannot say that the media will not report the discussion made in the court.... The media is of course the watchdog of the sanctity of this process (court proceedings). “It is the reporting of this process which gives confidence to the public.... It is this process which discloses to the public that there has been an application of the mind to assuage the concerns of citizens.” Nor can the apex court order high court judges to confine themselves to pleadings or the written order, the bench said. “If we restrain ourselves from dialogues, then it would cause serious harm to the judicial process.” Justice Chandrachud said the bench had no control over the registration of cases filed on the basis of oral observations by the high courts. In such a situation, it said, the commission had the legal remedy of approaching the high court concerned and seek quashing of the FIR. “You (commission) can approach the high court (in Calcutta) under Section 482 (CrPC),” the bench said. Later, the court said it would pass a “balanced” written order on the commission’s appeal against Madras High Court’s oral observations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Covid: Supreme Court prods Centre on oxygen, vaccines ||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to ensure uniform vaccine prices, build a buffer stock of oxygen and crack down on those selling key Covid drugs like remdesivir and tocilizumab on the black market. It has also asked the Centre and the states to consider fresh lockdowns — but only after taking welfare measures for the poor — and ensure that no one is denied hospital treatment for failing to furnish ID proof or for being a resident of another state. The order by the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat, which had on April 30 suo motu heard the Centre and the states on the management of the Covid crisis, was uploaded on Sunday night. Some of its highlights: ⚫ The Centre must ensure that the deficit in oxygen supply to the Delhi government is rectified by May 3-4 midnight. ⚫ The Centre should, in collaboration with the states, prepare a buffer stock of oxygen for emergency use. The emergency stocks, whose location should be decentralised, must be created by May 4 and replenished daily. This will be in addition to the existing allocation of oxygen to the states. ⚫ The Centre and the states must notify all chief secretaries, directors-general of police and police commissioners that any clampdown on information on social media or harassment of people seeking or delivering help through any platform will attract action. The court registrar must place a copy of this order before all district magistrates. ⚫ The Centre must, within two weeks, formulate a national policy on admission to hospitals that will be followed by all state governments. Till the policy is formulated, no patient shall be denied hospitalisation or essential drugs anywhere for lack of proof of residence in the state or Union Territory concerned, or even in the absence of identity proof. ⚫ The Centre must revisit its initiatives and protocols, including those on the availability of essential drugs at affordable prices and on vaccine pricing. Currently, vaccine makers are charging the states higher prices than the Centre, and the private hospitals are being charged even higher prices. “This court would like to take judicial notice of the fact that several critical drugs, used to treat Covid-19, such as remdesivir and tocilizumab, are being sold at significantly inflated prices or in fake form,” the court said. “The central government can consider constituting a special team to identify and prosecute those who (a) sell medical grade oxygen/Covid-19 medicines at exorbitant prices; and (b) sell fake substances and recover the concerned substances.” The court added: “A protocol for ambulances must also be evolved to avoid citizens being exploited by extracting unconscionable charges. The central government can consider creating a platform for easy reporting and redress of such cases.” It said the Centre should consider deploying the healthcare workforce available with the defence and paramilitary forces in the vaccination campaign. The Centre and the states should also put “a ban on mass gatherings and super spreader events” and explore the possibility of a fresh lockdown. “Having said that, we are cognisant of the socio-economic impact of a lockdown, specifically on the marginalised communities. Thus, in case the measure of a lockdown is imposed, arrangements must be made beforehand to cater to the needs of these communities,” the bench said. The court asked the Centre and the states “to put on record the efforts taken to curb the spread of the virus and the measures that they plan on taking in the near future”. The government is to respond before the next date of hearing, May 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Covid: Arvind Kejriwal announces measures for patients under home isolation||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced measures for Covid-19 patients under home isolation in the capital. In recent days, several news reports have cited under-reporting of Covid deaths and lack of data on patients outside hospitals. During a meeting with top health officials on Monday, Kejriwal said that “...those who are in home isolation should receive a call from the team of doctors within 24 hours of being tested positive so that counselling can begin as soon as possible”. A statement from his office said that district administrations have been asked to ensure that every home isolation patient has a pulse oximeter. These were protocols put in place last year but were eased out as the pandemic temporarily subsided. On May 1, 50,742 patients were under home isolation and 21,154 were in medical facilities. On the day, 407 deaths were recorded in the capital. Several families have avoided testing Covid victims fearing stigma that could come in the way of performing their last rites. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia told reporters on Monday: “We have asked for help from various stakeholders in terms of oxygen supply, whether it is asking the army to provide trucks or DRDO’s facility with 500 beds. But we need intensive and immediate help to ensure proper oxygen supply in Delhi. We are in touch with private entities, social sector, central government for the same... As of yesterday (Sunday), we received 440MT of oxygen, which is lesser than the allocated quota of 590MT and much lesser than Delhi’s requirement of 976MT to cater to the demand of each and every citizen. It is imperative that we receive adequate oxygen and increase our capacity of beds.” Sisodia also wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to waive the 12 per cent GST on oxygen concentrators for six months. These are devices that patients are now buying online, without any government subsidy, for treatment at home. Mostly imported, these cost upwards of Rs 50,000, with some costing more than Rs 1.5 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||India||Assembly Elections 2021: Farmers rejoice in saffron party's defeat in three of five state ||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, rejoicing in the resounding defeat of the BJP in three of the five state elections, said on Monday the party had been taught a lesson by the farmers and workers of the country. The Morcha, under whose banner some 500 farmer organisations from across the country are protesting against three farm laws brought by the Centre, said in a statement that the BJP had lost the Assembly elections because of the “heavy anger of farmers and workers of the nation”. The BJP was soundly defeated in Bengal, an election where it had thrown all its might and which it had built up as a direct battle between Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee. It did not win a single seat in Kerala and was on the vanquished side in Tamil Nadu. The party won only in Assam and Puducherry, where it was the junior partner. The Morcha statement said farmers have seen through the government plan of “ending the mandi system”, allowing corporate groups to build stocks without a limit and “the aspiration of the corporate to take over the lands of the farmers”. “Due to farmers not getting MSP and spreading lies in the name of MSP, farmers have shown their anger in these elections,” the statement added. “At the same time, the labourers have also taught the BJP a lesson by casting the vote against them. Through the new Labour Codes, the government wants to impose a slavery system. The provision to increase the working time from 8 hours to 12 hours is not acceptable to the workers. The workers have voted against the BJP government’s intentions of shutting down the PDS scheme,” it said. Some farmer leaders pointed out that the prolonged farmer protests against all odds, including the oppression of the State, had demolished the psychological barrier of the BJP being invincible. Farmers have been sitting at Delhi’s borders since November last year. “Farmers showed the common people that it is possible to stand up to the ‘Mo-Sha’ (Modi-Shah) regime. Also, the Covid vaccination controversy made people realise that what is happening with vaccines now — where people have to pay for basic immunisation and pharma companies/hospitals allowed to fix their rates — could well happen with food once the farm laws become operational,’’ the Morcha said. Under the Morcha’s call, farmers had campaigned against the BJP in all five election-bound states. They did not support any party but asked people to vote for the political party best positioned in their respective areas to defeat the BJP. Parliament march Farmer union leaders suggested that their proposed march to Parliament in the first fortnight of May might be put on hold because of the pandemic. Though a final decision will be taken at a meeting on May 10, some union leaders The Telegraph spoke to said it would be foolhardy to continue with the march and create a possible super-spreader situation when the virus is on rampage and the health infrastructure is overwhelmed. “It will be highly irresponsible on our part to do this, and also counterproductive as immediately the government and its agents would use it to malign the movement,’’ a union leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-169
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Nadda visits homes of victims of post-poll violence||BJP national president J.P Nadda, in Calcutta for a two-day visit, visited homes of alleged victims of Trinamul atrocities on Tuesday, as his party continues to mount political pressure on Mamata Banerjee ahead of her swearing-in as chief minister for a third term on Wednesday. “After the results, Trinamul goons went to the house of Haran Adhikari vandalised it, threatened women and children, attacked them and broke his wife’s teeth,” Nadda told news channels at Sonarpur in South 24-Parganas. “They then dragged Adhikari out of his house and beat him up. He died.” He was also scheduled to visit the home of another BJP worker, Abhijit Sarkar in Beliaghata, who was allegedly killed by Trinamul supporters. Nadda’s visits to homes of victims of political violence was reminiscent of the Trinamul’s days in the Opposition when its general secretary Partha Chatterjee moved from one trouble spot to another when the Left Front was in power. Earlier, upon landing at Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Airport here, Nadda told the media, "We are committed to democratically fight this ideological battle and the activities of the TMC, which is full of intolerance. I had heard of the immense atrocities committed during the Partition, but I have never seen such post-poll violence that is occurring in West Bengal after the declaration of election results (on May 2)." Since the election results were announced on the evening of May 2, Bengal has been in the grip of a vicious cycle of violence in several parts of the state, involving the ruling Trinamul and the main Opposition BJP. Some of the allegations made by the BJP have, however, turned out to untrue, indicating a motive to corner the newly elected government by citing violence to demand the imposition of the President’s rule in the state. Some voices within the BJP are already trying to amplify such a demand. Such over-zealousness over the Bengal polls and its aftermath cost film actor Kangana Ranaut her Twitter account, which was suspended on Tuesday following her call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “This is horrible. We need super gundai to kill gundai… she is like an unleashed monster, to tame her Modi ji please show your virat roop from early 2000s,” tweeted Kangana. Earlier, the actor had compared Mamata with Ravan, the mythological demon king. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has reportedly not called Mamata yet to congratulate on her electoral victory, spoke with Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday. “PM called and expressed his serious anguish and concern at alarmingly worrisome law and order situation” the governor tweeted. “I share grave concerns given that violence, vandalism, arson, loot and killings continue unabated. Concerned must act in overdrive to restore order.” Mamata, who will take oath as chief minister on Wednesday, blamed the BJP for the escalation of tension in the state. “This is BJP’s propaganda. Some sporadic incidents are there, but it happens in every state. I am not justifying violence. BJP is trying to create communal clashes, because of their shameful defeat,” Mamata told NDTV on Tuesday afternoon. “They have lost their credibility. Till now even law and order was being handled by the central forces, not by me. So, this is their doing, they are to blame for spoiling the situation if this is true.” Mamata also accused the BJP of spreading fake videos and images to create trouble. “The BJP is a communal party, they are trouble-mongers, they use fake videos, they misuse their powers, they misuse agencies; they want to demolish federalism, bulldoze the federal character of the country… They are not allowing universal vaccination. They are not giving oxygen. They need political oxygen” she told NDTV. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury had on Monday criticised the TMC over the violent clashes in the state since the announcement of the election results. "Are these reports of gruesome violence in Bengal TMC's victory celebrations'? Condemnable. Will be resisted & rebuffed. Instead of focusing on combating the pandemic, TMC unleashes such mayhem. CPI(M), as always, will be with the people to protect, assist, providing relief," Yechury had said in a tweet. The Congress also condemned the post-poll violence in Bengal by TMC cadres, saying such incidents were unacceptable and people of the state had not voted for lawlessness. Congress' Bengal in charge Jitin Prasada alleged on Tuesday that his party cadres were attacked by Trinamool Congress workers and even women and children were not spared. "The post-poll violence that has been unleashed by the TMC on the Congress workers is unacceptable. Even women and children are not spared. I'm sure the people of West Bengal did not vote for this lawlessness," Prasad said on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
04-05-2021||West Bengal||All parties criticise TMC as post-poll violence claims lives ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and expressed anguish over the law and order situation in the state following reports of post-poll violence from several districts. The state was in the throes of widespread violence on Monday that allegedly left several BJP workers dead and injured in clashes, and shops being looted, prompting the Centre to seek a factual report from the government on incidents of attack on opposition workers. "PM called and expressed his serious anguish and concern at the alarmingly worrisome law & order situation @MamataOfficial. I share grave concerns @PMOIndia given that violence vandalism, arson, loot and killings continue unabated," Dhankhar wrote on Twitter. Bengal BJP on Monday alleged that at least six supporters, including a woman, had been murdered by Trinamul workers as reports of political clashes poured in from across the state. Four Trinamul supporters were also allegedly killed in post-poll violence in south Bengal. Till Monday evening, the number of political activists killed — across all parties — had crossed 10. Many more were beaten up. Many homes and shops were ransacked or torched. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee publicly urged people to refrain from violence. Several political parties on Tuesday condemned the violence that had been shrouding Bengal ever since the result of the Assembly elections were announced. BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday said the widespread post-poll violence in West Bengal is reminiscent of the atrocities people had to face during the country's Partition, and exhorted party workers in the state to democratically fight the "savagery". Nadda, who arrived on a two-day visit to Bengal, said BJP workers across India have expressed solidarity with their activists in the state, who are "facing violent attacks". "We are committed to democratically fight this ideological battle and the activities of the TMC, which is full of intolerance," he told reporters at the NSC Bose International Airport here. "I had heard of the immense atrocities committed during the Partition, but I have never seen such post-poll violence that is occurring in West Bengal after the declaration of election results (on May 2)," the senior BJP leader said. Nadda said he will visit the residences of BJP workers "killed" in attacks in South 24 Parganas district and speak to their kin. "We want to give this message that crores of BJP workers across the country are with them," he said. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury had on Monday criticised the TMC over the violent clashes in the state since the announcement of results for the 292-member Bengal assembly. "Are these reports of gruesome violence in Bengal TMC's victory celebrations'? Condemnable. Will be resisted & rebuffed. Instead of focusing on combating the pandemic TMC unleashes such mayhem. CPI(M), as always, will be with the people to protect, assist, providing relief," Yechury had said in a tweet. After the BJP and the CPI-M, the Congress also condemned the post-poll violence in Bengal by TMC cadres, saying such incidents were unacceptable and people of the state have not voted for lawlessness. Congress' Bengal incharge Jitin Prasada alleged on Tuesday that his party cadres were attacked by Trinamool Congress workers and even women and children were not spared. "The post-poll violence that has been unleashed by the TMC on the Congress workers is unacceptable. Even women and children are not spared. I'm sure the people of West Bengal did not vote for this lawlessness," Prasad said on Twitter. He said the duty of every politician or public servant is to speak up against "all wrongs and stand by their cadre irrespective of which ideology one belongs to". Asked about the post-poll violence taking place in West Bengal after the Trinamool Congress' victory in the state, Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said his party never condones such violence. "Congress has never supported any kind of violence. The Congress party never condones or supports any kind of violence. There is no place for violence in a democracy," he said. "We expect that if Mamata Banerjee has received so much love and votes in Bengal, she should control the violence," he said. The Congress leader said, "Even if those who have died are BJP workers, our condolences are with their families".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
04-05-2021||West Bengal||PM called to express ‘serious anguish’ over situation in Bengal, says Dhankhar||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi called him and expressed anguish over the law and order situation in the state following reports of post-poll violence from several districts. The state was in the throes of widespread violence on Monday that allegedly left several BJP workers dead and injured in clashes, and shops being looted, prompting the Centre to seek a factual report from the government on incidents of attack on opposition workers. "PM called and expressed his serious anguish and concern at the alarmingly worrisome law & order situation @MamataOfficial. I share grave concerns @PMOIndia given that violence vandalism, arson, loot and killings continue unabated," Dhankhar wrote on Twitter. Four people were killed in alleged clashes between TMC and BJP supporters in Burdwan district on Sunday and Monday, officials said. The TMC claimed three of them were its supporters. Videos of alleged arson at a BJP office with bamboo poles and roof tiles burning amid worried cries of people running away from the premises were shared by the party. "Police @WBPolice @CPKolkata must end senseless political violence, vandalism, arson, killings and intimidation that shames democracy. Why post poll violence only WB? Why this assault on democracy?" the governor asked on the microblogging site. "Reports indicate horrendous state of affairs. Horrified people are fleeing to save themselves," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
04-05-2021||West Bengal||SC holds Bengal law on regulating real estate unconstitutional||The Supreme Court on Tuesday struck down West Bengal's law on regulating real estate sector saying it was unconstitutional as the state's statute encroached upon the Centre's Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA). The top court also said that WB HIRA has failed to include valuable safeguards for the homebuyers'. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said the West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act (HIRA), 2017 is more or less identical to the Centre's RERA and hence repugnant to Parliament's law. "The state law has encroached upon the domain of the Parliament and hence is unconstitutional," the verdict said. It said, however, that homebuyers who have purchased properties under state law before its verdict, will not have to worry as their registration and other acts would remain valid. The judgement came on a plea of Forum For People's Collective Efforts' , an umbrella homebuyers association, challenging the constitutional validity of West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act, 2017, which is more or less identical to the Centre's RERA. Pronouncing the verdict through video conferencing, Justice Chandrachud said that fundamental features of WB HIRA overlaps and is word-to-word copy of Centre's RERA. The bench, which passed a lengthy verdict on the issue, said that WB HIRA touches upon entry 6 and 7 of the concurrent list which was occupied by the law passed by Parliament and set up a parallel regime in the state. The state doing so is plainly unconstitutional, the bench said, adding that provisions in the legislation shows that there is repugnancy in WB HIRA and RERA. WB HIRA is directly in conflict with RERA, without any valuable safeguards for the home buyers , the bench said, adding that it is invoking powers under Article 142 to hold that registrations of properties done under the state law before its verdict, will be valid. The top court had during the hearing of the petition wondered whether a state, in the name of cooperative federalism, enact a legislation under the concurrent list to occupy the same subjects in which Parliament has enacted a law. It had observed that both Centre's RERA and WB HIRA dealt with issues of providing reliefs to home buyers and to promote real estate sectors but some of the provisions of State's legislation were in direct conflict with the law passed by Parliament. The top court had said that a state can have legislation but to supplant the Centre's law and not to be direct conflict or to override it and say that now we will not follow your law but our law. It had wondered why a state would have a similar law enacted when there is already a law passed by Parliament and said many provisions in WB HIRA are repugnant to Centre's RERA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: EC cites Covid surge to indefinitely postpone elections to two seats||The Election Commission on Monday cited the Covid surge to indefinitely postpone the already deferred elections to two Bengal seats, a decision that also makes any by-election unlikely in the near future and hangs a cloud over the timetable of Mamata Banerjee’s re-election to the Assembly. Elections had earlier been put off to May 16 in the Jangipur and Samserganj Assembly seats following the deaths of the two Sanyukta Morcha candidates there. On Monday, these were further postponed along with an Assembly by-election in Odisha. A by-election was also due in Khardah, whose Trinamul winner Kajal Sinha had died of Covid before the results were announced. It would have offered Mamata, defeated from Nandigram, an opportunity to be re-elected to the Assembly— which she has to do within six months of taking oath as chief minister if she wants to retain the chair. Monday’s poll panel statement does not mention Khardah since the by-election had not been notified. But it appears unlikely to be held anytime soon in the light of the three postponements, making it uncertain when Mamata might be able to get elected to the House. Mamata could not have contested from Jangipur or Samserganj even if the polls were held since only the RSP and the Congress, respectively, are allowed to field fresh candidates. These are the parties whose candidates for these seats had died. Since the Khardah vote, whenever notified, would be a by-election, nomination papers from all the contestants will be accepted afresh. Whenever a seat falls vacant, a by-election is mandated within six months under Section 151A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 but with a rider. This period can be further extended if “the Election Commission in consultation with the central government certifies that it is difficult to hold the by-election within the said period”. The poll panel’s current urgency about the surging epidemic comes after it allowed blatant flouting of pandemic protocols at campaign rallies during the Bengal polls, and ignored appeals to at least merge the last three of the eight phases to control the damage. A media release from the commission said on Monday: “Commission after taking all material facts and inputs of CEO (chief election officer) West Bengal and CEO Odisha in consideration and taking note of lockdown/ restrictions under Disaster Management Act, 2005, as issued by NDMA/SDMA has decided to defer the scheduled poll and extend the period of elections in 110-Pipli AC of Odisha and 58-Jangipur & 56-Samserganj assembly constituencies of West Bengal. Fresh notification will be issued after assessing the pandemic situation.” Last year, Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray had sought election to the legislative council after being sworn in as Maharashtra chief minister. After the polls were postponed because of the pandemic, the state cabinet had asked governor B.S. Koshyari to nominate him to the Upper House, where the seat of a nominated member was vacant. The governor did not act on the recommendation. Uddhav then wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, following which Koshyari asked the poll panel to notify elections to the vacant legislative council seats. Campaigning and polling in council elections are held on a much smaller scale than Assembly elections since the electorates are smaller, thus reducing the possibility of widespread infections. Bengal, however, has no legislative council.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata hints at possible malpractices in counting of votes at Nandigram||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the returning officer for the Nandigram Assembly seat had reportedly communicated to someone that an order for a recount might put his life at risk. The allegation hinted at possible malpractices in the counting of votes in the East Midnapore constituency from where Mamata lost to former party colleague Suvendu Adhikari. “I received an SMS from someone in which the returning officer for Nandigram wrote to someone that if he allowed a recount, his life would be under threat,” said Mamata, who showed a text message whose writer expresses the fear of losing his life if he orders a recount in Nandigram. This newspaper tried to contact Kishor Biswas, deputy magistrate, Haldia, who was the returning officer for Nandigram but he refused to comment on the subject. The returning officer has the responsibility to decide whether a recount is warranted. On Sunday, the plea for a recount was rejected. Multiple sources in the district administration said Biswas had told several colleagues and superiors about the pressure he faced on the day of counting. Although it could not be confirmed who had sent the message, reports from the ground corroborated the chief minister’s premise that something was wrong with the counting process in Nandigram. “It’s the legitimate right of a party to ask for a recount, but why wasn’t it allowed?” Mamata asked during a news conference at her home on Monday. Although Trinamul swept the Bengal polls by bagging 213 of the 292 seats where elections took place, Mamata lost from Nandigram. That there was some confusion over the counting process in Nandigram was clear last evening, with Suvendu’s victory being announced after Mamata had been declared the winner initially. “For four hours, the server was down (at the counting centre), there was a power cut…. The governor had even congratulated me. Suddenly everything changed,” Mamata said. “We had never seen such mafia-type attitude in Bengal,” she said, adding that she would move court over the Nandigram result. Mamata said her party supporters would continue to protest in Nandigram to ensure that the EVMs and VVPATs were kept separately, preventing tampering until the court heard the case. Asked about the future of the Centre-state relationship, Mamata said she had always cooperated with the Centre on matters involving the people’s interest. Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tweet in which he pledged all support for Bengal, Mamata said she was aware of the social media message but it didn’t mean much to her. “This is the first time a PM did not even call (after our victory),” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Didi calls for peace amid post-poll violence||Bengal BJP on Monday alleged that at least five supporters had been murdered by Trinamul workers as reports of political clashes poured in from across the state. Four Trinamul supporters were also allegedly killed in post-poll violence in south Bengal. Till Monday evening, the number of political activists killed — across all parties — had crossed 10. Many more were beaten up. Many homes and shops were ransacked or torched. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee publicly urged people to refrain from violence. However, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh accused her of not paying heed to the situation. The BJP, whose national president J.P. Nadda will arrive in Bengal on Tuesday, has decided on nationwide sit-ins on May 5, the day Mamata Banerjee will be sworn in, to protest against the violence in Bengal. Ghosh told the media on Monday that five BJP supporters and one member of the Indian Secular Front were killed in clashes since Sunday. “Violence is nothing new in Bengal. Post-poll violence is nothing new either. After the results, there is a little bit of excitement everywhere. But not even 24 hours have not passed since the results and six persons are killed. Thousands of houses have been burnt down or vandalised. We are getting reports from every Assembly (segment),” he said. Ghosh alleged that despite these incidents, Mamata had shrugged off her responsibilities. A BJP delegation met governor Jagdeep Dhankar to hand over a memorandum to him on post-poll violence. There, it said that five of their party workers as well as four others were killed. A letter explaining the situation and seeking redress was sent to Union home minister Amit Shah, Bengal’s chief secretary and the Election Commission. Dhankar summoned Bengal’s top police officials and asked them to restore law and order. An hour before Ghosh spoke to journalists on this issue, Mamata held a news meet where she asked her supporters not to get involved in political violence. “I would appeal…to all my brothers and sisters that Bengal is a peaceful place, cultural place and a place of brotherhood…Polls were done, there have been wins and losses…Sometimes the atmosphere got heated up, sometimes it cooled down…and we know that BJP has done a lot of atrocities, central forces have done a lot of atrocities. Yet I urge everyone to be peaceful and not indulge in any kind of violence. At the moment the biggest responsibility is…to combat Covid. I urge everyone to be peaceful and if you have a complaint against anyone, please let the police know officially,” Mamata said. In Nadia’s Gangnapur, BJP activists Uttam Ghosh was beaten to death by suspected Trinamul supporters in Vivekananda Pally area late on Sunday. Police and relatives said Ghosh was returning home from the party office when goons attacked him. Local BJP leaders said Ghosh had worked hard to ensure victory of the Ranaghat South candidate Mukutmani Adhikari. The BJP submitted a deputation at the Gangnapur police station demanding immediate arrest of the accused. Hasanur Rahaman, 40, an ISF activist, was killed in Ula-Kadambagachi village of Duttapukur in North 24-Parganas on Monday morning, when a group of Trinamul goons allegedly hurled at least three bombs at him. The incident ignited tension in the area that led to political clashes between Trinamul and the ISF. In Calcutta’s Kankurgachi, BJP activist Abhijit Sarkar was beaten to death by suspected Trinamul activists in Shitalatala Lane area on Sunday night. A BJP activist was allegedly killed by goons with Trinamul links in Pratapnagar-Motiary area of Sonarpur in South 24-Parganas. BJP sources said Haran Adhikari, 38, had protested when some Trinamul supporters destroyed party flags after the BJP candidate lost. The goons attacked him with iron rods and stones. Adhikari was taken to Baruipur sub-divisional hospital, where the doctors declared him dead. In Birbhum, a BJP worker Gourav Sarkar, 37, of Gopalnagar village in Illambazar, was dragged out of his home and allegedly beaten to death by Trinamul-backed goons. In Nadia’s Haringhata, suspected Trinamul supporters allegedly entered the residence of victorious BJP candidate of Chakdaha, Bankim Ghosh, located in ward 12 of Haringhata Municipality, and ransacked it on Sunday night. In Burdwan, Birbhum and Bankura, many houses of CPM leaders and supporters were vandalised by alleged Trinamul goons on Monday. A resort belonging to a BJP leader in Santiniketan was vandalised allegedly by Trinamul workers. BJP leaders claimed at least half a dozen BJP party offices and over a hundred houses belonged to the BJP workers were ransacked. In Cooch behar, two young BJP workers were killed on Monday, allegedly by Trinamul supporters, one in the morning and one later. In East Burdwan, the mother of a BJP worker was allegedly hacked to death allegedly by Trinamul backed goons in Nabagram village. CPM leader Samik Lahiri issued an open appeal to Mamata: “Chief minister, will this free loot, violence and murder continue? Fascist forces couldn’t form a government. Are you at peace? Houses of Pratikur and several other Sanjukta Morcha (supporters) are being openly looted. Homes of Sanjukta Morcha leaders and workers in Canning East are being demolished using JCBs. Party offices are being vandalised…” In East Burdwan, three Trinamul workers were killed in separate incidents. A Trinamul worker and resident of the district’s Samaspur village Ganesh Malik, 61, was killed after armed BJP workers allegedly attacked him with iron rods. He was taken to the Burdwan Medical College and Hospital, where he died. Two Trinamul workers — Sahajahan Sheikh, in his late 40s, and Bibhas Bag, 27, — were killed when a group of BJP workers allegedly attacked them in Nabogram village of Jamalpur block. As tension mounted, hundreds of houses belonging to Trinamul and BJP supporters were ransacked in the clashes that followed. In Hooghly, Trinamul worker Debu Pramanik, 50, a resident of Natibpur village of Khanakul was killed allegedly by BJP workers. In Jagannathpur Tildanga village of Baduria, North 24-Parganas, Ataur Rahaman, an elderly Trinamul supporter — and father of a local Trinamul leader — was brutally beaten up by goons with suspected Congress links. Admitted to the Baduria hospital, Rahaman is said to be critical.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls 2021: Violence erupts in 5 north Bengal districts||Two persons died in Cooch Behar on Monday as violence erupted in at least five districts of north Bengal, with Trinamul and BJP supporters clashing in a number of places, after results of Assembly polls were declared on Sunday. Some others, mostly BJP supporters, suffered injuries and loss of property in Cooch Behar and elsewhere. Haradhan Roy, 30, a BJP worker in Jamadarbos village under Sitai Assembly seat of Cooch Behar, was suspected to have been lynched on Monday afternoon. Bharatibala, his mother, accused Trinamul supporters. “He went out in the morning. I spoke to him a couple times later but in the afternoon I was told he was lying dead nearby. Trinamul supporters have beaten him to death,” she said. A Dinhata police team has started a probe. Earlier in the day, Manik Maitra, 20, of Naotabas village under the Sitalkuchi seat, was hit by a bullet when he came in between raging groups of Trinamul and the BJP. Rushed to Dinhata subdivisional hospital, doctors pronounced him dead. In Chopra block of North Dinajpur, suspected Trinamul supporters attacked the houses of BJP supporters and indiscriminately ransacked shops in Sonapur, Daspara, Majhiali and Chopra on Sunday evening. In their frenzy, they did not even spare shops of Trinamul supporters, residents alleged. “We are Trinamul supporters for years but goons ransacked our shops too. We want to know from Hamidul Rehman (the local MLA who has won this time too) why such incidents are happening,” said Mina Saha, a shop owner. Violence spread in some other areas of Chopra block. A BJP office was ransacked and the house of a BJP supporter was torched in Jharbari area. Police brought the situation under control. “Since Sunday evening, Trinamul supporters are roaming around in groups and organising attacks on our people across North Dinajpur. We want the police to take steps,” said Basudeb Sarkar, the district BJP president. Priti Ranjan Ghosh, the block Trinamul president of Chopra, denied the charges. In South Dinajpur, Gopal Ghosh, a BJP leader in Dhalpara under Hilli police station, was attacked by goons on Sunday evening. He ended up with a skull fracture. The district BJP leadership blamed a couple of local Trinamul leaders. In Gangarampur block, BJP offices and houses of BJP supporters were ransacked in three villages of the block. On Monday, a BJP delegation met district police chief Debarshi Dutta for his intervention. Similar attacks and arson have been reported in Alipurduar and Cooch Behar where the BJP has won most seats. On Sunday evening, violence broke out in Dasarathpally, in ward 44 of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, one of the added wards under the Dabgram-Fulbari seat the BJP wrested from the region’s Trinamul stalwart Gautam Deb. BJP workers alleged that Trinamul supporters raided the area, damaged a couple of vehicles and attacked the houses of BJP supporters and beat up BJP worker Chinmoy Sharma. District Trinamul leaders denied the party’s hand and asked the police to find out facts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata to take oath as CM on May 5th ||Mamata Banerjee will take oath as the chief minister of Bengal for the third consecutive term at 10.45am on Wednesday in the Raj Bhavan. The decision was announced in a tweet by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday evening after Mamata had called on him to submit her resignation as chief minister. Along with Mamata, some key members of her new cabinet are likely to be sworn in on Wednesday, while others could take oath on Thursday. In view of the Covid-19 situation, all such events will be conducted with limited audience. “She met the governor in the evening, submitted her resignation… and a list of victorious candidates of the party that has over two-thirds majority in the House, thereby establishing her indisputable claim to form the next government in Bengal,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Mamata reached the Raj Bhavan around 6.45pm — she was invited on Sunday evening by Dhankhar after the results showed a thumping majority for her party — and stayed for over one-and-a-half-hour meeting with him. In the Assembly, the 212 Trinamul Congress MLAs — Khardah’s Kajal Sinha, the 213th MLA, succumbed to Covid-19 — would be sworn in during the course of the week. It was decided by the Trinamul legislature party to re-elect Biman Banerjee as the Speaker for the third consecutive term. “Sadly, because of the pandemic’s second wave, there will be nothing by way of celebration or grand events now. So, it will be a very basic programme this time, despite its historic and national significance,” said Subrata Mukherjee, a senior Trinamul leader. “She had already said there would be mega celebrations later at the Brigade Parade Grounds with all prominent national (non-BJP) leaders once the pandemic is behind us,” he added.At an afternoon meeting in Trinamul Bhavan, the winners unanimously elected Mamata as the leader of the legislature party, thereby paving the way for her to take oath as chief minister. Since Mamata lost to her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari, now in the BJP, in the Nandigram seat, she would have six months to get elected to the Assembly. In the meeting, Mamata’s main instructions to the newly elected members were regarding three main areas of priority now, said several attendees. “She said we must go all-out in the war against the pandemic now as everything else has become secondary in the second wave of Covid-19,” said Uttarpara MLA Kanchan Mullick, an actor. “Second, we must honour this humbling mandate and give it back to the people by way of tireless service,” he added. The third area, said Barrackpore MLA Raj Chakraborty, the filmmaker, was the importance of ignoring provocation. “She said there would be an immense lot of incitement by the BJP in a bid to foment tension and unrest… she explained how crucial it was not to get ensnared by that,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Votes of tea workers, Rajbanshis elude TMC ||Support of the tribal and tea garden population of north Bengal as well as Rajbanshis in the region has continued to elude the Trinamul Congress, the Assembly poll results show. On one hand, Trinamul insiders have said lack of a strong trade union base led to the defeat of their candidates in the tea belts of the Terai and the Dooars — barring the Malbazar seat in Jalpaiguri where the ruling party won for the second time in a row. On the other hand, acute infighting in Trinamul in districts like Cooch Behar, Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri led to the party’s defeat in most of the seats in the Rajbanshi-dominated areas, pointed out Trinamul leaders and representatives of organisations like the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association (GCPA) that had lent support to Mamata Banerjee at the hustings. “When the district president of a party and a state minister indulge in mud-slinging and fume at each other, how can you expect a better result in Cooch Behar? We have time and again tried to get them together on board but in vain,” asked Bangshibadan Burman, the GCPA general secretary who is believed to have considerable clout among the Rajbanshis. “It is because of inner differences that Trinamul could secure only two seats in Cooch Behar.” “Why should the Rajbanshis be blamed?.” In the neighbouring Jalpaiguri district, Trinamul won only three of seven seats. Four other seats, two each of which are in the tea belt and the Rajbanshi areas, went to the BJP. As far as the tea belt is concerned, the BJP marched ahead of Trinamul and bagged all seats, except Malbazar. In Alipurduar and Darjeeling, which have tea gardens and Rajbanshis, Gorkhas and adivasis, Trinamul could not win any of the total 10 seats. According to senior Trinamul leaders, absence of a strong trade union base has led to contrasting results at a time when the party has crossed the 200 mark in the state. Mannalal Jain, the vice-president of the Cha Bagan Trinamul Mazdoor Union, said they would try to find out what made the BJP score over them. “It is unfortunate that despite extending so many benefits to the tea population, particularly the ‘cha sundari’ (free housing) scheme for workers and even after revising wages, the majority voted for the BJP. We need to strengthen our trade union’s presence across the tea belt,” said Jain. He pointed out that so far, the BJP had only made empty promises to the tea population. “Trinamul, on the other hand, has delivered,” added the trade union leader. Gangaprasad Sharma, the Alipurduar district BJP president, however, came up with a different clarification. “Trinamul had tried to play identity politics in north Bengal and came up with sops and announcements for different communities. We, on the other hand, have spoken for the entire population. This is why people stood by us,” he said. Additional reporting by Anirban Choudhury in Alipurduar, and Main Uddin Chisti in Cooch Behar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: TMC workers in Nandigram adamant on recount||Around 1,000 Trinamul supporters continued to lay siege to the counting centre in Haldia after a demand for recounting votes of Nandigram Assembly constituency by the party was rejected by the Election Commission late on Sunday. Alleging irregularities in counting led to the defeat of Mamata Banerjee, angry Trinamul supporters decided to keep the counting centre — Haldia Government Sponsored Higher Secondary School — under siege till their demand for fresh counting is met. They said the agitation would continue and EVMs won’t be allowed to be shifted from the counting centre as they fear tampering. Barely 300 metres away, a hundreds of party supporters have kept the Haldia-Mecheda state highway blocked for over 24 hours, stalling movement of vehicles, including oil tankers. On Sunday evening, Mamata Banerjee lost the prestige fight to her one-time aide-turned-BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat by a slender margin after several confusions. A Trinamul team led by Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien later met chief electoral officer Ariz Aftab and demanded recounting. However, the EC rejected the demand and announced Adhikari as the winner. Angry Trinamul supporters began a demonstration and raised slogans. They also gheraoed officials and refused to vacate the place despite repeated pleas by the district administration in the wake of Covid protocols. Adhikari tasted their wrath when he arrived at the counting centre to receive the winning certificate around 10pm on Sunday. Some Trinamul workers hurled stones at him and vandalised his car. State and central security officials took him out of the counting centre. Adhikari’s election agent Meghnad Pal later received the winning certificate from the returning officer. “A conspiracy was hatched by the Centre and the EC to defeat Mamata Banerjee. We do not accept her defeat. We will not withdraw the protest till a recounting is ordered by the EC,” said Trinamul’s youth wing leader Suprakash Giri. “Right from the start, counting of votes was stalled many times for mysterious reasons. This grossly delayed the counting for over three hours. It appears that the officials in connivance with the BJP and the Centre deliberately worked to defeat Mamata Banerjee. We demanded recounting, but the EC rejected it.  So, we were left with no option but to protest till recounting happens,” Giri said, adding party workers won’t allow officials to shift the EVMs. “As a conspirator he (Adhikari) does not deserve rosogolla,” he added. Mamata’s election agent Sheikh Sufian said: “We were persuading the returning officer Kishor Biswas for recounting. He may have agreed. But the observer persuaded him not to agree to a recounting and to issue a winning certificate immediately.” Returning officer Biswas refused to talk on the issue. The BJP termed Trinamul’s agitation a bid to divert people’s attention to the “embarrassment of Mamata Banerjee’s defeat”. Newly elected BJP MLA from Haldia Tapashi Mandal said: “I hope good sense prevails among the Trinamul leaders to accept her defeat in the right spirit.” The BJP also accused Trinamul of crowding the counting centre and the road amid the pandemic’s second wave. At least 50 persons were injured in political clashes between the BJP and Trinamul supporters in twin Midnapore districts in the past 24 hours. Police and sources of both parties claimed many houses were ransacked in Nandigram, Khejuri, Contai, Panskura, Pingla, Sabang, Garbeta, Keshpur and others. East Midnapore SP Sunil Kumar Yadav said: “We have 13 companies of special force. We have taken action wherever required and arrested people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Modi speeches, LS poll leads didn’t help||The BJP’s defeat in the 2021 Bengal Assembly elections was sealed by the loss it suffered in 51 of the 121 seats where the party had secured leads in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had campaigned and addressed public meetings in many of these seats this time. But the much-hyped Modi magic did not appear to have helped the party. During the campaign, BJP leaders were confident of sweeping these seats and add more Assembly segments to the list. However, as the poll  results unfolded on Sunday, it was clear that more than 40 per cent of these seats had been lost to the Trinamul. “It was a massive miscalculation on our part. We had got complacent, rather overconfident at some point, and didn’t notice that Trinamul was regaining the ground in Assembly segments where we had taken leads in the Lok Sabha polls,” a BJP state office-bearer said on Monday, a day after Trinamul’s landslide victory. The saffron camp suffered a major blow in four of the 18 Lok Sabha segments it had taken leads in 2019. In 20 of the 28 Assembly segments under Jhargram, Kharagpur, Hooghly and Asansol Lok Sabha seats, the BJP trailed behind Trinamul. Modi had campaigned in three of these Lok Sabha seats, except Jhargram. In the Lok Sabha results in 2019, the BJP had leads in all seven Assembly segments in Asansol Lok Sabha seat, six each in Kharagpur and Hooghly and five in Jhargram. Sunday’s results showed that the BJP lost three seats in Asansol and five seats in each of the other three Lok Sabha constituencies. Reminded of the empty chairs that greeted party’s national chief J.P. Nadda at a rally that had to be cancelled, a BJP youth wing member in Jhargram said: “Now we realise that people of Jhargram had already rejected us. Not only Naddaji, one of Amitji’s rallies was also cancelled.” Union home minister Amit Shah had to cancel his Jhargram rally because of low turnout, though the official reason cited was a snag in his chopper. In Hooghly, where BJP’s MP Locket Chatterjee, in the fray as an MLA aspirant, was defeated by Trinamul’s Asit Mazumder in the Chunchura seat, BJP workers said discontent over the selection of candidates was the reason. Intra-party friction started when Trinamul turncoat Rabindranath Bhattacharya was nominated from Singur, a BJP leader in Hooghly said. “The discontent had a ripple effect and we clearly couldn’t control it,” the leader said. While Modi had campaigned in Hooghly’s Dunlop grounds, Shah had come in a road show for Bhattacharya. Neither efforts bore electoral fruit. The discontent among old party workers over several issues, including candidature, is one of the reasons why BJP suffered a setback in Asansol and Kharagpur, party sources said. On April 17 and 20, Modi had addressed public meetings at these two places. On April 23, amid mounting Covid-19 cases, Modi addressed a virtual rally for Birbhum, Calcutta, Murshidabad and Malda. In Birbhum, the BJP lost four of the five Assembly segments that it had taken leads in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In Calcutta, the BJP lost the Jorasanko and Shyampukur seats where it had an edge in the 2019 parliamentary elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: State BJP finger at poll managers from outside ||After the defeat in Bengal, some state BJP leaders are blaming the party’s policy to field “bohiragwato (outsiders)” to handle the elections in the state, along with “continuous interference” by the national leaders. Senior state BJP leaders said apart from their failure to polarise Hindu voters and convince women voters, those who came from other states to manage the poll machinery in each constituency contributed to the BJP’s rejection. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee understood the issue of the outsiders and alerted the people of Bengal in each of her campaign rallies, they said. “People did not consider our Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union home minister Amit Shah to be outsiders. But they felt hundreds of unknown Hindi-speaking people who were fielded to manage the polls as outsiders,” a BJP state committee member said. “In the last three phases when Mamata started campaigning against BJP’s outsiders and accused them of spreading Covid-19, it struck a chord with the people,” he added. BJP leaders said had state leaders handled the campaign, the party would have done much better and the 2019 Lok Sabha leads in 121 Assembly segments could have been converted into seats. Party sources said hundreds of leaders and workers of both the BJP and the RSS were brought from places like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha to work as poll managers. A team of five to ten such outsiders were fielded for each constituency of Bengal to guide local leaders in the outreach programmes in villages on how to promote the agenda of polarisation. “Those people from other states became the leaders of the local leaders. These outsiders were unaware of local culture, ethics and livelihood of the people of Bengal but held meetings in villages to push the BJP’s agenda. Language was a major issue as these leaders could not speak or understand Bengali properly,” said a senior BJP leader. Several BJP leaders in districts like Jhargram, Birbhum and Hooghly admitted the outsiders did not allow local leaders to push issues they felt were close to the people. “They were predetermined on polarisation...They forced us to campaign for polarisation and how Hindu voters will be benefited if BJP came to power. Here, there are many pockets where Hindus and Muslims live peacefully and both participate in festivals of each other. The people of those areas rejected us,” said a BJP leader in Birbhum. Multiple leaders The Telegraph spoke to blamed the leaders that the saffron camp parachuted from Delhi and other parts of India. Two leaders against whom there was immense rage were the party’s national general secretary and minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya and its IT cell chief and co-minder for the state Amit Malaviya. Party sources held Vijayvargiya guilty of opening floodgates to turncoats and Malaviya for intervening in every minute detail. Malaviya’s attitude to have his way in everything didn’t allow him to take suggestions from workers of the state. He defied state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh at times, said insiders. “Kailashji had a no-bar policy when it came to inducting turncoats into the party. He would not do background checks,” said a state secretary of BJP. Apparently, Vijayvargiya played a key role in selecting candidates for most of  the 294 seats, and most of his picks lost. Party old-timers were furious over candidates in many seats. The discontents led to days of protests. State leaders met these agitators and the matter was pushed under the carpet. But the final results have a different story to tell. Several old BJP workers told this paper that results indicated sabotage. “Our honest workers felt cheated when the Trinamul leaders were brought to the party and given tickets. Their votes clearly didn’t go to the BJP,” a BJP source said. Sources said Malaviya was so confident about BJP’s win that he even interfered with the food menu prepared for journalists and party workers present at BJP’s election office on Sunday. He insisted on keeping only vegetarian food. When some state leaders tried to reason with him that it was the traditional to eat non-vegetarian food on special occasions in Bengal, he shrugged them off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Binay claims his faction of GJM is 'single largest party' in the hills ||Binay Tamang on Monday claimed before journalists that his faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha was the “single largest party” in the hills and rolled out poll figures to drive home his point. Tamang’s decision to assert the figures before the media is seen as an attempt to send a message to Mamata Banerjee that his faction is now more popular than Bimal Gurung’s faction. In Darjeeling hills, the BJP won the Assembly seats of Darjeeling and Kurseong while the Binay Tamang camp won the Kalimpong seat. In the three hill seats, a total of 4,98,983 votes were cast. “Poll figures suggest that we are the single largest party in the hills as the BJP was in alliance with five other parties and they polled only seven per cent of votes more than us,” said Tamang in the news meet. The BJP is in alliance with the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), a faction of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL), the Gorkhaland Rajya Nirman Morcha (GRNM) and the SUMETE Mukti Morcha (SuMuMo). The most significant ally of BJP, however, is the GNLF. Figure suggests that the BJP alliance polled 39.2 per cent of the total votes cast in the hills followed by Binay Tamang’s Morcha at 32.9 per cent and the rival Gurung faction of Morcha at 20.6 per cent. The Gurung faction was supported by hill Trinamul though the Bengal state leadership remained silent on this development. With Trinamul storming to power in Bengal, Mamata’s support is crucial for both Tamang and Gurung, who are both allies of Trinamul. Observers believe that the Tamang camp has reasons to “feel good” with their performance this time as they had, before 2021, never won any major election since the faction was formed in 2017. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Tamang’s faction had polled only around 20 per cent of the total votes cast in the hills compared to 70 per cent of votes that went to BJP alliance, which also included Gurung faction, then. “Many were of the opinion that the Tamang camp would never be politically accepted in the hills as they were termed betrayers (allegedly responsible for derailing the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation),” said a hill observer, adding that the figures now tell a different story. “So one can understand the assertion being made by Tamang today,” the observer added. In the last 14 years, Gurung’s faction had never faced such a rout like this, relegated to the third position. “Gurung must accept that he is losing relevance in hill politics. He is no longer a factor,” said Tamang. However, many believe Gurung’s political obituary cannot be written this early. “Election to local bodies such as the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) or even civic bodies are fought and won on different issues. Hence, one cannot completely write off Gurung from hill politics, even though he has much ground to recover,” said a political analyst from the hills. Poll figures also suggest that Darjeeling town overwhelmingly supported the BJP alliance. “However, the moot question is will apolitical people who voted for BJP in the Assembly polls vote the same in local elections?” asked the analyst. GNLF leaders maintain that going by the results, the “silent majority” was with the GNLF. Many believe that the GNLF made significant inroads within the Darjeeling municipality area but its rural presence needs to be stronger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Defeated TMC trio vow to work for party||Three members of Mamata Banerjee’s second cabinet who tasted defeat in north Bengal this time have decided to focus on the party's affairs and are awaiting instructions from their party chief about their role in the days ahead. Veteran Trinamul leaders who were also state ministers — Gautam Deb (tourism), Rabindranath Ghosh (north Bengal development) and Binoy Krishna Barman (backward classes welfare) — lost to BJP candidates this time, including two Trinamul turncoats. While Deb lost by 27, 593 votes to Shikha Chatterjee, who had walked out of Trinamul in 2018, in Dabgram-Fulbari, Jalpaiguri. Ghosh lost by 23,440 votes to Mihir Goswami, who left Mamata’s camp last year, in Natabari seat of Cooch Behar. Barman, on the other hand, lost to Sukumar Roy, a BJP old-timer, by 14,615 votes in the Cooch Behar North seat. “People have not voted for us this time. We have tried our best but there had to be some lapses. Our party will surely try to find out what led to such results because in terms of development, what the Mamata Banerjee government has done for Cooch Behar or for north Bengal as whole, cannot be matched by any other government,” said Ghosh, considered the most prominent Trinamul leader in Cooch Behar. Party insider said the change of reins in the party in Cooch Behar — Partha Pratim Roy replacing Ghosh as the district president — was a reason. “He (Roy) could never properly fulfil his responsibilities. Instead, infighting in Trinamul became more acute,” said a party leader. The Trinamul insider said even Bangshibadan Barman, the leader of Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association, had lamented on Sunday that the feud between Roy and Ghosh led to this debacle of Trinamul winning only two of nine seats in Cooch Behar. Deb, considered the tallest Trinamul leader in north Bengal, said he would focus on the party. “The BJP has won a number of seats in and around Darjeeling district. We need to rebuild our base, and find out as to why, despite so much development work, we failed to draw support,” Deb said. Deb’s defeat has also come as a jolt for stakeholders of the tourism industry because during his two tenures, as NB development minister and tourism minister, he was instrumental in augmenting infrastructure for tourism, the sector that generates even more employment than tea these days. “We’d always get his help. We don’t know who will get tourism and NB development portfolios, and if they will at all be north Bengal leaders,” said a tour operator in Siliguri. Another major loss for Trinamul was Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury, who lost to Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury of the BJP in Malda’s Englishbazar seat by 20,099 votes. “Sabitri Mitra (another senior Trinamul leader), could make a comeback this time after her defeat in 2016. He (Choudhury) however, couldn’t, unlike his bête noire Nihar Ranjan Ghosh who won from Chanchal in Malda this time,” said an observer. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls 2021: Central Bengal dashes BJP’s hopes||Six districts of central Bengal with 94 seats turned out to be crucial contributors to Mamata Banerjee’s sweep in the Assembly elections by adding to the BJP’s disappointment as the saffron camp had hoped to double its seat count from that cluster in comparison to 2019. The districts are East Burdwan, West Burdwan, Birbhum, Murshidabad, Hooghly and East Midnapore, where the BJP was leading in 25 Assembly segments in the Lok Sabha elections of 2019 and was expecting to at least double that — on the basis of polarisation — this time given the extensive campaign at the grassroots by the saffron camp. The BJP had estimated a stellar performance especially in districts such as West Burdwan, Hooghly and Birbhum, according to sources in the party’s state committee. But the BJP not only failed to double the tally of 25 from the six districts but also slumped to 19. “We expected at least 50 from the 72 of the five districts other than the minority-dominated Murshidabad (with 22 seats). Trinamul had leads in 65 from the 94 segments in 2019. This time, we got 19, Trinamul got 73, with two seats in Murshidabad yet to go to the polls (as candidates succumbed to Covid-19),” said a state BJP functionary. In districts such as Hooghly and West Burdwan, the BJP was hoping it had done enough by way of polarisation. In East Midnapore, it was confident that Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari’s defection would be enough for a sweep. The results showed otherwise. “This was a body blow for us. We were expecting a minimum of 16 from Hooghly’s 18, for instance. We got only four. We expected all nine seats in West Burdwan. We got only four. We expected more than five out of 11 in Birbhum. We got one. We expected all 16 in East Midnapore (Adhikari’s home turf). We got only six,” said the BJP functionary. Several BJP insiders said since the spectacular performance of the party in 2019, the leadership, right down to the grassroots, had developed an “attitude problem”. “Without even coming to power in the state, the arrogance of a long-time ruling party was conspicuous among leaders of this belt. That arrogance came from the overconfidence, regarding coming to power,” said a senior BJP leader. “There was also unacceptable highhandedness from the rank and file of the party, which the people disliked immensely…. Also, the MPs did little or no work for the constituencies in these two years,” he added. “There was also tremendous bickering between the old and the new leaders in the party. There was angst against Trinamul turncoats getting prominence and easy candidature in the BJP.” Trinamul leaders of the districts held several other factors responsible. “First of all, and this is most important… polarisation did not work. That’s true for most of Bengal. That’s true for this belt. Bengal’s Hindus simply did not get swayed by the Hindutva pitch and firmly denied the BJP,” said Debu Tudu, a senior Trinamul leader in East Burdwan. “Also, most of Bengal, including this belt, rejected the saffron bohiragawto (outsider),” he added. Several leaders in districts with considerable agricultural population, such as Hooghly and East Burdwan, said the Narendra Modi government’s contentious farm laws and the BJP’s treatment meted out to protesting farmers at Delhi’s borders did not go down well. “Irrespective of the relevance of these laws to Bengal, the general anti-farm, anti-farmer perception of Modi and the BJP took roots here,” said a Trinamul leader in Hooghly. Birbhum Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal said women usually ignored by parties in India but a key area of focus by Mamata throughout were wowed and won over in large numbers, which paid rich electoral dividends. “Besides all other schemes that help women, such as Kanyashree and Rupashree, the schemes of the past year, like Duare Sarkar and universal Swasthya Sathi, in which women were prioritised made a great deal of difference,” he said. “Ultimately, the people were won over by unnayan (development) that Didi (Mamata) was able to ensure for each and every family,” Mondal added. However, most from the BJP were willing to go on record regarding these factors yet. The BJP’s state committee member Subir Nag, a leader from Hooghly, said he was unaware of the reasons for the debacle in the belt. “I would say the BJP was not rejected,” he said. “But it’s undeniable that most of its candidates, a group of its leaders, they were rejected by the people,” Nag was quick to add.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
04-05-2021||North East||Manipur HC asks state, central govts to facilitate travel of Myanmarese nationals to Delhi||The High Court of Manipur on Monday directed the state and central governments to facilitate the travel of seven Myanmarese nationals to New Delhi “without any obstruction” to enable them to avail “suitable protection” from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNCHR). Dubbing the seven as “asylum seekers”, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjay Kumar and Justice Lanusungkum Jamir passed the order while dealing with a petition filed by human rights advocate Nandita Haksar requesting their safe passage to UNCHR’s office in Delhi. The seven — four adults and three children — had “illegally” entered Moreh in Manipur, bordering Myanmar, to escape possible persecution by the military junta following the February 1 coup in the neighbouring country. Three of them are journalists. The court said: “Some of them seem to be in possession of their passports but in any event, their details and particulars have been noted by the Immigration authorities of our country. There shall accordingly be a direction to the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) at Imphal airport to immediately provide them with temporary identification cards to enable them to travel to New Delhi by air, if such identity proof are necessary. The state and central governments shall facilitate their travel to New Delhi and shall not cause any obstruction.” The same bench had on April 20 directed the BJP-led Manipur government to provide a safe passage to Myanmar nationals “in hiding” in Moreh to Imphal but also prevented the state or central government from taking any “coercive action” against them till further orders. The refugees had sought the help of the petitioner (Haksar) as they feared they would be sent back to Myanmar by the Assam Rifles as they had come without proper travel documents. The Union ministry of home affairs had directed the authorities of the border states in the northeast and the Assam Rifles, which mans the Myanmar border, to check the flow of illegal migrants coming into India from Myanmar, through a letter dated 10.03.2021. The petitioner had pointed out that this communication did not draw a distinction between a ‘migrant’ and a ‘refugee’. The Manipur government had on March 29 said they would come to the aid of Myanmarese nationals who had illegally entered the state, leaving the Myanmarese “handicapped” in approaching the court on their own. The court in its order observed that the seven Myanmarese individuals in question are “not migrants”, as normally understood, but are “asylum seekers”. “They did not enter our country with the clear-cut and deliberate intention of breaking and violating our domestic laws. They fled the country of their origin under imminent threat to their lives and liberty. They aspire for relief under International Conventions that were put in place to offer protection and rehabilitation to refugees/asylum seekers. In such a situation, insisting that they first answer for admitted violations of our domestic laws, as a condition precedent for seeking ‘refugee’ status, would be palpably inhuman.” It also observed that though India has “no” clear refugee protection policy or framework, it does “grant” asylum to a large number of refugees from nearby countries. “India usually respects the UNHCR’s recognition of the status of such asylum seekers, mainly from Afghanistan and Myanmar.… Therefore, it would be essential for these seven Myanmarese persons to first approach the UNHCR at New Delhi and only thereafter, the Union of India would be in a position to take a call as to whether they can be granted refugee status and asylum in India, as was done earlier. In the alternative, the UNHCR would be at liberty to rehabilitate these people in host countries under the 1951 Refugee Convention. In either event, these persons cannot be made to face persecution, if not a threat to their very lives and liberty, by being deported to their home country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
04-05-2021||North East||Assam Assembly elections 2021: In jail for CAA protest, Akhil Gogoi wins from Sivasagar||Activist Akhil Gogoi, who has been in jail since December 2019 on charges of sedition and inciting violence during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in Assam, has won the Assembly election from Sivasagar. Akhil, who contested as an Independent, won by a margin of 11,875 votes over his nearest rival Surabhi Rajkonwari of the BJP. Akhil received 57,244 votes to Surabhi’s 45,344. The Congress, who have won the Sivasagar seat since 2001, came a poor third. The Congress candidate, Subhramitra Gogoi, managed 19,329 votes. The other candidates in the fray were Ajit Hazarika of the NCP, Independent candidate Hemanta Boruah and social activist Rupa Borah. In the 2016 Assembly elections, late Pranab Gogoi of the Congress had won the seat by a margin of only 542 votes against Surabhi of the BJP. Akhil has been also active in various environmental movements. He joined the Raijor Dal (People’s Party) after the formation of the new party in Sivasagar last year and was appointed its first president. Akhil’s win in Sivasagar shows his popularity among the electorate for his various social activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
04-05-2021||Opinion||Jabless: Covid vaccine shortage||Tiding over a pandemic requires detailed preparation at multiple levels on the part of the State. Yet, cohesive planning on the part of the Narendra Modi government has been conspicuous by its absence as India continues to battle the coronavirus. The scarcity of medical oxygen, hospital beds and other critical health services bear testimony to monumental bungling. But there is more to the government’s lapses. The vaccination drive is moving at a snail’s pace. The Centre’s vaccine policy is riddled with holes, as is evident from the terse observations made by the Supreme Court. Among other red flags raised by the apex court is the Centre’s inexplicable unwillingness to exercise its powers under Section 92 of the Patents Act. Such a provision empowers the Central government to grant compulsory licences which, in turn, would enable several manufacturers to make Covid-19 vaccines, thus breaking the present duopoly. The other observations raised by the court are equally pertinent. They bring to light the government’s myopia regarding the accessibility of marginalized segments to private healthcare and vaccines, the anomalies in vaccine pricing, the Centre’s particularly shocking refusal to vaccinate all citizens free of cost, the absence of a framework to vaccinate those working in crematoriums and the challenge of registering those who would find it difficult to enrol on the CoWIN app. The unprecedented surge in demand led to the app faltering for those who were privileged enough to access it. Several recipients awaiting their second dose have been inconvenienced too. The principal worry is with the shortage of vaccines. Several states — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Punjab are among them — expressed their inability to start vaccinating citizens between the age group of 18-45 years on account of low stocks. This is a matter of shame for a nation that is supposed to be the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer. New Delhi must look at augmenting imports to widen its vaccine basket so that citizens can have greater choice. Bulk orders would also give the government enhanced leverage to check profiteering. Another requirement for this grim moment is the creation of a national contingency plan that can examine and fix the existing breaches. This is imperative because India cannot be complacent about another wave of infections. Mr Modi’s regime must swallow its pride and frame guidelines in collaboration with those who have the wisdom to guide his insensitive, indifferent government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
04-05-2021||Opinion||One of a kind: Remembering Soli Sorabjee||Sir — Soli Sorabjee, the legal luminary who passed away last week, fought for the rights of the poor and the downtrodden throughout his life (“Soli Sorabjee no more”, May 1). Sorabjee led India’s fight in the International Court of Justice when Pakistan sought compensation from India for the shooting down of the former’s naval patrol aircraft in 1999 soon after the end of the Kargil war. The ICJ ruled in favour of India. Sorabjee also worked for the Citizen’s Justice Committee which represented victims of the anti-Sikh riots in 1984. He appeared in many important cases including the Kesavananda Bharati case on the basic structure of the Constitution. He had also called for the Supreme Court to drop the sentencing of the senior advocate, Prashant Bhushan, in a contempt of court case over his tweets regarding the judiciary. Sorabjee got the Padma Vibhushan in 2003 for his contributions towards the defence of the freedom of expression and the protection of human rights. He will be remembered for his work as the attorney-general of India and his dedication to justice. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — The demise of the notable lawyer and the former attorney-general, Soli Sorabjee, as a result of Covid-19 is a great loss to the nation. He was a champion of free speech and civil liberties. He fought cases for the victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots pro bono. Later in 1984, when the Bhopal gas tragedy shook the country, Sorabjee was approached to represent Union Carbide. He rebuffed the offer and replied that he would prefer to advise the victims. Sorabjee’s contribution to law and justice in India is truly unparalleled. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly  Grim situation Sir — With the second wave of the coronavirus hitting the country, traders are, once again, bearing the brunt of the lull in economic activities. As a result of partial lockdowns, the sale of mangoes has gone down substantially with some being forced to sell the fruit at a fraction of the usual price. This will, undoubtedly, aggravate the economic distress of farmers and traders in the upcoming months.Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
04-05-2021||Opinion||Third chance for TMC to reinvent their politics||There are many ways of looking at the Trinamul Congress’s resounding victory in Bengal. One way of examining the landslide in favour of Mamata Banerjee would be to acknowledge her personal popularity across segments of the population. Another perspective — this is being discussed extensively — is Bengal’s unambiguous message to the Bharatiya Janata Party that the poison of division will be met with spirited resistance. There are even murmurs that this electoral verdict could spur a mobilization of India’s Opposition parties at the national level with Ms Banerjee leading the charge. What is not being discussed though is that a third term for Ms Banerjee has gifted her with a unique opportunity of course correction for her party. In 2006, when the Left Front won more seats than the TMC has done on this occasion, there was an opportunity for Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) to reinvent their politics. The comrades failed to do so, and this failure was instrumental in their defeat in 2011. The TMC and its politics are far from perfect. Ms Banerjee would do well to learn from history and use this massive public mandate to erase the creases from her party’s fold. The areas of improvement are obvious. Allegations of corruption and nepotism have plagued this regime. Many of these tainted leaders have now found shelter in the BJP. The TMC must use this chance to blood a cleaner, younger leadership. The temptation to settle scores with the BJP notwithstanding, Ms Banerjee must desist from any kind of violent confrontation or intimidation. She must bear in mind that the BJP managed to get a toehold in the state on account of the TMC’s willingness to embrace the culture of political intimidation: the panchayat polls of 2018 are a case in point. Inclusive, non-discriminatory politics could help the TMC wean away a chunk of the BJP’s new-found support base. ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’, something that the prime minister pledged but failed to deliver, should be Ms Banerjee’s goal too. In the course of the next five years, Ms Banerjee must also harness a second rung of leadership that should be collective in nature. The political longevity of parties with solitary, charismatic leaders is not known to be long. As for Ms Banerjee’s national ambitions, they can wait for now. Developing Bengal as a model state for pluralism and prosperity would automatically enhance Ms Banerjee’s pan-India credibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
04-05-2021||Opinion||Other women: India's migrant workers||In India, women form the vast majority of migrants — 80 per cent of the total internal migrants as per NSSO and 70.7 per cent of internal migrants as per Census 2001. It has been estimated that 90 per cent of these migrant women work in the informal sector — in agriculture and allied activities, construction, transport, mining, domestic work, manufacturing, small and medium enterprises — as contractual labour. Women migrant workers face many challenges. They remain invisible and discriminated against in the workforce, receive less pay than their male counterparts, and are deprived of social welfare schemes and entitlements. According to a Unesco-Unicef report, Social Inclusion of Internal Migrants in India, 2013, maternal and child health indicators of migrant women remain poor and many of them are vulnerable to sexual abuse, exploitation and other forms of violence. The report points out that existing policies of the Indian State have failed in securing legal or social protection for this vulnerable group. The female-intensive work in the unorganized sector remains unregulated by labour laws. According to Human Rights Watch, the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 has not proved beneficial in dealing with sexual harassment complaints in the informal sector. The Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulations of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 has been ineffective partly because of the lack of awareness and partly due to breaks in the work contract. India ratified the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women in 1993. India is also party to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Despite these international legal obligations, we still lag behind in providing a safe working environment for women migrant workers. The Covid-19 pandemic has further accentuated the misery of these women. According to UN Women, Covid-19 has unevenly impacted women and girls in health, economy, social protection and gender-based violence. A telephone survey of migrant labourers conducted by Jan Sahas found that around 92 per cent had lost their work and 42 per cent were impacted negatively with no food or supplies. Another qualitative study conducted in Delhi and Gurugram in Haryana revealed that the pandemic led to the loss of livelihood and increased debt, adversely impacting migrant women’s nutrition and well-being. We are far from attaining the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 5. The indicators related to this goal are critical to building gender-sensitive policies. It requires assessing migration-related challenges and determining how to empower women and girls through migration. The migrant labour policy draft by the Niti Aayog is a welcome step towards recognizing migrants’ contribution to the economy and supporting them in their endeavours. The draft policy proposes several radical ideas like adopting a rights-based framework and putting in place an additional layer of institutions to create a more suitable policy environment for migrants. Let’s see how far the proposed migrant labour policy addresses gender differences in employment. Since India has not ratified the International Labour Organization Convention on Decent Work for Domestic Workers and the Domestic Workers Bill 2017 has not become law, it would be easy for women migrants to remain excluded. A gender perspective on internal migration is imperative because women have significantly different migration motivations, patterns, options and obstacles than men. It also becomes crucial to pay attention to women migrant workers in the light of the ongoing pandemic, which is bound to aggravate the existing gender inequalities and vulnerabilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
04-05-2021||Opinion||Covid-19: A case for transparent aid||“If you cannot measure it, you cannot improve it.” — Lord Kelvin I saw three posts on social media and the internet recently. Folks at the London Business School seem to have raised a financial corpus and arranged for medical equipment; they tagged on Twitter Indian government functionaries for arranging transportation and distribution of the same back in India. I also noted that going by active and recovery ratio on covid19india.org, Gujarat, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh continue to be in deep trouble with West Bengal catching up and Maharashtra slowly stabilizing in the second wave of the pandemic. In addition, I saw the cricketer, Jaydev Unadkat, donating 10 per cent of his salary, saying his family would get the money to appropriate sources. There is financial and non-financial aid being raised locally and internationally for India. But they bring forth key issues concerning the distribution of aid on exigency and demand across India’s districts. One wonders if anyone is transparently maintaining a dashboard of aid flowing into India through GiveIndia, ACT grants, Ketto or Milaap as well as of the funds from large corporations like Google, Microsoft or PayPal. A second issue of concern happens to be of trust. Already, there is rising concern that money raised through the PM-Cares fund has not been utilized or is being held back for non-pandemic purposes. Can one be sure that the money flowing in is being effectively utilized? A third issue pertains to distribution with the help of evaluation and a scientific mindset. For example, with oxygen cylinders and concentrators on their way from around the world, how is demand being modelled for the same at the household-district-time level across India? Is this being done on an ad hoc basis to stabilize the situation for districts most impacted? Government data sources are a particularly pernicious problem in this area, but some progress can be made by examining the issue retrospectively and predictively. Demand for any good is a function of the utility the good generates, which, in itself, is a function of price and non-price characteristics of the good. In this particular case, assuming zero pricing for oxygen, demand would probably be guided by the unit of observation at which it is getting formed, presumably at every household-district-time level where time in itself can be daily, weekly, monthly or quarterly. While data may not exist on past demand for oxygen based on clinical literature input on demand for oxygen given mild, moderate or severe Covid conditions, one can estimate for a household of four, how much would be the demand for oxygen if one falls sick in these three broad ranges of severity. This can be done using data, if required from outside India, using suitable assumptions. Next, one would have to also worry about the prevalence of the disease. With sketchy and not always dynamically updated estimates on beds per average primary healthcare centre in every district available from the ministry of health, one can plug in a time varying measure of capacity utilization ranges given district-time-level R0 and, hence, the demand of oxygen if every bed is utilized going forward for all the primary healthcare centres (accounting for recoveries within 14 to 21 days). Of course one would also have to factor in here historical healthcare infrastructure by district-time, perhaps starting with doctors per capita that would have an implication for patients if they need to be hospitalized. The test positive or active/recovery ratio should give dynamic intuition on the anticipated burden of the disease in the next 12 months. Allocating oxygen based on a framework as above — factoring in potential disease burden, health infrastructure, epidemiological ratios overlaid with standards of oxygen required for an average admitted patient from clinical literature — should then be the way forward in designing optimal algorithms for aid allocation. This should be done not just for oxygen but more generally for other non-pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical interventions like PPE kits, therapeutics and perhaps vaccines as well. The issue is not just done with allocation though. Is that allocation effective in improving recovery ratio? Kerala has created oxygen war rooms and data here on their dashboards could be a good example to follow. Allocation algorithms should also consider trade-offs given resource constraints. For example, between oxygen cylinders and concentrators, prior literature on medical devices and health economics suggests that the latter may be more effective. Allocation algorithms need to also show agility to pivot if one district situation worsens (or becomes better) compared to a spatially proximate district going forward. Given that India’s recovery path from the pandemic and its mutant variants impacts the world, donors should be pushing for transparent science to make their interventions more effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
04-05-2021||Opinion||Modi’s Waterloo||Any phrase when overused becomes stale and loses its meaning. ‘A historic victory’ is one of them. If every election victory is described as ‘historic’, as is often done in congratulatory messages, history begins to look ordinary, robbing us of our ability to discern events that can effect extraordinary changes. As a matter of fact, history records and remembers very few events in its annals and consigns the rest to oblivion. Mamata Banerjee handing a humiliating defeat to the prime minister, Narendra Modi, and the Union home minister, Amit Shah, in the just-concluded West Bengal assembly elections will be recalled as historic for many reasons. For starters, Modi and Shah, who have created an aura of invincibility around themselves with the help of a section of the media that have allowed themselves to be enslaved, now look beatable in 2024. West Bengal has opened up real possibilities for making Modi a two-term prime minister. Events in the coming two-three years may hasten his departure even earlier. This is because his government will surely be crippled by its gross mismanagement of the second wave of the Covid crisis, which has inflicted deaths and distress on an unprecedented scale. The resultant economic crisis, whose heat is already being felt by common Indians in the form of steep price rise and widespread joblessness, will begin to take its toll on Modi’s popularity and, hence, on his vaunted capacity to win elections for his party. And once a leader begins to lose that principal touchstone of leadership in a democracy — the promise of keeping his party in power — the party itself, along with the rest of the sangh parivar, will start to look for alternatives. At the very least, the Bharatiya Janata Party will begin to look fragile. To know that this process has already started, one only has to look at Subramanian Swamy’s leadership-questioning tweets. His is not a lone voice. He is an influential figure in the Hindutva establishment. There is a second way Banerjee’s victory will be seen as historic. Her national profile and popularity have risen overnight because of the sheer scale of her party’s third successive win — 213 seats in an assembly of 294, improving upon its own tally of 209 in 2016. So stupendous is this achievement that even her own unexpected loss by a slender margin to Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram will hardly dent her stature either in West Bengal or in the rest of the country. She is being rightly hailed as the ‘Bengal tigress’ who has single-handedly vanquished the mighty army of Modi and Shah allegedly supported by the pliant institutions of the Indian State — the Election Commission, Enforcement Directorate, Central Bureau of Investigation and the Income Tax department. The fact that an injured and wheelchair-bound woman, facing repeated taunts from her rivals, could achieve this feat will further add to her charisma beyond Bengal’s borders. Therefore, the non-BJP Opposition parties in India, divided and depressed until now and also suffering from the lack of a commonly acceptable leader around whom to coalesce, are likely to view Banerjee with a lot of hope. In 1996, the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s “historic blunder” had prevented a tall Bengali leader, Jyoti Basu, from becoming India’s prime minister. Twenty-five years later, the first hints of a new possibility have emerged. Could Banerjee become the first Bengali to lead the nation from New Delhi? Suddenly, this question no longer looks far-fetched. The historic import of her party’s victory lies also in the rude jolt it has delivered to the BJP’s toxic politics of communal polarization. As a non-Bengali who spent nearly two months witnessing the election scene in the state, I met many non-party Bengali intellectuals and activists who dreaded the prospect of the BJP coming to power and tearing apart the secular fabric of Bengali society with its Hindu supremacist ideology. I was wonderstruck by their spirited ‘No Vote To BJP’ campaign, which brought out the best of Bengal’s unifying socio-cultural traditions. Every morning, I read with disbelief the gritty coverage of the election scene in this newspaper because there is, sadly, no other media organization in India that punctures the hubris of Modi and Shah quite the way it is done in these pages. I have no doubt that at the root of this journalistic courage is a deep concern that Bengal’s distinctive heritage, which has been enriched by giants like Rabindranath Tagore, Nazrul Islam, Swami Vivekananda and Netaji Subhas Bose, to name only a few, must not be allowed to be destroyed by the BJP’s alien Hindutva invasion. In this lies the wider national significance of Banerjee’s victory. By defeating the BJP decisively, the voters of this state have not only saved Bengal but they have also raised the hope of saving India. For it is obvious that with no great success to show on the development and governance fronts, Modi, Shah and the third Hindutva mascot, Yogi Adityanath, will increasingly resort to the hate-filled politics of Hindu-Muslim division to win elections. India has already paid a heavy price by allowing such politics to gain ascendancy. The consequences of it gaining more electoral successes in the future will be calamitous for our society, our Constitution and the Indian Republic. After all, the BJP and the sangh parivar have not hidden their ultimate goal of transforming India into a Hindu rashtra. Bengal has shown what the rest of India should do to foil this plan. A politician’s true character is often revealed in how he/she conducts an election campaign. Both Modi and Shah failed this test miserably. The prime minister’s ‘Didi o Didi’ and ‘scooty’ jibes at Banerjee were cringe-worthy. Shah lampooned himself by boasting that the BJP would win 200+ seats and that the afternoon of May 2 would witness the chief minister going to Raj Bhavan to tender her resignation. The BJP’s tally could not even touch three digits, even though it had made the election a Modi versus Mamata battle. The arrogance and insensitivity of the top BJP leaders were further amplified by the party’s state functionaries. When four poor Muslim voters fell to the bullets of the Central security forces at Sitalkuchi, one former BJP chief in West Bengal said more should have been killed and the incumbent party president warned ‘naughty boys’ of ‘many Sitalkuchis’. Neither of them was publicly reprimanded by the prime minister or other top leaders of the BJP and the sangh parivar. The callousness of Modi and Shah was also on display in their flagrant violation of their own government’s Covid-related safety guidelines. Indications of a second wave of the pandemic were available in February itself. Yet, the Election Commission was persuaded to hold eight phases of polling in the state. Furthermore, they came to address numerous rallies across Bengal, disregarding the fact that such events could become ‘superspreaders’ of the coronavirus. Banerjee also conducted an extensive campaign. But it must be said in her defence that she had strongly urged the Election Commission to conduct a shorter election. Modi also violated another canon of ethical electioneering. He became the first Indian prime minister to (indirectly) campaign for his party from foreign soil. He did so when, during his official visit to Bangladesh in March, he visited the shrine of Guru Harichand Thakur in Orakandi, with the aim of influencing the votes of the Matua community in West Bengal. Modi’s image has taken a severe beating because of two convergent failures: his failure to handle the Covid crisis and his humbling defeat to bring his party to power in West Bengal. Never have the global media pilloried him as much in the past seven years as they have done in the past seven weeks. This is certainly debilitating for someone who wants to be seen as a great global leader. This is also deeply demotivating for his bhakts, who see in him a prime minister who could, like Russia’s Vladimir Putin, remain in command for a long time to come and lead India’s transition to a constitutionally proclaimed ‘Hindu Nation’. Besides the deadly virus, one brave and simple woman with the common touch has frustrated this game plan. May India conquer the virus. May Bengal conquer the throne in Delhi. The writer was an aide to India's former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-32
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||Special trains to be cancelled due to poor occupancy||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, South Eastern Railway ( SER) has decided to discontinue several special trains, including the Howrah-Ranchi Shatabdi Special Express, due to low occupancy and other operational constraints. The 02019/02020 Howrah-Ranchi-Shatabdi Special will remain cancelled from May 7 till further orders. Railway authorities at Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway, said the decision to cancel the train was taken as the occupancy had dropped drastically due to Covid fears. "People have restricted travel owing to a surge in Covid cases resulting in 60 per cent fall in the sale of tickets. Therefore, a decision was taken to discontinue the train," said an official at SER's commercial section. The 03511/03512 Tatanagar-Asansol-Special train will also remain cancelled from Tuesday, May 4 due to poor occupancy, which has resulted in a drop of 50 per cent. The South Eastern Railway also notified the cancellation of the 03501/03502 Haldia-Asansol-Special train. The train will be discontinued from May 7. The 03505/03506 Digha-Asansol- Special will also remain cancelled from May 9, till further notification. Railway sources said that the footfall of passengers at Ranchi, Tatanagar and other stations had witnessed a drastic fall during the past few days. "Owing to low occupancy more special trains under SER jurisdiction are likely to be cancelled in the days to come, " said a railway official, adding that they were also facing operational constraints and manpower crunch as many railway employees under the SER zone had tested positive for Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||Painting diyas, making paper bags keep special students busy amid pandemic||Painting Diwali diyas and making paper bags is keeping students of Jeevika, a Sonari-based special school, busy at home in Covid times. Ganga Bai deftly works on the diyas at her home in Bagunhatu while the bespectacled S Umesh remains focussed in turning sheets of paper into small bags. With the schools and institutions under lock and key in view of the health safety week imposed by the state government in view of the pandemic, Jeevika thought of keeping specials occupied in work they love the most. “We thought of keeping our students occupied at home as it helps to overcome boredom. The students were regulars when the partial lockdown was not enforced by the state government. We would soon engage other students in activities while staying indoors,” said Avtar Singh, founder of Jeevika. According to him, they have started making Diwali diyas in advance since they did not want their students to sit idle at home. “Our students really love making diyas and paper bags. We thought of giving them work they love the most. diyas made by them witness bumper sales in the run-up to the festival of lights,” Singh, a former international cyclist, explained. Jeevika has procured around 2,500 diyas from a potter in Asanboni village in East Singhbhum. All the diyas are being painted by Ganga Bai, who claimed one gold and two silver medals at the Special Olympics International World Summer Games in Athens, Greece, in 2011. Three of  her paintings have featured in the 2016 annual calendar of Tata Steel. “We have taken delivery of most of the diyas painted by her. We pour wax in the diyas ourselves. More of them will be delivered by the potter in Asanboni. These diyas will be handed over to other special students for painting and varnishing,” informed Sukhdeep Kaur, secretary of Jeevika who has done a foundation course in mental retardation from Ranchi-based Deepshikha. Singh said Umesh has made a good number of paper bags. “The paper bags are small in size and are meant for customers carrying four or five diyas. Ganga and Umesh as well as other students, who will be also shortly engaged in varnishing and painting diyas, would be duly compensated by us in due course of time,” he promised. Jeevika has already taught its students the importance of maintaining social distancing, washing hands, using sanitisers and greeting guests with Namaste instead of shaking hands. “We need to be very cautious in dealing with the pandemic,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||New director takes charge at XLRI ||Leading B-school XLRI underwent a change of guard on Tuesday with Father P. Christie handing over charge to Father Paul Fernandes, who will be the new director. An alumnus of XLRI-Jamshedpur Fr. Paul. Fernandes (Business Management, 86 batch) had worked at XLRI for many years in various capacities. Besides being a faculty member, he was also a financial controller. He was also the founder chairperson of Father Arrupe Centre for Excellence (FACE). Fr. Paul earned his Ph.D. in Economics and Ethics from KU, WWF Ingolstadt, Germany. He completed his M.Sc. in Economics and M. A. Licentiate in Applied Ethics from the Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium. Fr. Paul was appointed as the director of Xavier Institute of Management, Bhubaneswar (XIMB) in December 2012. He is the first vice-chancellor of Xavier University, Bhubaneswar (XUB). Besides being an educationist and administrator, Fr. Paul is also an accomplished researcher and writer. Some of his books include Economic Ethics and the Moral Perspective of the Golden Rule; Business Ethics and Corporate Governance and  Corporate Governance. Speaking on his appointment as the new director, Fr. Paul said, "It is indeed a privilege to be a part of XLRI, and it is a huge responsibility to help shepherd XLRI in these challenging times. Four important hallmarks of Jesuit education have guided XLRI's mission-led growth over seven decades - Excellence, Integrity and Ethics, Holistic Growth of an Individual and Social Consciousness. Excellence and Ethics are important elements of XLRIs DNA and are passed on to every student. One of the goals of XLRI is to nurture global responsible leaders who are conscious and sensitive towards the needs of lesser privileged sections of society and inspire them to work for the greater common good. We will continue to place a strong emphasis on our ethos." On the leadership change, Fr. P. Christie, the outgoing director, said, "I congratulate Fr. Fernandes and wish him the very best in his new role. I am confident that he would successfully spearhead XLRI to be an institution of excellence and management-centric research while nurturing responsible global leaders for the greater common good and a sustainable future." Commenting on the leadership transition,  T. V. Narendran, Chairman, Board of Governors at XLRI and managing director of  Tata Steel said, “An eminent educationist, Fr. Christie effectively led the Institute during the time of the Covid crisis. The sound health and safety of every stakeholder were his priority. His calm and dedicated efforts to uphold XLRIs legacy amidst unavoidable challenges speak volumes about Fr. Christies leadership skills and commitment. As we bid farewell to Fr. Christie, we are equally proud to be associated with another stalwart, Fr. Paul. Fernandes, and welcome him to the XL family. I am confident that XLRI will achieve newer heights of success and reputation under his able leadership and guidance in the years ahead." Session with author Marc Cosentino on Thursday, May 6 XLRI, in association with Kautilya Consult Club, will organise an exclusive virtual interactive session with Marc Cosentino, global case-solving expert and best-selling author of Case in Point on May 6, Thursday. The Wall Street Journal had called Case in Point, which has been published in five languages,  the M.B.A Bible. This will be a must-attend session for students looking for careers in business strategy and consulting, an opportunity to learn as well as interact with the world's foremost authority on case interviewing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||BIT-Sindri alumni donates $1 million to PM-CARES, asks others to contribute||Krishna Pal alias KP Singh, a distinguished 1967 batch alumni of the BIT-Sindri, donated $1 million to the PM-CARES fund earlier this week and asked the global diaspora of the organisation to contribute to the fund to help India fight the Covid-19 pandemic. In an emotional message to fellow alumni, Singh, founder, president, and CEO of Holtec International, said, “A catastrophe of unspeakable proportions has befallen our motherland. The death toll is escalating every day with no end in sight. People are dying for lack of medical care, cemeteries are swamped, and crematoria are overflowing with the deceased. The sky over Delhi, ash-laden from the leaping flames of countless funeral pyres, speaks to the magnitude of the tragedy”.” “Experts are afraid the crisis may get even worse, so am I. It is a holocaust of merciless ferocity, which has jolted me out of my reclusive life of first-world comfort and medical care and tugged me to confront the mass deprivation that stalks our ancestral land,” Singh said while appealing to BIT-ians. “Millions recently pulled out of poverty, are slipping back in. My own manufacturing plant (in Dahej, Gujarat) is paralysed. This message is a follow-on missive to you all that was sent two days ago,” he said. “This crisis has stirred my soul like never before: I confess to you that I sometimes break out in tears as I read the print media or watch television carrying the news of the spreading calamity. “Fighting and defeating the virus and saving lives is the immediate challenge to which all of us must dedicate ourselves with every means at our disposal, Singh added. He appealed to the alumni to make a pledge of donation by writing an email to @ softrock1947@gmail.com with a copy to Dr. Anil Kumar Singh, President of BIT Sindri  Alumni Association of North America (BITSAANA) @ anilsinghbitsindri@gmail.com. A native resident of Barahiya in Bihar, Singh who graduated in Mechanical Engineering from BIT Sindri in 1967 later obtained a Master of Science degree in Engineering Mechanics from Penn (1969) and a PhD in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia (1972). During his visit to BIT Sindri in December 2018 as part of BIT-Sindri Alumni Associations annual Global alumni meet assured preference to BIT Sindri students in the employment in his Indian Ventures. BIT Sindri Alumni Association (BITSAA) has  24 national chapters and seven international chapters, spread across the globe and its members works continuously to reinstate the glory of its alma mater the helps the present student. BIT Sindri Alumni Association of North America on other hand has over 560 members spread over the US, Canada and other North American Countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||Several flights cancelled as passenger traffic drops amid Covid fears||Passenger footfall at the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi has dropped drastically amid Covid fears leading to the cancellation of several flights, especially to Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore in the past one week, airport officials said on Tuesday. While the number of passengers arriving in Ranchi has almost halved, those leaving town have dropped to one-third of the usual numbers. Airport Director Vinod Sharma said that on average only 700 passengers were boarding flights from Ranchi daily now against the usual 2,000 when the second wave of Covid-19 was yet to hit Jharkhand. The arrival of passengers has also been affected, causing a drop of 50 per cent in the number of passengers that landed at Birsa Munda Airport in the past one week, he added. “Around 1,400 passengers are arriving here every day on an average. Usually, more than 2,500 passengers arrived in Ranchi every day before the enforcement of partial lockdown in Jharkhand and other states,” Sharma said. At least seven of the 20 flights scheduled to take off from Ranchi on Monday were cancelled, said airport authorities. Most of the cancelled flights, officials said, were scheduled for New Delhi, Mumbai and Bangalore – three cities that have witnessed a significant spike in Covid cases lately. However, the airport director clarified that airline companies were changing the itinerary of passengers to ensure that passengers who need to travel to other cities do not face problems due to the cancellations. Most airlines, he said, were plying at least one flight to a particular destination on a day and requesting passengers to board that flight instead of the one they were supposed to board. “For instance, if Indigo has three flights to Delhi and has to cancel flights due to lack of passengers, it is requesting the passengers of all the three flights to board the same flight to the destination. This way, they were ensuring maximum possible occupancy of seats in a flight and also ferrying passengers to the city they need to reach,” Sharma said. Daytime flights to and from the Ranchi airport remained suspended from March 28 to April 27 due to carpeting work on the airstrip. Airport authorities were planning to start new flights to tier-two cities after the work was complete. But the sudden crisis due to the Covid-19 situation has forced the airlines to keep their plans on hold, for now, sources said. At present, at least 20 flights connect Ranchi to New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. The Birsa Munda Airport, which bagged the top position in the Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) last year, has a 75-meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Police face wrath of shopkeepers in Bokaro and Godda  districts||Frustration at losing the opportunity to earn because of the lockdown regulations in Jharkhand amid an unprecedented surge in Covid cases is allegedly forcing people to take the law into their own hands. In two separate incidents, police had to face the wrath of shopkeepers while trying to ensure implementation of Covid-19 guidelines in markets in Bokaro and Godda districts. On Monday morning, a police team had gone to the main market in Dundibagh area under Bokaro city police station after getting reports of several shops being open in violation of the lockdown provisions. While the police team were trying to close down the shops, a few shopkeepers indulged in a heated debate. One of the shopkeepers even started heckling the police personnel and soon several other shopkeepers joined in the protest and started pelting stones at the police team. Police managed to arrest one of the shopkeepers and took him to the police station. However, a few of the shopkeepers manhandled an assistant sub-inspector rank officer Pinku Singh. After getting information, senior police officials reached the spot and ensured that apart from shops dealing in essential items, others were closed down in view of the government guidelines for the lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19. “The police team had gone to ensure social distancing in the market area and also ensure compliance with lockdown provisions, especially closing down shops not permitted to open under the Covid guidelines. “However, one of the shopkeepers, who is mentally challenged, entered into a tussle with police personnel and was joined by several other shopkeepers. We have arrested the shopkeeper and are also trying to identify other shopkeepers involved in the attack on police,” said Bokaro superintendent of police Chandan Kumar Jha. According to the lockdown guidelines, all shops except pharmaceutical stores have to be closed at 2pm. In addition, only essential shops selling food grains, ration, edible products and agriculture equipment are allowed to open. The lockdown is in force till May 6. On Sunday, at Dumru village haat (market) under Sunderpahadi police station area in Godda district, a police team was also attacked by local shopkeepers while it was trying to ensure that social distancing is maintained by people at the shops. The shopkeepers and the buyers not only hurled stones at the police vehicle but also injured a few police personnel. A case has been registered against 200 unidentified persons by the police. On Monday morning (till 9am), the state registered 4,738 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of active cases to 58,519. The state also recorded 115 deaths due to the virus on Monday (total casualties touching 2,944). Jharkhand’s mortality rate stands at 1.20 per cent, higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
04-05-2021||Jharkhand||MGNREGA jobs helped people sustain in Jharkhand during 2020-21 ||The jobs created under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) helped people sustain in Jharkhand during 2020-21 and also expected to do the same even this year. This was revealed in a report on the performances of the job scheme released by an independent organisation, Lib Tech India, late last week. “We have just complied the data as available in the public domain to arrive at the conclusion,” said Laavanya Tamang of the organisation, adding they considered several indicators such as work and employment and payment issues. This job scheme helped scores of migrant workers who returned to their homes in Jharkhand following lockdown last year sustain lives and livelihoods, the report said, adding “over 14 lakh new job cards were issued in the state during 2020-21 that recorded a 75 per cent increase over the number of the previous year (2019-20)”. Though almost all districts issued more than double number of job cards during the year, districts like Giridih, Palamau and Sahebganj were particularly noteworthy, the report said. Over 11 crore person days were created under the job scheme in Jharkhand that was more than 89 per cent of the previous year’s figures. Though almost all households got jobs for over 46 days that year, 3.56 per cent of the total households got full 100 days’ jobs, the report pointed out. The person-days for women workers were also increased by 89 per cent, it further said. The job scheme was, however, also not free from glitches. Over 11 lakh transactions related to wage payments were rejected because of factors like biometric mismatch such as unsuccessful seeding of Aadhaar and bank accounts of the beneficiaries, the report pointed out, adding that wages related to 2020-21 for over Rs 14 crore were still pending. Reduction in payment delays and elimination of rejection in transactions would go a long way to help improve the scheme, the report expected. With the second wave of Covid-19 infection again prompting return of the migrant workers this year, the job scheme is expected to continue to play an important role in sustaining lives and livelihoods of the people of the state, the report said. “There is, however, no prominent indication for increased demand for job under NREGA so far," said James Herenj, convener of NREGA Watch that monitors the job scheme in the state. “May be the demand will pick up soon as the people are still very scared of the Covid-19 infection during the second wave and its fatality,” he said, adding the picture would be clear after some time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-65
